12-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul works on turncoat MPs and MLAs as BJP worries about Trojan horses||The exit of Mukul Roy from the BJP and the looming threat of an exodus from the party in the coming days is being described by a section of the saffron camp leaders as a “cure” to what “ails the BJP in Bengal.” The buzz on Saturday was that Roy was holding dialogues with BJP MPs and at least 10 MLAs from Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri, Nadia, Purulia, North 24-Parganas and Hooghly. Roy also  held a meeting with the Trinamul all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee at his office in Camac street where, presumably this plan  was also discussed. Later on Saturday evening, former state minister Rajib Banerjee held a meeting with Kunal Ghosh, journalist-turned-Trinamul leader. Banerjee, the former MLA from Howrah's Domjur, had joined BJP before the Assembly polls but could not win his seat. Banerjee had privately expressed his desire to return to the Trinamul, skipping meetings called by the BJP leadership. Some days back posters had appeared in Domjur slamming Banerjee for betraying Trinamul. Till the late 19th century, for over 2,000 years, bloodletting was regarded as the standard procedure for treating all kinds of diseases and illness. Elijah Impey, the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court in British India had in a letter from Calcutta to London referred to the possibility of his recovering from a fever since he had been “bled the previous day.” Little over a month ago the BJP genuinely believed it was going to form the next government in Bengal but is now scurrying to put a fail-safe mechanism in place. The BJP’s Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh is holding a meeting at the party’s office in Hastings. “Many people joined us. We are not worried about those who have left or those who want to leave,” Ghosh said. Sources said the BJP  leadership is watching closely the likes of Biswajit Das, the party’s MLA from Bagda, and among the few Trinamul turncoats who won this time. Das had skipped a meeting called by Ghosh at Bongaon in North 24-Parganas on Friday. Disgruntled BJP leader Tathagata Roy warned about “Trojan horses” being left behind in the BJP. "…what’s done is done. Now the big questions is did Mukul leave back Trojan horses within this Trojan horse,” tweeted Roy, whose differences with the current state leadership are well known. For the BJP, Roy’s exit is a loss of face, but it has no reason to lose sleep over his departure.  A senior leader said the party was paying the price of over-dependence on leaders from outside the Sangh fraternity. “The central leadership felt it needed faces in the micro-level who could manage their election campaign while micro-managing the party’s ideology. They did not have faith in our own leaders and karyakartas,” said a BJP source. Forty-six of the candidates that the BJP had fielded in the Assembly polls were those who had joined the party within two to three months before the elections. Among them only six have managed to retain their seats. “Old BJP workers have saved the day for the party,” a BJP leader said.Party leaders in Bengal point to the upward swing that Mamata’s political career took in the state after the 2006 Assembly polls to impress upon supporters that all wasn't lost. “From 29 in 2006, Trinamul went to 187 five years later. We have 77 seats today. For the first time since 1947 we have got two legislators from Murshidabad (Bengal’s only Muslim-majority district tied in history to the days of the Nawabs of the 18th century),” a BJP leader said. “And the most important factor is there is no other Opposition party in the state. Voters will turn to the BJP in Bengal when they decide to dump Mamata.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy returns to Trinamul||BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy returned to Trinamul on Friday with his son and former MLA Subhrangshu, marking not just another victory for Mamata Banerjee over the BJP but also an attempt to create a national momentum against India’s ruling dispensation. The Roys were feeling marginalised in the BJP and are expected to enjoy some prominence in Trinamul. However, a 67-year-old and ailing Mukul may not have much to offer the robust Trinamul organisation, helmed by the party’s all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee. Still, the homecoming by the party’s former second-in-command is significant in the context of both state and national politics. Mukul’s return does not reflect merely an attempt by Mamata to create a counter-narrative about the BJP in Bengal or a humanitarian gesture to an old comrade. “This (Mukul’s return) will have an impact beyond Bengal.... Just see the repercussion at the national level,” Mamata told The Telegraph in the evening. The impact may not be felt immediately as the next big tests before the BJP — the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls next year and the Lok Sabha elections of 2024 — are still some distance away. However, the twin blows Mamata has dealt Narendra Modi-Amit Shah, by trouncing their party in the Bengal polls and then defeating them in their own defection game, seem to have created the sort of anti-BJP momentum the Opposition was desperately looking for. “I sent Prashant Kishor to meet (NCP leader) Sharad Pawar this afternoon and they had a very good meeting,” Mamata said in the evening. Many are looking at that meeting as signifying Mamata’s launch of a plan to challenge Modi by bringing all the anti-BJP groups together before the crucial contests of 2022 and 2024. Taking the Narada-accused Mukul back may also help Mamata expose the BJP’s vindictive politics if the CBI now acts against him as it has against Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee. “If Mukulda is arrested, she can always highlight how he had been spared as long as he was in the BJP. Besides, she can also raise the demand for the arrest of Suvendu Adhikari if Mukulda is arrested,” a source said. At a news conference and during her discussions with aides, Mamata repeatedly stressed that she had facilitated Mukul’s return primarily because of his poor health, appearing to imply she was offering a long-time associate the benefit of superannuation. It was clear she hadn’t any great expectations from Mukul when she said, in answer to the question how the returning politician might strengthen her party, that Trinamul was already a powerful party. After Mukul joined the BJP in November 2017, having quit Trinamul about two months earlier amid differences with Mamata and heir apparent Abhishek, a new political game that was alien to Bengal’s culture had begun in the state. Following the mandate handed down to him by his masters in Delhi, Mukul began playing the game from Day One, floating the theory that over 100 Trinamul MLAs were willing to join the BJP anytime. His claims — later parroted by scores of BJP leaders including Prime Minister Modi and home minister Shah — helped the BJP spin a narrative that Trinamul was about to collapse like a house of cards. With the power of propaganda triggering a series of defections from Trinamul, a trend that continued till this year’s Assembly elections, the BJP went to the voting booths hoping this strategy of “inorganic growth” would be enough to dethrone Mamata. Eventually, it was Mamata’s charisma and deft poll planning that prevailed, handing the BJP a crushing defeat it seems not to have recovered from yet. But a broader view of the Mamata-Modi battle, counting from Mukul’s original defection and taking in the BJP’s sensational Lok Sabha poll performance from the state, would suggest that a corner was turned on Friday when the chief minister paid the rival party back in its own coin. “He (Mukul) has come back to his roots today. He could not work in the BJP…. One cannot be in that party,” Mamata said, flanked by Mukul and a host of other Trinamul leaders at the news conference in Trinamul Bhavan, off EM Bypass. Mukul corroborated Mamata: “I couldn’t stay in the BJP…. I’m back in my old party because it wasn’t possible for me to stay in the BJP.” When reporters asked the chief minister whether more people from the BJP would join Trinamul in the coming days, Mamata made it clear that the list of potential returnees was long and that the “soft-liners” would be inducted. Juxtaposing Mamata’s comments with Mukul’s leaves little doubt that the chief minister has, at least for now, turned the narrative almost 180 degrees by projecting the BJP as the party likely to fall apart in the state. Trinamul sources said that at least 12 to 15 MLAs were set to dump the BJP and join Trinamul by July 2, when the Assembly session begins in the state. The trickle will soon turn into a deluge, a source insisted, adding that the BJP’s strength in the Assembly would fall significantly from its poll tally of 77 (which has become 76 with Mukul’s desertion). A Trinamul insider said the purported large-scale defections from the BJP would have happened anyway, and that Mukul’s return had just hastened the process. He said Mukul’s utility was unlikely to go beyond this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Impossible to be in BJP: Mamata Banerjee on Mukul Roy’s switchback to Trinamul Congress||A 1,316-day cycle was completed on Friday with the ghar-wapsi (homecoming) of Trinamul’s former No. 2 Mukul Roy, welcomed back with an uttoriyo (ceremonial scarf) and an apparently warm hug by current No. 2 Abhishek Banerjee, in the presence of party leader Mamata Banerjee and others. The 1,316-day or 188-week cycle began on November 3, 2017, when Roy left for the BJP to eventually become national vice-president. Roy had left Trinamul purportedly on account of two concerns: his future in Trinamul, given the rise of Abhhishek, Mamata’s nephew, and the hounding by central probe agencies over his alleged involvement in the Saradha deposit-mobilisation default case and the Narada “sting” operation case. Mamata, who answered most questions fielded to Roy in a brief news meet, ruled out the first as “bajey kotha (tommyrot)”, and, for the second, demanded answers from the BJP over its alleged dearth of probity instead. “Our party is already strong…. Mukul is an old boy from our family. He too has faced a lot of torture, intimidation with misuse of central agencies…. I think, coming back here, Mukul got peace of mind. His health had been deteriorating there. Maybe he wasn’t able to articulate it,” Mamata said. “BJP kora jaay na (It is impossible to be in the BJP).” Roy rejoined Trinamul with son Subhranshu, Trinamul’s former Bijpur MLA, who had followed his father to the BJP and contested unsuccessfully from the same constituency this summer. He was surrounded, besides Mamata and Abhishek, by Trinamul seniors Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Bakshi, Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim and Javed Ahmed Khan. “I feel very good… seeing so many old, familiar faces of the people I worked with. I feel wonderful that I could come out of the BJP…,” said Mukul, who played key roles for the BJP in the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bengal, but had been sulking since his role in the 2021 Assembly election was diminished. Roy, who just won the first election of his life as the MLA of Krishnagar North, said he would issue a letter detailing his reasons for quitting the BJP soon. Sources attributed it to his need to secure his son’s political future. The son, who played a pivotal role in engineering his father’s return, could be rewarded with Trinamul candidature from the Krishnagar North seat, for a bypoll, as Roy is likely to resign as MLA and ascend to his more familiar turf of the Rajya Sabha, with two current vacancies for Trinamul. Subhranshu is also likely to be made a working-president of the party’s youth wing, under its newly-appointed state chief Sayani Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports rise in active cases for second consecutive day, recoveries drop ||Bengal on Friday reported a rise for the second consecutive day in total active Covid-19 cases, by 473 to 15,192 in all, with the day’s 4,321 recoveries, 4,883 new infections detected and 89 deaths. Although Friday was the first instance of less than 5,000 new infections being detected in a day since April 13, 59 days ago, the renewed rise in the total of active cases since Thursday was a damper. Sources in the state government, however, insisted it was an aberration, largely on account of a drop in recoveries over the two days, from over 10,000 daily to 9,491 in total. Bengal’s recovery rate fell, for the first time in six weeks, to 97.8 per cent. The national recovery rate is 95.02. “The recoveries will get back to what is now normal, soon. There is no cause for worry yet,” said a minister. The total of active cases, at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, had dipped by around 89 per cent till Wednesday, to 14,702. On Thursday, the total in active cases rose by 17, and on Friday by 473. Bengal now has 1.4 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is 13th among states with the most active cases. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 7.8 per cent on Friday. The state now has a total of nearly 14.53 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year, and includes 14.21 lakh recoveries, besides 16,731 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.15 per cent, while the national rate is 1.25. Of the 89 deaths reported on Friday, 20 each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. Calcutta logged 422 new infections, North 24-Parganas 792.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Youth mounts on train engine to bring down pantograph in Alipurduar, suffers severe burns||Train movement along the main New Jalpaiguri-New Cooch Behar route got disrupted for an hour on Friday afternoon as a youth travelling by the Sealdah-bound Uttarbanga Express suddenly mounted on the engine and tried to bring down the pantograph when the train halted at Falakata station here. Lakshminath Bodo, the passenger from Barpeta district of Assam, caught fire and suffered severe burns. A pantograph is a kind of a power collector mounted on electric trains. Bodo was initially admitted to the super-specialty hospital in Falakata and later sent to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri in a critical condition. Sources said around 3.45pm, as the train reached Falakata station, people suddenly heard a big thud. They then saw an object on the top of the engine that was afire. Within minutes, they realised it was a man. Immediately, power connectivity of the engine was snapped by railway authorities. A fire engine was rushed in. Bystanders and passengers panicked. “As the train reached Falakata, we heard a loud sound and got off the train to see an object on fire on the engine and later realised it was a man,” said Rohit Das, a passenger headed to Calcutta. A railway official said they as well as RPF and GRP personnel rushed to the spot and Bodo was brought down with the help of a ladder and rope. “Preliminary probe revealed the youth had touched the pantograph to bring it down and suffered serious injuries,” said a railway official. Train movement along tracks got disrupted for about an hour. “It is a rare and unfortunate incident. An inquiry has been ordered. We are trying to find out why he tried to grab the pantograph,” said S. Chanda, the chief PRO of the Northeast Frontier Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy switch: Beneath BJP brave face lurk jitters over fallout||Bengal BJP leaders tried to put up a brave face on Friday after the party’s national vice-president and MLA Mukul Roy went back to Trinamul, claiming it would not harm the BJP in the state, but insiders confessed to “jitters” over possible fallouts. Roy, who was the first important leader to make a switch from Trinamul to BJP in 2017, became the first important turncoat to return to Trinamul. Many BJP leaders apprehend this might mark the start of a reverse exodus. Many state BJP leaders said Roy’s exit meant a horde of MLAs might follow suit. It is being rumoured that at least 30 BJP MLAs are in talks with Trinamul. “We thought leaders who came with him would go back first and he would follow them. None of us thought the exodus would start with him,” a BJP state office-bearer said. On Friday, the series of events unfolded so fast that most BJP leaders had no clue on how to react to it all. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad avoided questions on Roy’s exit. MP Babul Supriyo called it a “personal choice”. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “I can’t say if Mukulbabu’s departure will be a loss for the party, but his arrival surely didn’t benefit us.” Four other BJP leaders called Roy a traitor. Three of them, MPs Arjun Singh, Saumitra Khan — Trinamul turncoats —and Jagannath Sarkar heaved a sigh of relief at Roy’s exit and said the party would function better now. Sarkar even dubbed Roy as the “main conspirator” of the Ponzi scams. The fourth, state BJP vice-president Joy Prakash Majumdar said: “We wish Mukulbabu good luck on the second innings in his old camp, but request him to resign from all posts — BJP’s national vice-president and Krishnanagar North MLA.” Despite this show of nonchalance, it was evident that Roy’s unexpected decision to quit the party has shaken it. Anupam Hazra, a Trinamul turncoat and a BJP national secretary, erupted against state leaders of his party in a social media post. Hazra alleged that leaders like Roy and himself were not allowed to work during Assembly polls. Though he did not name anyone in particular, sources said Hazra was unhappy with how the BJP was “overwhelmed” by Trinamul turncoats Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee. “Mukulda had been at the helm of the election committee before the 2018 panchayat and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. It is because of him that we won 18 seats in the Lok Sabha, even Amit Shah had acknowledged it. Yet he wasn’t allowed to work in the 2021 polls,” a BJP source said. In another social media post, senior BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta urged party workers not to be “dispirited and go into a shell”. Dasgupta also added that the BJP would build on the 2.2 crore votes and enlarge its reach. Several other leaders held BJP’s Bengal unit president Ghosh responsible for Roy's exit. The tussle between Ghosh and Roy was a talking point since the latter’s induction to the party. The conflict would at times go out of hand and on several occasions the top leaders of the party had to mediate between the two. Additional reporting by Subhashis Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri’s BJP MP attacked, Trinamul Congress blamed||Jayanta Roy, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri, was attacked in Rajganj block of the district on Friday evening when he was escorting some families of BJP supporters back home. Roy, along with two other functionaries of the BJP are admitted to the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital (NBMCH), Siliguri. One of the two injured functionaries is reportedly critical. Speaking from the hospital, the MP accused “around 100-odd Trinamul supporters” of attacking them. District Trinamul leaders of Jalpaiguri have denied the charges and have termed the incident as a fallout of the BJP’s inner rivalry. Police have started an inquiry but no arrests have been made so far. In north Bengal, this is the first such attack on a BJP MP after the state polls. Sources said that over the past one-and-a-half months, that is, after the Assembly elections, around 13 members of families from the minority community and BJP supporters, had been staying away from their homes in Bhandarigach village under Binnaguri-II panchayat of Rajganj block. “They had fled their homes as Trinamul supporters had attacked them. We were in talks with the police and it was decided that in presence of a police team, they would be escorted back to their homes,” said the hospitalised BJP MP. On Friday, when Roy and some other local BJP leaders were escorting the families, a group of people attacked them. “There was a police team with us,” Roy said. “As we entered the village, the police team left us and around 100-odd Trinamul supporters attacked us and also the families (being escorted). As I tried to dissuade them, I was also attacked. I have no inkling where the families are now,” the MP added. Trinamul’s leaders of Jalpaiguri district, however, have denied the charges. K K Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district chief of the party, said the incident was a fallout of the rivalries within the saffron party. “These days, the BJP is not being able to handle their inner differences, and in every case, they are trying to implicate us (Trinamul) in false cases,” said Kalyani. “A probe has been initiated. We are gathering information from the local residents as to what exactly happened. If required, we will also speak with the MP,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Residents heave a sigh of relief as high tides spare coast damage in three Bengal districts||Thousands of residents of coastal areas in East Midnapore, North 24Parganas and South 24Parganas and the administration heaved a sigh of relief as high tides on Friday didn’t cause much damage as had been feared earlier. As Cyclone Yaas had breached large stretches of embankments on May 26 and they were yet to be repaired, authorities had feared that high tides on Friday would inundate coastal areas and submerge houses. There were also fears of strong winds which would aggravate the situation. But the high tides were not accompanied by strong winds and the day passed off without much destruction. Ahead of the high tides, the state government had last week issued an alert for the three districts, following which several people were evacuated to safe locations. However, as of Friday evening, no visible damage was observed in the three districts, except at a few places in Nandigram and Chandpur of East Midnapore, where a few dykes were breached. “It has been a big relief for us. We were anticipating something much worse,” said a senior irrigation department official. “No major incident of damage has been reported so far. We were on high alert and are continuing to monitor the situation,” said state irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra. Barely two weeks after Cyclone Yaas wreaked havoc in the coastal districts, protecting residents of these areas had become an impending challenge for the state and district administrations. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had instructed the irrigation department to repair damaged dykes posthaste. Nonetheless, repairs could not be taken up at several places owing to damage as well as restrictions imposed to contain the spread of Covid19. In North 24Parganas, district officials kept vigil throughout the day in areas, including Hansnabad, Hingalganj, Sandeshkhali and Minakha, alerting residents over loudspeaker to the high tide starting in the morning. “At most places, people were sheltered at rescue centres. But a few of them tried to leave for their homes. Fortunately, there was no tide as of late evening,” an official of the Basirhat subdivision said. An official in the South 24Parganas administration said: “The tide had not caused major problems to embankments and livelihood at all, and water levels were nowhere near those during Yaas.” “We had been waiting for the tide for the past couple of days, and those who were evacuated will be returned their homes tomorrow morning. The first threat was over today and now we are planning for the next high tide in a few days. We will repair all the breached embankments soon after that,” South 24Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan said. The South 24Parganas administration had evacuated 30,000 residents from coastal areas in and around Sagar this week. At the end of the day, the administration heaved a sigh of relief as high water did nothing more than flooding embankments at a few points of Gosaba and Mausuni. The water level, however, receded once the low tide started. In East Midnapore, only a few villages, including Jalpai and Munchal, were inundated on Friday afternoon after water breached dykes along the Haldi river in Nandigram’s Dangapara. Officials of the irrigation department rushed to the spot and repaired the damage within a few hours. Similarly, a few villages near Sankarpur and Tajpur Marine Drive, already battered by Yaas, were waterlogged by a high tidal wave early on Friday. “A strong wind from the east created the high wave that waterlogged the area, but no major damage has been recorded,” Chaitanya Ghorai, a local resident said. District disaster management official of East Midnapore, Mrityunjoy, Halder said: “We had evacuated around 1,500 villagers, who will return home soon if the situation remains normal. There was no major incident of damage or inundation reported from the district as of Friday evening.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
12-06-2021||West Bengal||Chinese national ‘wanted’ by Anti-Terror Squad of UP police||Han Junwei, the Chinese national nabbed by the BSF for entering India illegally in Malda district via the India-Bangladesh border on Thursday, is a “wanted criminal,” BSF sources said on Friday. Han, 36, is wanted by the Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) of Uttar Pradesh police, a BSF source said. Officials of the BSF and other intelligence agencies quizzed Han at the Mahadipur camp in Malda and got information that hinted at his links with intelligence agencies in China and some terror groups. “He told us he runs a restaurant in Gurgaon named Star Spring. Some of his colleagues are from China. When he was in China, one of his business partners, Sun Jiang, started sending him Indian mobile phone SIMs which he and his wife received. Recently, San Jiang was nabbed by the Anti-Terrorist Squad of Uttar Pradesh police in Lucknow. He revealed Han’s name to ATS officials and a case was registered against him too,” a BSF official said. “That’s why Han could not get an Indian visa. Han is wanted by ATS, Lucknow,” a BSF source said. On Friday, Han was also handed over to the state police. According to BSF sources, Han said he reached Dhaka on a business visa on June 2 and stayed there with a Chinese friend. He left for Sona Masjid area of Chapai-Nawabganj district in Bangladesh (that shares borders with Malda) on June 8 and after spending two nights there in a hotel, tried to enter India on June 10 by crossing the Pagla river close to Milik-Sultanpur in Malda. Sources said the ATS, Uttar Pradesh and the NIA are in touch with BSF and state police to get Han in custody. “His electronic gadgets, including laptop, are being minutely scanned as it is anticipated that he could be a spy of the Chinese intelligence agency,” a senior official of a central intelligence agency said. Fake notes Fake Indian currency notes amounting to Rs 10 lakh were seized from near the India – Bangladesh border at Sobhapur under Baishnabnagar police station in Malda on Thursday night. The fake notes were in denominations of Rs 500 and rs 2,000. No one could be arrested in the dark but vigil along the international border was been beefed up, said a BSF official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
