13-06-2021||West Bengal||If you stay in the BJP, you have to sacrifice: Dilip Ghosh||With several TMC turncoats making a beeline to return to the party, post BJP's drubbing in the Assembly polls, state unit chief of the saffron camp, Dilip Ghosh, said on Sunday that the ones who wish to enjoy power without making sacrifices would be asked to leave. Ghosh, who had said on Friday that party national vice president Mukul Roy's departure won't make much of a difference, wrote on Twitter that "some people are in the habit of switching parties". "If one has to stay in the BJP, he/she will have to make sacrifices. Those who only wish to enjoy power cannot stay in the BJP. We won't keep them," he tweeted in Bengali. Echoing Ghosh, BJP national secretary and former MP Anupam Hazra said members who are not willing to stand by the party at this hour, when "several of its workers are facing attacks by the TMC and going homeless, are free to leave". Hitting out at former state minister Rajib Banerjee, who had joined the BJP ahead of the elections, Hazra maintained that "leaders like him have started singing paeans for the TMC immediately after its landslide victory. They are not required in the party." Shortly after Roy rejoined the TMC, Rajib Banerjee met the party's state general secretary Kunal Ghosh, but both described it as a "courtesy visit". "Dilipda said the right thing. Those who crossed over to the BJP before polls only for power and are now sending SOS to Mamata Banerjee expressing their wish to return should leave forthwith. The party does not need them," he said. Hazra had earlier said lobby politics was at play in the BJP state unit during polls, and just one or two leaders were given responsibilities with the rest feeling "ignored". He had, however, asserted that he would continue to support his party. Calling Roy a "Trojan horse", BJP veteran Tathagata Roy tweeted, "After having been welcomed into the BJP, he gained access to its all-India leaders, hobnobbed with state BJP's gullible... learnt all about the party and its innermost detail, he went back and leaked everything to Mamata. "But what's done is done. Now the big question is, did Mukul leave back Trojan Horses within this Trojan Horse? BTW I used to wonder why Mukul always avoided meeting me. Now it all figures," Roy added, indicating there could be agents planted by Roy in the BJP. Kunal Ghosh, who is also the spokesperson of the TMC, said many have expressed their wish to return, but our supremo Mamata Banerjee will take the final decision. His party colleague and senior leader Sougata Roy said, "Had Dilip Ghosh any modicum of self respect and accountability, he would have resigned from the post (of state BJP president) after the poor performance of his party." A group of five BJP workers in Birbhum district on June 8 took to the streets to announce that they have decided to quit the party and return to the TMC "to get a chance to work for 'maa mati manush' (mother, motherland, and people) under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee." District TMC leaders said their pleas would be considered after holding talks with local party members who worked for the party during the polls. Earlier, several other TMC turncoats, including former MLAs Sonali Guha and Dipendu Biswas, had appealed to Banerjee to take her back under her wings. The TMC supremo, during a recent press meet, said she will not accept requests of leaders, who had abandoned her ship just ahead of the April-May elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Oxygen on wheels in Nadia ||Nadia district administration has launched a mobile oxygen concentrator service — Duare Oxygen (oxygen on doorstep)  — to cater to the increasing demand for medical oxygen among Covid patients or even those whose infection has not been confirmed but show symptoms of poor oxygen levels. The service, which was launched on Thursday with the collective support of the department of health and family welfare, the Liver Foundation and the Covid Care Network, was inaugurated by Krishnagar MP and Trinamul leader Mahua Moitra. To begin with, the service was launched in two blocks - Karimpur-I and Tehatta-2. Here, members of the panchayat-based quick response teams will be rushed to the patients’ homes with oxygen concentrator once the requirement is informed through the dedicated helplines in the blocks. Village resource persons with motorcycles have been engaged for the job. Their fuel cost will be reimbursed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy switch: Trinamul eyes BJP foot soldiers||The return of BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy to Trinamul on Friday seems to have opened a window of opportunity for thousands of turncoats at the grassroots to align themselves with the state’s ruling party. Trinamul insiders expect this would hurt the organisational base that the Bengal BJP had developed banking on its success in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. Roy’s return sent a message for turncoats that Bengal’s political future did not lie with the BJP, a senior Trinamul leader said. A jolt to the BJP’s organisational strength in the districts will hit the saffron camp’s prospects in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, expects Trinamul. “A lot of people, including local leaders like gram panchayat members, booth committee presidents or councillors, had switched over to the BJP before the polls. Their move was spurred by senior Trinamul leaders such as Rajib Banerjee, Sonali Guha and others joining the rival camp. After Mukulda has returned, those people are trying to come back,” said the senior Trinamul leader in Burdwan. Senior Trinamul leaders said Roy's return would serve the party in two ways — weaken the BJP’s grassroots base in rural and urban pockets of districts, and gain some BJP MLAs in the coming days. Though the BJP lost the Assembly polls, Trinamul leaders are aware that 2.28 crore voters had backed the saffron camp. Therefore, Bengal’s ruling party feels breaking the grassroots organisation of the BJP will end up in voters moving away from Narendra Modi’s party by Lok Sabha polls in 2024. “We should not forget the BJP’s vote share and the fact that the party has 18 MPs from Bengal. The main ploy is to weaken the BJP and take away their foot soldiers. Those who had joined the BJP have realised the mistake and are publicly regretting their decision. The BJP is claiming that they are doing it under our pressure, but the reality is different,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Birbhum. Trinamul leaders in Birbhum, however, said workers who had switched sides before the polls could only be taken back if local leaders were fine with it, so as to prevent bad blood. “We have no problem if those who worked for the BJP want to join us. But it should be cleared by our local leaders,” said Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s Birbhum president. Many Trinamul leaders, in fact, are opposed to the idea of taking back turncoats. A leader of the ruling party said that attempts to return by Trinamul turncoats such as Rajib Banerjee and Sonali Guha had to be cleared by party supremo Mamata Banerjee, and she had clarified that “gaddars” (traitors) would not be taken back. Former Trinamul minister Banerjee, who unsuccessfully contested on a BJP ticket from Domjur this time, met Trinamul leader Kunal Ghosh on Saturday evening. Many in Trinamul did not appear pleased. Though both Ghosh and Banerjee called the visit “mere courtesy”, Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee told a TV channel that the poll result had proved the former minister had “no value” but it was up to Mamata to take a call on his return. Speaking to journalists on Saturday, MP and Kalyan’s party colleague Prasun Banerjee appealed to Mamata not to take back “leaders from Howrah” who had left the party ahead of the polls. Trinamul insiders said the party was working to weaken the BJP organisationally and Mukul Roy’s meeting with Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday was held with that aim in mind. Trinamul sources said Roy had started tapping BJP MLAs to ask them to switch over to the Trinamul. Political scientists also spoke about the possibility of several BJP MLAs joining the Trinamul in the aftermath of Roy’s homecoming. “The BJP has only 74 MLAs now as two MPs have resigned and Mukul Roy has joined the Trinamul. If the numbers come down below 30, the BJP will lose the status of Opposition and Suvendu Adhikari will lose the chair of leader of Oppositions. I will not be surprised if such a thing happens. The BJP is now in a situation where it would be hard for them to find candidates to contest any local body polls,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal takes charge of security for Mukul, son||The Bengal government has decided to provide Mukul Roy, who left the BJP to join his former party Trinamul, of which he is a founder member, with security cover equivalent to the Z category that the Centre had accorded to him just before the Assembly polls. The state government’s move comes following Roy’s decision to do away with a ring of CISF personnel that has been around him since March after the Centre decided to upgrade his cover from Y+ category to Z category. On Saturday, Mukul wrote to Amit Shah’s ministry of home affairs (MHA) asking for withdrawal of his security cover. The letter was sent within hours of the BJP’s former national vice-president switching allegiance to Trinamul with his son Subhrangshu on Friday. While the withdrawal of central security cover is yet to be formalised, senior officers of the Barrackpore police commissionerate have drawn up a blueprint to cover Roy and his son. The son gets security equivalent to Y+ category. Roy will now be covered 24x7 by a team of specially trained personnel from the state's special security unit (SSU) with a group of at least four personnel covering him in close proximity. A separate unit will be put in place for Roy and his son with security guards posted in three shifts with specific instructions of providing security to both during their movement and stay, across the state. Late on Friday night, a team visited Roy’s Bijpur residence at Kanchrapara in North 24-Parganas and drew up a plan of how many personnel would be deployed as personal security officers (PSOs) for Roy and Subhrangshu and what would be the strength of personnel to cover his convoy, beginning Saturday. In September 2017, two months before formally joining the BJP, Roy had asked the Trinamul state government to withdraw the Z category security cover provided to him. “The category of security cover of an individual is based on a combination of threat perception and intelligence inputs,” said a senior IPS officer. "Like the Centre, the state too has its own policy of providing protection to certain individuals. Mukul Roy and his son have been accordingly assessed." As a BJP candidate contesting the recently concluded Assembly polls, Mukul won his Krishnagar North seat. But Subhrangshu lost the Bijpur seat to the Trinamul. Senior police officers said Friday's shift to Trinamul by the father-son duo could invite outrage from a section of BJP supporters in Mukul's hometown Bijpur, particularly from a section who owe their allegiance to BJP's MP from Barrackpore, Arjun Singh. "The local police have been already briefed about the possible threats to the duo and over the next 48-hours a full team would be in place to ensure security for the two VIPs," said a senior police officer from the Barrackpore police commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Elephant calf carcass recovered from dry river bed of Teesta in Jalpaiguri||The carcass of a four-year-old female elephant calf was recovered from the dry bed of the Teesta river in Gourikon area here on Friday evening. The animal is suspected to have died due to poisoning, foresters said. According to locals a few days back, a herd of elephants had reached the dry bed where they cultivate corn and ground nuts. “Even after consuming the crop, the herd stood there for days. This left us worried and we informed the foresters,” said a resident. A forest team reached the spot and tried to steer the herd back into the forest. A section of animals headed for Baikunthapur forest while the other group went towards Kathambari forest. After the herd left, foresters spotted the calf’s carcass. “It seems that the elephants were standing there because of the calf’s death. It looks like the animal died two-three days ago. We suspect it died of poisoning,” said a forest officer. On Saturday, the calf was cremated after an autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLAs, leaders protest attack on Jalpaiguri MP||BJP leaders of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts, including  legislators, on Saturday protested against Friday’s attack on Jayanta Roy, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri. The BJP leaders have also accused the police of playing “mute spectators” and trained guns at Mamata Banerjee’s ruling party for allegedly trying to prevent BJP supporters from returning home even a month-and-a-half after Trinamul’s massive poll victory. On Friday, when Roy was escorting a group of around 12 people of the minority community, who happen to be BJP supporters, back to their homes at Bhandarigach village in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, the MP and some other party leaders were thrashed in the village. The MP, admitted to Siliguri’s North Bengal Medical College & Hospital with two of his aide, later said that a group of about 100 people attacked them while they were escorting home these persons who had fled after being attacked by Trinamul supporters in the wake of Assembly poll results. Roy blamed Trinamul squarely for Friday’s attack too, which local Trinamul leaders denied and blamed the BJP’s own infighting. On Saturday, a delegation of the BJP comprising party leaders of Siliguri and MLAs Shankar Ghosh and Shikha Chatterjee went to the office of the commissioner of Siliguri Metropolitan Police and submitted a memorandum. Ghosh, the new Siliguri MLA of the BJP, alleged that the attack was pre-planned. The police team, escorting the MP and the supporters, had stopped a few metres away, and soon the attack on them occurred, he pointed out. “Trinamul is trying to stop our party supporters from entering their homes. Hundreds of them are still staying in camps. The police and the administration should take proper steps to ensure their security. Also, whatever has happened on Friday clearly shows the desperation of a section of Trinamul cadres who even attacked and assaulted an MP,” said Ghosh, the Siliguri MLA. In Jalpaiguri, BJP supporters, led by district party chief Bapi Goswami, demonstrated in front of the Kotwali police station. “In recent years, this is the first time in north Bengal that an MP has been assaulted by supporters of another political party. If steps are not taken against the attackers, it would send a wrong message and encourage the perpetrators,” said Goswami. Sources at New Jalpaiguri police station said a probe is on. “A person has been detained in connection with the incident. We are in search of some others,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Chinese national suspected to be part of international fraud racket||Han Junwei, the Chinese national who was intercepted by the Border Security Force (BSF) as he allegedly tried to infiltrate into India through the Indo-Bangladesh border in Malda early on Thursday, is now being suspected to be one of the masterminds of an international racket that is engaged in financial fraud, senior officials of BSF and the state police said on Saturday. “During investigation, we have come to know that the contact that Han had in India who was nabbed by the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, had supplied him with around 1,300 Indian SIM cards in phases while he was staying in China. We suspect Han is associated with a racket that steal peoples’ money. Those SIM cards were sent to China so that calls can be made to unsuspecting victims,” said a source. The Chinese national hails from Hebei province of North China. “We need to grill him further to obtain more information about the racket and also whether there is any other angle,” the source added. The police and intelligence agencies have also come to know that a blue-corner notice was issued against him earlier this year after his friend and partner in crime San Jiang, was arrested by the ATS in Lucknow. “As the notice was issued against him, Han was denied an Indian visa when he tried to get into the country (India) again. This made him plan a route through Nepal or Bangladesh and accordingly, he reached Dhaka and took the route to Malda via Chapai-Nawabganj district of the neighbouring country,” said the officer of an intelligence agency. On Friday evening, Han had been handed over to the Malda district police. On Saturday, he was produced at a local court here. The court heard the case and sent him to police custody till June 17, said sources. Senior police officers said they are also in touch with the ATS of Lucknow. “If they (ATS) intend to take him into custody, suitable legal arrangements would be made. The statement and information which we gather from him will also be shared with different agencies,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Retired BSF jawan kills self in Hooghly||A retired BSF jawan killed himself with his licensed rifle allegedly over not having a job at Balihatta village in Hooghly’s Pandua early on Saturday. Family members of Swapan Kumar Biswas said he was suffering from depression after he lost his job last year. Biswas, 54, who had retired at least a decade ago, had been working as a security guard with an agency in Calcutta. “I woke up after hearing the gunshot. He died on way to a hospital,” said Anjana Biswas, wife of the jawan. Police said it was a clear case of suicide as the person was suffering from depression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt gears up to clear mess of overhead wires||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to clear the mess of overhead wires on priority basis and send them inside underground tunnels in Calcutta and major urban centres of the state. For starters, the CMC has made tunnels on both sides of a 3km stretch of Harish Mukherjee Road. Cable TV operators and Internet service providers have been asked to lay cables through these tunnels and clear the overhead mess on this stretch by Tuesday. At a meeting in Nabanna on Saturday, the chairman of the board of administrators of the CMC and minister Firhad Hakim and chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi told cable operators, multiple-system operators and internet service providers about the deadline. “If they fail to do so (within deadline), the CMC will clear the overhead cable mess from the Harish Mukherjee Road stretch,” said Hakim, adding this initiative would later roll out across Calcutta. The minister said cable tangles created trouble for the administration in emergencies like fire and gave the city an unkempt look. Sources said the state government planned to lay underground tunnels in all major cities and towns to clear the overhead tangle. “The initiative is being renewed now as the chief minister wants to take the initiative forward. A detailed plan is being made and financial elements will be assessed,” said a source. The sources said it was likely that those using underground tunnels would pay service charge to the government. Hakim, however, said the issue would be discussed with cable operators to ensure nothing was imposed on them. Cable operators present said they would cooperate with the government and this new development would have no impact on the tariff that customers pay at present. Hakim also said the state government had planned to clear the mess of overhead wires ever since Trinamul came to power in 2011, but financial constraints, among other reasons, had prevented them. “But this time we are determined to do it,” said Hakim,||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
13-06-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh downplays Mukul exit, loyalists fear exodus||The immediate task before the Bengal BJP should not be how to stem a possible exodus but to find consensus on the likely impact of the departure of Mukul Roy from the party. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, asked whether an MP from north Bengal and eight MLAs from his party are likely to follow in Roy’s footsteps and join Trinamul, said on  Saturday: “These people aren’t animals that I’d tie them up. He (Roy) was in a party. He can get in touch with people whom he had known for a long time. We are sure that those who are original BJP (people) won’t desert us.” Later, Ghosh tweeted: “A wilted leaf is no use to a tree. If a wilted leaf falls down, there is no damage to a tree. In fact, the tree gets filled with new leaves and gets a new vigour” But several BJP leaders, most of them Trinamul turncoats, said Roy’s exit would hurt the saffron camp’s prospects in Bengal. Biswajit Das, a Trinamul turncoat and BJP’s Bagdah MLA, said the party would feel the impact of Roy’s exit. Das was one of the three MLAs absent from a party’s organisational meeting chaired by Ghosh at Bongaon on Friday. The other two MLAs were Subrata Thakur and Ashok Kirtania. Bongaon’s BJP MP Santanu Thakur also skipped the meeting. Former Trinamul MLA of Noapara and BJP leader, Sunil Singh, said while the exit of any worker was a loss for the party, it would  be bigger when someone like Roy leaves. Former Trinamul minister and BJP’s losing Domjur candidate Rajib Banerjee met Trinamul leader Kunal Ghosh on Saturday evening  in what was described as a courtesy call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
