14-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal lockdown extended till July 1, but malls open 11am to 6pm ||The Bengal government on Monday extended the ongoing Covid-induced lockdown till July 1, keeping in place exisiting restrictions on public transport, but eased certain curbs on offices and business establishments from June 16. “We have allowed extension of business hours with the condition that the staff be vaccinated. We don’t want business to suffer,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Government and private offices have been allowed to work with 25 per cent staff from June 16 with hours fixed between 10am and 4pm for the latter. Also, private offices will have to ensure transportation of employees who need to attend office, for which the state government will allow e-passes. The transport sector, including private buses, metro rail services, local trains will continue to remain shut during this time, except for the staff special trains that have been allowed to run. Taxis and autos will be allowed only in case of medical emergency. Private vehicles will not be allowed to run from 9pm to 5am. For the health-conscious Bengali, the government has decided to open parks between 6am to 9am, where only vaccinated morning walkers will be allowed. However, the government has not clarified whether first dose recepients would be prevented entry to parks. Sports activities will resume in stadiums sans spectators, while swimming pools and gymnasiums remain closed. Local markets selling vegetables, fruits, eggs, milk, grocery, and other shops selling household necessities will be operational between 7 am and 11am. Other retail shops, including those in shopping malls, will be allowed to operate between 11am-6pm.  At shopping malls, retail shops can allow only 30 per cent customers at a given time to be catered to by 25 per cent of the work force. Restaurant and bars can run with 50 per cent sitting capacity. The Bengali entertainment industry is also back in business with the government allowing film and television shootings amid all Covid precautions by units with at least 50 vaccinated crew members.  “The entertainment industry had requested me. We have decided to allow them to work with all protocols followed,” said Mamata, a self-confessed fan of Bengali soap operas. Mamata said the government had vaccinated two crore people till date. “When the elections were being held, our positivity rate (for Covid tests) was around 20-22 per cent. On the last day of polling, it was at 32 per cent. We have now brought it (positivity rate) down to 6 per cent and are working towards reducing it further,” she said. Since the restrictions were imposed, Bengal has seen a steady decline in the number of Covid cases. In the last 24 hours, the state had registered, 3,.984 new cases. The current recovery rate of Bengal is around 97.64 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy to help Trinamul bolster national identity ||The once-formidable Mukul Roy is likely to lead the Trinamul’s charge across the country as Mamata Banerjee makes another attempt to pitch herself on the national stage following her spectacular Assembly elections victory. After his return to the Trinamul Congress, Roy has been made an all-India vice president with brief to spread the word about Trinamul and expand its support base across the country. The move while accommodating Roy without leaving him in the lurch like he was in the BJP for the last two years, also keeps him away from the party’s organisational matters, which is now firmly with Mamata's nephew and the party's all-India general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee. “It would have been difficult to keep Roy out of any organisational role. Since he is an old hand and there are many who owe their allegiance to him after Mamata di, he would have turned into another power centre. Neither Abhishek nor Mamata di want that to happen,” said a Trinamul leader. Roy, however, is unlikely to get a free hand in his new role since pollster and political consultant Prashant Kishor has already been handling much of the party’s forays at the national level _ the latest being his meeting with the NCP chief and Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar. “PK is already doing the liaison for the party with other leaders, though he is mostly working behind the scenes,” said the Trinamul leader. Soon after his name was announced as the party’s all-India general secretary, a post that Roy held till his departure from the Trinamul in 2017, Abhishek articulated his desire to make the Trinamul a national party. “We will not simply contest polls in other states to increase our vote share. Our aim from now on will be to come to power in these states,” he had said last week. Mamata’s success against the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah combine in Bengal, has helped raise her stocks among the section of voters who are against the BJP but are uncomfortable with a Congress-led by Rahul Gandhi. Having been an MP from 1984 to 2011, with one break in 1989, Mamata has had cordial relationships with several regional satraps, including the Yadavs of UP and Bihar, the Abdullahs in Kashmir, the Pawars in Maharashtra and Chandrababu Naidu, the TDP chief, who has been one of her most vocal supporters. Mamata’s attempts at going national have not met with any success over the last few years. It was her poll triumph in Bengal in 2011 that had prompted the Trinamul chief to pitch for a greater role in national politics. Trinamul has contested polls in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Assam, Tripura, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and even Kerala, where it had announced 70 candidates in the 2016 Assembly polls. In Manipur, for example, the sole Trinamul legislator from Thanga Assembly constituency had initially supported the BJP to form a coalition government and later joined the Congress. Likewise in Punjab, an expelled Congress leader, Jagmeet Singh Brar, close to Mamata during her days as an MP, was made Trinamul’s Punjab unit president in 2016 ahead of the north Indian state’s Assembly elections. The Trinamul unit in Arunachal got merged with the People’s Party of Arunachal in 2013. “It’s a long task ahead. It is not possible for us to just go into any state and win elections. In Bengal too it took Mamata di three decades to establish herself as the alternative to the Left. But after her spectacular win in the Assembly polls, she is in a much stronger position to take on the BJP at the national level. No other leader in the country has that kind of a stature,” said a Trinamul MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 2,497 recoveries, 3,984 new cases||Bengal on Sunday reported a rise for the fourth consecutive day in its total of active Covid-19 cases, by 1,403 to 17,651, as only 2,497 recoveries were logged against 3,984 new infections detected. The state also recorded 84 deaths, including 15 in Calcutta and 20 in North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. Though this was the first instance in 65 days since April 9 of fewer than 4,000 new infections in a day, the renewed rise in total active cases drew more attention. Bengal’s recovery rate, which began declining on Friday to cause the 39-day spell of rise to snap, fell to 97.64 per cent. The national recovery rate is 95.24 now. Calcutta logged 426 new infections, North 24-Parganas 597. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 6.63 per cent on Sunday. The state now has a total of over 14.61 lakh cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. The total includes 14.26 lakh recoveries, besides 16,896 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.15 per cent, while the national rate is 1.25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||One dead, three fishermen missing as hilsa trawler capsizes near Nandigram||A trawler driver drowned and three fishermen went missing late on Saturday night when their vessel, moored at Gangamela ghat on river Hooghly in East Midnapore’s Nandigram, capsized during a sudden high tide. The crew of 14 aboard the vessel, Maa Karunamoyee, had been shifting 14 barrels of diesel, each of 200-litre capacity, to fuel the trawler for a new season of hilsa fishing from June 15. Sources said the barrels caused the vessel to lose balance. Nine men on board jumped out and swam to safety, one more was rescued. But trawler driver Pradip Manna, drowned. Three fishermen, Rupesh Khanra, Kashinath Sheeth and Bistupada Maity, have eluded rescue teams so far. Civil defence and coast guard personnel were pressed into rescue operations at daybreak on Sunday, but the search for the three missing fishermen was unsuccessful till sundown. One of the rescue personnel said that the lifeless body of the driver, Manna, was recovered soon after the incident. The body was then sent to Contai subdivisional hospital in East Midnapore on Sunday for a post mortem. District authorities explained that the fishermen, all of whom hailed from Marisda in Contai, had been making preparations to start fishing, particularly hilsa, starting Monday night. “Every year, June 15 marks the yearly cessation of fishing restrictions that start in mid-April in order to allow various breeds of fish, particularly the hilsa, to spawn,” said a district official. Sources added that fishermen look forward to June 15 but this time mishap struck before that. Starting early on Sunday, Haldia deputy magistrate Kishore Biswas and Nandigram BDO Sumita Sengupta supervised the rescue operations at Kendemari Jalpai, on whose banks the Gangamela ghat is located. “We have had no luck in locating the three missing youths yet but we are trying our best,” said Biswas. “Prima facie, it seems the imbalance caused by the barrels of diesel may have been a contributing factor (to the capsizing of the vessel),” he added. Fishing trawlers often remain at sea for days on end before returning to shore with their catch, an equation in which the size of the catch must be able to offset the amount of fuel spent. The surviving fishermen of the Maa Karunamoyee team are upset and anxious. Survivor Dipak Gyne said most of them had begun to unwind after dinner when a ferocious wave struck.“At that time, most of the diesel barrels were to one side, so we knew immediately that we had to jump out and swim,” he said. Added Gurupada Sit, another survivor: “We had high hopes for 2021 as the last two years have been bad seasons for hilsa, but this (the mishap) has been an unimaginable setback.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Three killed in truck and fuel tanker collision on NH2 in Asansol||Three persons were killed when an empty oil tanker collided head-on with a medicine-laden mini truck on NH2 in Asansol early on Sunday. Both vehicles reportedly caught fire with the collision and were gutted before three fire engines could douse the blaze in an hour. The incident occurred around 5am near Kalla crossing, at Asansol North police station limits when the driver of the mini truck lost control while trying to evade two cyclists, both brothers and fish vendors, and entered into another lane to collide with the empty oil tanker, sources said. The two cyclists, Santosh Gorai, 40, and Rakhohari Gorai, 35, residents of Barabani, died sandwiched between the two vehicles, which caught fire on impact. The charred body of the truck driver was found in the vehicle’s cabin. He could not be identified till Sunday evening. The driver of the oil tanker escaped. “The cyclists were crossing the road when the truck driver, on the Delhi-bound lane, entered the Calcutta-bound lane, and in trying to avoid the two cyclists collided head-on with the oil tanker. Both vehicles burst into flames,” said an eyewitness. “The driver of the oil tanker managed to jump out of the cabin seconds before the collision,” said a source. Police said the truck carrying the medicine consignment was bound for Dhanbad in Jharkhand, and the oil tanker was headed for Rajbandh in West Burdwan’s Kanksa. Fire officials said despite the oil tanker being empty, the fire was ignited from the sheer impact of the collision between the two large vehicles. “Initially, we brought two fire-fighting engines from the Asansol fire station but later another engine was pressed into service from our station at Raniganj. We doused the blaze but the vehicles were gutted. We found one charred body in the truck’s cabin,” said a fire official. Traffic came to a halt for about an hour on the busy Calcutta-Delhi highway following the incident till police were able to clear the remnants of the mishap. Sources said police rushed the two cyclists to Asansol district hospital, where they were declared dead on arrival. The charred body of the truck driver was sent to a morgue. Police said they were trying to identify the owners of both two vehicles as of Sunday afternoon but the registration plates and documents were too burnt to be of any use. “We will be able to identify the deceased truck driver and track the missing oil tanker driver only after tracing the owners of both vehicles. We are trying our best,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre decides to revamp NH10 with stress on safety||The central government has decided to revamp NH10, the principal highway that connects Sikkim with the rest of India, with slope restoration and landslide mitigation under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). The highway connects Sevoke — around 20km from Siliguri — in Bengal with Sikkim capital Gangtok via Rangpo, the town on the border of the two states. The road also connects Kalimpong with Siliguri. In a letter sent to Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista, Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said the Bengal public works department had been assigned the task of preparing a detailed project report for refurbishing the highway that is also strategically important for India as it leads to the China border in Sikkim. “One DPR for major slope restoration and landslide mitigation measures at about 20 vulnerable locations in Sevoke-Rongpo section (around 55 kilometres) of NH 10 is under preparation with the State PWD of West Bengal. The work has been proposed under National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) and we have planned to award the work in FY 2021-22 (within the current fiscal year),” Gadkari said in the letter dated June 7. The NIP, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019, is a government exercise planned to improve infrastructure across the country. A task force headed by the secretary of the department of economic affairs that functions under the finance ministry was formed to draw up projects. NH10 is a precarious hilly road, particularly between Sevoke and Teesta Bazaar (a stretch of 32km). The highway has a number of landslide-prone zones and often gets blocked as debris come down the hillside during the monsoon. The road witnesses several accidents every year and in many cases, vehicles go off and plunge into the Teesta which flows parallel to the highway. “There had been recurring accidents and landslides which have led to loss of lives along the road. For years, there hasn’t been any major expansion of the highway which leads to such mishaps. That is why I had written to the Union minister. I thank him for responding to my letter and including the project in the NIP,” said the Darjeeling MP. Gadkari said in the letter that crash barriers would be installed along the route to curb accidents, particularly falling of vehicles into the Teesta. “There will be other provisions like rescue ambulances, patrol vehicles and tow-away cranes. This is according to the new policy of incident management services formulated by the ministry under which all new NH projects would be included,” said a source. The MP said the state PWD should speed up the DPR preparation. “A refurbished NH10 will enhance travel safety of lakhs of residents of Sikkim and Kalimpong and thousands of tourists,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Three leopards from South Khayerbari rescue centre to get new zoo homes||Three leopards from the South Khayerbari rescue centre here will head for three zoos in south Bengal. Rescued leopards of north Bengal are brought to this centre. Their upkeep is costly, a forester said, and a leopard can’t be released at the site it was found to prevent man-animal conflict according to Central Zoo Authority (CZA) norms. Hence, the state forest department had urged the CZA to allow shifting of rescued leopards to Bengal zoos. “The CZA has given us approval and so three leopards from South Khayerbari will be sent to zoos in south Bengal in 10 days,” said Rajendra Jakhar, chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north). After that, 18 leopards will remain at the rescue centre. A leopard from Bengal Safari Park near Siliguri will also be sent to south Bengal, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Woman stripped by mob and paraded over alleged affair ||A 35-year-old married woman was stripped of her clothes and forced to parade through a village here after she returned to her husband’s home after six months as “punishment” for allegedly staying with a person with whom she had an affair. The incident occurred on Thursday evening but became known when video clips, showing her humiliation, surfaced on social media on Sunday. Police rescued the woman and admitted her to a hospital. They are also conducting raids to nab those involved in the incident. Sources said the woman was having problems with her husband. Six months back, she left the village with a person with whom she allegedly had an affair. “On Thursday, as she returned to her husband’s place, some villagers started questioning her about her whereabouts in the past six months. As she fumbled in replying, villagers decided to convene a salishi sabha (kangaroo court) to decide her fate,” said a police source. The same day, the kangaroo court was held. Some people dragged her out of her house and beat her, asking her to explain where she was till now, sources said. “Another group of villagers got more agitated. They tore off her clothes and forced her to walk through the village. During all this, some people shot her videos. The victim was so shocked that she fled and was traceless for days till the police found her,” the source added. The policemen and local panchayat representatives, however, had no inkling of the incident on Thursday. It was only on Sunday that police officers and local Trinamul leaders came to know about the incident as the video clips surfaced on social media. “I came to know about the incident this morning. It is barbaric and we want the police to take stringent steps against all involved, even if any happen to be from our party,” said local Trinamul leader Dhiresh Roy. “We will arrest all responsible for the incident,” said Bholanath Pandey, SP, Alipurduar. Police sources said the woman is still in shock. Sources said the police will record the victim’s statement. “She is yet to recover from shock. Doctors have kept her under observation,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
14-06-2021||West Bengal||‘Cut money’ charges pile up against bank manager in Malda||A number of complaints have been docketed with superior authorities against the branch manager of a nationalised bank accused of seeking a cut against loans from applicants. Aggrieved customers of the Tulshihata branch of Indian Bank, in Harischandrapur of Malda district, have demanded stern action against the bank manager. The accused, Sanjay Kumar Singh, however, denied the charges. Raihan Reja Choudhury, a student pursuing a medical course, has sent an email sent to the nodal officer of the grievance cell and the higher officials of the bank, alleging he was asked by the manager to pay an hefty amount as “cut money” against a study loan. “I was so desperate for the loan and I and my family members even requested the bank manager to reduce the cut amount. But he refused to listen to us or sanction the loan. Eventually, I applied for the same loan in another bank and got it promptly sanctioned. I want action against the bank official,” the student said. Raghunath Ram, another customer of the bank, alleged that back in 2018, he had put his property on mortgage with the bank and had got his cash-credit loan approved by another person who was the branch’s manager then. “However, when this person (manager Singh) took charge, he went on delaying the process and harassed me as I could not pay him the money he asked as a cut. I filed a complaint with senior bank officials,” he said. Biplab Gupta, who has an account at the branch, said he had to pay 10 per cent of the loan amount sanctioned by the bank to the manager. “Later, the bank had offered to increase my loan amount, and subsequently, I was asked to pay more cut money to avail the bigger loan,” Gupta said. Singh called the charges baseless and attempts to defame him and the branch of the bank. “A loan cannot be sanctioned if proper papers and proofs are not submitted with applications.  I cannot violate guidelines,” Singh said. The complaints have also reached Sushanta Haldar, the lead bank manager of Malda. “We have taken note of the grievances and have forwarded those to competent authorities,” Haldar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
14-06-2021||West Bengal||Sacrifices have to be made if one chooses to be in BJP: Dilip Ghosh||Beleaguered Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday stressed the need for “sacrifice and austerity” for one to stay in the party, but his sermon amid whispers of mass defections to the Trinamul Congress drew derision from sections within the saffron camp. Floodgates of defections — many in the saffron camp now fear — may have been opened by the return to Trinamul of the BJP’s national vice president Mukul Roy on Friday. “Defection has become a habit for many now. The BJP relies on those who have shed blood and sweat to establish the party,” read a social media post by Ghosh in Bengali. Ghosh and others in the BJP have been resorting to philosophy and lofty ideals — while frantically insisting that defections to Trinamul won’t damage the party, and, instead, would strengthen it — since the saffron camp was left blindsided by the body blow of the Krishnagar North MLA’s departure. There are apprehensions of at least a dozen MLAs — from the BJP’s meagre total of 77 — following Roy, besides several MPs and countless leaders, office bearers and workers. “In order to stay in BJP one will have to practice sacrifice and austerity. Those who only wish to enjoy power, will not be able to stay in the BJP, we are not going to let them stay,” added Ghosh’s post. The post prompted sarcastic criticism not only from Trinamul but also the BJP. Many within the BJP saw the statement as a continuation of Ghosh’s desperate attempts to display bravado in the face of the imminent crisis, which according to them turns out to be counterproductive more often than not. Another section of BJP leaders said it was Ghosh’s attempt to stay relevant amid rumours that he would be removed from the post. Several state and national leaders of the BJP that this newspaper spoke to were of the opinion that Ghosh had to shoulder a bulk of responsibility for the electoral “decimation” in Bengal and the crisis within the party that inevitably followed. “Dilip da would’ve undoubtedly claimed the credit — like after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — if the party had been able to wrest power here. Since, the party was, instead, trounced in the election, he should gracefully claim responsibility and resign,” said a state BJP office bearer. “His didactic, patronising and laughable post wouldn’t do the party any good” Trinamul vice president Saugata Roy had similar advice for Ghosh. “We have seen everywhere that leaders take responsibility for such defeats and resign from their posts. Why isn’t Dilip Ghosh doing so?” asked the Dum Dum MP. Speaking on Ghosh’s claim that the BJP would weed out opportunists, education minister Bratya Basu asked: “Why didn’t he remember this when his party was celebrating the induction of turncoats from other parties?” Several key sections in the BJP state leadership questioned the prepoll stress on inorganic growth through en masse defections. They said the strategy — among several others such as the obsession with polarisation in a state such as Bengal, with which it continues to persist — monumentally backfired in the election and was now bleeding the BJP further. “Ahead of the election, we welcomed countless defectors with open arms to promote the perception that a BJP victory was a foregone conclusion. Nearly half of our candidates were turncoats, most of whom were handed a drubbing,” said another state BJP functionary, adding that numerous BJP old timers had raised objections, but the leadership turned a deaf ear to them. One such leader who had played a major role in inducting and promoting Trinamul turncoats was the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya — omnipresent in Bengal till the results, conspicuous by his near complete absence since. Vijayvargiya was known for his proximity to Roy. On Sunday, former Bengal BJP chief Tathagata Roy ridiculed Vijayvargiya on social media. Roy — one of several BJP leaders bitterly critical of the party’s decisions in the wake of the results — took to Twitter and wrote: “A faithful English translation of a tweet from a devout BJP supporter. I have added or subtracted nothing. “Auntie (Buaji) Mamata, please take this stupid cat (Vijayvargiya) into Trinamool. He may be heartbroken missing his friend! They used to remain closeted together for the whole day.” Also on Sunday, Dulal Bar, a former MLA and the chief of the Scheduled Caste wing of the Bengal BJP, said Mukul Roy was unhappy in the BJP since he didn’t get the respect he deserved in the party. Bar added that although he had not decided about his own future, nothing was impossible in politics. Amid such developments, Bengal BJP held a meeting to discuss the course of action on possible defectors. The meeting was attended by state general secretaries and general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-26
