15-06-2021||West Bengal||Not bothered about Sovan Chatterjee’s political move, says Dilip Ghosh||Making light of city ex-mayor Sovan Chatterjee's visit to senior TMC leader Partha Chatterjee's residence, which raised speculation over his next political move, the Bengal unit of the BJP on Tuesday said it "wasn't bothered about individuals who joined his party when the situation was favourable and left thereafter". State BJP president Dilip Ghosh asserted that "loyal leaders are still with the party", without naming anyone. Asked about the possibility of Chatterjee's return to the TMC, following in the footsteps of Mukul Roy, Ghosh said, "These individuals had failed to enrich the saffron party in any way. It doesn't matter where they go. They cannot cause any harm to our organisation." The former mayor, who had joined the BJP in 2019, left the saffron party ahead of the assembly polls this year, and had since not taken part in active politics. Chatterjee had on Monday evening paid a courtesy visit to the residence of his former TMC colleague to extend condolences following his mother's demise. He was accompanied by friend Baisakhi Banerjee. "It was a courtesy visit. I do not have the mind frame to discuss politics with someone whose mother has just expired," he had told reporters. Baisakhi Banerjee, however, thanked TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for standing by Sovon Chatterjee after he was arrested by the CBI, along with three other leaders, in connection with the Narada sting case. "This shows that Didi's love for us has remained intact. Personal ties go beyond politics," she had added. In an apparent dig at the ex-mayor, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said on Tuesday that "some people who would address BJP leaders as Kailashji (Vijayvargiya), Naddaji (J P Nadda) are now heaping praise on Bobbyda (TMC minister Firhad Hakim), Subratada (TMC minister Subrata Mukherjee), Didi (TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee). "One cant help but notice the change in the behaviour of these people in just a few months," the TMC leader added. Not bothered about Sovan Chatterjee’s political move, says Dilip Ghosh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
15-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP MPs demand separate North Bengal Union Territory||A controversial demand for carving out a union territory comprising North Bengal districts out of Bengal, made by two BJP MPs from the region has sparked off a sharp reaction with the ruling TMC with party Supremo Mamata Banerjee stating she would not allow any part of Bengal to lose its freedom and be dependant on New Delhi. At a closed-door meeting at the residence of BJP MP for Alipurduar John Barla at Lakhipara Tea Garden, the demand for a separate Union Territory was raised and discussed on Sunday. Barla told PTI in a telephonic conversation on Tuesday, "I made the demand there have been movements here for a separate Kamtapuri, a greater Cooch Behar and for Gorkhaland. My belief is that North Bengal should be detached and made into a separate union territory." The MP who has earlier led an agitation for an autonomous tribal area in the last decade, said small states perform better. North Bengal is neglected, it also faces security issues. Our economy is affected, tea gardens are being shut down. We will be better off as a Union territory. Barla, said that he along with others from the region would be meeting both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah on this issue as well as would raise it in Parliament. BJP has four MPs from the region and at least one of them Jayanta Roy from Jalpaiguri said that though Barlas comments were made in is personal capacity, he supported them. However, BJP Bengal unit state president Dilip Ghosh said his party does not have any such agenda. "None of our officials has said any such thing," he said, claiming that attempts are being made by the TMC to malign the BJP by raking up various issues. "I want to make it clear that the BJP has no such agenda to divide Bengal or create a different state," Ghosh said. The Trinamool Congress has came out strongly despite BJPs denials. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said They should be ashamed after their humiliating loss in the elections but, instead, they are trying to divide Bengal. In whose interest are they trying to split Bengal? She argued that formation of a Union territory takes away a peoples rights as it denies them of the benefits of statehood. I will not allow anyone to divide Bengal. UT means being at the mercy of New Delhi and losing all freedom. But I will not allow North Bengal or any other part of Bengal to lose its freedom and become dependent on New Delhi." The longest and most violent agitation movement in North Bengal was for a separate territory for Gorkhaland which was resolved by a series accords which finally saw the setting up of Gorkhaland territorial Administration. Other movements such as for Kamtapuri which saw the setting up of the proscribed Kamtapur Liberation Organisation, have largely petered out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC extends contract with Prashant Kishor's I-PAC till 2026||The Trinamul Congress has extended its contract with poll strategy group Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) till 2026, months after a successful partnership made Mamata Banerjee’s party win by a landslide victory in the Bengal Assembly elections. According to a report by ndtv.com, this time, star election strategist Prashant Kishor will not be leading the I-PAC day-to-day operations, who has been largely deemed responsible for Trinamul’s huge success in the 2021 polls. Kishor had said he wanted to quit the space days after the election results were out. A report by anandabazar.com says that the TMC leadership wants to keep up the “PK Magic” in the upcoming days and has therefore made the decision keeping in mind the 2024 Lok Sabha and the 2026 Assembly elections. The new contract says I-PAC will be involved in all state elections - panchayat and local body said NDTV in its report. This comes a week after TMC leader Partha Chatterjee said that the party was looking to extend its wings nationally. Kishor on Friday had called on NCP president Sharad Pawar at the latter's residence here and held talks with him for around three hours, setting tongues wagging in political circles. NCP sources said apart from discussing the prevailing political situation, Pawar hosted lunch for Kishor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul watches anxiously as Governor announces Delhi visit||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is scheduled to go to Delhi on Tuesday evening for a three-day visit that comes right after a delegation of BJP MLAs met him at Raj Bhawan on Monday. “Hon’ble Governor West Bengal. Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar will be visiting New Delhi. Governor Dhankhar will leave for Delhi on the late evening of June 15, 2021 and return to Kolkata on June 18, 2021 in the late afternoon” the governor tweeted on Tuesday morning, without any further elaboration on his appointments there. Sources said he governor is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah during his stay in the national capital. “We are keeping a watch on what he says during his stay in Delhi and immediately after return to Calcutta. If necessary, we will press for the demand of his removal again,” said a Trinamul MP. The law and order situation in the state, especially its legacy of political violence, has been a contentious point between the two. Soon after his meeting with the BJP legislators on Monday, Governor Dhankhar had again referred to attacks on political rivals in the state and pointed fingers at the police. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee holds the home department portfolio making her directly responsible for the law and order situation in the state. “Over 50 Opposition MLAs expressed serious concern at lawlessness and partisan stance of West Bengal Police and Calcutta Police and sought intervention as the situation was sliding,” the Governor had tweeted. In the same tweet, while assuring the Opposition lawmakers of looking into the matter, he specified that he was aware (of the situation). Mamata has repeatedly dismissed the charges levelled by the BJP in Delhi and Calcutta as “fake and false.” The Governor’s ties with the Bengal government have been tenuous since his arrival at the Raj Bhawan and has steadily deteriorated over the months. The Trinamul had in January this year written to  President Ramnath Kovind seeking the governor’s removal. The governor is known to regularly summon top bureaucrats and police officers in the state, as well as seek apologies from the chief minister publicly from his Twitter handle. He had once asked the state government to submit details of the expenses incurred for its annual business summit, which had irked Mamata and the Trinamul leadership. Even his sudden visits to the districts have not gone down well with the state government. His visit to Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi where five people were killed on polling day had prompted Mamata to write a letter informing him that the visits “violated standard protocol.” “He has been directly acting on the orders of the Umion home minister. His is on a political agenda,” said a Trinamul source. The Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee had directly blamed the governor for the arrest of the Trinamul ministers and leaders in connection with the Narada sting operation scandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports rise in total active cases for fifth consecutive day ||Bengal on Monday reported a rise for the fifth consecutive day in its total of active Covid-19 cases, by 1,270 to 18,921, as only 2,171 recoveries were logged against 3,519 new infections detected. Bengal now has 2.05 per cent of the national total of active cases and back to the top 10 at No. 9 among states with most active cases, having fallen to 13th spot last week. The total of active cases, at an all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21, had fallen by around 89 per cent till Wednesday to 14,702. But over these five days, it rose once again by over 4,000 (29 per cent). The state recorded 78 deaths, including 11 from Calcutta and 17 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. “The daily recovery count, has somewhat, nose-dived since Thursday, going from well over 10,000 a day to barely 2,000 a day in just five days. We are examining this closely, trying to figure out whether this is the onset of another spell of rise or just an aberration,” said a minister. “We have been doing well in terms of steady reduction in the daily count of new infections found, having brought it down from over 21,000 to around 3,500. If only we can get the recoveries to take off again, we will be back on track,” he added. The recovery rate, which began declining on Friday snapping a 39-day spell of rise, fell to 97.55 per cent. The national recovery rate is 95.57. Daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 6.49 per cent on Monday. Among the day’s 3,519 new Covid-19 infections, Calcutta reported 373 and North 24-Parganas 584. Bengal’s mortality rate, with 16,974 deaths in all, remained at 1.15 per cent, while the national rate rose to 1.27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Anti-defection law takes centre stage in Bengal politics; BJP and Trinamul hunt defectors||The anti-defection law has taken centre stage in Bengal politics with bitter rivals Trinamul Congress and the BJP demanding its invocation against deserters. Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, on Monday sought governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s intervention amid fears in the state BJP of an exodus of its MLAs to Trinamul. Mamata Banerjee’s party also demanded before Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla that the law be used against Suvendu’s father and Contai MP Sisir Adhikari, and Burdwan East MP Sunil Mandal, as both had won on Trinamul tickets but defected to the BJP shortly before the Assembly elections. Suvendu’s move — tagged frantic even by sections in his own party — was prompted by the return to Trinamul of Krishnagar North MLA Mukul Roy, a national vice-president of the BJP. The BJP fears that Roy’s ghar-wapsi could prompt at least a dozen MLAs to follow him, besides several MPs and countless leaders, office-bearers and workers. Sections within the BJP — where dislike of Trinamul turncoat Suvendu’s sudden ascent has become rife — admitted the “blatant ethical hypocrisy” in his ruckus for use of the anti-defection law. “It is good Suvendu has raised this issue with the governor. But he, least of all, has the moral standing to go to town over something like this. His father and his aide (MP Mandal) defected without resigning as MPs. His MP brother (Trinamul’s Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari) almost did the same, and everybody knows what his leanings are,” said a BJP state office-bearer. “Suvendu’s braggadocio over the anti-defection law would have suited him had he not been so conspicuously silent on an identical offence by Sisirda and Sunil in the Lok Sabha,” he said. The office-bearer pointed out further that Suvendu, while in Trinamul was a “master-engineer” of defections from the Left and the Congress, bleeding them white on his home turf, besides districts he was in charge of, such as Murshidabad and Malda. “He tried doing the same for us, ahead of the election, with passable success,” he added. Hours before the Suvendu-led delegation’s visit to the Raj Bhavan, Trinamul’s leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhyay, once again called up Speaker Birla, demanding action against Sisir and Mandal. The Calcutta North MP later said Birla had told him that a committee had been formed to look into the matter and both the MPs would be asked to appear before it. “I will also have to appear before the committee... the Speaker told me. I replied that I’m well equipped with all the proof of defection to do so,” said Bandyopadhyay. At the Raj Bhavan, Suvendu led a group of 50 of his party’s 70-odd MLAs in the 294-seat Assembly to submit a memorandum to Dhankhar, urging him to ensure the use of the law in the state. Speaking to journalists after the meeting, Suvendu said Dhankhar was told that the anti-defection law had not been used in Bengal in 10 years of the Trinamul regime. “The MLA of Krishnanagar North has quit our party. We want him to resign from his MLA post in two days. If that doesn’t happen, we shall go to the Speaker. We will write to him by Wednesday and request him to take necessary action. If that doesn’t work, we will move court...” Suvendu said. He added that central BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav and Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad would look into the matter. Asked to react to Trinamul’s request to the Lok Sabha Speaker regarding the membership of his father and aide, Suvendu said he could speak only regarding MLAs and not MPs, without clarifying why it was so. The Left and the Congress, the main Opposition in the previous Assembly, had made numerous requests to Speaker Biman Banerjee to use the law and cancel the membership of 18 members who had defected to Trinamul and of eight others defectors to the BJP. None was disqualified. The Congress and the Left had also jointly moved court, but the matter remained pending. Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta — who contested unsuccessfully on a BJP ticket from the Tarakeswar Assembly seat this summer — took to Twitter asserting that not everybody who had joined the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls ought to be treated as a Trojan horse. “It is wrong to view everyone who joined BJP in Bengal after May 2019 as Trojan horses. Many new entrants participated in the election with sincerity. They must not be made to feel unwelcome. Politics is not a game of exclusion; it involves adding support & creating new leaders,” he tweeted. “As for those who see a political party as a vehicle of personal gratification alone, the door is always open to explore other options,” he added in striking contrast to the opinion of state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and his predecessor Tathagata Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: WhatsApp chatbot to book vaccination slots indicates discomfort among jab takers||Serpentine queues in front of Covid-19 vaccination centres are a common sight across the country but not at Capitol Hall in Darjeeling. The issue is not vaccine hesitancy but technophobia. The state government has introduced a WhatsApp chatbot to book vaccination slots and Capitol Hall is the only centre in Darjeeling where all bookings have to be made through WhatsApp number 8335999000. Through the chatbot, people aged above 45 years can avail either of the two doses of Covishield. C.P. Subba, secretary, Darjeeling municipality, admitted the centre was receiving only 55 to 65 registrations a day against their daily target of 100 jabs ever since the initiative started about 10 days back. “We have not been able to reach our daily target of 100 jabs,” said Subba. Subba suggested “probably most people above 45 years old” have been vaccinated in Darjeeling. “Also, not many are turning up for a second dose of Covishield as most cannot fulfil the 84 days gap between two doses of Covishield,” he added. However, many residents this newspaper spoke to in Darjeeling did talk about being technophobic. Some pointed out snags, others could not follow chatbot messages diligently and hence could not register themselves. Piyush Salunkhe, the SDO of Darjeeling who is also the administrator of Darjeeling municipality, recently held a meeting with social organisations on ways to popularise the chatbot. Turnout is more at a centre with the traditional first-come, first-serve system for vaccination, indicating discomfort with the chatbot. “At the Ghoom-Jorebunglow centre, also run by the Darjeeling municipality, where you can just walk in, we get a daily footfall of 160-170 people against the allotted quota of 200 jabs,” said Subba. But booking through chatbot gives every registered person a day and time, making the jab process smooth. There is no need to stand for hours. “We received messages from registered users appreciating the smooth vaccination process,” said Subba. In neighbouring Kalimpong, which has managed to vaccinate the highest percentage of its population among districts of Bengal, including the 18-plus population, chatbots are a problem. Vimala Ranganathan, the DM of Kalimpong, said not many were registering for vaccines via the chatbot. South 24-Parganas administration also launched a Whatsapp chatbot to book vaccination slots for people aged above 45 in nine locations of all the seven municipalities, district magistrate P Ulagananathan said. The number is 833599000. The usual system of first-come, first-serve, will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to join Centre’s ration scheme within next three months||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said her government was working to join the “One nation, one ration card” scheme — which is yet to be implemented in the state — and Bengal is likely to be a part of the central project within the next three months. “We are working on it and it would take another three months to complete groundwork for it,” the chief minister said during a news meet at Nabanna on Monday. Sources said if the state wanted to join the Union government’s scheme, it had to link Aadhaar cards with ration cards and share the database with the Centre. The Bengal government had earlier refused to join the scheme in 2019 as it had reservations about sharing biometric and other details with the Centre that was pushing the Citizenship Amendment Act hard at that time. But now, sources said, the chief minister has made it clear that no person should be deprived of food grains in the backdrop of the ongoing pandemic. “We have already linked Aadhaar cards with ration cards of 80 per cent of nearly 10 crore beneficiaries. The remaining ration cards are expected to be linked with Aadhaar cards within the next three months,” said a senior food and supplies department official. The idea behind the one nation, one ration card scheme is to ensure that if a beneficiary of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) moves out of his residential address, he will still be able to collect his quota of allotments from anywhere in the country by matching his biometric details though point-of-sale (PoS) machines installed at any ration shop. Bengal has 6.01 crore NFSA beneficiaries. Of these, 7 to 8 per cent beneficiaries have migrated to other states. If the scheme is implemented in the state, they would be able to collect their allotments from the states where they are staying at present, sources said. All the related information, including biometric data of beneficiaries, is stored in the central server of Bengal’s food and supplies department. Once the state joins the Centre’s scheme, it has to share the beneficiary data with the Union government’s server. Most states have already shared their respective beneficiary data with the server of the Centre. Explaining Bengal’s initial misgivings about the scheme, an official said: “A file was moved forward to Nabanna, seeking approval to join the scheme in September 2019. But it had been gathering dust since the Centre was pushing the CAA hard and the state government was opposing it vehemently.” The pandemic caused the shift in mindset, said sources. “The chief minister has asked the food and supplies department to implement the scheme as she does not want to deprive anybody from their rights amid the pandemic,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court allows probe into Suvendu ‘theft’ case||Calcutta High Court on Monday turned down the prayer of the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, who had sought quashing of an FIR drawn up by Contai police accusing him and four others, including his brother Soumendu, of stealing tarpaulins from the civic body’s godown on May 29. Justice Tirthankar Ghosh also declined to issue an interim stay on an inquiry into the alleged theft. So now, if they want, investigators can take any punitive step, including issuing arrest orders, against the Adhikari brothers. On June 1, Ratnadwip Manna, a Contai civic board member, had complained with Contai police that on May 29, a few armed men barged inside the civic body godown, picked up tarpaulins kept for aid, dumped them in a vehicle and fled. According to the complaint, two other members of the board, Himangshu Manna and Pratap De, were with the men. Ratnadwip also alleged that Himangshu and Pratap told him that the tarpaulins were taken on orders of Suvendu and Soumendu. The Contai police has arrested Pratap. Soumendu and Himangshu are “absconding”, according to the police. Soumendu and Himangshu are also not available on the phone, a police officer said. The lawyer appearing for Suvendu said this case was part of a conspiracy by the ruling Trinamul Congress to frame the Adhikari brothers as they had recently joined the BJP. The state government’s counsel said that considering the gravity of the allegation, the high court should not restrain investigators from a probe. The next hearing of the case will be on June 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Hilsa trawler capsize: National Disaster Response Force recovers bodies of three fishermen||Members of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Monday recovered the bodies of three fishermen who had gone missing late on Saturday night when their trawler capsized in the Hooghly river in East Midnapore’s Nandigram amid a sudden high tide. Police sources said that  the bodies of Rupesh Kumar Khanra, 20, Kashinath Sheet, 42, and Bistupada Maity, 27, were found floating around 6km from where the hilsa trawler had capsized. All the three fishermen were from Marishda, East Midnapore’s Contai. The body of the trawler driver Pradip Manna, 40, had been recovered on Sunday itself. Akhil Giri, state fisheries minister, said: “It was a very unfortunate incident as four persons lost their lives. We will reach out to the families with government compensation very soon.” “Each family (of the deceased) will get compensation of Rs 2 lakh,” said Kishore Biswas, a deputy magistrate in Haldia. The crew of 14 on the trawler, Maa Karunamoyee, had been shifting 14 barrels of diesel, of 200-litre capacity each, to fuel the vessel for a new season of hilsa fishing starting from June 15. Sources said that the weight of these diesel barrels made the vessel lose balance and topple. Nine among the 14 on board could swim to safety after the capsize. The accident cast a pall of gloom in the area. Fishermen who had been looking forward to the new hilsa season had told this paper on Sunday that accident was a setback that they would never forget all their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Both north and south Bengal will continue to be parts of West Bengal: Mamata on UT demand||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wondered whether the BJP wanted to muzzle voices of people in Bengal like it did in Kashmir after certain district presidents of the party in north Bengal had demanded that the region be carved out of the state and declared as a Union Territory. Central BJP leaders, including president J.P. Nadda, had held a virtual meeting with the party’s district chiefs in Bengal on Sunday. Sources said some district chiefs in north Bengal had flagged alleged infiltration from Bangladesh and attacks on party workers in the region and underscored north Bengal’s strategic importance. “The district chiefs told the central leaders that if north Bengal was declared a Union Territory, those issues could be addressed. They also mentioned that the party enjoyed considerable support in north Bengal as was evident from the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the recent Assembly elections,” said a BJP insider. Told about the Union Territory demand, the chief minister said: “We will not let them play the politics of divide and rule. Both north and south Bengal are parts of Bengal and will continue to be parts of West Bengal. It is not so easy…. the state’s assent is required to make such a decision.” “What does it mean… does it mean… to muzzle peoples’ voices like they have done in Kashmir? Do they want to detain them and snatch away their right to live and constitutional rights by dividing Bengal? Those who are making such devious plans will get an apt response from the people of Bengal. We condemn such demands and suspect some central leaders of the party are inciting them (leaders in Bengal),” she added. Mamata also reeled off development projects she had undertaken in north Bengal after coming to power in 2011. “In some cases, there has been more development in north Bengal than southern parts of the state. Let us make it clear if any such attempts are made, those who are advocating such division will have to roam around in future with a written declaration on their chest that they are not associated with the BJP.” BJP’s pitch for “Union territory” of north Bengal will have far-reaching repercussions, say political analysts. On one hand, it can rekindle old demands like separate Gorkhaland, Kamtapur and Greater Cooch Behar states raised by different communities. On the other hand, it can trigger counter-movements against these demands. “The BJP might have a number of MLAs and MPs from the region but it would be wrong to perceive that whoever voted for the party will support the demand for the Union territory status. North Bengal has witnessed a number of movements over the demand of separate statehood and every time, there was a clear message that the divisive card didn’t help political parties which had played it,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-24
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Malls, restaurants, bars and parks to open in a limited manner||Malls, restaurants, bars and parks can open in a limited manner from Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning, the Bengal government announced on Monday while extending the stricter restrictions till June 30. “Some relaxations have been given as it is better than keeping everything closed.… The daily (Covid) positivity rate has come down to 6 per cent from 32 per cent recorded during the last phase of elections.… We will bring down this rate too,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. The relaxations will formally come into force after 6pm on Tuesday (June 15), when the ongoing phase of restrictions will end. But the attendant conditions will ensure that many establishments will have to wait till Wednesday morning to reopen. The state government said that restrictions would continue on the movement of suburban trains, inter-state and intra-state bus services, Metro rail services and all modes of road transportation. Sources said restrictions on all outdoor activities would remain in force between 9pm and 5am. Some of the key relaxations announced on Monday: ⚫ Private offices can operate from 10am to 4pm with 25 per cent attendance. Employers should make transport arrangements and obtain e-passes from Calcutta police or the district administration concerned. ⚫ All production units and IT companies can operate with 50 per cent employees in each shift, subject to vaccination. ⚫ All government departments, except those dealing with emergency services, will operate with 25 per cent staff. ⚫ Retail shops selling vegetables, fish, fruits, bread, milk, meat and eggs can operate between 7am and 11am. ⚫ All other retail shops can function from 11am to 6pm. ⚫ Restaurants and bars, including in hotels and malls, can function between 12noon and 8pm at 50 per cent seating capacity. ⚫ Retail shops in malls and market complexes will operate from 11am to 6pm with 25 per cent employees and at 30 per cent customer capacity. (Since the curbs were announced, only outlets selling essentials were open in malls.) ⚫ Parks will open between 6am and 9am for morning walk and physical exercise. But only those who have taken two doses of vaccine will be allowed to enter. ⚫ Tea auction is allowed with 25 per cent employee strength. ⚫ Indoor and outdoor shooting for television and films is allowed with a maximum of 50 people at a time, subject to vaccination. ⚫ Banks and financial institutions can function between 10am and 2pm. ⚫ Games and sports may resume in stadiums and clubs with sports facilities but without spectators. Sources said the restrictions in place since May 16 had helped bring down daily Covid cases to 3,519 (on Monday) from 19,511 recorded on May 15, but lifting all restrictions now would be detrimental to containing the spread of the pandemic. “It was discussed that some kind of restrictions should be in place until the daily positivity rate comes down to less than 5 per cent of the total number of samples being tested. At present, around 60,000 samples are tested across the state daily. At the same time, the state government has introduced some relaxations to ensure that economic activities continue in the state,” a senior government official said. Although the state made it clear that the heads of the departments of the government should prepare a roster to ensure 25 per cent of employees attend office and arrange vehicles for their transportation to and from office, a section of employees said they might face difficulty in reporting for duty in the absence of suburban trains. “Many state government employees come from outside the metropolis and I doubt whether the office will provide a pick-up and drop facility for those living in places afar,” said an employee of the land department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
15-06-2021||West Bengal||Police arrest six persons in kangaroo court torture case ||Police have arrested six persons in connection with the barbaric “punishment” handed to a homemaker for her alleged affair by a village salishi sabha last Thursday. After a salishi sabha was held, she was dragged out of home, stripped and forced to parade through the village, during which people shot videos of her humiliation. On Sunday, police came to know about it when the videos appeared on social media. The victim, who had fled after the torture, was spotted in Assam and was hospitalised. Police spoke to the woman who named 12 villagers. Accordingly, four police teams were formed and late on Sunday, three persons were arrested, followed by three more on Monday, said Bholanath Pandey, SP, Alipurduar. The woman was sent to her parents’ home in Assam. Search is on to nab the rest of those named by the victim. The trio arrested on Sunday night were produced in a local court on Monday and remanded in police custody for 12 days. “The other three would be produced on Tuesday,” said a source. The woman was sent to her parents in Assam after a medical examination and counselling, police said. “A probe is on. We hope to nab the remaining six persons soon. Those in custody would be interrogated for more information,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-25
