16-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC accuses Governor of violating constitutional norms||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal on Wednesday accused Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who is on a visit to New Delhi, of violating constitutional norms and asked him not to return to the state. The BJP, on the other hand, alleged that it is the TMC which has no respect for the Constitution and asked the Mamata Banerjee-led party to respect constitutional posts. Dhankhar, who shares a strained relationship with the state government, went to the national capital on Wednesday night for a four-day trip. He had not specified any reason for the visit. However, on Wednesday, the governor said he met Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Prahlad Singh Patel. "Had useful interaction with Union Minister of Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs of India @JoshiPralhad on varied issues," he tweeted. In another Twitter post, Dhankhar said, "Had useful deliberations with Union Minister for Culture, Tourism @prahladspatel Prahlad Singh Patel @MinOfCultureGoI on issues pertaining Victoria Memorial @victoriamemkol, Indian Museum @IndianMuseumKol @ezcckolkata @asiatic_society aimed at enhancing impact of these bodies." Senior TMC leader and party spokesperson Sougata Ray lashed out at Dhankhar for allegedly violating constitutional norms and not taking the state government into confidence over various decisions and statements he has made in the recent past. "We have never seen such a governor who has no regard for the Constitution and its norms. He has been violating every constitutional norm. "According to our Constitution, the governor is supposed to act as per the instructions of the council of ministers headed by the chief minister. But he doesnt follow any such norm and acts as per his whims and fancies," Ray said. He wondered why he has gone to Delhi and is meeting union ministers. Ray's party colleague and MP, Mahua Moitra, asked Dhankar not to return to the state. "Uncleji going to Delhi on June 15th he says... Do us a favour WB Governor Sahib - don't come back," she said in a tweet. The governor went to Delhi a day after a delegation of BJP MLAs petitioned him for alleged deterioration of the law and order situation in the state. Hours before his departure to the national capital, Dhankhar wrote a letter to Chief Minister Mamata accusing her of being silent over post-poll violence in the state and not taking steps to rehabilitate the suffering people". He shared the letter on Twitter and the state Home Department criticised the move claiming that it was violative of all established norms. West Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu supported Dhankhar and charged the TMC with not respecting the constitutional post. "The governor has done nothing unconstitutional. He has been working as per norms. It is the TMC and the state government which have been doing all sorts of unconstitutional things. Before talking about norms, the TMC should first learn to respect the chair," Basu said. The TMC has shared an acrimonious relation with Dhankhar since its previous term in the government when he assumed office in July 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta Police questions Mithun Chakraborty over 'inciteful speech'||The Calcutta Police on Wednesday began virtually questioning actor-turned-BJP leader Mithun Chakraborty in connection with a complaint accusing him of inciting post-poll violence in West Bengal through his speeches. Officers of the Manicktala police station in north Calcutta began questioning the actor, who is currently in Pune, at 10.20 am. "Till the last information was received, the questioning was still underway," an officer told PTI. An FIR lodged at the police station alleged that the actor had used dialogues like 'Marbo ekhane lash porbe shoshane' (Will hit you here and the body will land in the crematorium) and 'Ek chobole chobi' (A snakebite will turn you into a photograph, meaning will kill you) at a rally here after joining the BJP on March 7. The complainant alleged that these dialogues caused post-poll violence in the state. The Calcutta High Court had directed Chakraborty to provide his email address to the state so that he can make himself available by way of video conference for questioning in connection with the complaint where he has been accused of promoting enmity between different groups, an intentional insult to provoke breach of peace, and making statements conducing to public mischief. Clashes were reported from several parts of the state following the declaration of assembly poll results on May 2, in which the Trinamool Congress returned to power for the third time. On prayers by the lawyers of the petitioner and the prosecution on Friday for taking up the matter on a later date, the court fixed the matter for hearing on June 18. Chakraborty had filed the petition before the high court seeking quashing of the case registered against him for alleged incitement to post-poll violence through his speeches, wherein he had uttered popular dialogues from his films. The actor had claimed that the utterances of such film dialogues were only recreational and that he is innocent and in no way connected with any offence as alleged by the complainant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
16-06-2021||West Bengal||11-year-old abducted boy rescued after three days from Murshidabad||An 11-year-old boy who was abducted from a village in South Dinajpur on June 11 was rescued from Murshidabad district on Monday. Police sources said the Class V student, son of trader who hails from Berapukur village, was kidnapped  by Mohammad Feroz and his wife. The couple had stayed as tenants at the boy’s house. Jahangir Alam, the boy’s father, said Feroz and his wife, who claimed to be residents of Kaliachak in Malda district, had for the past few years stayed as tenants at his house. “The couple used to sell garments in the rural areas in Malda and stayed at Alam’s place as tenants for five-six months in a year,” said a police officer. Police sources said on June 11, Feroz visited Alam and took his son for a trip on the latter’s bike. As they did not return, Alam filed a police complaint the next day at Gangarampur police station. On June 13, Alam received a call and was asked to pay Rs 12 lakh ransom. “The abductor asked Alam to visit Tulsipukur, a village in Murshidabad’s Farakka. The Gangarampur police contacted their counterparts in Murshidabad who tracked the cell phone of the abductor. A police team reached the spot — Gholakandi, a village in Farakka close to the Jharkhand border — on Monday evening but the abductors had fled by then, leaving the boy. On Tuesday, a sub-inspector reached Farakka from Gangarampur police station and the boy was handed over to him. “The boy has been rescued. Our officers have started an investigation and are in search of the abductors. No one has been arrested yet,” said Y. Raghuvanshi, SP, Jangipur police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Extramarital affair: Police arrest all 12 torture accused||Police have arrested all 12 persons named by a woman who was tortured last Thursday for allegedly having an extramarital affair. All have been arrested within 48 hours of the police finding out about the incident. Though the homemaker was stripped and paraded in her village during which people even recorded her videos last Thursday after a salishi sabha was held over her alleged affair, the police found out about it only when those video clips surfaced on social media on Sunday. Bholanath Pandey, district police chief, said three were arrested on Sunday night and the rest were nabbed in multiple raids that lasted till late on Monday. All have been sent to police custody. “The inspector-in-charge concerned has been asked to expedite submitting the chargesheet. The police will also take certain steps, including social sensitisation, to prevent such incidents,” he said. Elephants Wild elephants entered at least three human habitations of Jalpaiguri from forests on Tuesday. The biggest herd, of 50 elephants, entered a tea estate in Odlabari of Malbazar block,  from Bhuttabari forest. Foresters could steer the herd into Apalchand forest. A herd of five elephants entered the Moulani village of Maynaguri block from Baikunthapur forest. A team of foresters  is steering away the herd. In Danguajhar tea estate on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town, workers have an adult wild female elephant who is possibly from Bodaganj forest. Efforts are on to steer her to the forest. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt reacts strongly to Jagdeep Dhankhar’s letter to Mamata Banerjee||The Bengal government on Tuesday reacted strongly to a letter written by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to chief minister Mamata Banerjee asking her to take up the issue of “post-poll violence” at state cabinet meeting and initiate “steps to ensure law and order”. The governor, who reached Delhi on Tuesday on a three-day visit, sent the letter earlier in the day and also tweeted: “Constrained to conveyed @MamataOfficial that continued silence & inaction over post poll violence, violation of human rights & dignity of women, destruction of property, perpetuation of miseries on political opponents- worst since independence, ill augurs for democracy.” The government’s strong reaction came after Dhankhar made the letter public. “The communication format is violative of all established norms. The letter has been written to Hon’ble Chief Minister & released to public media through tweets simultaneously, which disrupts sanctity of such communications,” the state home department tweeted. “The unusual step of going public in this manner abruptly and unilaterally has shocked the Government of West Bengal all the more because the contents are fabricated,” the tweet went on to state. The government also said Dhankhar’s letter didn’t contain facts. The home department tweeted: “Government of West Bengal has observed with dismay and distress that the Hon’ble Governor of West Bengal has suddenly made public, a letter of his to the Hon’ble Chief Minister of West Bengal, with contents that are not consistent with real facts.” The government explained that since the chief minister took oath for the third consecutive term, the state cabinet had restored normality in the state. “While the post-poll violence in the State was somewhat unabated when the Election Commission of India was in charge of the law and order machinery, after the swearing in, the State Cabinet has reigned in the situation, restored normalcy,..” the home department tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||State govt makes negative Covid report mandatory for all fishermen||The second wave of Covid-19 changed fishing rules this year. The state government on Tuesday ordered only 15 fishermen per trawler and made it mandatory for those going into the sea to have a negative Covid report or a  full-vaccination certificate. Covid risk to fishermen cooped up on trawlers was a worry for the government before allowing marine fishing this year, a fisheries official said. Around 1,500 vessels from fishing harbours in Kakdwip, Namkhana, Raidighi, and Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas and over 1,000 vessels from Digha, Petuaghat (Contai), Sankarpur and a few other places in East Midnapore ventured into the sea at the end of the annual ban on Tuesday only after adhering to Covid protocols laid down by the state government. “The three-month ban on fishing was a big relief as the Covid situation peaked during that period. Though the situation is better now, we are taking no chances and have put in place strict safety measures with the help of several fishermen’s organisations,” said Jayanta Pradhan, assistant director of fisheries (marine), South 24-Parganas district. State fisheries department minister Akhil Giri said: “I held a meeting last week with fishermen’s associations where it was reiterated that no person will be allowed to go for marine fishing unless he is either vaccinated and or carries a negative report.” Expressing the seriousness of the government’s intent, Giri said from Wednesday the Digha fish auction centre would resume work with strict curbs. “Anybody spotted without a face mask will pay a fine of Rs 500,” he said. Sources in both South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore said the administration was keeping a close watch on the fishermen community, particularly after the arrival of migrant labourers from adjacent districts and some southern states. Fishermen’s organisations had been told to get fishermen and allied workers tested for Covid at government centres and debar those with symptoms from going to the sea. Satinath Patra, secretary of the Sunderbans Samudrik Matsyajibi Shramik Union, told this paper they tried to ensure only physically fit people aged between 19 and 45 who were Covid negative or fully vaccinated were allowed. New shipping office Chairman of Calcutta Port, Vinit Kumar, on Tuesday inaugurated a new shipping and cargo-handling office near the Haldia dock complex’s finger jetty. Kumar took the opportunity to address recent instances of alleged theft at the port, as well as the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 on shipping and handling operations. Kumar said steps would be taken to prevent theft with optical character recognition (OCR) for number plate detection and mandatory fast tags for vehicles. He asked port officials  to speed up Covid vaccination for personnel. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal ‘separation’ pitch irks Gorkhas||A section of BJP leaders’ demand that north Bengal be turned into a Union Territory or even a separate state has alarmed proponents of Gorkhaland who suspect such a narrative is a deliberate attempt to dilute the cry for the statehood of the Darjeeling hills. The Gorkhas of north Bengal have been demanding “a separate administrative unit”, distinct from Bengal, since 1907. Privat Giri, founding member of Darjeeling Research Scholars Forum, on Tuesday said: “I don’t support the ‘North Bengal state’. It will be no different from West Bengal for Gorkhas.” Some BJP district presidents in north Bengal had apparently said at a virtual meeting with central leaders on Sunday that if the region was declared a Union Territory, issues like infiltration from Bangladesh could be addressed. John Barla and Jayanta Roy, BJP MPs of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri, respectively, backed the Union Territory pitch and the former even said north Bengal could be turned into a separate state. Barla said north Bengal’s separation from Bengal was needed for the development and security of the region which is located near China, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal. The proponents of Gorkhaland have, however, said their demand is not for development but to secure the “distinct and separate” identity of Indian Gorkhas from citizens of Nepal. R.D. Dukpa, a research scholar in Darjeeling, is of the opinion that Barla’s announcement was “highly ambitious” and could find some traction among those who believe south Bengal is more developed than north. “But such political ambitions often end up making the powerful more powerful, and the powerless more powerless.” Like many in the hills, Dukpa also thinks the demand for Gorkhaland is beyond the agenda of “development” and is for the fulfilment of “ethnic political aspirations” “ For Gorkhas, a ‘North Bengal state’ would probably mean just a shift of power base from Calcutta to somewhere near,” said Dukpa. Taking the argument further, a young “concerned citizen of Darjeeling” pointed out that the “North Bengal state” concept was only to divert people’s attention from the BJP’s promise of a “permanent political solution” for the hills. Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista couldn’t be contacted. Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA, said if a new state was created “in national interest” considering the sensitive border, it was welcome. But he added the aspirations of Gorkhas must be looked into with a different yardstick in any new arrangement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Total active cases in Bengal rise for sixth consecutive day||Total active Covid-19 cases in Bengal on Tuesday rose for the sixth consecutive day by 1,125 to 20,046, as only 2,068 recoveries were logged against 3,268 new infections. The state also recorded 75 deaths, including 21 from Calcutta and 23 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. Of the infections, Calcutta logged 370 and North 24-Parganas 465. The total of active cases had fallen to less than 20,000 on June 8, for the first time since April 9, and fallen from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21by around 89 per cent till June 9, when there were 14,702 active cases in all. But over these six days, the number rose again by over 36 per cent. “As this spell of renewed rise has lasted six days already, it appears it cannot be trivialised as an aberration. It needs prompt, incisive measures, which we are in the process of implementing,” said a minister. “It was a good decision to keep restrictions in place for another fortnight.” Bengal now has 2.32 per cent of the national total of active cases and is eighth on the list of states with the most active cases. Only last week, it had fallen from sixth to 13th place in a matter of days. The recovery rate, which began declining on Friday to snap a 39-day spell of rise, fell to 97.47 per cent. The national recovery rate is 95.76 now. Daily confirmation rate, which peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 5.87 per cent on Tuesday. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,049 deaths in all, is 1.16 per cent now, while the national rate is 1.28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Yaas blow: Only 40 per cent trawlers venture out to catch hilsa||Cyclone Yaas, which lashed the coastal districts of the state on May 26, has dealt a severe blow to fishermen in East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas as only 40 per cent of trawlers could venture out to catch the prized hilsa on Tuesday, the first day of government-permitted fishing this season. Sources estimate at least 30 per cent of trawlers will not be able to set sail this year owing to the disruption of lives and livelihoods of fishermen after the recent cyclone amid the pandemic. Sources in the fisheries department said in normal times 8,000 trawlers and boats would have sailed on June 15, the formal end of the yearly three-month ban (April 15 to June 14) on fishing in the east coast to allow unhindered breeding. But on Tuesday, merely 3,500 boats and trawlers went out to catch hilsa. Fisheries department officials said more than 30 per cent of trawlers would venture out in the next two weeks as many fishermen were too busy grappling with survival basics to do their job. “Only 40 per cent of trawlers and boats could sail on the first day and the figure may increase in the days ahead, but many fisherman who have lost their homes to Yaas are still too busy trying to rebuild their lives to fish,” said a district official and added that the probable outcome would be a third consecutive year of low hilsa yield in Bengal. Akhil Giri, the state fisheries minister, held a meeting on Saturday with members of the fishermen’s association to address potential problems. “According to the survey of our department, 30 per cent of the boats will not sail this time owing to (the impact of) Yaas and other reasons. But we will try to get them back and running soon, that is important,” he said. Fisheries department officials said they feared a poor catch of hilsa this year owing to “low morale” and “infrastructure handicap”. “Many fishermen have suffered the impact of Cyclone Yaas. Many fishermen have lost their homes to inundation. If a person has three boats, he is likely to sail only one this time. As a result, we can’t expect sufficient hilsa production at the start of the season. However, we are hopeful that many more fishermen and trawlers will join the fleet as the season progresses,” said Jayanta Pradhan, an assistant director of fisheries (marine) in South 24-Parganas. Sources said the impact of Cyclone Amphan that hit the state last year was not as severe for the fishing community as Yaas. Flooding was more rampant after Yaas. Several association members also pointed out that hundreds of fishermen were currently putting up in makeshift shelters following the cyclone, which made them reluctant to leave their families. “My home has been washed away by Yaas and I am spending sleepless nights under a tarpaulin with my family. How can I think about sailing a boat for days on end, leaving my family members in such a situation?” asked Prabhat Bar, a fisherman from Shankarpur in East Midnapore. Officials in the fisheries department and the fishermen’s associations of South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore said Yaas apart, last year’s low hilsa catch also discouraged many fishing teams this year. In 2019, fishermen caught 25,000 metric tonnes of hilsa during monsoon. The figure dropped to 5,000 tonnes in the corresponding 2020 season. “Yaas has hit the coastal region badly and many fishermen don’t want to sail immediately as they are busy repairing their homes. We also faced a severe loss in hilsa catch last year as yield was very low,” said Satinath Patra, a secretary of the Sunderbans Samudrik Matsyojibi Shramik Union, suggesting morale among fishermen was low. Some trawler owners, however, chose optimism. “Odisha’s fishermen are getting hilsa in good quantities. So, we think this time we can catch more fish. True, production will be low initially as many trawlers won’t be at sea. But hilsa’s annual production will depend on the number of boats that sail in the second phase,” said Shyamsundar Das, a secretary of the Digha Fishermen and Fish Traders’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||District police try to figure out how Chinese national entered India without visa||The police on Monday took the 36-year-old Chinese national who entered India without a visa and was caught by the BSF along the India-Bangladesh border on June 10, to the same spot to reconstruct his entry. Han Junwei, who hails from Hebei province of North China and is wanted by the Anti-Terrorist Squad in Uttar Pradesh, was taken to Milik-Sultanpur village, on Monday for a demonstration of his entry to India with luggage. Han had crossed a river that runs parallel to the border to enter India from Bangladesh, it was found. “We took him to Milik-Sultanpur under Kaliachak police station near the international border to observe how he entered India. We noted down his version. Our officers are interrogating him for more details,” said Alok Rajoria, the district police chief. Police sources said an ethical hacker may also be called to scrutinise his laptop, cell phone and other electronic gadgets found on him. “There is also a proposal to carry out his CT scan to check if he has any electronic chip inserted in his body. During interrogation, several incongruities were found in his statements. Those are being checked,” said a police officer. A few months back, one of his associates, a Chinese national named Sun Jiang, was nabbed by the ATS in Lucknow. A blue-corner notice was also issued in Han’s name. A team from the ATS in Lucknow is likely to arrive in Malda to take Han into custody when he is produced in court again on June 18. “It seems the ATS wants to take him to Uttar Pradesh on transit remand so that he can be questioned with his partner in custody there,” said a source. Because of the blue-corner notice, Han, who had been to India a number of times earlier, including Delhi, Gurgaon and Hyderabad, could not get an Indian visa. Hence, he allegedly decided to enter the country from Nepal or Bangladesh. He landed in Dhaka on June 2, sources said. He moved to Chapai-Nawabganj in Bangladesh that shares borders with Malda on June 8, and entered India on June 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Lakshmir Bhandar scheme: 1.6 crore women to get monthly dole||The Mamata Banerjee government has estimated that 1.6 crore beneficiaries will be included in the “Lakshmir Bhandar (Lakshmi’s treasure)” scheme which promises Rs 1,000 to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families and Rs 500 to those in general categories a month. The scheme had been promised by chief minister Mamata Banerjee before recent Assembly elections. Top government officials held a meeting recently to work out the modalities of the dole. “Work to implement the scheme will start on the ground from July 1. The first thing we have to do is to register the beneficiaries of the scheme. It has been assessed that the scheme will have a total of 1.6 crore beneficiaries,” said a senior government official. The government has primarily estimated that Rs 11,000 will have to be spent from the state exchequer annually to run the scheme. “The scheme will help 1.6 crore families across the state during the Covid-19 pandemic when opportunities to earn livelihood have shrunk, particularly in rural areas. But it will certainly leave a heavy burden on the exchequer at a time when the state’s own revenue generation has suffered a hit,” said another official. The state government, sources said, was planning to fix an eligibility criterion, which is likely to be based on a person’s family income, to keep the number of beneficiaries under control. “The financial condition does not allow the state to make the scheme universal like Sabuj Sathi or old age pension. We just cannot bring all 2.5 crore families in the state under the scheme as it will push the financial burden to over Rs 20,000 crore annually,” said an official Sources also said during a recent meeting to ensure the smooth implementation of the scheme, chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi had hinted that the government was considering the insertion of an eligibility criterion for women to avail themselves of the monthly doles. The state government might be forced to cut down allotment of some departments to raise funds for the scheme, the sources said. “It is not possible to cut down departmental allocations heavily. So, the state is looking to arrange for funds for the scheme from some other sources too,” said a source. According to officials, the government already has a database of some eligible beneficiaries, which can be readily used to launch the scheme. “For example, the state has detailed data of 33 lakh women beneficiaries of the social security scheme (Samajik Suraksha Yojana). These beneficiaries can be brought under the direct benefit transfer scheme immediately. For the remaining families, the government could seek applications,” said a source. The sources said the scheme would definitely boost the rural economy as a large portion of the Rs 11,000 crore would be pumped into the beneficiaries’ respective areas every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
16-06-2021||West Bengal||Trusting Suvendu Adhikari was biggest mistake: Burdwan East MP||Burdwan East MP Sunil Mandal, deemed a close aide to Suvendu Adhikari, on Tuesday was the latest addition to the rapidly growing list of Trinamul Congress turncoats in the BJP to publicly criticise their new party following the saffron camp’s defeat in the Assembly polls. Mandal — whose disqualification as a Lok Sabha member Trinamul has been demanding — also turned the knife, saying trusting Adhikari was his “biggest mistake”. “I thought the BJP was an organised party. But I later found out it isn’t. Trinamul has much better organisational strength and hence it won,” said Mandal, one of the two Trinamul MPs (the other being Adhikari’s father, Sisir), who formally defected to the BJP before the polls. “It is time for us to self-assess and analyse realistically the reasons for our loss and stop threatening a state government, which just came to power with such massive majority, with President’s rule,” he said. Mandal added that the people of Bengal couldn’t understand the language of the Hindi-speaking BJP leaders. His statements were issued a day after Trinamul’s leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhyay had called Speaker Om Birla again, urging him to act against Mandal and Sisir following their defection. Asked if he regretted joining the BJP, Mandal said: “I wouldn’t think about it right now. But yes, there were some mistakes on my part in understanding the BJP…. My biggest mistake was trusting Suvendu.” BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said there was room for dialogue within the party regarding such issues. “We had inducted many leaders into our party. They have been given their due respect…. If someone is frustrated, he can always speak to us,” said Ghosh. Trinamul promptly reacted to Mandal’s statements saying he was simply trying to save himself from the anti-defection law. Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee said people didn’t trust those like Mandal. “Speaker Birla told Sudip Bandyopadhyay that a committee had been set up to determine if the anti-defection law was to be applied against Sunil Mandal and Sisir Adhikari. This has scared him (Mandal)…. He is sub-standard for politics,” said Banerjee. Asked to react to Trinamul’s efforts to cancel the senior Adhikari’s Lok Sabha membership, Ghosh said he didn’t even know if the Contai MP had at all joined the BJP. “I don’t know if he (Sisir) joined our party or spoke from a BJP platform. If they (Trinamul) have evidence against him, let them speak to the authorities,” said the Midnapore MP. In March, Sisir was seen at a BJP rally of Union home minister Amit Shah, where he delivered a speech vowing that his clan would work “under (Narendra) Modiji and Amit Shahji”. Later, he was also seen at a rally of Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-23
