17-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata moves high court, challenging Suvendu's win in Nandigram||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has filed a petition in the Calcutta High Court against BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari, challenging the result of the Nandigram Assembly constituency where she lost to him by a margin of mere 1,956 votes. The case will come up for hearing before the single bench of Justice Kausik Chanda on Friday morning. Nandigram was one of the most closely contested seats in this May’s Assembly election, with an acrimonious campaign. Despite the loss in Nandigram, the Trinamul, led by Mamata, had scored an emphatic win, with the BJP remaining the only Opposition in Bengal's electoral space. Soon after the results were declared Mamata had made it clear that she suspected foul play in the counting process in Nandigram and would move court. The one reason behind the rise of Adhikari in the BJP is that he has defeated Mamata. Though Mamata took oath as chief minister, she would have to seek re-election within six months. So far, there is no indication of the Election Commission of India announcing by-polls in the state. Trinamul leaders are worried that the central poll panel might not hold the elections now citing the Covid pandemic. The EC had drawn flak for holding a prolonged eight-phase elections while Covid raged in the state. Mamata’s colleague in the cabinet, Manas Bhunia, had succeeded in overturning an election result 21 years ago. During the Bengal Assembly polls of 1996, Bhunia had lost by a mere 825 votes to Makhanlal Bangal of the Biplabi Bangla Congress, a Left Front constituent. Bhunia had moved  high court and four years later was declared winner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar meets Amit Shah||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and is believed to have briefed him about the law and order situation in the state, where several incidents of violence were reported after the recent assembly elections. This is the first meeting between Dhankhar and Shah after Mamata Banerjee retained power in Bengal following the Trinamul Congress' victory in the in the stateAssembly polls. "The Governor of West Bengal, Shri @jdhankhar1 met Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah," tweeted the home minister's office along with a picture of both Dhankhar and Shah. Sources said the governor briefed the home minister about the prevailing law and order situation in West Bengal. Dhankhar arrived in the national capital on Tuesday. A day before his departure from Calcutta, a delegation of BJP MLAs petitioned him on the alleged deterioration of law and order in the state. Dhankhar also wrote a letter to the chief minister accusing her of being silent over post-poll violence in the state and not taking steps to rehabilitate the suffering people. He shared the letter on Twitter but the state home department criticised the move claiming that it was violative of all established norms. Dhankhar, who has shared a strained relationship with the TMC government since taking charge as the governor of the state in 2019, is in the national capital on a four-day trip. He has not specified any reason for the visit. The governor met Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Prahlad Singh Patel on Wednesday. He also held a meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan earlier in the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Have asked Modi thrice to remove Dhankhar from post, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday took a dig at Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's New Delhi visit as she said a "child can be cajoled into silence" but not an elderly man, noting that she has thrice written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw him from the state. Calling the governor a "Centre's man", Banerjee refrained from commenting much on his meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind and several other union ministers in Delhi. "What can I say? A child can be cajoled into silence. In this case, speech is silver; silence is golden," she said. Asked about media reports suggesting that the governor might be removed, Banerjee said she is not aware of any such development. "How do I know? When a governor is appointed, the state government is consulted. That, however, was not done in this case... I have written twice or thrice to the Prime Minister seeking his withdrawal from the state," she said. Dhankhar, who has shared a strained relationship with the TMC government since taking charge as the governor of the state in 2019, is in the national capital on a four-day trip. He has not specified any reason for the visit. The governor met Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Prahlad Singh Patel on Wednesday. He also held a meeting with President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan earlier in the day. Dhankhar is scheduled to meet Home Minister Amit Shah later in the day. The chief minister, when enquired if Raj Bhavan appointing several 'officers on special duty' has mounted pressure on the state exchequer, maintained that she wouldn't have the details offhand. The ruling TMC in Bengal on Wednesday accused Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar of violating constitutional norms and requested him not to return to the state. Left Front chairman in the state and CPI(M) leader, Biman Bose, slammed the governor for allegedly acting like a BJP mouthpiece and condemned his "partisan" role. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, stated that the TMC has "no respect for the Constitution". "The governor is doing the right thing, and that is why the TMC dispensation does not like it. The Centre appoints him, and it is obvious that he has to report various developments to the Union government," Ghosh asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata condemns Centre's efforts to 'control' Twitter||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday slammed the BJP-led union government over its "efforts to control" Twitter and claimed that the Centre, having failed to influence the microblogging platform, is now trying to bulldoze it. Drawing a parallel, Banerjee said her government, too, was being meted out the same treatment by the Centre. "I condemn it; they can't control Twitter, so they are trying to bulldoze it. They (Centre) are trying to do so with everyone they are unable to manage. They can't control me, and that is why they are trying to bulldoze my government, too," Banerjee said while talking to reporters here. The networking platform has lost its 'safe harbour' shield in India over non-compliance to IT rules and failure to appoint key personnel mandated under new guidelines. It will now be liable for action under the Indian Penal Code for third party unlawful content. Making light of BJP's allegations of continued political violence in the state, the chief minister said it was a saffron party "gimmick" and the claims made were completely "baseless". "There is no political violence going on in the state right now. There may have been one or two sporadic incidents, but those can't be labelled as incidents of political violence," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata increases allowance for Krishak Bandhu scheme ||Keeping a promise made during the Assembly elections, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday increased the allowance for the Krishak Bandhu scheme for farmers from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000. Farmers of the state will get this amount in their accounts every six months, Mamata said. The work of handing over the money to the farmers in the districts will start from Thursday, the chief minister told a press conference. Not only that, farm labourers who used to get a minimum of Rs 2,000 per year as allowance will now get a minimum of Rs. 4,000. "The farmers’ movement on the Delhi borders has been going on for more than six months, but the Center has no qualms about it. Farmers across India do not get money for the Centre’s schemes. Bengali is an exception. Here the income of the farmers has tripled. At least 60 lakh farmers in the state will benefit from the increase in allowances under the Krishak Budhu project. Not only farmers but at least 82 lakh farm laborers and sharecroppers will benefit from this project. Earlier, farmers had to show land documents to come under the state's farmer scheme. "There is no need to show land documents now," Mamata said on Thursday. You just have to submit an affidavit."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre withdraws VIP security cover of Mukul Roy||Days after Mukul Roy's 'ghar wapsi' to the Trinamool Congress, the former BJP leader asked the Centre to withdraw his VIP security cover, which has been complied with by the Union Home Ministry, officials said Thursday. They said Roy's Z-category security has been withdrawn and the Union Home Ministry has directed the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to recall its detachment deployed with him. Roy, who was suspended from the TMC in 2017 for alleged anti-party activities, had joined the BJP, and was appointed the party's national vice president ahead of the West Bengal elections. However, he and his son Subhrangshu returned to the TMC, led by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, last week after a drubbing to the BJP in the polls, even though the senior Roy won his Krishnanagar Uttar constituency as a saffron party candidate. The Home Ministry sources said that Roy had written to the Centre to withdraw the security cover, which has now been given effect to. After he had joined the BJP, he was accorded a low category Y+ central security cover of the central paramilitary CRPF which was upgraded to the second top level of Z just before the state assembly polls in March-April this year. He had a contingent of about 22-24 armed CRPF commandos who used to move with him every time he travelled in West Bengal. The security of his son, which was provided by a small contingent of the CISF, has also been withdrawn. The father-son duo are now being provided security by the state police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang tightens grip on Morcha faction||Binay Tamang on Wednesday announced sweeping changes in his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha by announcing that henceforth, only he would speak to the media on party affairs, recasting local committees and asserting that he would prefer leaders with mass support to those with negligible popular backing. He said the changes were avowedly being brought about to streamline and strengthen the Morcha to prepare for coming elections. Many in the hills, who are keenly following the activities and performance of the Tamang faction, believe he is probably making a last ditch attempt to change the party in the hope that his group emerges as a formidable force before elections to municipalities, panchayats and even the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. “The party received a drubbing in the Darjeeling Lok Sabha election and Assembly bypoll in 2019 and managed to win only one of the three hill seats in the recent Assembly elections,” said an observer. “The Tamang camp has not grown in terms of popular support despite being in power by virtue of being in control of the GTA in the past four years.” Tamang on Wednesday said the “party’s support base” had increased if one were to go by the Assembly election results as it had won the Kalimpong seat and come second in Darjeeling and Kurseong constituencies. “We did analyse our election results. We need to be fully prepared to face future elections and that is why are bringing in changes in the party,” said Tamang. In a clear indication that he was unhappy with the functioning of party leaders, Tamang said: “Leaders who cannot bring in supporters will have to remain as ordinary members in the party. We will give positions to those leaders who bring in supporters.” Issuing a media gag on all party leaders, Tamang, said henceforth, there would be no party spokesman and the president would personally issue all statements. “From today, no one will give media interviews. There will be no party spokesman. I will issue all press statements and if I am preoccupied, I will designate a senior leader to issue press statements on that particular day,” said Tamang. At a time when social media wings of every political party play a major role in disseminating information, many hill residents wondered if Tamang’s decision could put the party at a disadvantage. Tamang also dissolved the sub divisional committees of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong and constituency committees of Mirik and Soureni. He decided to personally monitor the central and district committees of the women and youth wings, too. “None — even the general secretary — will be allowed to take any decision without consulting me,” said Tamang. Anit Thapa, the second in command of the faction, is the general secretary. Tamang directed Thapa to submit “a report on the party’s organisation” by July 10 but “after duly consulting” respective leaders of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. Tamang has decided to run the Darjeeling and Kurseong subcommittees through handpicked leaders until the report is placed by the general secretary. Two leaders were handpicked to look after party activities in the Mirik and Soureni constituencies. Tamang and Thapa have also decided to hold “a high level meeting” in Kalimpong soon to rejig the district committee there. The party is thinking of forming a committee to monitor the party’s central committee and reorganising its 23 frontal organisations. “I do not need an army of Kauravas but that of Pandavas,” Tamang said in a clear message that he was preferring performing leaders in the party. Many believe Tamang is under pressure to show his mandate and hence, there are sweeping changes. “He probably thinks a major leadership rejig is needed for the party to survive,” said an observer. A poor performance by Tamang’s party in the coming elections would put a question mark on its future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Pritikana Biswas, former CPM councillor of Siliguri Municipal Corporation  joins Trinamul||Pritikana Biswas, a former CPM councillor of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), joined Trinamul on Wednesday, with erosion in Left Front in Darjeeling district Left Front after senior CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya, the former MLA of Siliguri, decided not to participate in electoral politics after he lost in the Assembly elections. Biswas, the former councillor of ward 44, is the third such former councillor of the SMC where the Left was in power till last year, to join Trinamul in less than a month. Last month, Left leaders Rambhajan Mahato, the former deputy mayor and an RSP councillor, and Kamal Agarwal, a former mayor in council of the civic body from the CPM, switched to Trinamul. “Our primary objective is to stop communal politics of the BJP and expedite development of Siliguri. We think Trinamul is the right place where all these purposes will be served and that’s why I joined Trinamul,” Biswas told journalists after taking the party flag from party’s senior leader Gautam Deb at Darjeeling district party office here on Wednesday. Ujjwal Das, a former local committee leader of Darjeeling district CPM, also accompanied her at Trinamul office and took the party flag. Trinamul sources said a number of councillors and leaders from the Opposition are in queue and will soon shift base to Trinamul. “People want to join hands with Trinamul and be a part of the development work of the state government under the leadership of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. It is a continuous process in politics and more will join in future,” Deb told the media after the event. Left Front leaders were quick to react. “It is very surprising that Trinamul, after winning the elections with a huge mandate, has now shifted its focus from Covid management and is hunting Opposition leaders. They will get a fitting reply in the upcoming civic polls. There won’t be any more defections,” said Jibesh Sarkar, Darjeeling district secretary of CPM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Krishnagar: Elderly man and son  electrocuted to death||An elderly man and his son were fatally electrocuted during a short circuit at their home early on Wednesday at Krishnagar's Bhaluka area. Police and family sources said Sanjib Santra, 23, a resident of Nadia’s Charkatala Joania village, was electrocuted when he tried to turn a table fan manually. His father Durjoy, 62, was electrocuted while trying to save his son. Neighbours responded to an alarm raised by Sanjib’s wife and disconnected the supply line, but it was too late. Rushed to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar, the youth and his father were declared brought dead. Family sources said Sanjib, who got married barely three months ago, was to visit his in-laws' house for Jamai Sasthi in Santipur on Wednesday. A relative of the family said it was not clear how the short circuit occurred. “We came to know from Sanjib’s wife that he was trying to fix some snags in the fan.” Hospital authorities have handed over the bodies to the police for autopsy. The body of a Class VII student from Bishnupur area of Mandirbazar in South 24Parganas, who had gone missing on Sunday, was found near the railway tracks on Wednesday afternoon. The police said prima facie, Suraj Laskar, 14, was strangulated first and hit with blunt objects. Family sources said the boy had a fight over a mobile gaming app with a few acquaintances from a neighbouring village. The police on the basis of a complaint lodged by his father have detained three of Suraj’s friends for interrogation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Malls reopen, fear of virus evokes timid response from citizens ||Fear of contracting Covid-19, coupled with incessant rain and lack of public transport, evoked timid response from citizens at shopping malls, restaurants and bars on Wednesday, marking a muted resumption to limited services as the state government relaxed certain curbs in place since May 16. On Monday, the Bengal government extended ongoing Covid-induced restrictions till June 30, while offering relaxations in view of the drop in the number of infections and deaths from last month. But Covid prudence won in Calcutta as well as all major south Bengal towns such as Barrackpore, Kanchrapara, Chakdah, Krishnagar, Behrampore, Bolpur, Asansol, Kharagpur, Durgapur, and Chandannagore. Though the government allowed the running of government and private offices with 25 per cent employees, and shopping malls to operate from 11am to 6pm with open restaurants and bars during limited hours at half capacity, most of these venues wore a deserted look on Wednesday. “It is a complicated situation. There is no public transport on the road, so getting to a mall or restaurant is difficult. Moreover, one needs an e-pass to move without hassles. Catching Covid, however, is the biggest fear,” said Sukanya Sen, a homemaker in Barrackpore, on why she did not venture out. “On top of all that, it is raining.” Arindam Garai, owner of a multicuisine restaurant run by women in Nadia’s Krishnagar, said: “The preference for home delivery continues to be high. We have put around 30 vehicles to cater to home deliveries throughout the day. Of the day’s total sale, around 25 per cent was from those who ate food at the restaurant.” An official of a major departmental store in Krishnagar added that they were hopeful that the situation would improve during the next couple of days. “However, the absence of public transport is a drawback,” he admitted. Anil Jha, general manager of Bengal Shristi, which runs two shopping malls in Asansol and Durgapur, said: “We are fully prepared to serve people but there is poor turnout. It’s raining and it appears many people are still not aware of the relaxations announced by the government. We expect footfall to increase over the next few days.” “We will like to assure our customers that we have ensured all sorts of Covid protection norms to make the mall safe for shopping,” added Arijit Chatterjee, the COO of Junction Mall in Durgapur. Footfall at bars was also quite low. The owner of a bar in Bolpur rued the timing: “Service hours of bars (noon-8pm), announced by the government, is not ideal. People hardly visit bars during the afternoon or in the early hours of the evening” Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee and Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Electrocution whiff in jumbo death in Alipurduar||A wild adult elephant died due to suspected electrocution at a tea estate in Alipurduar district on Tuesday night. Sources in the state forest department said the “makna” — male without tusks — was found dead in the Dalmore tea garden located close to the Dalgaon forest near Birpara. On Wednesday morning, some inhabitants of the garden spotted the carcass near an electric pole and informed foresters. “Preliminary probe revealed that the elephant died of electrocution. The carcass of the jumbo was lying close to an electric pole that is part of an 11KV power transmission line of the garden. We are still waiting for the autopsy report to confirm the cause of the death,” said Mridul Jaiswal, the divisional forest officer of Jalpaiguri forest division. Another forest official said: “It seems like the animal either touched the pole or got electrocuted while stepping on the ground that is suspected to have got electrified.” The incident has made wildlife conservationists react. Animesh Bose, the coordinator of Siliguribased Himalayan Nature & Adventure Foundation, said eight elephants had died of electrocution in north Bengal last year. “After the incidents, six cells, including foresters, policemen, representatives of panchayats and NGOs and officers of WBSEDCL were formed to check such incidents. These cells should be activated immediately,” Bose added. A resident of Kilkott tea estate in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri district has been arrested for allegedly killing his younger brother on Wednesday, following an altercation over sharing meat. Sources said Sunil Oraon hacked Anil Oraon, 38, with a sharp weapon during a scuffle over sharing meat and fled the area. Anil died on the spot. Police said Sunil was arrested from an adjoining locality and a probe was on. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Mithun Chakraborty questioned by cops over poll speech||Actor-turned-BJP leader Mithun Chakraborty was questioned by police through video-conferencing on Wednesday in connection with a complaint that his speech had triggered violence in the state after the results of the Assembly elections had been declared on May 2. The elderly actor, who was among the BJP’s star campaigners in the elections, was questioned virtually for over 45 minutes by senior officers of the Manicktala police station and the eastern suburban division. The complaint was lodged at the Manicktala police station. A senior cop said: “According to the complaint registered with us, his speech after joining the BJP had caused widespread instigation in encouraging violence based on electoral divides.” The police case involves a line from his 2006 film MLA Fatakeshto: “Marbo ekhaney...lash porbay shoshaney (I will beat you here. Your body will be found at the crematorium.)” In the speech that was wildly cheered, he had also uttered the lines: “Ami joldhorao noi, bele borao noi... ami ekta cobra, ek chobol-ei chhobi (I am not any harmless snake, I am a cobra, one strike and you become a picture.” Mithun had moved Calcutta High Court to get the FIR quashed. The court, however, directed an investigation officer to question the actor virtually. The actor has pleaded that he had only recited film dialogues in his speech and those were not meant to be literal. Chakraborty has been booked under laws which deal with instigation and criminal conspiracy. The police said, if needed, he would be questioned again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta police detective dept take up probe against Rakhal Bera||Calcutta police detective department has taken up the probe against Rakhal Bera, arrested earlier for his alleged links in a job racket where a complainant said he was falsely “sold” a job in the state irrigation department in 2019. BJP MLA and leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari was the irrigation minister then. Bera, claimed to be Suvendu’s aide, was arrested on June 5 following a complaint by Sujit Dey of Ashokenagar in North 24-Parganas. Police said Dey alleged that between July and September 2019, Bera and one Chanchal Nandi of Contai held a purported government job camp inside a flat in Block B of the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics Cooperative Housing Society on Manicktala Road. Dey alleged the duo took Rs 2 lakh from him, but didn’t give him a job. So far, officers of Manicktala police station were probing the case. The detective department at Lalbazar will now investigate the case,  drawn up under the sections of cheating, forgery, fraud and criminal conspiracy in February 2021. Police officers said Bera’s interrogation and the probe so far revealed many persons were involved and the racket’s tentacles were spread in various south Bengal districts. The BJP and Bera’s defence lawyer have called the case politically motivated. Senior BJP leaders said this was an attempt to frame Suvendu on charges of corruption and that the party would fight it out legally and politically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-21
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapur Liberation Organisation leader releases video with statehood demand||Jeevan Singha, the self-styled chief of the proscribed Kamtapur Liberation Organisation, has released a video, asserting that the outfit will continue to fight for a separate state comprising several north Bengal districts. The video of six minutes and 40 seconds was shot at an undisclosed location. The video has been made public after a section of BJP leaders, including MPs, rooted for a separate north Bengal state or a Union territory status for the region. Speaking in Rajbanshi language, Singha said: “We have faced atrocities in the past 74 years and want to reiterate that our struggle will continue. All of us should stand together and those who are against it (separate Kamtapur state) should move to the other bank of the Ganga.” The Ganga that has Malda on the left bank and Murshidabad on the other side marks the geographic division of north and south Bengal. Singha also spoke about Ananta Maharaj, leader of a faction of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Party (GCPA) and another proponent of the Kamtapur state. He stays in neighbouring Assam now. “Ananta Maharaj has immense popularity among Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) people. His arguments for the greater Cooch Behar state cannot be denied. That is why the Bengal government has forced him to stay away,” said Singha. This is the first time in recent years that the KLO has openly backed a GCPA leader. The KLO and the GCPA generally refrain from commenting on the other leaders or programmes. The KLO chief said Ananta Maharaj had always backed the BJP and Union home minister Amit Shah had met him in Assam in February this year, before reaching Cooch Behar to attend a public rally. Trinamul Congress leader Gautam Deb said on Wednesday that the party would soon launch political activities to thwart the BJP’s attempts to “divide Bengal”. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar and Bireswar Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,187 new Covid-19 cases, 69 more deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported a rise for the seventh consecutive day in its total of active Covid-19 cases. Active coronavirus cases in the state rose by 1,106 to 21,152 in all, as only 2,012 recoveries were logged on Wednesday, against the 3,187 new infections detected. The state also recorded 69 deaths. Bengal now has 2.55 per cent of the national total of active cases, having doubled the number in the span of a week. It is also eighth on the list of states with the most active cases in India. Bengal had fallen from sixth place to 13th place among states with the most active cases, in a matter of days, last week. “Over the next five-seven days, we expect another boom in recoveries, which will end this renewed spell of spike,” said a minister. “The daily count of new cases will also go further down, as the state government’s restrictions stay in place till the end of the month. We expect the total of active cases to fall to below 10,000 fairly soon,” the minister added. The total of Bengal’s active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. Total active cases were 14,702 on June 9 in Bengal. But over these past seven days, the figure has risen again by 44 per cent to  21,152 at present. Bengal’s recovery rate, which began dropping on Friday by snapping a 39-day spell of rise, fell to 97.4 per cent on Wednesday. The national recovery rate is 95.88 now. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, however, fell to 5.14 per cent on Wednesday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,118 deaths in all since the onset of the pandemic, is currently 1.16 per cent, while the national rate is 1.28. Of the 69 deaths reported on Wednesday, 13 were from Calcutta and 17 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. Among the day’s new Covid-19 infections, Calcutta logged 377 while North 24-Parganas reported 435.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP leaders demand Kailash, Arvind ouster||A section of state BJP leaders has demanded the removal of the party’s central minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and his deputy Arvind Menon after Mukul Roy, who was perceived to be close to the duo, recently rejoined the Trinamul Congress ending his 44-month association with the saffron camp. Vijayvargiya, one of the general secretaries of the BJP, was at the helm of affairs in the state unit and was seen as the primary architect of defections from Trinamul ahead of the Assembly polls. Several senior BJP leaders, including some old-timers, had expressed reservations about the strategy of engineering defections from other parties, but Vijayvargiya, along with Menon, bulldozed their way through and got several Trinamul legislators to sign up for the party. “We lost because of this trio, Kailash-Mukul-Menon. They are the ones responsible for the BJP’s such dismal performance in the election... Good riddance that Mukulda has quit. I wrote a letter to Amit Shah-ji (on Tuesday), requesting him to replace both Kailashji and Menonji,” Subrata Mishra, a vice-president of the BJP’s Asansol organisational district, told The Telegraph. So far, former state BJP chief and former governor Tathagata Roy was the only person who had publicly criticised Vijayvargiya and his deputy. He had recently submitted a report to BJP national president J.P. Nadda on the probable reasons behind the party’s defeat and he had named the duo, too. Sources said the demand for the removal of Vijayvargiya and Menon would grow further in coming days as leaders allegiant to Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh always had differences with the duo. “Kailash-ji was under the influence of Mukul-da and that was why he had pushed Trinamul turncoats in several seats, which caused heart-burn among the party’s old-timers. Many of these dissidents had contested as Independents and we suffered,” said a state BJP leader. After the rout the BJP faced in the election, most internal assessments have pointed to selection of wrong candidates as one of the major reasons for the poor show. “Kailashji was the man behind these wrong decisions. Even if someone would try to speak sense to him, he would discard their opinion. The only person he listened to was Mukulda. The question is why he did have so much trust in Mukulda?” a state BJP office bearer said before demanding an inquiry into the minder’s dealings with Roy. A BJP source in West Midnapore’s Garhbeta Assembly segment alleged that Roy and Vijayvargiya had planned to field candidates with negligible public acceptance in the seats which fall under the Midnapore Lok Sabha constituency represented by Ghosh. “The choice of candidates thinned our chances to win the seats in Midnapore. This way, they wanted to show that Dilipda was not capable of ensuring victory in his own constituency. It was a ploy to embarrass him,” this person said. MLA letter to Speaker Trinamul turncoat and BJP’s Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami has written to Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee, requesting him to give a copy of his order in which he had barred the entry of central security personnel on the premises of the House. Banerjee had earlier barred the entry of central forces into the Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Rivers overflow, several bridges submerged in south Bengal districts ||Incessant rain in several south Bengal districts and adjoining parts of Jharkhand over the past few days has disrupted normal life in several pockets of Bengal as water level of seasonal rivers began to rise since late Tuesday. At least 50 villages of Bankura were disconnected from the main town after four fair-weather bridges over the Gandheshwari and Dwarakeshwar rivers were submerged early on Wednesday morning. Two fair-weather bridges in Bhadul and Minapur over the Dwarakeshwar went underwater and disrupted communication with district headquarters Bankura. Fair-weather bridges are causeways built over rivers or water bodies that remain dry during most part of the year other than the rainy season. Red alert has been issued in the two blocks of Bankura — Katulpur and Joypur — after the water level of the Dwarakeshwar threatened to touch danger level. Four wards under Bankura civic body became waterlogged following continuous rainfall. “We have alerted officials in those two blocks and directed them to evacuate people from low-lying areas adjacent to the river embankments as soon as the water level touches danger mark,” said K. Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate. Around two dozen villages at Jambuni in Jhargram snapped from the mainland after a bridge on river Dulung went under water following heavy rainfall in Jharkhand. “The water level in Dulung increased after heavy rainfall in Jharkhand and it disconnected several villages from the district town. We are keeping an eye on the situation there,” said an official in Jhargram district. On Wednesday afternoon, a motorcycle was swept away in the current of river Ajay in Birbhum’s Joydeb after a person from Illambazar tried to cross the fair-weather bridge despite the river water flowing over the bridge. “The person and his son were fortunately saved from being swept away, but their motorcycle disappeared in the swift-flowing river water. We have also stopped people and vehicles from plying over the fair-weather bridge that connects Birbhum district to West Burdwan,” said an official in Bolpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Left Front chairman Biman Bose slams central government and Jagdeep Dhankhar ||Left Front chairman Biman Bose said on Wednesday that the way the Centre was intervening in the affairs of the state wasn’t right and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was identifying himself as a man of the BJP. “The Centre-state relationship has become important for us. The way the Centre is intervening in affairs of the state and the state government isn’t right. This includes the role of the governor…What he is doing isn’t right either…,” Bose said at a news conference. He added 16 Left parties would meet and decide how to protest against the actions by the Centre and the governor. Asked to elaborate on what the Front found objectionable in the governor’s actions, Bose referred to Dhankhar meeting 50 BJP MLAs on Monday. He said a governor had never held a meeting with the representatives of a particular political party on the portico of the Raj Bhavan. “The governor is identifying himself as a BJP man,” Bose added. The Left Front leader also sided with Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra and slammed the Centre for allegedly muzzling his voice at a crucial meeting of the GST council, which discussed the contentious issue of slashing tax on Covid-19 related products. Referring to the meeting, Bose said the Front would raise the issue of waiving GST on Covid-19 related products. “We also want to add that the GST imposed on drugs and essential items related to Covid victims’ treatment must be waived off. The state finance minister had correctly placed the matter at the GST council meeting,” said Bose. Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member and spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said his party and the Left had already been fighting together on certain issues inside Parliament. “The Union government, the BJP and the governor have been trying to create an extraordinary situation in Bengal. At such a point, if the Left is looking to correct its course and support us on issues outside Parliament as well, it will be a welcome move,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||State government issues order to reintroduce containment zones in districts||The success of restrictions in bringing down Covid cases across Bengal in the second wave of the pandemic has prompted the state government to issue a directive to districts, including Calcutta, to bring back measures such as containment zones, identification of hotspots, strict surveillance and early testing. Senior officials said the order to reintroduce containment zones in districts was part of the government’s effort to ensure that the infection did not spread in rural areas that lack the health infrastructure needed to deal with a surge. “Districts have been asked to amplify monitoring to stop the spread of the virus in rural pockets that have reported Covid-19 cases. It is important to take care of rural Bengal three months before the pandemic’s likely third wave in September,” said a senior state government official. An order issued by Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Tuesday evening directed all district magistrates and local bodies, including Calcutta Municipal Corporation, to ascertain containment zones at the micro-level after analysing the daily data of infection provided by the health department. The order directed authorities to ensure strong surveillance measures in pockets with multiple cases. It said the spread should be stopped through early testing, tracking and tracing of symptomatic people. Infections have dropped since the peak of the second wave in April-May, with government officials claiming it had much to do with stricter measures since May 16. An official in Birbhum said rural areas were in focus as health infrastructure in districts was inadequate to treat Covid patients on a large scale. During the second wave, the government initially faced hurdles when the infection spread to rural Bengal. “The day's new infections stood at 3,187 on Wednesday. To further reduce infections, it is the time to start containment zones in areas with multiple cases,” a health official said. Officials said they were focusing on rural pockets more this time as they had inputs that many villagers were hiding Covid-19 symptoms for fear of social stigma. “We have earmarked 15 containment zones in our district and the process will be ongoing based on health data,” said Sumit Gupta, district magistrate of North 24-Parganas, one of the worst-hit Covid districts in Bengal,  which even on Wednesday reported 435 fresh cases. In Bankura, where only 103 Covid cases were reported on Wednesday, half a dozen pockets were marked containment zones. “We earmarked a few pockets in Bankura and Bishnupur municipalities from where multiple cases have been reported as containment zones. Barricades have been set up and police are keeping vigil. Similar steps will be adopted if cases spike in rural pockets,” said K. Radhika Aiyar, the district magistrate. However, some officials in districts said implementing stricter curbs in rural areas or small towns with few cases was tough. “As stricter curbs have been relaxed on many counts, people try to leave home for enjoyment. In Purulia and Birbhum, cases are minimal and we can’t contain a hundred families for one or two cases,” said an official. Officials said another challenge in villages was keeping vigil over large areas. “Containment zones are easier to implement in towns than villages. A village has low population density and larger area,” said an official in Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
17-06-2021||West Bengal||Indoor stadium of Siliguri Municipal Corporation to get facelift||The indoor stadium of Siliguri Municipal Corporation is all set to get a facelift. The state sports and youth affairs department has asked the board of administrators (BoA) of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) to prepare a detailed project report on overall revamp of the indoor stadium and will provide funds, said Gautam Deb, chairman of the BoA of SMC here on Wednesday. Sources said  on Monday, a meeting was held between Arup Biswas, the state minister for sports and youth affairs and Deb over refurbishing of the indoor stadium and the city’s Kanchenjunga Stadium. After the meeting, Biswas told Deb to submit a DPR for complete renovation of the indoor stadium. “We have decided to give a complete facelift to the indoor stadium here. It is dilapidated. The newly renovated stadium will have proper facilities for indoor games like table tennis, basketball. We will also try to facilitate badminton here. There will be a multi-gym and a sports hostel for players in the annexe building of the indoor sports arena. The decision was taken at a meeting with state sports minister and we are sending a DPR. The entire stadium will be air-conditioned and funds will be provided by the sports department,” Deb elaborated. “Renovation work for Kanchenjunga Stadium will also start shortly,” he added. Back in the 1990s, the indoor stadium was built in Deshbandhupara to accommodate 5,000 spectators, and has since hosted many prestigious events such as the senior national table-tennis championship and invitation tennis tournament. In the past few years, it is mostly used for political programmes or cultural events. “Its repair is imminent. Also, it is necessary to have the stadium air-conditioned with more facilities. A proper facelift will help it host major indoor sports events,” said a sports lover of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-22
