18-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal announces Madhyamik, HS evaluation details||A day after the CBSE and CISCE boards announced their marking schemes for Class 12 examinations, the West Bengal Council of Secondary Education on Friday said it will evaluate the marks of examinees on the basis of the results of Classes 9 and 10 for Madhyamik students. The results will be evaluated on a 50:50 basis, with importance being given to Class 9 marksheets and Class 10 internal examinations. Students unsatisfied with the result will be allowed to take a test after the pandemic situation gets better, the board announced. In case of Class 12 board exams, the students will be assessed on the basis of their marks in Class 10 boards and Class 11 annual tests. In this case, a 40:60 formula will be adopted, with 40 per cent marks being taken from the best of four subjects during the Class 10 boards and the rest 60 per cent being taken from the theory papers of Class 11 annual tests. The marks of a student, who has sat for the boards after the pandemic, will be considered ultimate and there would be no changes in that, the board said on Friday. Madhyamik as well as the state higher secondary exams have been scrapped this year because of a surge in Covid-19 cases. While announcing on June 7 that the secondary and the higher secondary exams would not be held this year because of Covid, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had asked the presidents of the two exam-conducting bodies to get details of the evaluations vetted by her. “She had also instructed them to keep an eye on the CBSE’s decision regarding the evaluation methodology,” an official said. A six-member committee had been constituted to suggest possible methods of assessment. “Factoring in the developments in court on Thursday, the recommendation of the experts and the exam-conducting bodies’ reports, an announcement will be made on Friday,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Nandigram: Trinamul objects to judge hearing Didi's case on counting||The ruling Trinamul has objected to Mamata Banerjee’s case alleging malpractices in the counting of votes for the Nandigram Assembly seat coming up before the single bench of Justice Kaushik Chanda. “Justice Kaushik Chanda is seen sharing a stage with BJP’s Dilip Ghosh. Unsurprisingly, he’s also the judge who has been assigned to hear the Nandigram case. As the India Judiciary system gets murkier day by day, will there be any justice in this case? Only time will tell,” a tweet on the Trinamul’s official handle said. Along with the tweet, the Trinamul released photographs of Justice Chanda at events organised by the legal cell of the BJP. On Thursday, Mamata had filed a case challenging the result of the Nandigram Assembly constituency, where  Trinamul turncoat and BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari defeated her by 1,965 votes. She accused the latter of engaging in corrupt practices, including bribery and undue influence. She also alleged discrepancies in the counting process and said that demands for a recount were rejected by the returning officer. The case came up for hearing before the single judge bench on Friday but was deferred till next Thursday as Mamata had not appeared before the court. Justice Chanda said the petitioner has to be present in court. The hearing was postponed to June 24. Lawyers affiliated with the Trinamul staged a demonstration against the case coming up before Justice Chanda’s bench. As an advocate in the Calcutta high court, Justice Chanda had appeared in several cases filed by the BJP, like the legal challenge to Mamata’s decision on granting allowances to Imams in the state. “As a lawyer he fought some cases for the party and won some. He was close to the former party state unit president, Rahul Sinha, but was never an active member of the BJP,” said a BJP leader. Lawyers belonging to any political party appearing on behalf of politicians of rival parties is fairly common. Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Abhishek Manu Singhvi have often been engaged as legal counsels by Trinamul leaders in the state. Sibal had represented Madan Mitra in the Saradha scam, while Singhvi, a Rajya Sabha MP of the Congress from Bengal, is one of the defence counsels in the on-going Narada sting operation case, where two Trinamul ministers and two other leaders were arrested by the CBI last month. “A lawyer can have a political ideology and also appear as a professional for people from a different ideology. It is important to see whether political ideology is clouding the judge’s judgment,” said Arunava Ghosh, a lawyer and Congress leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Governor postpones departure from Delhi||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has postponed his Friday afternoon departure to Calcutta from here, and is likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah again about the law and order situation in the state, source said. Dhankhar had a meeting with Shah on Thursday as well during which he is believed to have briefed the home minister about the law and order situation in the state where several incidents of post-poll violence were reported. Sources said Dhankhar was scheduled to leave for Calcutta on Friday afternoon, but the departure has been rescheduled for Saturday. A meeting with the home minister later in the day is not ruled out, they added. Dhankhar arrived in the national capital on Tuesday. A day before his departure from Calcutta, a delegation of BJP MLAs had petitioned him on the alleged deterioration of law and order in the state. Dhankhar also wrote a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accusing her of being silent over post-poll violence in the state and not taking steps to rehabilitate the affected people. He shared the letter on Twitter, a move the state home department criticised as being violative of all established norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Hearing of Mamata's petition on Nandigram vote count deferred||The Calcutta High Court on Friday adjourned hearing to June 24 in West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's petition challenging the election of Leader Of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram. The matter was mentioned by Banerjee's lawyer before the court of Justice Kaushik Chanda as per the list for hearing. Justice Chanda asked the petitioner's lawyer to serve copies of the election petition to the opposite parties and fixed the matter for hearing on Thursday. In her petition, the Trinamool Congress chief accused BJP MLA Adhikari of committing corrupt practises as envisaged under Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. Banerjee also claimed in the petition that discrepancies were committed in the counting process. Trinamul had demanded a recount of votes after the election results on May 2 but that appeal had been turned down by the returning officer. Mamata on the day of results had accepted the Nandigram result but hinted at moving court. “Accepting the verdict of the people of Nandigram. I salute the people there. It’s another thing that votes were looted there. We may move court,” she had told the media on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee launches new version of Krishak Bandhu scheme with higher pay||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday launched the new version of Krishak Bandhu scheme under which annual assistance to farmers in Bengal went up to Rs 10,000 a year from Rs 6,000 and highlighted that the dole came with no conditions unlike the central aid for agriculturists. “We had promised before the elections that we would enhance financial assistance under the Krishak Bandhu scheme to Rs 10,000. We are launching the renewed scheme today. A total of 62 lakh farmers would get the benefit,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Thursday. Farmers would get the assistance in two half-yearly installments of Rs 5,000 each. The chief minister took care to explain how the state dole was superior to the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme. “The Centre does not give assistance to all farmers and pays a lesser amount. This should be kept in mind,” she said. Sources at Nabanna said Mamata was trying to highlight that unlike the state scheme, the one by the Centre — in which farmers get an annual assistance of Rs 6,000 — was not for everyone because of conditions attached to it. “Out of 23 lakh farmers who applied for the central scheme, seven lakh-odd have qualified so far. The conditions are keeping a large number of farmers out of the scheme,” said an official. According to the conditions set under the PM-Kisan scheme, families with government staff, retired government employees who get a pension of more than Rs 10,000 and professionals like doctors, engineers, chartered accountants, lawyers and architects cannot apply for the farm dole. Moreover, farmers who pay income tax are also excluded from the central scheme. On the contrary, the Krishak Bandhu scheme has no such conditions and as a result, more than 62 lakh out of 73 lakh farmers in the state are eligible. Another issue that makes the state scheme more popular is the inclusion of sharecroppers and farm labourers as beneficiaries. “They will get Rs 4,000, a benefit that the Centre’s scheme does not offer,” said the chief minister. She also said the state scheme offered Rs 2 lakh to a family in case of a farmer’s premature death. “A total of 28,000 families have been extended this facility so far,” said Mamata. Within minutes of the chief minister launching the renewed scheme, Rs 290 crore was transferred to the bank accounts of 9,78,531 farmers. Mamata also said the state government had relaxed the norms to include more farmers in the scheme. “We have relaxed the criteria to bring all farmers under the scheme. We have done away with the process of producing land-related documents to prove one is associated with agriculture. Only a self declaration will do,” said the chief minister. The sources said once the mandatory provision of land-related documents for farmers to avail themselves of the dole was abolished, the number of registered farmers had gone up to 62 lakh from 47 lakh in the past seven or eight months. “We expect that a few lakh farmers would be included in the scheme in the next few months,” said a source. According to officials, the chief minister is keen to establish that the state scheme is more beneficial compared to the Centre’s dole keeping an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “The BJP had used the PM-Kisan scheme as the main campaign tool in the Assembly polls. If the state scheme provides more facilities to the farmers, the ruling party is expected to do well in the Lok Sabha polls,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Two labourers die in rail tunnel crash near Kalimpong||Two labourers were killed when an under-construction tunnel of Sevoke-Rangpo (Sikkim) railway line caved in near Kalimpong on Thursday night. The incident occurred around 10.30pm at Bhalukhola, about 25km from Kalimpong. Police said seven labourers had been brought out of the debris but two of them died at Kalimpong district hospital. “All workers are said to be from Bihar,” said Kalimpong superintendent of police Hari Krishna Pai. Almost 86 per cent of the 44.98km rail link will run through 14 tunnels. Each tunnel will have a diameter of right meters. The total cost of the project, which started in 2018, is pegged at around Rs 4,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Saffron party delays Assembly poll defeat analysis||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Thursday said the party would assess the reasons behind its unimpressive performance in the Assembly polls once the victims of post-poll result violence returned home. His comment once again captured the BJP’s desperation in spinning a narrative around violence after the elections, instead of identifying the mistakes that cost the party dear. “We will surely analyse the reasons that led to our defeat. The analysis will be done from the grassroots. However, it will be done only after the victims of post-poll violence return to their houses,” Ghosh said after attending an organisational meeting at the party’s Hastings office. The meeting was presided over by the BJP’s national joint general secretary (organisation), Shivprakash, state general secretaries and co-minders for Bengal Arvind Menon and Amit Malviya. Sources said a preliminary analysis of the loss had been conducted at the meeting. Sayantan Basu, a general secretary of the state unit, said six districts — Hooghly, North 24-Parganas, West Midnapore, Burdwan East, Birbhum and Howrah — had led to the BJP’s defeat. He also said the party should analyse every Assembly segment it had lost individually. Another general secretary, Sanjay Singh, who represents the Howrah district, said the party had thought the induction of Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee would help the BJP score better in the district. However Banerjee failed to turn the BJP’s fortune and lost his own seat. The national leaders replied to Singh’s allegation by reminding him that he himself had lost the polls. The workers at the grassroots, however, want a detailed analysis of the situation. They also want the leaders to take their views into account as well. The Assembly poll results were declared on May 2, but the BJP state or central leaders haven’t yet sat down formally to discuss why the party’s projection of 200-plus seats didn’t come true and the tally ended only at 77. Several BJP insiders said though leaders and workers at the district and local levels had been repeatedly trying to reach out to senior functionaries to discuss the reasons behind the poor show, the state office-bearers seemed to be reluctant to engage in a poll performance analysis. A BJP source said most leaders were busy discussing how to use the post-poll narrative to embarrass the Mamata Banerjee government at Thursday’s meeting and no one bothered to discuss the poll results. “It is important for us to figure out what went wrong. But there is no one to discuss as our leaders know the defeat is a result of their mistakes,” a BJP source said. “The only thing that they want to talk about is post-poll violence now... I don’t know whether the poll performance analysis can be brushed under the carpet by bringing in this new narrative of post-poll violence,” added the source. Dilip Ghosh is being blamed by the majority for the lack of interest in analysing the poll results. Although the state president convened meetings at district towns like Hooghly, Asasnol, Midnapore and Bongaon, he didn’t discuss the defeat. In Hooghly and Asansol, Ghosh was surrounded by agitating workers who urged him to listen to their views about the defeat, but the Midnapore MP refused. “Immediately after the elections, things were bad and we were under attack... The situation, however, improved later. Most of the victims have returned home. This is high time that we discuss the poll results,” a BJP worker from Midnapore said. It has been decided that the party will hold an agitation programme in Calcutta on June 23 to protest against alleged atrocities by the Trinamul Congress. Similar programmes will be held in different districts on June 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports rise in active cases by 7,371 in 8 days||Bengal on Thursday reported a rise for the eighth day on the trot in its total active Covid-19 cases, by 921. With this, from 14,702 on June 9 to 22,073 now, the total number of active Covid-19 cases in the state has risen by 7,371 or over 50 per cent in the past eight days. The total number of active cases, which fell sharply from 1,32,181 on May 21 to 14,702 or by 89 per cent by June 9, started rising again from June 10. On Thursday, only 2,033 recoveries were logged against 3,018 new infections. Bengal reported 64 deaths, including 11 from Calcutta and 17 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. Among the day’s cases, Calcutta logged 366 and North 24-Parganas 431 infections. Bengal now has 2.78 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most active cases. It had fallen from sixth to 13th place in a matter of days earlier this month. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate, which began declining last Friday to snap a 39-day spell of rise, fell to 97.34 per cent on Thursday. The national recovery rate is 96 now. “This (rise in active Covid cases) is part of a wider, pan-India trend, from over the past week or so. It is not happening in Bengal alone. There is no cause for great worry at this stage,” said a minister. The daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, was 5.42 per cent on Thursday. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,182 deaths in total, is 1.16 per cent, while the national rate is 1.28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||I have written to Narendra Modi two-three times for Dhankhar’s removal: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said she had written to Narendra Modi “two-three times” demanding the removal of Jagdeep Dhankhar as Bengal governor and underscored that “he is their man”, on a day the Raj Bhavan occupant met President Ram Nath Kovind and Union home minister Amit Shah. In response to questions on Dhankhar’s visit to the national capital, the chief minister refused to comment on speculation over his removal by the Centre, saying the convention of consulting the state government over such matters had been done away by the BJP regime. Asked if Mamata, whose testy ties with Dhankhar since his arrival in Bengal two years ago are no secret, wanted him to stay on as governor, she said: “What I want, how do I tell you?” “I have written to the Prime Minister two-three times, so that he is withdrawn.” When it was pointed out to her that Dhankhar had been meeting a number of people on his trip to Delhi, the chief minister said he was free to meet whomever he desired to. “He can meet (Shah)… whom he (Dhankhar) will meet is his business. Uni toh odeyri lok (He is their man),” said Mamata. Asked to respond to conjecture over the possibility of Dhankhar’s removal — although his term ends in 2024 — the Trinamul Congress chief said: “How will I know?” “When he was made the governor, I was not consulted. The rule implies that the state has to be consulted before the appointment… but it was not done. If he is going now, I haven’t been asked. So, how will I know? Asha jawar gaanta orai ekai gaay (Only they sing the song of arrivals and departures),” she added. Dhankhar has — according to Mamata and her party — been acting as a mouthpiece and instrument of the BJP since taking charge on July 30, 2019, courting numerous controversies without shying away from being seen as an integral part of the saffron ecosystem. Before the Assembly elections, Dhankhar had publicly called for change in the state. Since the historic mandate against the BJP — that brought Mamata to power for a third consecutive term with a landslide of a victory —, Dhankhar has, according to Trinamul, upped the ante. Just before his visit, Dhankhar held a controversial meeting in public view, in the portico of the Raj Bhavan, with 50-odd BJP MLAs and issued statements endorsing the party’s claims regarding post-poll result violence in Bengal, going on to shoot yet another missive to the chief minister about it. Asked about the portico meet, the chief minister said: “Why are you trying to get me to speak? In this matter, speech is silver, and silence is golden.” “If everybody is saying so (that Dhankhar’s conduct |does not behove a Raj Bhavan occupant), what need is there for me to say it? Everybody is, indeed, saying it. Because everybody is saying so, their saying so is my saying so. What is new in this that needs to be said?” Mamata asked. “If it’s a child, he can be scolded into silence.” Since the results, which the BJP seems to be living in denial of, the saffron echo chambers have been levelling countless outlandish allegations of Mamata overseeing a “retributive Hindu genocide” in the state after winning her third consecutive term. In the saffron echo chambers, there has been deafening noise from the chorus of outlandish demands ranging from the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal and “reducing it Kashmir-like rubble” to even a “third Partition” of the state (culling out parts in the north and the west that voted in favour of the BJP and giving them separate BJP-led governments). Against this backdrop, Dhankhar’s role has allegedly been dubious. While the BJP claims there have been 41 deaths in post-poll violence in Bengal between May 2 and June 17, sources at Nabanna said that a total of 16 people had died between May 2 and 4. “Eight victims were from Trinamul, while seven belonged to the BJP. One victim was a supporter of the ISF. The families of the victims have been given a compensation of 2 lakh each,” said a source at the state secretariat. A senior government official said there might have been some other incidents of violence in the state since, but none was a political clash. “So, the victims, if any, were not counted among those who died under post-poll result violence,” he said. Asked about Dhankhar’s alleged echo of the BJP’s charges of continuing post-poll violence, Mamata said: “Can you see any (political violence)? You all are journalists from here, can you see any? You would have seen before me….” “You cannot see, but… if someone wilfully cannot see, what can I do?” she asked. Referring to the various directives and visits from various national bodies and agencies to Bengal since the results, Mamata said anybody could go anywhere. “But they should have gone to places like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat a bit more…. Despite being trounced in the Bengal election, by the mandate of the masses, they (the BJP) have no shame. Getting all agencies at the Centre’s disposal to do these things,” she said. “This is the BJP’s habit, their plan. Everything is pre-planned. There is no incident now after polls. Post-poll violence, at the time of the election, while it (the administration) was under the Election Commission of India, there were some sporadic incidents. But all were not political, there were some personal enmities also. But while the matter is sub judice, I will not speak regarding it,” she added. Mamata once again reaffirmed that she did not condone violence and the police administration had been instructed to come down heavily on any incident of violence. “I think, whatever they are creating, the atmosphere… that violence, violence, violence… there is no violence like that. One-two sporadic incidents, we took stern action, we condemned the violence,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee slams saffron camp for buzz on separatism in north Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the saffron camp of creating unrest in north Bengal, referring to the sudden demand from some BJP leaders in the region, including legislators, who have been publicly talking about the need to confer Union territory status or separate statehood for north Bengal. “It is not easy to divide our state. We will never allow any further partition of Bengal. The proponents of such separate status should know that they will get a befitting reply from people of the state,” she said in reply to a question made on the issue. Over the past few days, a number of BJP leaders, including MPs like John Barla, who has considerable influence in the tea belt, have lent support to the demand. It was initially discussed at a virtual BJP internal meeting that some state and central leaders of the party had attended earlier this week and then leaders started talking about it publicly. “If such separatist movement resumes in north Bengal, it will be a security threat for the country,” said a source close to the chief minister referring to the strategic importance of north Bengal in the region’s geopolitics because of the Siliguri corridor, which connects the entire northeast with the rest of the country. Known as “chicken’s neck,” the width of the sub-continent is the thinnest here, where it is perched between Nepal in the north and Bangladesh in the south. The China border is hardly around 200 kilometres away. “What does this central-controlled region (Union territory) mean? Does it mean they will sell out the land of Alipurduar, or Jalpaiguri, or Siliguri? On one hand, they talk so much about China and now, such demands are being raised,” asserted Mamata. It was not clear why Mamata broached the issue of China while referring to the statehood or Union territory demand for north Bengal. The chief minister also spoke about a video that has been recently released by the self-styled chief of Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), a terrorist outfit comprising Rajbanshi youths, demanding the separate Kamtapur state that would cover the north Bengal region. “We have also come across a video where it has been mentioned that terror activities would be resumed. The CID, STF and the state police have been asked to start an investigation,” the chief minister said. In the six-minute-forty-second long video tape, self-styled KLO chief Jeevan Singha had reasserted their demand and backed Ananta Maharaj, one of the key proponents of the demand and a leader of Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association. Ananta, who has a number of police cases pending against him, stays in Assam. He is close to the saffron camp and has always supported the BJP in recent elections. Ananta’s demand, Trinamul insiders believe, is part of a saffron strategy to create unrest in the region and that’s why the party has decided to tackle it politically. On Thursday, Trinamul youth supporters demonstrated in Alipurduar town where they carried placards and shouted slogans against the BJP for trying to divide the state. “Our political activities will intensify in the coming days. We will not let the BJP play the divisive card here,” said Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee moves Calcutta High Court on Nandigram vote count||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has filed a petition before Calcutta High Court alleging malpractices in the counting of votes for the Nandigram Assembly seat in which Trinamul turncoat and BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari defeated her by 1,965 votes. The petition has been filed on Mamata’s behalf by advocate Sanjay Basu and is likely to be heard by Justice Kaushik Chanda on Friday, Trinamul sources said. The petition claimed that the Election Commission official, in charge of counting for Nandigram, had initially declared Mamata as the winner on May 2, but the result was reversed in Suvendu’s favour later the same day. Though Trinamul emerged triumphant in the election, Mamata’s loss in Nandigram left a sour taste in the victorious camp. Trinamul had demanded a recount of votes but that appeal had been turned down by the returning officer. Mamata on the day of results had accepted the Nandigram result but hinted at moving court. “Accepting the verdict of the people of Nandigram. I salute the people there. It’s another thing that votes were looted there. We may move court,” she had told the media on May 2. A day later, she had raked up the issue of malpractice in the counting of votes in Nandigram and alleged that the returning officer was threatened at gunpoint to ensure there was no recounting. “I have received an SMS where the returning officer is pleading for his life… From 8,000 votes, suddenly it went to zero. For hours the server was down. I know that EVMs were changed. For forty minutes, there was a power cut in the counting centre. We will investigate all of this, we will go to court,” she had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rain forces Mamata Banerjee to defer north Bengal trip||Heavy rain, which in undated a number of places in south Bengal, including Calcutta, made chief minister Mamata Banerjee postpone her trip to north Bengal, senior Trinamul leader Gautam Deb said here on Thursday. Mamata was to reach the region on June 21, which would have been her first visit after becoming the chief minister for the third time, to take stock of the situation after the recent Assembly elections. A new date for her visit has not yet been finalised. “Today (Thursday), the chief minister informed me that because of the flood-like situation in Calcutta and some other parts of south Bengal, she has has to postpone her trip (to north Bengal). There was waterlogging in a number of areas across Calcutta today (Wednesday) and there is a Met office forecast of high tide, coupled with rainfall, on June 26. That’s why she has decided to visit this region later,” said Deb. In north Bengal, Trinamul won in 23 Assembly seats in 2021, the same number the party had won back in 2016. But the dynamics have changed in the five years. This time, the Left and Congress were ousted and Trinamul fought pitched poll battles with the BJP. While it failed to secure even a single seat in districts like Darjeeling and Alipurduar, the party did well in Malda and North Dinajpur. A senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri said her visit was important, considering recent political developments, including the saffron camp’s campaign to rekindle the demand for separate statehood. “We need her guidance to know how we should handle the situation, keeping in mind the mixed population of north Bengal,” he said. Party insiders said leaders and veteran workers, particularly in districts like North Dinajpur and Malda, are eagerly waiting for her. “Since 2011, for the first time, she has kept the NB development department with herself instead of putting any other MLA as the minister-in-charge. This has drawn praise from the region and there are huge expectations from her,” said another leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Supply contract violence exposes ‘cracks’ in Trinamul Congress||Acute differences between two lobbies of Trinamul over the supply of construction materials to build  the permanent building of Calcutta High Court’s Circuit Bench in Jalpaiguri allegedly led to violence on Wednesday night. Sources said on Wednesday, Bikash Basak, a Trinamul leader based in Paharpur on the outskirts of the town, filed a complaint against Krishna Das, the district president of Trinamul’s SC and ST cell and deputy of Trinamul-run Baropatia panchayat (under Sadar block). “I got the contract to supply sand, stone and pebbles for the construction work. I started supplying the materials. Some associates of Krishna Das, however, attacked me and also beat me up. Krishna Das himself took out a firearm, fired a blank shot and warned me to stop supplying construction materials or face dire consequences,” alleged Basak on Thursday. Trinamul insiders said Basak is an associate of Saikat Chatterjee, the district youth Trinamul president. In Jalpaiguri district, differences among the lobbies of Das and Chatterjee are well known within the party. Sources said police acted on Basak’s complaint and detained an associate of Das late on Wednesday. This prompted Das to reach Kotwali police station on Wednesday night with around 1,000-odd supporters. “Das’s supporters virtually cordoned off the police station and eventually, the person who was detained was released early on Thursday. Such activities of Das have led to questions within the party,” said a Trinamul leader who did not want to be named. “The construction firm that has been assigned with the task to supply materials has in turn given sub-contracts to some local suppliers. This has led to the problem as both the lobbies want to control the supply,” the party leader added. Das, when contacted, however came up with a different version. He denied that he had been to the construction site and said there had been some altercation among local residents and workers. “Some local residents want to work on the site. But there are reports that workers from outside are being brought there.  This led to some discontent and hence some problems. But some people are trying to implicate me in false cases,” he said. Other Trinamul leaders, including party’s district president K.K. Kalyani, were tightlipped and denied to reveal any information about the incident. Police have started probing the incident and are trying to trace those who had perpetrated the violence. Debarshi Dutta, the Jalpaiguri district police chief, was also brief in his reaction. “It is not clear what led to the problem. We are keeping a close watch on the construction site and are conducting an inquiry,” he said. The ugly spat caused a halt in the supply of construction materials to the construction site both on Wednesday and Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul's victory in Assembly elections prompts slew of changes in north Bengal||The decisive victory of Trinamul in Assembly elections has prompted a slew of changes in north Bengal. In Malda, where Trinamul won eight of 12 seats, Trinamul members of the zilla parishad on Thursday went to the office of the divisional commissioner and gave an application, citing they wanted to table a no-confidence motion against sabhadhipati Gour Chandra Mandal. Ahead of elections, Mandal defected to BJP. He contested from Manikchak but lost to Trinamul’s Sabitri Mitra. “He ditched Trinamul and tried to damage our party. It is time to teach him and some other traitors a lesson. Some who were misled and joined BJP returned to us. Today (Thursday), 23 (of 37) elected members put their signatures on the application (for a no-confidence motion against Mandal),” said Mausam Noor, district Trinamul president. At the 2018 panchayat elections, Trinamul had 29 out of 37 seats in the zilla parishad. The sabhadhipati reacted briefly: “I know they are trying to remove me. Time will tell if they succeed or not.” Sources said the application would be forwarded to senior state government officials. “We will wait for their directive,” said an official. In Cooch Behar, Trinamul veteran and former minister Rabindranath Ghosh managed to get over 150 families of BJP supporters into the party. On Thursday, Ghosh, with local leaders, held a public meeting in Dewanhat to hand over party flags to families. Ghosh this time lost to Mihir Goswami from Natabari. Goswami, a former Trinamul MLA, had defected to BJP a little before the polls. “Ever since results, we have not seen the new MLA, but Ghosh is here daily to stand by people during this pandemic,” said a youth. Posters were seen in ward 25 of Raiganj, North Dinajpur, on Thursday against Ashim Adhikari, the councillor who defected to BJP from Trinamul earlier this year. Ashim had been giving feelers to rejoin Trinamul. The posters said he should not be let in. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee asks Bengal residents to stay safe following forecast of heavy rainfall||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked people living in coastal areas and at other places across Bengal, including Calcutta, to stay safe following a forecast of heavy rainfall over the next few days and rise in the water levels of seasonal rivers. “Calcutta and districts faced heavy rainfall of around 179mm last night. We never witnessed such a heavy rainfall in the past (in a day). There is no way to release the water… The next high tide is likely to occur on June 26, which will result in an increase in the water levels of rivers in Hooghly and Howrah districts,” Mamata said at state secretariat Nabanna. “On the other hand, heavy rain has been reported in Jharkhand and Bihar. We face inundation if heavy rain occurs in Jharkhand as water is released from several dams. We can’t control nature, so we have to face it,” she added. The chief minister also sounded an alert and asked people residing in the low-lying areas of Hooghly’s Arambagh and Khanakul and Howrah’s Uluberia to stay safe. These areas face flood-like situations every year as seasonal rivers overflow during the monsoon. Several districts in south Bengal continued to be lashed by incessant rain on Thursday and the Met office in Calcutta forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next three days. Sources in the Met office said Calcutta had received 144mm of rainfall, while South 24-Parganas and Bankura districts recorded 178mm and 133mm of rainfall, respectively, in 24 hours till 6pm on Thursday. Darjeeling received 70.4mm rainfall during the same period. According to the forecast, districts like North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Jhargram, Nadia, Purulia, Darjeeling and Kalimpong are likely to witness heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next three days and the Met office issued an alert for districts like Birbhum, West Burdwan, Bankura and Purulia. Administrations of several south Bengal districts have started evacuating people from lowland areas to safe places and deploying NDRF and civil volunteers in pockets where seasonal rivers already touched pre-danger or danger levels. “We have already evacuated 250 people residing on the banks of the Dwarakeshwar and Shankari rivers. The NDRF teams are ready to move to inundated areas if necessary. The teams have been deployed at places like Khanakul and Arambagh,” Hooghly district magistrate Deepap Priya P. said. Around 1,000 people were evacuated from the Katulpur and Onda blocks of Bankura after water levels of the Dwarakeshwar river touched the danger level on Thursday evening. While fair-weather bridges have been damaged at several places in the state, a bamboo bridge over the Damodar connecting Shaltora in Bankura and Asansol in West Burdwan was swept away on Thursday afternoon following consistent rain in the region. Hundreds of people who work at factories in Asansol had to cross the river in overcrowded country-made boats in the evening to reach Bankura. Fair-weather bridges are causeways built over rivers or water bodies that remain dry during most part of the year other than the rainy season. The situation is expected to worsen as several barrages in south Bengal have already started releasing water following heavy rainfall in bordering Jharkhand. The Durgapur barrage discharged around 21,400 cusec of water on Thursday and there will be further release if the water level rises. Additional reporting by Abhijeet Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
18-06-2021||West Bengal||Woman tortured over 'illicit affair', seven arrested ||A 42-year-old housewife was assaulted, her hair chopped, and she was stripped by some villagers, including women, in Jalpaiguri district on Wednesday evening. Sources said the villagers tortured the woman accusing her of having an illicit relationship. Police have arrested seven persons. “On the evening of June 14, some villagers spotted a youth entering the woman’s house when she was alone. Her husband was away on some errand. This made the villagers accuse her for having illicit relations with the youth and they dragged them out of the house, fastened them with trees and beat them up,” said a source. “Later, they were handed over to the police. As there was no complaint against them, the duo was released on Tuesday,” the source added. After facing such humiliation, the woman went to her parents’ place. According to sources, the woman was intercepted by some villagers, including women, when she returned to the village with her husband on Wednesday. “They started beating her up while some others chopped her hair and also tore her clothes. After some time, she somehow managed to get inside her house,” said a source. “A section of neighbours went on hurling abuses at her and said she might face dire consequences,” the source added.On Thursday morning, the woman’s husband lodged a police complaint accusing 11 persons of torturing his wife. “Seven persons have been arrested following the complaint. Our officers are investigating the case and other accused will also be arrested soon,” said Debarshi Dutta, the superintendent of police of Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-20
