21-06-2021||West Bengal||Situation due to post-poll violence in Bengal alarming and worrisome: Jagdeep Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Monday called the situation arising out of the alleged post-poll violence in the state as "alarming and worrisome" and questioned Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for her "ostrich-like" stance on the issue. Dhankhar, who embarked on a week-long visit to North Bengal earlier in the day, slammed the state government for how it dealt with complaints of violence following the assembly elections. "I am worried about the post-poll violence happening in West Bengal after May 2. This is unacceptable. The situation in the state is alarming and worrisome. This kind of violence has put a question mark on the democratic setup. "Even after so many weeks, the state government is in denial mode. Why is the chief minister silent on this issue? The ostrich-like stance of the state administration is not acceptable," he said. The ruling Trinamool Congress, however, dubbed the allegations as baseless and his visit a "publicity stunt". Dhankhar claimed that the country has never witnessed such post-poll violence since Independence. "Elections were held in four states and a union territory. But, violence is taking place only in Bengal," he said. Dhankhar also took a dig at Banerjee for her confrontational approach, which he said was meaningless. "Confrontation with the Centre, the governor and all other constitutional bodies won't serve any purpose. This approach has to be shunned." Meanwhile, Dhankhar was shown black flags by TMC supporters on his way to Kurseong in the Darjeeling hills. "We are opposed to his visit. He has been maligning our state since the day he assumed office," one of the supporters said. TMC deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Sukhedu Sekhar Roy said: "He is free to go anywhere, but he should have taken the state government into confidence. This visit is nothing but a desperate attempt to be in the news, a sort of publicity stunt." Kunal Ghosh, the party's state general secretary rubbished the allegations of post-poll violence made by Dhankhar. "Political violence took place when the Election Commission was in charge of the polls. After the TMC government took over, the state administration initiated measures to contain it. The governor is behaving like a spokesperson of a political party," he said. The West Bengal BJP unit came out in support of Dhankhar and said he had exposed the truth. "The TMC is angry with him as the governor has uncovered the lawlessness in the state... And, he has every right to visit any part of the state," BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said. Dhankhar was on a four-day visit to New Delhi last week, where he met Union Home Minister Amit Shah twice and apprised him about the law and order situation in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Nusrat Jahan, the spotlight never leaves her||The spotlight was all that Nusrat Jahan craved for. Much before she became an actress, even before she knew she would take to films, Nusrat knew she wanted the spotlight. Now, 10 years in Bengal’s film industry, she has single-mindedly pursued her object of desire. The spotlight never leaves Nusrat. On Sunday, she shared a picture of herself with her baby bump on Instagram, with the comment “kindness changes everything”. The photograph got 1,19,183 likes till Monday morning. This was the second picture of herself since a photograph that revealed her pregnancy made it to the internet more than a week ago. The pregnancy raised eyebrows as she is yet to disclose the father’s identity. Her husband, she says is not her husband and the two were only living together for some part of 2019 and 2020. The “Turkish wedded” husband, Nikhil Jain, has denied being a part of her pregnancy plans. “I won’t be remembered as a woman who can keep her mouth shut and I’m OK with that,” Nusrat wrote on her Instagram account on June 9. Yet, she hasn’t been the one talking. She is speaking through her Instagram posts and stories which are updated regularly, and these make it to news portals in Calcutta and the rest of the country. She has 2.5 million followers on Instagram and over 83,000 followers on Twitter. She is careful how she uses her social media. Instagram is for her star persona, while she uses Twitter for her views on Mamata Banerjee, Bengal, BJP and all things politics, mostly. Even those who may not have seen a single film of hers, know she has denied her marriage, is pregnant out of wedlock. An actress, a member of the Indian Parliament, coming from a Muslim family and flaunting her out-of-wedlock pregnancy, is unheard of. A Nusrat Jahan is unheard of in Indian public life. Nusrat is a trailblazer. She is the first actor coming from a Muslim family in progressive Calcutta’s mainstream Bengali cinema. And not just any actor, a popular female lead. Unlike the Hindi film industry or other regional languages, the leading men and women in the films from progressive, liberal Calcutta have been unapologetically Hindus. The producers of her first film had considered a change of name but she had put her foot down and insisted on being launched as she was known all her life, Nusrat Jahan, born January 8, 1990. She takes pride in not having any identity crisis and, also, being the first Muslim girl to act in Bengali films from this side of the border. This month Nusrat turned a decade old in films. Her first film, Shatru, was released on June 3, 2011. A website that monitors box office collection of Bengali films, describes her last release, Dictionary, as a disaster. Whether she has a release or not, Nusrat has been counted among the top actresses in commercial Bengali films. Very often the ratings have moved back and forth between her and her close-friend and Trinamul Congress colleague, Mimi Chakraborty. The success of a film has little to do with her popularity. Rather, social media fuels the battery of fame and popularity which Nusrat has ensured stays her way. Those familiar with the machinations of the commercial film industry in Calcutta, say the male gaze in Bengal, cutting across age and urban-rural barriers, usually rests on Nusrat, occasionally drifting elsewhere but returning to her ultimately. Nusrat makes sure the gaze does not drift too far away from her. Nusrat is not bothered with what people say about her. Like the Muslim clerics who criticised her for using Hindu marriage symbols or playing the dhaak during Durga Puja, or the trolls from the BJP who scoffed at her for attending Parliament in a pair of pants and peplum zipped top. Nusrat stays focussed on what is to be done. During the lockdown, she kept herself busy with setting up a Covid safe home, tweeting against the BJP and giving a peep show into her life. In 2001, former councilwoman for Taipei City Chu Mei-feng, when caught on camera having sex with a married lover, had said, “It may not work for politics, but it sure works for entertainment.” In the post-Covid world of work-from-home, Nusrat’s updates on her personal life is wholesome entertainment, a reality show available to anyone and everyone empowered with a device and internet connectivity. And here Nusrat decides what and how much she is going to reveal about herself. When Chu Mei-feng’s fall from grace happened, Nusrat was still in school. It took her another 10 years to win a beauty pageant in the city and then bag her first film opposite Jeet, her senior in Bhowanipur College from where she earned her B.Com honours degree. The film was a hit and Nusrat stayed on. She had decided that the arc lights in the decrepit studios of Calcutta would take her to her coveted goal. Always ahead of the pack A look at the go-to place for all things movies, the Internet Movie Database, or IMDb, throws up seven other Nusrat Jahans: six actors and a singer. All of them are from Bangladesh. Nusrat Jahan Papia, Nusrat Jahan Nushu, Nusrat Jahan Khan Nipa, Nusrat Jahan Titly, Nusrat Jahan Nodi, Nusrat Jahan Marin and Nusrat Jahan Era, a singer. But the name of Nusrat Jahan of Calcutta tops the search results. She has more films, more fame among the other Nusrat Jahans of the world. Nusrat also has a third name, Ruhi, which is missing from her film credits and, therefore, the IMDb website. On her Twitter handle, she gives her full name as Nusrat Jahan Ruhi. It is the same name in the Lok Sabha website of which she is a member, an elected representative. She achieved all this before she turned 30. It wasn’t easy for her. Nusrat might have lost her way in films when her name got dragged into the infamous Park Street gangrape case of February 2012. She was dating the main accused in the case and was alleged to have facilitated his escape from Calcutta. The Calcutta Police did not have too many questions for her, and her name did not appear in the chargesheet. Nusrat came out unsmeared. The incident fuelled curiosity on who this young woman was. Her success in commercial films endeared her to the biggest production house in the city, where she did a mix of films with commercial and critically acclaimed filmmakers, acting opposite the biggest stars in Bengali films of the last decade. That journey was short-lived yet eventful. This was also the same time when she was rumoured to have had an affair with the co-owner of the company, Shrikant Mohta. But Nusrat has always denied it. Calling the shots Nusrat’s best run came in the year 2017 when she did six films for the Mohta co-owned company. During those days, even when she was not in front of the camera, she used to call the shots on marketing and PR. She made it a point not to upset the directors or interfere in the shooting process. Her concern was her image and how it got projected with every film, how she was billed. “The staff there would wonder why instead of Mohta or his partner Mahendra Soni, an actress was taking decisions (on a film’s marketing),” said an acquaintance. Following Mohta’s arrest for his alleged involvement in the Saradha scam in January 2019, Nusrat found herself out of favour, and almost overnight found herself replaced by Mimi. One of her films got shelved the night before the muhurat. Nusrat had just finished the last round of script-reading. The road could have ended for Nusrat right there. But it didn’t. Within two months, Mamata Banerjee declared Nusrat as her party’s nominee for the Basirhat Lok Sabha seat which was quickly followed by her Turkish wedding and the Lok Sabha swearing-in. Despite being without any films that year, Nusrat was busier than before. Her status had climbed several notches with her poll victory. Unlike actors of yesteryear who made the crossover to politics only after they were past their tinsel glory, Nusrat embraced politics while she was still at the top of her game. In terms of popularity, if not her merits and demerits as an actor, she still has many more years of films left for her. Although there were rumours and questions about her interference during her days with Mohta’s company there never was any bad blood between the employees and Nusrat. “She does not raise her voice, misbehave with the staff,” said someone who has seen her at work from a distance. Always polite, well-meaning That is also one quality that has endeared her to the media. Nusrat is always polite with journalists, never refuses to speak and when she does speak, she is never rude. In the party that she threw to celebrate her Turkish wedding in 2019, Nusrat had invited even ex-journalists. For the purpose of this article, many of her directors, co-actors and even close friends turned down requests to talk about her. Some said a direct “no”, while many others thought it prudent not to respond at all. Those who spoke had only good things to say about her. “She is always very good to work with. Never shows any attitude, no starry tantrums. In that sense she is just like she was 10 years ago,” said Abhishek Datta, a Calcutta-based fashion designer. Be it her vanity van or hotel room, Nusrat doesn’t mind sharing either with her female co-stars with some of whom she has developed a close friendship over the years. Today, Nusrat counts herself among the seniors in the Bengali film industry. She is known as someone who can quickly adapt to the situation, in any kind of shoot. “A party person, she keeps her lives separate, the political, the personal, the filmy. There is a bit of Nusrat everywhere,” said a colleague of hers. In the June 9 photograph of a pregnant Nusrat, she is flanked by colleagues Shrabanti Chatterjee and Tanushree Chakraborty. Missing from the photograph was Nusrat’s closest friend in the industry and fellow Trinamul Congress parliamentarian Mimi Chakraborty. The two address each other as “Bonua”, an endearment for sister in Bengali. Those in the know say Mimi was invited to the event but she stayed away. Are they still friends? No one will know till they are seen in public again. Some say, Mimi has not attended Nusrat’s parties for some time now. Mimi has not only been a close friend of Nusrat, she is also close to Nusrat’s current beau Yash Dasgupta, having acted opposite him in a number of films. In one of the films where Mimi was signed after Nusrat was booted out, Dasgupta was the male lead. Changes over the last year People who have known Nusrat say there were indications of a change in her for some time. Over a year, she has replaced her staff _ her driver, makeup man and hair artiste, household staff, social media team, till she replaced the man in her life, Nikhil Jain, whom she had met in 2018, the same time when her film life had hit a rough patch. Second Innings Sports and Entertainment, which manages the accounts of many Bengali film actors, still has a post on its Facebook page congratulating Nusrat and Jain. “Nusrat Jahan and #NikhilJain, the Made in Heaven couple is on their way towards a happily-ever-after journey.” The post is from July 3, 2019. Four months later, Nusrat was admitted to a private hospital, what many believe was a drug overdose, though her family had maintained she was suffering from respiratory problems, including asthma. Among those in her inner circles the one person she hasn’t yet replaced is Abhishek Majumdar, her right-hand man. Majumdar handles her work, her business, accounts, media and, also occasionally appears as her spokesperson. The two women seen with Nusrat in her baby bump picture are from the film fraternity and contested the elections on a BJP ticket. So did Dasgupta. The year Nusrat entered parliamentary politics was also when the BJP put up its best-ever electoral showing in Bengal, winning 18 Lok Sabha seats. Soon enough the party was trying to emulate everything that Mamata had done in her eight years in Bengal and that included a share of the film pie. Many of Nusrat’s friends and colleagues had joined the BJP, they got tickets in the Assembly elections and lost. Post-elections, many of them have, in private, decided to stay away from politics. It didn’t pay the way they expected it would. Is Nusrat bringing the two factions together again under one happy Trinamul family? Unity moves? Mamata’s annual political jamboree held near Victoria House on July 21 has been known to be a reunion ground, bringing together old friends and foes, who swear by the Trinamul chief. Nusrat still does. Despite the controversies surrounding her and the occasional attempt by the BJP to smear her, the Trinamul has silently been with her. Party leaders have been instructed not to comment on her “personal matters”. Such examples of “personal matters” are not unknown to the Trinamul. A former mayor from the party caught between his wife and a “friend” for many years, had to lose important posts and even leave the party. The late American suffragist Elizabeth Monroe Richards Tilton, in the late 19th century when caught for her dalliances with preacher Henry Ward Beecher, is believed to have said in her defence that women should be allowed to do what men do. More than a century later in a city younger than New York, Nusrat did not wait for anyone to allow her to say or do what she wanted. That is all that there is to her story till Nusrat herself decides to let anyone know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre launches 'inquiry proceedings' against Alapan||The Narendra Modi government has launched inquiry proceedings against the former state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who was caught in the crossfire between the Centre and chief minister Mamata Banerjee over skipping a review meeting with the Prime Minister. On June 16, the ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions issued a memorandum to hold “major penalty proceedings” against Bandyopadhyay. The proceedings have been initiated against him under rule 8 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeals) Rules, 1969 along with Rule 6 of the All India Services (Death-cum-retirement benefits) Rules, 1958. “Alapan Bandyopadhyay is directed to submit within 30 days of the receipt of this memorandum a written statement of his defence and also to state whether he desires to be heard in person,” reads the memorandum. Bandyopadhyay has been charged with breach of service rules, for which he has been specifically asked to reply whether he admits or denies wrongdoing. In case he denies wrongdoing, the government will constitute an inquiry by appointing an inquiry officer and a presenting officer from the pool of serving or retired officers. In case, Bandyopadhyay declines from responding to the June 16 memorandum, or does not appear in person, an ex parte inquiry will be held against him to look into the charges. The Centre will appoint an inquiry officer and a presenting officer from the serving or retired pool of officers. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987 batch IAS officer, had been granted an extension for three months, but was forced to retire May 31 after falling foul of none other than Modi himself. On May 28, Bandyopadhyay was abruptly recalled to Delhi, hours after he, along with chief minister Mamata Banerjee, had skipped a meeting called by Modi to review damages caused by Cyclone Yaas at Kalaikunda. After Bandyopadhyay hurriedly retired on May 31, the Centre issued a notice to him evoking the Disaster Management Act for not attending Modi’s review meeting and hinting at unspecified action against him for defying the order to report at North Block on May 31. But Bandyopadhyay retired from service the same day and was appointed chief adviser to the chief minister. Though Mamata had later claimed that Alapan chapter was closed, the June 16 letter indicates the Modi government is determined to prosecute the retired bureaucrat. But according to a retired bureaucrat who has served in Bengal, the Centre's case against Bandyopadhyay was weak. “He was the chief secretary of Bengal, and not the Centre. The Centre cannot give a showcause notice to an officer who was not serving it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to employ 32,000 teachers by next March, announces Mamata||The Bengal government will be appointing over 32,000 teachers for upper primary and primary levels by March next year, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. The appointment process to fill up at least 14,000 vacancies in the upper primary level (classes 5-8) and 10,500 in the primary level (classes 1-4) will be completed before the Durga Puja in October. Around 7,500 more posts for primary teachers will be filled up by March 2022, Banerjee said. "So, around 32,000 teachers will be appointed by next March. This will definitely help our school education," the CM said. She said that the appointments will be made on the basis of the merit list and no lobbying will be required. "Those who have passed the examinations are eligible for the jobs. The appointments were stuck because of court cases," Banerjee said. The Calcutta High Court had in February ordered an interim stay on the recruitment process for primary teachers following petitions filed by job aspirants who alleged discrepancies after their names did not feature on the merit list issued by the West Bengal Board of Primary Education. The high court later directed the Bengal Central School Service Commission (WBCSSC) to ensure that deserving candidates are not left out and the recruitment process is conducted transparently. The Calcutta High Court, which initially asked the Commission to publish the interview list by May 10, had allowed them some time in view of the ongoing COVID pandemic. The Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) for recruitment of teachers in upper primary schools was held in August 2015 and the results were declared in September 2016. The results of the interview were out in August 2019. Around five lakh candidates had appeared for the tests. In December last year, Banerjee had announced that 16,500 teachers would be appointed at the primary level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP's north Bengal leader, seven others join TMC||In yet another jolt to the BJP, the party's Alipurduar district president, Ganga Prasad Sharma, joined the TMC on Monday, as senior leader of the state's ruling party Mukul Roy, who also switched sides two weeks ago, claimed that this was the "beginning of the saffron party's end" in the state. Seven other BJP leaders from the region, too, followed in Sharma's footsteps and joined the Mamata Banerjee camp. Roy, addressing a press meet here, said the BJP's rise in the state began with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when it managed to bag several seats in north Bengal, and its downfall, too, will start from the region. "This is just a glimpse of what lies ahead... The BJP's fall in the state is imminent," Roy, who was the saffron partys national vice president until recently, underlined. Asked what he might have to say about BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari's insistence that he quit as an MLA, having won the Krishnanagar Uttar assembly seat on a saffron camp ticket, Roy said, "He should first find out what his father (Sisir Adhikari) was up to." Roy was referring to the TMC's demand for disqualification of Kanthi MP Sisir Adhikari, who crossed over to the BJP, much like his son, ahead of the polls. Sharma, on his part, alleged that the BJP has ignored the sentiments of grassroots workers while choosing candidates for the assembly polls, "inducting people at its own will and flying them to Delhi". "We felt neglected but still gave our best to the organisation and ensured that five saffron camp candidates from Alipurduar district get to win the assembly elections. Now, however, I intend to work for people under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee," he stated. Rejecting Suvendu Adhikari's assertion that Sharma changed sides as he was denied a saffron party ticket in the assembly polls, Sharma said, "Let me ask him why he chose to join the BJP ahead of the polls? Also, I wish to know why he was made the leader of opposition in the Assembly and not Manoj Tigga, who is a senior and loyal member of the camp." Coming down heavily on local MP John Barla, who has recently sought a separate union territory comprising north Bengal districts, the BJP turncoat pointed out that the parliamentarian, instead of doing something constructive for the region, is "fanning the flames of division". TMC chief whip in the Upper House, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, who was also present at the press conference, said the people of the state will distance themselves from the BJP even further due its demands of "separatism". Echoing him, education minister and senior TMC leader Bratya Basu noted that the saffron camp, on one hand, is observing 'Poschimbongo divas' (West Bengal Day), and on the other, its MP is seeking a bifurcation of the state, with no regard for its integrity. Talking about Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar's visit to north Bengal, the TMC's Rajya Sabha MP said, "He is free to go anywhere he wishes to... but he should have taken the state government in confidence." Dhankhar has embarked on a week-long visit to north Bengal earlier in the day amid the controversy that has erupted in the region in the wake of Barla's demand. Slamming state BJP president Dilip Ghosh over his claim that Bengal is becoming a "safe haven of terrorist outfits due to inaction of the state government", the TMC MP said, "There are central agencies to keep a check on terrorist activities. If we were to believe him, the obvious question would be what are these agencies doing." "Are the agencies only there to harass and arrest student activists and the ones who raise their voice against the policies of the BJP government?" the MP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Post-poll violence: HC dismisses Bengal govt's plea||The Calcutta High Court on Monday dismissed the Bengal government's plea for recalling its order that directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to examine all cases of alleged human rights violations in post-poll violence in the state. A five-judge bench of the high court dismissed the prayer of the West Bengal government for recalling the order passed in respect of a bunch of PILs alleging displacement of people from their residences, physical assault, destruction of property and ransacking of places of business owing to post- poll violence in the state. The bench had passed the order on June 18, taking note of a report submitted by the Member Secretary of Bengal State Legal Services Authority which said that 3,243 persons were reported to be affected till noon of June 10. The Member Secretary of WBSLSA further mentioned that in a number of cases the complaints were referred to the superintendents of police or the police stations concerned but no response was received. The five-judge bench, comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had in its order directed the chairperson of the NHRC to constitute a committee to examine the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Decade-old overhead reservoir maintained by Eastern Coalfields Limited collapses in West Burdwan||A decade-old overhead water reservoir owned and maintained by Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) collapsed on Saturday night in West Burdwan’s Andal, disrupting drinking water supply. Engineers with ECL said the reservoir, with a capacity of 2.22 lakh gallons, collapsed owing to constant rainfall. “The concrete reservoir had weakened with age and it collapsed under the brunt of rain. Luckily, no casualty or injury was reported,” said an engineer. ECL officials said the reservoir was unsafe for use during a recent health study of all overhead reservoirs in the ECL’s command areas. “We decided to construct a new reservoir and demolish the old one after engineers declared it sick. But work could not start during the pandemic. We will start work  soon,” said J.C. Roy, general manager of ECL’s Kajora mining area. This triggered a drinking water crisis in the ECL colony, where employees of the coal major stay, and three adjoining villages, though ECL officials said they were supplying water through tankers. “We aren’t getting water since Sunday morning, we are now fetching water from nearby ponds,” said a resident at Porashkol village in Andal police station limits. Another resident Kanhaiya Chouhan said had the incident occurred in the morning, there could have been deaths or injuries as the reservoir was located beside a road. ECL officials maintained that they had been supplying water in tankers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung keen on ‘permanent political solution’ talks with Mamata Banerjee||The Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided to prod chief minister Mamata Banerjee to start discussions on a “permanent political solution” for Darjeeling hills and adjoining areas. “We want to move ahead with talks on permanent political solution with the state government. We want discussions to start,” said Roshan Giri, general secretary, Morcha (Gurung) camp. The Gurung faction is talking about the provision in Article 244 A of the Constitution on autonomous state, sources said. “Our thoughts are big, but let us see how the discussion moves ahead,” Giri said. Mamata, during her Assembly election campaign, said she would find a permanent political solution for the region, which many believed was to counter the BJP. Giri's statement comes at a time when there is buzz in the hills whether Gurung's faction would contest the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration election if it is held by the state government. Gurung has been hinting he is more interested in finding a permanent political solution for the region.His rivals, the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha have no problem in contesting the GTA elections. Both the factions are allies of the Trinamul. An observer said that the Gurung camp had not fared well in the last Assembly elections with all their three candidates coming third after the BJP and the Tamang camp. The Tamang camp also won the Kalimpong seat. “The Gurung camp is probably seeking relevance in hill politics,” the observer said. There are more elections coming up. Four civic bodies in the hills are likely to go for elections in the next 8 months. Trinamul leaders in the hills are also pitching for panchayat elections, which were last held in 2005. “If the Gurung camp does manage to initiate talks on a permanent political solution before these elections, it may make space for itself at dinner table talks in the hills,” said a hill resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Two ‘child traffickers’ nabbed from Tinsukia-Bangalore night train||The Birbhum wing of Childline NGO, working with district railway police, on Saturday night nabbed two adults allegedly trafficking four children from Bihar to Bangalore from a Tinsukia-Bangalore night train. The train was halted with special permission at Rampurhat station around 9.30pm on Saturday, for 15 minutes as opposed to the usual three minutes, to stop the alleged trafficking bid, said a source. Though the team was acting on a tip-off about a much larger team, only two adults and four children could finally be rounded up. The two adults were detained and the children, all from Bihar’s Araria, were sent to a government home temporarily. NGO functionaries said they received several tip-offs about this particular train used by traffickers with children from Bihar and Bengal. “The children are then taken to Bangalore and Chennai,” said an NGO official. “They are then engaged in child labour.” On Saturday, the train was halted at Bolpur after Rampurhat, but no suspicious person could be tracked the second time. The decision to halt the train one more time at Bolpur was based on a report from a BSF jawan who had inspected the train earlier at Bihar’s Kishanganj and reported about a suspicious group of about 10-15 persons, including children. Childline works with Bachpan Bachao Andolan, another child rights organisation based in Delhi and founded by social reformer Kailash Satyarthi, to stop child trafficking. “We are still searching for the rest of the adults, in coordination with authorities (police, railway personnel),” said Birbhum Childline coordinator Debashish Ghosh. Deep Banerjee, Bengal coordinator of the Bachpan Bachao Andolan, added: “We are in touch with our Karnataka wing so the train is inspected on arrival there. We are hopeful of tracking all the children and adults.” NGO functionaries also sought better supervised train routes to prevent child trafficking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Total active cases in Bengal rise by 3||Bengal on Sunday reported a rise for the 11th consecutive day in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, but by a marginal three, to 23,016. The state reported 2,128 Covid-19 recoveries, 2,184 new infections and 53 deaths. “The rise (in total number of active cases) is getting arrested. The trend will soon be reversed, and the total will start falling again,” said a minister. “We are realistically looking at fewer than 1,000 new infections a day within the next couple of weeks.” The total number of active cases declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over these 11 days, it rose by over 56 per cent. Bengal now has 3.28 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most active cases. The state’s recovery rate is 97.28 per cent, while the national recovery rate is 96.32 now. In a significant positive, the daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, is now 4.12 per cent. Bengal’s mortality rate, with 17,348 deaths in all, is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.29. Of the 53 deaths reported on Sunday, seven were from the city and nine from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta logged 185 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 332.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar district BJP president to join Trinamul Congress||Alipurduar district BJP president Ganga Prasad Sharma said on Sunday that he would join the Trinamul Congress without “any condition”, but he would expect “minimum respect” in the new party. Sharma, who was instrumental in expanding the BJP’s base in the district, will be the first major leader from the saffron camp to change sides in north Bengal after the Assembly polls. He will join the ruling party at Trinamul Bhavan in Calcutta. The BJP had performed well in north Bengal in the elections winning 30 of the 54 Assembly seats. Sharma had on Saturday exited a WhatsApp group of the BJP, fuelling speculation all through the day. On Sunday, he confirmed that he would join Trinamul on Monday in the presence of party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and Alipurduar district president Mridul Goswami. “I had to work hard to consolidate the party’s base in the district. I can no longer stay in a party where the district president is not given importance. I have left the BJP,” said Sharma. Sharma said he would join Trinamul without “any condition”. “I am joining Trinamul without any condition. I have told Abhishek babu to show me minimum respect in the party and provide me with an opportunity to work for the people. I am feeling free now.” Under Sharma’s leadership, the BJP had won the Alipurduar Lok Sabha seat in 2019 and all five Assembly segments in the district this year. Alipurduar is the only district where the BJP won all Assembly seats in the recent polls. Sharma indicated that he was unhappy that the BJP had given credit to Alipurduar MP John Barla for the recent victory. “I can’t stay in a party where the elected representative is given importance over the party president,” Sharma said without taking Barla’s name. Sharma was probably hinting at a statement issued by central BJP leader Arvind Menon in Calcutta about a fortnight ago. He had credited Barla for the BJP’s success in Alipurduar. Apart from Menon’s statement, Sharma was disgruntled with the way the BJP’s higher leadership was handling the party in Alipurduar. Barla could not be immediately contacted. Madarihat-Birpara BJP MLA Manoj Tigga said: “This is an unfortunate development even though I do not know why Ganga da took such a decision.” On Saturday Tapan Sinha, a close aide to Mukul Roy, left the BJP and joined Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
21-06-2021||West Bengal||Malda murders: Asif Mohammad gave pistols and live cartridges to two of his friends for safekeeping||Police probing the Malda murders have found that Asif Mohammad, the 19-year-old online gamer who allegedly killed and buried his parents, sister and grandmother four months ago in Gurutola village, had given pistols and cartridges to two of his friends to keep two days before his arrest early on Saturday. Malda police on Saturday night arrested his friends Sabir Ali, 18, and Mohammad Mahfuz, 20, and seized from them five 7mm pistols, 84 bullets and 10 magazines, which apparently belonged to Asif. The duo purportedly told the investigators that Asif had asked them to keep the cache of arms and ammunition. “The arrested duo have confessed that Asif had asked them to keep the arms and ammunition safely,” said Aneesh Sarkar, additional superintendent of police (rural), Malda. Asif gave the weapons to his friends on Thursday, a day before his brother Arif, 21, reported the murders to the police. An officer said it was yet to be ascertained if Asif had guessed his elder brother would report the murders, allegedly committed on February 28, to the police. Police said till now, according to one of Asif’s statements, he eliminated his wealthy family because he wanted the whole house to himself. “(But) he is changing his version every minute. He shows no signs of remorse.” “He told his family that once they transfer the entire property in his name, he would send them to a location where they can live peacefully,” said an officer. An investigator added: “It is clear Asif was interested in the dark net. Tracking his online activities would give us an insight into his plans.” The dark net is a part of the Internet that can be accessed only through specific software and is mostly used by hackers for illegal cyber activities. Asif reportedly forced his father to sell some property, including a four-wheeler and a dumper. But he never shared details of his activities with his family or friends.“He gave those around him the impression that he was doing something very important and people should not disturb him,” an investigator who questioned Asif’s friends and brother, said. Asif had allegedly mixed a strong tranquilliser with cold drinks on February 28 and given them to his parents Jawad Ali, 53, and Ira Bibi, 39, sister Rima Khatun, 16, and grandmother Aleknoor Bewa, 73, and when they fell unconscious, tied them and taped leucoplast on their mouths to choke them. He then allegedly dug a trench on the premises of their house and buried them, telling neighbours that “everyone’s in Calcutta”. Arif told the police that he managed to flee from his brother. Cops questioned him on why he had not reported the crime earlier, waiting for four months instead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-19
