22-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC attacks Modi over Alapan episode, claims petulance now a state policy||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday hit out at the BJP-led central government accusing it of trying to disturb the functioning of the West Bengal government by initiating disciplinary proceedings against Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary of the state. The TMC also claimed that petulance has become part of state policy of the Narendra Modi government and the action against Bandyopadhyay, now working as an advisor to the chief minister, amounted to opening of a provocative chapter in federal conflicts. The BJP however, denied the charges as "baseless" and accused the Mamata Banerjee-led party of politicising the bureaucracy. "The BJP has resorted to disturb the functional affairs of the government of West Bengal to further its political agenda its humiliating defeat in the election. "It is the prime minister who sits at the helm of the DoPT, and there's no point in guessing that this is nothing but personal rage, which is desperately finding a venting point to roar," senior TMC MP and party spokesperson Sougata Ray said. The comments by the TMC came a day after the Centre initiated "major penalty proceedings" against Bandyopadhyay, amid a tug-of-war between the Union government and the Mamata Banerjee dispensation over him, which may deprive him of post-retirement benefits, partially or fully. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has sent Bandyopadhyay, who retired on May 31 and is now the chief advisor to the CM, a "memorandum" mentioning the charges giving him 30 days to reply. Referring to the death of Bandyopadhyay's mother a few days back, Ray claimed that the Central government is also heartless. "They (the Centre) simply want to deprive Alapan of the benefits that he was entitled to post-retirement. After losing (the poll in) Bengal, the BJP is trying to create unnecessary tussle in the functioning of the state government. By making petulance part of state policy, Modi has opened a provocative chapter in federal conflicts," he said. The action initiated against Bandyopadhyay is inhuman, Ray claimed. "The TMC condemns it. People of West Bengal also are seeing how the central government is harassing an honest officer. People of Bengal will not tolerate such humiliation," he said. The West Bengal BJP denied the charges and claimed that it is the state's ruling party which has politicised bureaucracy. "We have nothing personal against Alapan Bandyopadhyay or anyone else. He was an all-India cadre officer, and the matter is between him and the union government. It is the TMC which has politicised the police and bureaucracy and have been using them to serve its political interests," state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. Bandopadhyay was set to retire on May 31, but the state had recently sought and received permission for extension of his tenure by three months as he played a crucial role in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He was, however, handed over a transfer directive by the DoPT, shortly after a row broke out over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's post-cyclone review meeting, which the CM and the state chief secretary did not attend. The bureaucrat, instead of reporting to Delhi, chose to retire amid the Centre-state tussle. He was subsequently appointed as the CM's chief adviser. The DoPT had sent him a reminder after he failed to report in response to its May 28 order. The Union Home Ministry has also slapped a show-cause notice on Bandyopadhyay under a stringent provision of the Disaster Management Act that entails imprisonment for up to two years for abstaining from the meeting presided over by the PM. The notice said Bandyopadhyay "acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directions of the central government". Bandyopadhyay had responded to the Home Ministry's notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada: SC defers hearing on Mamata plea to June 25 after judge recuses himself||The Supreme Court Tuesday decided to hear on June 25 the appeals of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the state Law Minister Moloy Ghatak against the June 9 order of the Calcutta High Court which had refused to take on record their affidavits on the CBI's transfer plea related to the Narada scam case. The appeals, initially listed before a vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and Aniruddha Bose, were referred to another bench by Chief Justice N V Ramana during the day itself after Justice Bose recused from the hearing without citing any reason. A bench of Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheswari, to which the cases were referred, took up the matter in the afternoon. At outset, Justice Saran said that the matters are fresh for the bench and they needed to go through the files before the hearing. On being pointed out that earlier the top court had requested the high court to defer the hearing till it decides the appeals, the bench said that it would pass the same order urging the high court to postpone the scheduled hearing there on June 23 and wait for two more days. The bench then enquired from Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, and senior Advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Vikas Singh, whether they will be able to conclude the arguments on Friday. The lawyers answered in the affirmative. "The Supreme Court had noted earlier on June 18 that the High Court may not take up the matter on 21 and 22. Since the matter could not be taken up today, we hope the High Court will not take up the matter on any date prior to the 25th", the bench said in the order. The top court was scheduled to hear three appeals including that of the state government challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak in their role on the day of arrest of four Trinamool Congress leaders on May 17 by CBI in the case. It has been alleged that the state ruling party leaders played a key role in stopping the CBI from performing its legal duty after arresting four leaders in the case. Initially, the state government and the law minister had moved the top court with their appeals and later the chief minister filed her plea against the June 9 order of the high court. The top court on June 18 had requested the high court to hear the case a day after the apex court considered the appeals of the state government and Ghatak against the order. On June 9, a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court, hearing CBI's application for transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the special CBI court to the high court, had said it will decide later on considering the affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak on their respective roles on the day of the arrest of four leaders in connection with the case. Senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Vikas Singh, appearing for Ghatak and the state government, had said it was necessary to bring on record of the high court the affidavits as they deal with the roles of the persons concerned on May 17. The law minister was attending the cabinet meeting and was not in the court premises at the time of hearing, Dwivedi had said, adding that even the CBI officials were not there on the spot as the lawyer for the agency addressed the court virtually. The high court, which on June 9 decided to consider later the affidavits of Banerjee and Ghatak, was urged by the Solicitor General that the affidavits cannot be accepted on the ground of delay as they were filed after the completion of his arguments. The CBI, which has filed an application seeking transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the special CBI court to the high court, has made the chief minister and the law minister parties in its plea there. It had claimed that while the chief minister had sat on a dharna at the CBI office in Calcutta soon after the arrest of the four accused, Ghatak had been present at the Banshall Court premises during the virtual hearing of the case before the special CBI court there on May 17. Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor of Calcutta Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI which is investigating the Narada sting tape case on a 2017 order of the high court. The five-judge bench, comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee, had adjourned the hearing in the matter. The bench had granted interim bail on May 28 to the four accused. The special CBI court had granted them bail on May 17 itself, but the order was stayed by the high court, which remanded them to judicial custody. They had been placed under house arrest on May 21 by the high court, modifying its earlier order of stay on the bail. The Narada sting operation was conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. At that time, the four arrested politicians were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee government. The sting operation was made public ahead of the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
22-06-2021||West Bengal||SC judge recuses himself from hearing plea of CM Mamata in Narada case||Supreme Court judge Justice Aniruddha Bose on Tuesday recused himself from hearing appeals of Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and state law minister Moloy Ghatak about their role on the day of arrest of four TMC leaders by the CBI in the Narada sting tape case. As soon as a vacation bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and Bose assembled to commence the day's proceedings, Justice Gupta said his brother judge is recusing himself from hearing these appeals. Justice Gupta, presiding over the bench, said the issue would be now placed before Chief Justice N V Ramana who may take the decision and the pleas may be listed for hearing during the day itself. The top court was scheduled to hear three appeals including that of the state government challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by her and the state Law Minister in their role on the day of arrest of four Trinamool Congress leaders on May 17 by the central agency in the case. It has been alleged that the state ruling party leaders played a key role in stopping the CBI from performing its legal duty after arresting four leaders in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre to hold 'major penalty proceedings' against Alapan ||The Narendra Modi government has launched its third round of assault on former Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. The Centre has decided to hold “major penalty proceedings” against Bandopadhyay, now an adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, for skipping the Prime Minister’s review meeting at Kalaikunda on May 28. “Shri Alapan Bandyopadhyay, IAS (Retd.) (WB: 1987) is hereby informed that the central government proposes to hold Major Penalty Proceedings against him under Rule 8 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969,” reads a memorandum, dated June 16, sent by the Centre to Bandyopadhyay. Major penalty proceedings against an all-India service officer are drawn if a preliminary inquiry establishes beyond doubt that an act by the officer constituted a major breach of service rules, an official said. Senior IAS officers said the charges mentioned in the memorandum appeared to be serious and could rob Bandyopadhyay of retirement benefits like pension. “The tragedy here is there hasn’t been any proper inquiry.… It’s just a one-sided vilification of a senior officer as the Centre can’t do anything to the chief minister,” an officer said. The memorandum, sent by the department of personnel and training, asks Bandyopadhyay to submit a written statement defending himself within 30 days. If he so desires, he will be heard in person. The Centre has informed Bandyopadhyay that he should specifically deny or admit the charges levelled against him. Bandyopadhyay has been under attack since he and the chief minister skipped the review meeting at Kalaikunda that Modi had convened on May 28 to assess the extent of devastation in Bengal caused by Cyclone Yaas. From Kalaikunda, Bandyopadhyay and Mamata had travelled to Digha to assess the situation there and hold a meeting as East Midnapore was one of the worst-affected districts. First, in an unprecedented order on May 28 evening, Bandyopadhyay was asked to report to the DoPT in Delhi for a three-month period although the Centre had earlier cleared a state government proposal for a three-month extension to the officer as chief secretary in view of the pandemic. Then came the second blow -- after Bandyopadhyay decided against taking the extension and retired from service -- in the form of a letter asking him to explain in writing why action should not be taken against him for violating the Disaster Management Act, 2005, by skipping the Prime Minister’s review meeting. “The DoPT memorandum indicates that the Centre failed to make much headway with its plan of using the DM Act to penalise Bandyopadhyay.… So, it used the third option, threatening to hold major penalty proceedings against him,” a source said. Bandyopadhyay could not be reached for comment. Sources in Nabanna said a detailed reply would be sent to the DoPT soon. The DoPT memorandum has left senior government officials at Nabanna shocked, with several of them saying it had exposed Delhi’s desperation to take revenge on an officer for following a chief minister’s instructions. “He has already explained in writing why he had to leave the meeting with the chief minister after taking permission from the Prime Minister that day.... But the Centre appears to be in the mood to take revenge on him,” a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Windamere  in Darjeeling declares lockout from July 5 ||Windamere, considered one of the best colonial hotels in the country and a landmark in Darjeeling, has declared a lockout from July 5 because of Covid-19-induced financial stress. Hotel industry is hit worst by the pandemic but Windamere which draws clients mostly from overseas has been hit harder by Covid and the subsequent ban on foreign travellers. Elizabeth Clarke, managing director of the hotel built in the 19th century, in her lockout notice said: “Due to ongoing COVID-19 pandemic since the last one and half years the Hotel Management has suffered huge financial losses and ultimately has gone into financial crisis leading to financial debt.” The place started as a cosy boarding house for bachelor English and Scottish tea planters — first building was built around the 1880s — was converted into a hotel just before the outbreak of the Second World War. Windamere Hotel is an attraction by itself carrying Darjeeling’s rich history. A glance through the names of the 38 rooms at the hotel provides an insight into its rich history. Prince Peter of Greece and Denmark had stayed at the hotel and a room at the main building is named after him. Another room is called the Princess of Siam (as Thailand was previously known) as she had stayed there. Another room is named Chogyal of Sikkim and it was at this hotel that the former king of Sikkim had met his second wife Hope Cooke. The hotel is also famous for its “Christmas Week at Windamere” from December 18 to January 1, which is being celebrated in the same way since 1939. “However, the last major foreign booking the hotel received was on December 19, 2019. Since then, our occupancy has been as low as 30 per cent on an average despite offering a special discount of almost 50 per cent,” said a source at the hotel. Tariff during normal times starts from Rs 10,000 per night. Sources said the hotel had been paying 100 per cent salaries to the 50-odd employees for the past few months but could only disburse 50 per cent of the pay in May. In her lock-out notice to the staff, Clarke said: “We have decided to go into lockout and to temporarily suspend the functioning of our Hotel business. We are contemplating to provide our hospitality services to our guests once everything becomes normal and tourists’ starts coming, particularly international tourists and we start getting the bookings.” Tourism industry veterans endorsed the concerns of the management of Windamere Hotel. “We get the highest business between April 15 and June 15 and do business of around Rs 9 crore per day during this period. We have suffered a loss of over Rs 500 crore,” said Raj Basu, an industry veteran. Bengal tourism minister Indranil Sen on Monday started a three-day tour of north Bengal to look into the concerns of the industry stakeholders. “Our government has started vaccinating tourism workers against Covid and we hope the industry will pick up by Durga Puja.” Around 10 lakh people directly or indirectly derive sustenance from the tourism industry in north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP MP Saumitra Khan demands statehood for ‘Rarh Bengal’ region||Bishnupur BJP MP Saumitra Khan on Monday demanded statehood for the Rarh Bengal region before “we will be called outsiders on our own land”. “On one hand, Bengal is turning into a refuge for the Rohingya. On the other hand, Mamata Banerjee is disallowing the CAA. It won’t be late before we will be called outsiders on our own land. This is why I feel this region (Rarh) should be turned into a separate state,” said Khan. According to Khan, the districts which formed the “erstwhile Rarh Bengal” or Jungle Mahal area must be carved out as a new state. “Birbhum, Burdwan, Asansol, Purulia, Bankura, Bishnupur, Jhargarm, West and East Midnapore and a few parts of Hooghly. These are the areas which should be clubbed and granted statehood,” he said. In geographical terms, the Rarh region comprises the areas between the gangetic delta and the Chhota Nagpur plateau. Khan’s comment comes about a week after Barla publicly demanded a separate dominion status for north Bengal. Barla first made his demand through a local news portal. However in the last few days, he has been more vocal about the demand and also mentioned it at a meeting of BJP MPs and MLAs from north Bengal on Saturday. At a time state BJP leaders were busy drawing up strategies to make post-poll violence in Bengal an issue to embarrass the Mamata Banerjee government, the statehood demands from the two MPs have come as surprise for the state party unit. The BJP’s embarrassment over Barla and Khan’s comments are evident from the desperate attempts by state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and scores of other leaders to distance themselves from these demands. “The BJP is never in favour of dividing Bengal. It has always wanted development for West Bengal as a whole. However, given the lawlessness in the state, some people might get frustrated. This frustration has probably made them put forward such demands. The BJP doesn’t support the demands as a party,” Ghosh said on Monday on the sidelines of an organisational meeting of the party in Malda. Ghosh has made several comments attempting to alienate the BJP from Barla’s comments earlier. A section within the party believes there is a possibility that the two MPs enjoy the backing of the BJP’s central leadership. These leaders also said it could be yet another ploy of the BJP top rung to divide the people of Bengal on communal lines. “Neither John Barla nor Saumitra could have spoken out of turn if they didn’t have the sanction of the party’s central leaders. The latter is referring to Rohingya Muslims and CAA. Of course, these are the best weapons of polarisation for us. All this makes us think that the central BJP leadership has a bigger role to play here,” a state BJP office-bearer said. Moreover, Barla has claimed he has already spoken to his leaders in Delhi on this issue. Khan said he would bring this topic up in Parliament and accordingly, mobilise the crowd in its favour. The Trinamul Congress has been using the comments of Barla as a weapon to launch a fresh political campaign against the BJP in north Bengal, where the ruling party has traditionally been weak. “While Trinamul has regained ground in south Bengal during the Assembly polls over the Lok Sabha elections, north Bengal still remains a difficult zone as we performed badly in districts like Alipurduar, Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri... Barla’s demand has given us a chance to mobilise public support in our favour,” a Trinamul leader from Alipurduar said. Apart from combating Barla’s comments politically, Trinamul lodged three FIRs at three different police stations in Cooch Behar against the MP for his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Malda teen blackmailed elder brother for four months to stop him from reporting||Asif Mohammad, the 19-year-old youth who had allegedly killed his family members in front of his elder brother Arif, had managed to stop him from spilling the beans for four months by allegedly blackmailing him. Arif, 21, had been following his younger brother’s instructions all along and kept his mouth shut despite having full knowledge about the brutal killings of his parents, sister and grandmother. Last week, unable to sustain the pressure, he reported the four-month-old incident to Kaliachak police and led to Asif’s arrest. A senior officer said: “Asif had this tendency to bluff around and pretend that he knew much more than he actually did. He used the same trick on his elder brother and managed to stop him from reporting to the police for four months through blackmail.” Malda police are also probing Asif's year-long absence from his hometown after he cleared his class X exams, sources said. Asif Mohammad had disappeared “for a long period” after his Madhaymik examination in 2019 apparently without informing his parents anything about his destination. Alok Rajoria, superintendent of Malda police, said: “It has been found that he was in Shillong, Meghalaya, for some days. We are probing his activities during his absence and also the people he had interacted with.” The police said they were trying to ascertain the purpose behind the newly-constructed building adjoining the home. “It is a peculiar 70-feet high building spread over 2000sqft area. The upper storey has a balcony but there is no staircase. This building was connected with the main building through a tunnel,” said a police officer. The investigators said they would examine the masons and labourers involved in the construction and try to find out the thought process behind building the house which was totally planned by Asif. “We know Asif was involved in the building’s design and the masons could provide us with a clue,” said an officer. Arif, Asif’s brother, has apparently failed to throw any light on the reason to construct a building like this. Arif had blown the lid off the killing of their parents Jawad Ali, 53, and Ira Bibi, 39, sister Rima Khatun, 16, and grandmother Aleknoor Bewa, 73 on February 28. The police said Asif was in touch with Arif and was in control of the latter’s actions to ensure that he never reported the multiple killings to the police. However, Arif had failed to sustain the pressure and informed the police about the incident. The police had till now seized five 7mm pistols, 84 rounds of cartridges and 10 magazines from Asif’s friends Sabir Ali, 18 and Mohammad Mahfuz, 20, on Saturday, along with more than Rs 2 lakh in cash. Both the arms and money are believed to belong to Asif, the police said. However, the cops are yet to ascertain why Asif was keeping the cache of arms and ammunition in his possession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal breaks spell of rise in active cases||Bengal on Monday snapped out of an 11-day spell of renewed rise in total active Covid-19 cases and logged less than 2,000 infections for the first time since April 5, 77 days ago. On Monday, the state reported 2,113 recoveries, 1,879 infections and 42 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 276, to 22,740. “We are back on track,” said a minister, pointing out that the daily confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to below four on Monday, to 3.93. Prior to Monday, the total of active cases had improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till Sunday, it had risen again by over 56 per cent. “All our estimates suggested this reversal, around this time. It will be a smooth ride back to a great position, over the next few weeks,” said the minister. Bengal currently has 3.44 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains eighth on the list of states with most active cases. In another major plus, the state’s recovery rate resumed its upward climb — after a 10-day reversal — and rose to 97.3 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.46 now. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,390 deaths in total, is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.29. Of the 42 deaths reported on Monday, nine were reported from the city and 10 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 171 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 295. “Over the past few weeks, we have also been able to lower the daily death count from 150-odd to less than 50,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Potholes on two highways lead to bumpy ride and commute problems||A 22km stretch of NH14 and a 25km portion of a state highway, both connecting north Bengal with the south of the state, have been lying in disrepair for a year-and-a-half, posing problems in commute between the two regions. The condition is worse for the 22km stretch of NH14 — from Birbhum’s Nalhati to Moregram — which has become potentially dangerous for commuters as it is peppered with countless potholes, some of them 3-4ft-deep. The 306km-long NH14 starts from Kharagpore in West Midnapore, and ends at Moregram in Birbhum, connecting NH12, the arterial connector for north Bengal. The road also connects Odisha as it merges with NH16 near Kharagpore. A large number of vehicles from various south Bengal districts, including Birbhum, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Bankura and West Midnapore use NH14 to commute to and from north Bengal. Sources in the Bengal public works department (NH) said they had nothing to do with the road as the Centre provided funds for repair and had allegedly been idle with the file since last year. The PWD (NH), which maintains the national highways in Bengal, said despite submitting a plea of Rs 18 crore last year, no fund had been released by the Centre. “We sought funds from the Centre last year, with a reminder in January this year. But we are yet to get funds. We need huge funds for repair as the condition of that NH14 stretch is beyond regular patchwork,” said N.K. Singh, an executive engineer of PWD (NH). Police officers said it had become a tall task for them to handle traffic following frequent breakdown of trucks. “It has been crazy trying to handle the traffic on that NH14 stretch. There are two problems — major traffic snarls because of the breakdown of trucks or other vehicles and guarding the goods of those vehicles. Local people have already stopped using the road because of the extremely bad condition,” said a senior police officer in Birbhum. “Thousands of overloaded vehicles plying through the road is one of the factors contributing substantially to the damage,” he added. Those who used to travel in personal cars through NH14 have stopped using the road because of its condition. “Now I use local roads and take detours of about 20km, simply to reach Behrampore,” said Hiranmoy Ghosh, a physician in Rampurhat, who often goes to Behrampore to visit his family. Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a social organisation, on Monday wrote to Union transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and the state government, seeking immediate repair of the stretch. “There are hundreds of villages and small towns and people from those areas depend on NH14. Now they are crossing rivers at great risk for shortcuts. We want immediate repair,” said Samirul Islam, the president the Mancha. Trinamul Congress’s Bolpur MP Asit Mal met Gadkari six months ago and asked him in writing to allot funds, but in vain. “I am in Delhi. I am likely to meet Gadkari in one or two days. We don’t know why the Centre is not sanctioning money for this,” said Mal. Another way to connect to north Bengal is a state highway from Birbhum’s Futisanko, near Nanoor. The 65km stretch connects with Moregram to meet the NH12. Sources said a 25km stretch of the road, known commonly as the Badshahi Road, from Kuli to Futisanko, had become a similar nightmare for commuters. It is a key alternative road and most vehicles from south Bengal, including the Haldia port, use this road to reach north Bengal as NH14 is in a bad shape. “This road is filled with craters and potholes…. The PWD has already floated a tender and the repairs will start soon,” said Rajib Khan, the Murshidabad zilla parishad functionary responsible for public works.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to increase Covid-19 beds for children to face third wave threat||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said her government would work to increase Covid-19 beds for children in the state keeping in mind the possible third wave of the pandemic. “We are trying to increase Covid-19 beds for kids as many experts said children could be affected if the third wave comes,” said the chief minister. Sources in the health department said several experts felt that children up to the age of 18 years could be affected in larger number compared to the first and second waves as they wouldn’t be vaccinated. “That does not mean children would be infected predominantly or exclusively in the third phase. But yes, the number of affected children could go up. So, it is important to develop infrastructure as a precautionary measure,” said a senior health department official. Contrary to the perception of the state government that a possible third wave might affect kids in larger number compared to the first two waves, the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP), which is a body representing over 32,000 paediatricians across the country, said last month that any fresh surge in the epidemic was “highly unlikely” to predominantly or severely affect children. The IAP termed as baseless fears circulating on social media of a third wave hitting children hard. The IAP has said while children appear as susceptible as adults and the elderly to contract the novel coronavirus infection, 90 per cent of infections in children are mild or without symptoms. A Bengal government source said the alertness of the health department stemmed from the fact there was a paucity of beds for children at hospitals in the state. The source added that aware of the shortcomings, the government wanted to augment Covid treatment-related infrastructure at healthcare establishments for children. “A rough estimate says all hospitals have less than 10 per cent of their beds for children. This has to be increased. I hope the health department will initiate measures after the chief minister’s announcement,” said another official. A senior doctor at SSKM Hospital in Calcutta explained why a separate facility was required to be developed for children keeping the third wave in mind. “An ICU for children is completely different from the units where adults are treated. In the case of ICU for children, there should be facilities to accommodate parents of the children, too. I can say it is almost impossible to provide treatment to a child in ICU if the mother is not present,” said the doctor. A member of a Covid-related committee of the state government said it should consider vaccinating mothers of children on a priority basis. “Even if mothers of children are below 45 years of age, the state should vaccinate them considering them as a priority group. If mothers are vaccinated, she could be allowed in the ICU where the children would be admitted,” said the member. A source said they would have to race against time to develop infrastructure for children. “According to predictions of many experts, the third wave could hit the country in the next eight-12 weeks. We have to develop required infrastructure by that time,” said the source. A health department official said if vaccines were made available by the Centre, it would work with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to vaccinate mothers of children at the earliest. “It has been seen that Calcutta remains the place that received the first blow in case of the previous waves. So, it is important to vaccinate mothers of children in Calcutta first,” the official added. But the plan depends entirely on the availability of vaccines. It is expected that the state would get around 40 lakh vaccine doses in July as the Centre promised a steady supply, said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||NHRC panel to probe post-poll violence after Calcutta HC rejects government’s plea ||A special bench of Calcutta High Court on Monday declined to entertain a petition by the Bengal government, seeking a modification of its directive to the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission to send a team to meet people who had allegedly been victims of post-poll clashes in the state and submit a report to judges by June 30. The five-member special bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had issued the order on June 18. The court on Monday criticised the Bengal government and the West Bengal Human Rights Commission for their “failure” in tackling the issue. Justice Harish Tandon on the bench said: “It is a matter of wonder that the state human rights commission did not receive a single complaint from any victim, while the National Human Rights Commission already has 541 allegations of post-poll violence from various parts of Bengal.” Justice Bindal said: “One-and-a-half months past the publication of poll results (on May 2) in the state…. It is really a matter of shame that incidents of violence and torture are still taking place.” Following two different public interest litigations, moved by advocates Anindya Sunder Das and Priyanka Tibrewal, the special bench had in early June first directed the state rights body to set up a committee by including a representative from itself, the State Legal Services Authority and the NHRC. But on June 18, when the case came up for the court’s scanning again, the petitioners’ lawyers had alleged that the order of the court was not adhered to properly. Hearing the allegation, the special bench directed the NHRC to set up a committee for visiting the allegedly affected areas of Bengal and file a report before the court. But moving a petition before the bench, the state government on Monday sought modification of the June 18 order as it was “delivered without giving the state the opportunity to defend itself”. The court said the case would be heard again on June 30 and asked the NHRC chairman to file the report then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||Groups of criminals clash in North 24-Parganas, cop injured ||An assistant sub-inspector of police suffered injuries when a bomb exploded during a clash between two groups of criminals at Bhatpara town in North 24-Parganas late on Sunday night. ASI Subrata Goswami was part of a police team trying to control the situation. A bomb exploded near the police officer who suffered multiple splinter injuries. He was rushed to Bhatpara state general hospital and later shifted to a nursing home in Barrackpore. Police and local sources said a clash had broken out between two gangs of criminals in areas adjacent to Railgate-29 under ward 8 of the town around 10pm on Sunday. The clash panicked local residents who called the police. The presence of cops did not deter the goons, who continued to attack each other with bombs and bullets, leading to the ASI’s injury. Personnel of the combat force of the district police later brought the situation under control and arrested Sambhu Sonar and Ram Pandit for their alleged role in the violence. The incident unleashed panic in the district’s jute belt that has been on the boil since the announcement of the Assembly poll results with incidents of armed clashes becoming a regular affair. The frequent clashes have revived memories of violence that had erupted in the belt after BJP candidate Arjun Singh had won the 2019 Lok Sabha poll. “We have to spend sleepless night on most days as goons frequently clash with each other in the area. Bombs explode throughout the night, leaving the residents here in panic. The entire belt has turned into a stockpile of bombs,” said a person who lives in Bhatpara and was part of a crowd that had blocked the Barrackpore-Kanchrapara road demanding arrest of the goons. A section of Trinamul Congress leaders is annoyed with police inaction and blames some party office-bearers for instigating the clashes. “After we lost the Barrackpore seat in 2019, we began to blame Arjun Singh for creating tension. But after the Assembly polls, Arjun’s control over the goons has largely decreased, particularly following the defeat of BJP candidates in most seats in the jute belt. Now, people will not accept that violence in the area is being orchestrated entirely by Arjun,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Naihati. However, Trinamul MLA from Jagaddal Somnath Shyam said: “Arjun has been trying to create tension for political interest.” Arjun, however, said: “People know who is creating tension. Everything will become clear if police act in a non-partisan manner.” A senior officer of Barrackpore police commissionerate said: “We had arrested a number of goons but most of them got bail because of the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-17
22-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP leaders hold emergency meeting to keep flock together||BJP leaders held an emergency meeting in Alipurduar in an apparent move to keep their flock together after district president Ganga Prasad Sharma joined the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta on Monday. Nikhil Ranjan Dey, BJP observer for north Bengal, presided over the emergency meeting which was attended by four MLAs from Alipurduar — the fifth party MLA Manoj Tigga is in Calcutta — and Alipurduar MP John Barla. Dey said the state leaders had directed him to hold the meeting with Alipurduar district leaders. “ I will propose the names of three leaders to be selected as the next district chief.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-18
