23-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata wants byelections in Bengal soon, will ask Modi||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday that she would ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to instruct the Election Commission to hold byelections in the Bengal soon, indicating that she was keen to complete the constitutional necessity of being elected to the state Assembly well before the six-month deadline given that the second wave of Covid cases was on the decline. Mamata had lost to Suvendu Adhikary from Nandigram in the Assembly polls. Though the deadline for her re-election ends on November 5, Mamata is keen that byelections be held in Bengal immediately before the state is witness to what experts fear could be a third wave of the pandemic. “We are waiting. We have heard the central poll panel is waiting for the Prime Minister’s nod,” Mamata said at the state administrative headquarters on Wednesday. “I will request the Prime Minister to give the go-ahead.” Mamata said elections could be held within a span of seven days, keeping the pandemic in mind. “When the elections started (the first phase on March 27) we had a 2-3 per cent infection rate. By the eighth phase, the infection rate had climbed to 32 per cent. Elections can be held at 32 per cent and not at one per cent?” Mamata asked. The chief minister had blamed the spike in Bengal’s Covid cases, which climbed to more than 20,000 a day in May, on the prolonged election schedule and packed campaign meetings. Bypolls will have to be held in Bhowanipore, Khardah (the winning candidate Kajal Sinha died from Covid before the results were declared), Shantipur and Dinhata (where two BJP MPs contested and won but have resigned to retain their respective Lok Sabha seats). Elections were deferred in the seats of Shamsergunj and Jangipur following the deaths of two candidates before polling. Trinamul veteran and state agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who had won from Bhowanipore, resigned as MLA on May 21 to make way for Mamata to contest from her old constituency. Chattopadhyay is expected to be fielded from Khardah. While the outcome of the Bhowanipore polls holds zero doubt in the mind of the Trinamul top brass, unlike in Nandigram which was fiercely contested, a letter from state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury to interim Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has raised eyebrows. Earlier this month, he had opined that the Congress should not field a nominee against Mamata in Bhowanipore. The Congress had fought the elections in alliance with the Left Front and the Indian Secular Front and failed to secure any seat for the first time in the history of Bengal elections. Congress had fielded candidates from Bhowanipore in 2016 and 2021 when it fought the polls in alliance with the Left. Sonia is yet to respond to Chowdhury’s request. But neither the Congress nor the Left have called off the alliance. The CPM, which admitted in its recent state committee meeting that the party had failed to give a strong anti-BJP message, is waiting to hear from its alliance partner. “We cannot give up the political space to the Trinamul and BJP. This is what both the parties would like. At the same time, we don’t want the alliance to be in jeopardy. We will wait for the Congress to announce its decision,” said a CPM state committee member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Joint Entrance examination in Bengal on July 17||The West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination (WBJEE) will be conducted on 17th July, the WBJEE Board on Wednesday announced. The Board also said that there would be no change in the time-table of the examination. The results will be declared before August 14th, the Board said, adding that the counselling process will be done in three phases and will be completed before September 15. The examination was postponed considering the Covid situation, said Malayendu Saha. In this regard, the board said, the transport system is expected to improve by mid-July. So it was decided to take the test at that time. The test will be taken on Saturday as there will be transportation problem on Sunday. The board said the test would be taken in compliance with the restrictions of the Covid situation. Social distancing will be adhered to. 20 candidates will be placed in each room. In that case, the number of students will be further reduced. A bench will have one or at most two. 92,695 students will be taking the exam this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal assembly speaker complains to Om Birla about 'excessive interference' of Governor||Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee has complained to his Lok Sabha counterpart Om Birla about the "excessive interference" of Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in matters related to parliamentary democracy and functioning of the House. Banerjee complained to Birla about Dhankhar during the virtual All India Speakers' Conference on Tuesday. "I told the Lok Sabha speaker about the excessive interference of Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in parliamentary democracy and the functioning of the Assembly. "Despite being passed by the Assembly, several bills are lying with the governor as he has not signed them. This is unprecedented in the history of West Bengal's parliamentary democracy. Such a thing has never happened before," Banerjee told PTI. Dhankhar, who shares a strained relationship with the TMC government, is yet to react to the development. "We have been saying this for a long time that the present governor is acting as the mouthpiece of a specific political party. He is not only interfering in the functioning of the state of affairs but is also maligning the West Bengal government," senior TMC leader and MLA Tapas Roy said. However, the West Bengal unit of the BJP came out in support of the governor and claimed that he has exposed the truth. "The TMC is angry with the governor as he has exposed the lawless situation in the state. There have been complaints against him earlier, but all of them were baseless," BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said. The TMC government and Dhankhar have been sharing an acrimonious relation since he assumed office in July 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre sanctions Rs 5 crore for Darjeeling Himalayan Railway workshop||The Centre has sanctioned Rs 5 crore for the repair of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) Tindharia locomotive workshop, located about 20km from Kurseong in Darjeeling district. The DHR was declared a world heritage site by the Unesco in 1999. The workshop — established in 1915 — is used to repair the heritage steam engines. “A sum of Rs 5 crore has been sanctioned to revamp the heritage Tindharia workshop by the ministry of railways,” said Raju Bista, BJP MP of Darjeeling. “The workshop has very old machines which are of incalculable value.” The workshop has around 90 workers and is an important cog for the economy of this tiny hamlet in the district. On Monday, Bista visited the railway hospital at Tindharia, accompanied by A.K. Mishra, director of the DHR, and donated an oxygen concentrator, oximeters, PPE kits and mask to the 20-bedded facility. Sources said the hospital established in 1940s was not fully functional. Bista assured local people that he would take up the hospital issue to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and demand upgradation of the facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 1,852 cases and 47 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported the second consecutive day of a drop in total active Covid-19 cases which fell by 232 to 22,508. On Tuesday, the state reported 2,037 recoveries, 1,852 infections and 47 deaths. The daily positive confirmation rate, which had peaked in the second wave with nearly 33 per cent, fell to 3.61 on Tuesday. “We have to get the total of active cases below 10,000 again. The number of new infections found daily also has to fall to below 1,000,” said a minister. “We are hoping these two days are not an aberration, but the beginning of a lasting trend that finally gets us to the other side of the second wave’s fallout,” he added. The total of active cases had improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till Sunday, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again over these two days. Bengal currently has 3.52 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains eighth on the list of states with most active cases. Of the 47 deaths reported on Tuesday, 11 were in Calcutta and 15 in North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. Calcutta logged 172 infections and North 24-Parganas 207. The state’s recovery rate rose to 97.31 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.53 now. Bengal’s overall mortality rate, with 17,437 deaths in total, is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee orders internal inquiry into skill training cost||Mamata Banerjee has ordered an internal inquiry into the expenditure incurred by the technical education and skill development department in imparting training to youths over the past few years. “During a meeting of the department at Nabanna yesterday (Monday), the chief minister said she had got an impression that there were some discrepancies in the expenditure incurred by the department for imparting skill training to youths. The chief minister has ordered an internal inquiry. The finance department is likely to conduct the probe,” said a senior official present at the meeting. Sources said Mamata’s decision held significance as it gave a clear hint that she was determined to ensure that no corruption allegation was levelled against her government in its third term. According to officials present at Monday’s meeting, Mamata pointed out she had received complaints that some expenditures had been incurred without the finance department’s prior approval. There were also complaints that some training programmes were not conducted but funds had been released for the same. “The chief minister was worried because this would hurt the prospect of the youths in the state, particularly when she has taken job creation seriously,” said a source aware of the development. According to sources in the state government, skill development training programmes are held for nearly 6 lakh youths in the state every year with an aim to make them suitable for industries. “Professional agencies are hired for these programmes... There are complaints that funds are often misused in the name of training,” said an official. The state spends nearly Rs 100 crore for imparting training to the youths annually, said sources. “The central government also shoulders some expenditure depending on the nature of training programmes. But predominantly, the state shoulders the burden of the training programmes under Utkarsha Bangla programme,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Reopening of Jalpaiguri tea auction centre ‘not viable’||Union ministry of commerce and industry has said the Tea Board of India was of the opinion that reopening of the Jalpaiguri tea auction centre was “not viable” because of alleged infrastructure lacunae at the facility and inadequate supply of the brew for the sale. Stakeholders of the north Bengal tea sector said the reasons were factually incorrect, while the Trinamul Congress seized the opportunity to attack the BJP government at the Centre for its alleged step-motherly attitude towards the region. The ministry has sent the communication to the north Bengal tea auction committee that runs the centre. The bad news for the industry came through a letter dated June 9 and sent by Bijendra Singh, section officer, ministry of commerce and industry, to Purjojit Bakshi Gupta, the vice-chairman of the tea auction centre. The letter mentioned that the issue of reopening the centre had been considered in consultation with the Tea Board but was considered unviable. “The Tea Board has also informed that the matter has been thoroughly examined by them and the Board is of the opinion that opening of Jalpaiguri Auction Centre is not viable at present and will not add any value to the tea trade,” the letter states. The Jalpaiguri centre was opened in 2005 but has remained defunct since 2015. The ministry has cited a number of reasons — which tea auction committee members allege are factually wrong — for the decision. The ministry said in the letter that the Tea Board had informed “that Jalpaiguri physical tea auction centre lacks certain infrastructural facilities” and became “non-operational essentially due to non-availability of tea for auction”. The ministry hasn’t, however, specified the lacunae in infrastructure facilities. Another reason cited by the ministry is the presence of an auction centre in Siliguri, about 45km away. “Further, the Jalapaiguri centre is located in proximity to the Siliguri e-auction centre, which handles about 140 million kgs of tea per year and caters to the entire North Bengal region including Jalpaiguri,” the letter states. There has always been a simmering undercurrent over facilities in Jalpaiguri and Siliguri. Against this background, the ministry has suggested that the Siliguri e-auction centre “can be expanded” to handle higher volumes. “As tea auctions are being held through an online platform, revival of the physical auction centre of Jalpaiguri may not add any value,” stated Singh. Purjojit issued a point-wise rebuttal stating that the ministry was stating wrong facts to close the auction centre. The vice-chairman of the auction centre said that M.G.K Bhanu, former Tea Board chairman, had visited the auction centre in Jalpaiguri in May 2012 “and had appreciated the infrastructure”. “He had also inaugurated an e-auction facility here. We are shocked by the content of the letter from the official of the Union ministry,” said Purjojit. Auction committee members also said a total of 77,573 kg of tea had been auctioned off at the Jalpaiguri centre between January and September 2015. Over the years, there has been a demand that all CTC tea be sold from Jalpaiguri while leaf tea could be traded from Siliguri to ensure optimum utilisation of both the centres. The closure of the auction centre would impact the local economy as several warehouses, blending and packaging units and hotels used to thrive on of the facility. The central government’s decision, several tea industry insiders said, has exposed New Delhi’s apathy towards the tea sector in general despite “tall claims” by senior Union ministers. Krishna Kalyani, vice-chairman, West Bengal Tea Directorate, has threatened to resort to a movement against the Union ministry’s decision. “BJP leaders want division of state alleging lack of development in north Bengal but their government is stalling development in our region. If the decision is not reversed, we will resort to agitation,” said Kalyani, who is also the Jalpaiguri district president of Trinamul. Another Trinamul leader said: “In 2016, the then Union minister of state for commerce and industry, Nirmala Sitharaman, had talked about opening seven closed gardens in the region but nothing has happened. Former Darjeeling MP S.S. Ahluwalia had also talked about creating a separate ministry for tea but that remained confined to election speeches.” Jalpaiguri BJP MP Jayanta Roy said: “I am unaware of any such letter from the Union government. I want the tea auction centre to function here and I will contact the ministry concerned.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||One more BJP leader resigns in Alipurduar ||Samrat Dey, BJP state committee member and observer of Darjeeling district during the last Assembly elections, resigned from the party on Tuesday and alleged that money had been exchanged for party tickets during the polls. Dey emailed his resignation to state BJP president Dilip Ghosh. The resignation is seen as another jolt to the saffron party following its debacle in the polls. Accusing the BJP of “deviating from party ideology”, Dey on Tuesday said: “Prior to the Assembly polls, candidates were given party tickets in lieu of money. This is why I have decided to quit the party.” The leader, however, did not go into the specifics of the money-for-ticket allegation. Dey occupied important positions in the BJP. Apart from being a core member of the party, he was also the state secretary of the party’s youth wing. “During the 2019 parliamentary elections, he was an observer for Cooch Behar district,” said a BJP source. The development has come after BJP Alipurduar district president Ganga Prasad Sharma joined the Trinamul Congress on Monday. Five district leaders followed Sharma to Trinamul. On Tuesday, Bhushan Modak, vice-president of the Alipurduar district committee, was appointed as the BJP’s district convener following Sharma’s exit. Told about Dey’s resignation and the allegation raised by him, the new convener said: “I have no idea of the party tickets in exchange of money. We are a national party and Samrat’s exit will not affect the BJP in the district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Malda murders: Dark Net used for body upkeep tips, say cops||Police suspect Asif Mohammad had learned the procedure of human body preservation from the Dark Net that he had used for family members allegedly killed by him in Malda four months ago. An investigator said despite being buried four months back, the bodies dug out of the trenches inside the house were neither emitting stench nor as decomposed as they should have been under the given set of circumstances. “He may have learned ways of body preservation from the Dark Net,” said an officer. Police are almost convinced that the 19-year-old had used a heavy dose of sedatives to make his parents, grandmother and sister unconscious after which he had tied them up and buried them inside the trenches. The police said Asif himself was addicted to strong tranquilisers and suspected to have used the same for overpowering his family members. On February 28, Asif had allegedly killed parents Jawad Ali, 53,and Ira Bibi, 39, sister Rima Khatun, 16, and grandmother Aleknoor Bewa, 73. His elder brother Arif said an attempt had also been made on his life but he had escaped. The police found the materials used for building a coffin were kept in Asif’s friends’ home in Malda. “Asif insisted they keep the materials for the coffin like plywood and marble as he told them the family was soon shifting base from Gurutola village to Calcutta,” an officer said. On Tuesday, both Asif and Arif were taken to their residence to reconstruct the crime scene and Arif’s escape. “The probe is in the right direction even though we cannot disclose all details right away,” said Alok Rajoria, SP, Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt sets target of connecting rural households with piped water supply by March, 2022||The Mamata Banerjee government has set itself a target of connecting 1 crore rural households with piped supply of water by March, 2022 in an attempt to make up for the time lost because of the state’s dilemma in joining the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission. “We have set up a target of reaching 1 crore households in the rural areas of the state with pipeline water by the end of the ongoing financial year. We know that the target is stiff, but we will try to achieve the target,” said a senior government official. Sources said the ruling ruling party in the state is trying to ensure that the BJP cannot take the opportunity of pulling up the ruling party for delay in implementing public welfare schemes. “The BJP had already made the pipeline water supply an issue ahead of the Assembly polls. The ruling party has sensed that if the facility cannot be extended to a majority of people ahead of 2024 elections, the BJP can use it as a campaign tool,” said a source. The Narendra Modi-led central government had launched the Jal Jeevan Mission scheme after coming back to power in 2019 with an aim to supply water through pipes to about 18 crore rural households across the country. In Bengal, a total of 2 crore rural households were supposed to be connected with pipeline water by 2024. The state government did not join the scheme initially as it stipulated that 10 percent of the project cost would have to be borne by the beneficiaries. The centre would share 50 percent of the project cost and the state was supposed to shoulder the remaining 40 percent cost. Nabanna had proposed that the state would be allowed to shoulder the 10 percent cost instead of the beneficiaries. The Centre finally accepted the proposal and the state joined the scheme in September, 2020, after nine months since the project was launched nationwide. “The delay has left an impact on the progress of the project in Bengal. Only about 18 lakh connections were given in the 2020-21 financial year while the actual target was 45 lakh. This year, our original target is to give 45 lakh connections, but we have set the target to 1 crore,” said a senior government official. Sources in the government said that the top brass of the government knows that achieving the target of 1 crore connections is tough to achieve in a financial year. But the target has been set considering that if the PHE department can give connections to 70 lakh households this year, it would be easy to achieve the target of giving connections to all the rural households before the end of 2023. "When we had joined the scheme, our target was to give new connections to 1.4 crore households as the state had already connected 60 lakh households with pipeline water supply. If we can give one core connection by March 2022, we can achieve the target easily by December 2023," said another official. A minister said that the government is focusing on the government from now on considering that safe drinking water could be a major issue ahead of the 2024 poll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Absconding TMC Youth Congress leader sets rider for return||Trinamul Youth Congress leader Vinay Mishra, the main accused in coal smuggling and cattle trafficking cases and an absconder, has agreed to come to India if the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate assure him that they would not arrest him on his arrival here. Earlier this month, Vinay’s counsel had told Calcutta High Court that his client had taken citizenship of Vanuatu, an island nation on the Pacific Ocean, in 2018 and asked if an Indian court could try his case. Appearing for Vinay in the high court on Tuesday, advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi informed Justice Subhasish Dasgupta about his client’s desire to come back to India with a rider that he should not be arrested by the central investigating agencies. Singhvi made the mention while moving a petition seeking quashing of proceedings drawn against Vinay by the CBI. The CBI had on Monday told the high court that Vinay would not be arrested if he returned to the country by July 12. According to a source in the CBI, the main intention of the investigating agency is to know the names of influential persons who are involved in coal smuggling and cattle trafficking. The judge fixed the matter for hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Four Bengal fishermen go missing in Arabian Sea||Four fishermen, who had travelled from Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas to Beypore in Kerala for better income, remain untraced since May 5 after their trawler went missing in the Arabian Sea and their family members now hope the Bengal government will help them get information about their kin. A family member of one of the missing fishermen said among the four were three brothers who had travelled 2,340km to work in Kerala for a better living. He added the last time the four had spoken to their family members was on May 5, the day they ventured into the Arabian Sea for fishing on board trawler Ajmer Shah. A source in Kakdwip said while the three brothers — Shukdeb Das, 45, Santiram Das, 35, and Sushanta Das, 28 — had gone to Beypore in Kerala’s Kozhikode district from Ganesh Nagari, Rajib Das, 32, had his home in Kalinagar. The source added that all the four were sole breadwinners for their respective families. The trawler had 15 fishermen, 11 of whom were from Tamil Nadu. On Monday, the family members of the missing fishermen approached the Kakdwip police station for help. They requested the police to help them get information about the four fishermen. “Since May 5, we have been repeatedly trying to communicate with the fishermen but failed to reach them. We thought they were fishing in deep sea and hence remained unreachable. A few days ago, another fisherman from the area, who is in Kerala, told us that the trawler our family members were onboard had gone missing. We don’t know whether they are alive or if they have sailed into the territory of a neighbouring nation. We finally informed the local police to seek the help of the administration,” said Mamoni Das, a relative of the Das brothers. “All the three brothers are married and we don’t know what awaits their families. We hope the state government will help them,” said Mamoni. On learning about the missing fishermen, Trinamul MLA from Kakdwip and former Sunderbans affairs minister Manturam Pakhira called on their family members. “Accompanied by senior police officers, I called on the families of the four fishermen on Monday evening. We have assured them of help and requested the administration to get in touch with the Kerala government,” Pakhira said. Sunderbans affairs minister Bankim Hazra also said he would communicate with state secretariat to get information about the missing fishermen. “I am unaware of the incident and will immediately communicate with my office to get information about the migrant fishermen,” said Hazra. The incident of the four fishermen going missing has revealed that the fisheries department did not have any record about those who leave for other states to earn a living. An official in the fisheries department said no less than 40,000 fishermen migrate to Kerala every year for better income. “It is true fishermen go to Kerala but we have no such record about their count as they do not inform anyone when they migrate,” said Jayanta Pradhan, the assistant director of fisheries (marine) in South 24-Parganas. Fishermen associations in Bengal said the urge to travel to Kerala was for two reasons — first, they get better paid in the southern state and second, jobs have dried up here. In Bengal, fishermen usually earn Rs 2,000 per week and also get a small share of their catch. However, in Kerala the amount is around Rs 4,000 per week. “While at the end of a fishing season, we earn around Rs 40,000-Rs 50,000 in Bengal, in Kerala, the income range between Rs 70,000 and Rs 1 lakh for the same period,” said a fisherman in Digha. A member of a fishermen association admitted that job opportunities had become less in Bengal after a large number of trawler owners were pushed out the trade because of the spike in price of diesel and low yield of fish. “The drop in the production of hilsa and rise in the price of diesel have hit our trade in the past two years. Small fish traders have suffered badly and they are not ready to burn their savings to venture into the sea. This has forced fishermen to head to southern states,” said Satinath Patra, a secretary of the Sunderban Samudrik Matsyojibi Shramik Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
23-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal health department releases 2,000 beds after drop in active cases||The Bengal health department has released around 2,000 beds for Covid-19 at 16 private hospitals across the state as number of active patients came down substantially over the past week and the existing infrastructure at government-run healthcare facilities is lying unused. “There were 2,416 beds for Covid patients at 29 private hospitals in the state. In an order on Monday evening, the state government has released 1,951 such beds at 16 hospitals,” said a senior health department official. “In the order, however, it is noted that the government might take over those beds and hospitals again with a notice of three days,” he added. In the peak of the second wave when the daily positive confirmation rate had reached close to 33 per cent, the government took over a large number of private hospitals and nursing homes in Calcutta and elsewhere in the state to quickly augment capacity for treatment of Covid patients. “If you look at the daily report of Covid-19 across the state, many districts have been reporting very few cases. In some cases (such as Murshidabad and Purulia), the number of new infections detected in a day has come down to single digits,” said an official. Overall, the state’s total of active cases has come down from the second wave peak of 1.32 lakh on May 21 to 22,000-odd now. With it, the bed occupancy at Covid hospitals came down from nearly 38 per cent on May 21 to less than 10. “So, retaining all the infrastructure and engaging our officials and staff is not needed for now. We can use the available human resources for vaccination instead, for instance,” he added. The 16 private hospitals whose Covid beds were completely released are in nine districts of Birbhum, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, North Dinajpur, South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, Nadia, East Midnapore and West Midnapore. The number of beds requisitioned has been reduced at three private hospitals in Calcutta too. In Birbhum, only 35 fresh Covid cases were reported on Monday and only six persons were admitted to the government hospital in Suri. In East Burdwan, only two patients are currently hospitalised. “There is an additional cost to engage private hospitals and more importantly to post doctors and other staff there as they can be used for other work. If there are no patients, then there is no need for these additional hospital beds right now. However, we can’t guarantee the cases will not rise next week,” said a senior official in East Burdwan. The state government has asked districts to ensure pipeline-based oxygen supply or oxygen generating plants at every government-run Covid hospital before the possible third wave. Bankura district magistrate K. Radhika Aiyar said: “There are four Covid hospitals in our district and one in Barjora already has an oxygen plant. We will install an oxygen plant at the remaining three facilities as soon as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-16
