24-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata seeks Modi’s intervention for WHO approval to Covaxin||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention for early approval of Covaxin by the World Health Organisation, without which people having taken the Bharat Biotech jab may face problems travelling abroad. The chief minister, in her letter, stated that her government has been "receiving both Covishield and Covaxin" from the very beginning. Even the private sector in the state has procured and administered both the vaccines, she said. "A large number of students from all over the country travel abroad every year for higher studies and many of them have got themselves vaccinated with Covaxin. "They came to learn later on that their vaccination certificate is not valid abroad. These students are now in a fix regarding their next course of action and their career is at stake," Mamata wrote to Modi on Thursday. Many countries are allowing the entry of only those people who have taken WHO-approved vaccines, she noted. "It is learnt that Covaxin is still not approved by WHO and it is not possible to travel abroad as many countries are allowing only those people who are fully vaccinated with WHO-approved vaccines. "Hence, I request for your kind intervention so that an early approval is received for Covaxin from WHO so that students do not face any problem. This will also benefit people travelling abroad for job, education, business and any other purposes as well," she added. Mamata had on Wednesday asked Chief Secretary HK Dwidevi to write to the Union Health Secretary and Cabinet Secretary on this matter. She had also urged the Centre to take steps to ensure that people inoculated with Covaxin do not face any restriction during their overseas travel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Pending bypolls and Amit Mitra, Bengal has a minister problem||The Mamata Banerjee government’s task in hand concerns not only the the dwindling finances of Bengal, but also manage the man entrusted to keep money matters in order. Trinamul Congress insiders say time is running out for Amit Mitra to continue as minister with the bypolls not being announced yet. Add to this is his own reluctance to contest elections and Bengal could well be left without a finance minister. According to sources,  if efforts to get  Mitra into the Assembly does not work out, he might be offered an advisory role with Mamata herself retaining the portfolio. Also, Mitra may have his own plans too. “He could become an adviser. There is a possibility that he might take  up a teaching role in the United States. He was in academics, and he knows  people there. The stress of managing the finances of a state like Bengal is affecting his health,” said a source in the state finance department. For almost a year, state finance minister Amit Mitra, a PhD in economics from Duke University, has not been seen in public except for video conferences he attends from time to time, mostly with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Mitra is most likely to skip the presentation of his 11th state budget, which is likely to be held in the first week of July. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had presented the vote-on-account for this year before the election, as Mitra had declared his reluctance to step out of his flat at Ironside Road on health grounds amidst the raging Covid pandemic. Partha Chatterjee, the state industries and parliamentary affairs minister, could be the choice to present the budget for the financial year 2021-22. Trinamul sources said the chief minister herself was not keen on repeating her performance from last February. “The decision has not been finalised yet. Partha da is likely to present the budget,” said a Trinamul source. Mitra’s health concerns were what had prompted Mamata to drop him from the candidate’s list for the Assembly polls. Trinamul sources said Mitra was under pressure to continue as finance minister till an alternative  arrangement could be made. “Mamata di was reluctant to let him go. Under the current circumstances with state earnings depleting and rising debt, only an astute brain like Mitra’s could have helped navigate the murky waters of finances,” said a Trinamul source. Data available with the Reserve Bank of India and as per budget estimates for 2021, the outstanding liabilities of Bengal is  around Rs 4.9lakh crore. Much before Mamata made it to the seat of administrative power in Bengal, she had roped in Mitra as the chairman of the Public Private Partnership Committee of the Railways, when she headed the ministry in the Manmohan Singh government. Mitra, who was once secretary general of FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry) had also helped prepare a Vision 2020 report for the Railways. In due course, she announced that Mitra would be the finance minister in her government. That has been the arrangement for the last 10 years. According to the rules, Mitra has to get elected to the Assembly within six months. Though byelections are waiting to be held, Mitra is not being considered for a return to the state Assembly. Mamata’s nominee for the Khardah assembly seat Kajal Sinha fell to Covid after the polls were held. The state agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chatopadhyay, who has resigned from Bhowanipore to facilitate Mamata’s entry to the Assembly, is expecting to contest from Khardah. “Sobhandeb has started preparing for the polls. It is just a matter of time as soon as the election commission announces the date,” said a Trinamul leader. The chief minister’s initial plan to revive the legislative council is unlikely to fructify by November, which would have allowed Mitra to retain his ministership. In the 294-member legislative Assembly, the legislative council cannot have  more than 98 members. The process, however, is not in Mamata’s hand. Under Article 169 of the Constitution, the creation of a Vidhan Parishad bill for the state, any state, would have to be passed in the Lok Sabha as well as get the President’s nod. “Whether the BJP-led Narendra Modi government will ever present the bill in  Parliament is anybody’s guess. There is no reason to believe the state will get its say while continuing to oppose the Centre,” said a senior official. The legislative council in Bengal was set up in 1952 and abolished under the second United Front government 17 years later. In 2011, Mamata had to back away from pushing for the legislative council under severe Opposition from the Left parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
24-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader Sheikh Sufiyan present at HC hearing on Nandigram||Local Trinamool leader Sheikh Sufian was present at the hearing of the Nandigram case in the Calcutta High Court on Thursday. Trinamool candidate Mamata Banerjee's election agent in the Assembly polls Sufian said in the High Court premises, "The counting of votes has been rigged. We spoke to the Returning Officer about the recount. He did not agree. That is why I have come to the High Court. Besides, he also demanded a hearing of the Nandigram case in the bench of a‘ neutral judge." Sufian, a Trinamool member of East Midnapore District Council, alleged that the counting was postponed for three hours as planned on May 2. The counting was stopped for an hour citing problems in the server. "We demanded a written recount on the allegations of fraud," but the Returning Officer wrote to us, 'I can't recalculate'." Sufian claimed that BJP candidate Shuvendu Adhikari won against Mamata in Nandigram by falsifying the count. Kaushik Chanda, the acting judge in the Nandigram case, was the former head of the BJP's legal cell. Asked to comment about this, Sufian said, "If anyone even has the faintest connection to politics, it is better not to hand him the responsibility of justice."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Commuters block railway tracks in Bengal for second straight day||A section of commuters blocked railway tracks at several stations in Bengal for about three hours on Thursday, demanding they be allowed to board staff special trains, amid the current Covid-19 restrictions, police said. Demonstrations were held at Mallickpur, Baruipur, Sonarpur, Ghutiari Sharif and Diamond Harbour stations in the Sealdah South Division of the Eastern Railway. Commuters assembled at these stations, alleging that they have been facing hardships to reach their places of work with no availability of public transport, a senior police officer said. They started agitating at the stations when they were not allowed to board staff special trains without valid documents by the Railway Protection Force personnel, he said. The agitators also threw stones at a vehicle of GRP at Mallickpur station in the Sealdah-Baruipur section, while hundreds of protesters refused to vacate the railway tracks at Ghutiari Sharif in the Sealdah-Canning segment, disrupting the movement of staff special trains there, the officer said. This was the second consecutive day that the commuters held demonstrations. Close to 1,000 people, most of them daily commuters in the Sealdah South suburban section, squatted on railway tracks and platforms at Sonarpur for over four hours on Wednesday morning. Following the requests of the Government Railway Police personnel, the blockade was lifted after about three hours in the morning, he said. The movement of local trains has been stopped since the imposition of Covid restrictions in May to contain the spread of the disease. Only staff special trains are running for people involved in essential services. "We have urged the state government to allow us to run more trains with Covid-19 protocols and are ready for it," a spokesman of the Eastern Railway said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC reserves judgment on Mamata's plea on Nandigram election result||A single bench of the Calcutta high court on Thursday reserved order on an application moved by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee seeking the judge’s recusal on hearing a petition filed by her challenging the results of the Nandigram Assembly seat. The chief minister had raised objections to her petition coming up before Justice Chanda, who was close to the BJP leadership since his days as a lawyer and represented the party in legal matters. During the course of today’s hearing, Justice Chanda questioned why the matter (of recusal) was not raised earlier. “This case was listed before me on 18 June. That day no one said that petitioner had sought re-assignment apprehending bias?”, Justice Chanda asked. “Is it not duty of the counsel to point this out? You appear in courts across the country Dr Singhvi, what is the standard practice?” Responding to the query, Singhvi, appearing on behalf of Mamata said, the issue was not raised on June 18 as they were yet to file a formal application. Singhvi went on to present instances to establish Justice Chanda’s “close, personal, professional, pecuniary and ideological relationship” with the BJP. He also submitted that Justice Chanda was yet to be appointed as a permanent judge of the high court and Mamata had raised her objection on any such confirmation. When Singhvi showed some photographs of Justice Chanda seen with BJP leaders in party events, the judge admitted the images were his. Singhvi said any observer may have “reasonable apprehension” that “impartial justice” may not be done as there is a clear case of conflict of interest. “Justice must not only be dome but seen to be done. If fair-minded people are likely to prejudge the case, they will not have confidence in the justice system. It is duty of the Court to see that proceedings are free from any partiality,” Singhvi said. The judge wondered whether his recusal since the media trial June 18 onwards would imply he was influenced by it. “What is it worth to continue in a case like this with so much controversy? I am not saying that your Lordship’s shoulders are not broad enough to bear it. But what is the worth?" Singhvi asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Falakata BJP MLA’s thank-you post raises brows||Deepak Barman, the BJP MLA of Falakata in Alipurduar district, put up a post on social media on Wednesday, thanking Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul president, and Ganga Prasad Sharma, the immediate past BJP chief of the district who defected to Mamata Banerjee’s party on Monday, for the saffron party’s win in the district. In Bengal, Alipurduar is one of the districts where the BJP has won all five Assembly seats this time. Barman, in his post, thanked both these leaders for the BJP’s stellar performance, a move that has left them, specifically Goswami, red-faced. “As Ganga Prasad Sharma did a turncoat and joined Trinamul, he mentioned that even before the elections, he was in close contact with Mridul Goswami. It proves both of them have jointly worked to ensure BJP’s victory in all five seats of the district. That is why I felt it necessary to thank them,” said the Falakata MLA. After Barman’s post surfaced, questions on its various meanings were raised by the leaders in different tiers of Trinamul in Alipurduar, party insiders said. Goswami, however, tried to put a brave face. “Ganga Prasad Sharma’s exit was a major setback for BJP in the district. That is why their MLAs are making such comments. Does he (Barman) have any proof that I have worked in connivance with him (Sharma, for the BJP’s victory in the district)? He’d better get his facts correct,” the Trinamul district president said. Sharma, the new entrant in Trinamul, denied commenting on the BJP MLA’s post. “There is nothing to remark on it. The elections are a closed chapter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Free legal services against over-billing of Covid-19 treatment ||Vik-Run Foundation based here has decided to offer free legal services against over-billing of Covid-19 treatment and start a scholarship programme for students who have lost their parents or are in financial stress because of the pandemic. The foundation’s decision to address these two core issues which have hit Covid-19 patients badly stems from real life experiences the foundation’s volunteers have come across. “I was in Siliguri for my grandmother’s treatment when I came across Nim Doma Lama who told me that a hospital was not only overcharging patients but was negligent in treating her mother Bijaya Rai. It is then that our team decided to take up legal issues,” said Vikram Rai, founder of the foundation, which has been distributing free oxygen cylinders, concentrators and other Covid-related aid for months. The foundation has started the free legal service christened Covisupport and the project has been dedicated to Bijaya Rai, who ultimately lost her battle to Covid-19. Bijaya’s daughter Nim Doma is leading the campaign. “My mother was hospitalised for more than a fortnight. The hospital used to say she was stable but ultimately, we ended up spending more than Rs 8.5 lakh and we found that there was negligence in the treatment. After more than a fortnight, we were advised to take my mother home and we had to shift her to another hospital,” said Nim Doma. There are allegations that the private nursing home in Siliguri did not even treat “bed sore” properly and is allegedly not “a designated Covid hospital”. The foundation is being helped by a team of nine lawyers, four stationed in Darjeeling and five in Siliguri. Priya Darshini Pandit, a lawyer attached to the project, said Vik-Run Foundation had approached their team and they immediately decided to offer free legal service “or else we are not humans during these times”. The team plans to approach the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Commission and state medical council, apart from approaching both civil courts like consumer forum and also pursue the matter in criminal court as an FIR has been lodged against the private hospital in Siliguri. Apart from the legal help, the foundation has also started a project called Siksha Sahara to help students who have lost “their parents to Covid-19” and people who have exhausted their earnings in Covid-19 treatment. “We are collating data from different areas which we intend to compile from September 1 onwards. The headmasters association are helping us,” said Rai. Some private schools in Darjeeling have promised to help the foundation. Darjeeling district has till date reported 453 deaths from Covid while 37 people have died in Kalimpong district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Focus on kids before third wave in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has initiated a series of measures, most of which would be implemented by July-end, considering that children could be more vulnerable in case the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. “Experts are saying, (and) some countries are also witnessing the vulnerability of children in the third phase of the pandemic.…We have initiated some measures to prepare ourselves to deal with the possible third wave keeping experts’ views in mind,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Wednesday after a meeting with senior bureaucrats over preparedness for the possible third wave. Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi spelt out the measures, which can broadly be divided in two parts. First, the state is focusing on developing Covid infrastructure in the hospitals to provide treatment to more children. Second, the state is urgently looking at bringing mothers of children aged up to 12 under the Covid-19  vaccination programme. Sources in the health department said they were considering children aged below 18 as the most vulnerable section as children and teenagers up to the age of 18 years would not get Covid vaccines in near future. Under the health infrastructure development programme, the state government has decided to develop 1,300 ICU beds for children in state-run Covid hospitals. The state government has also decided to set up 350 sick neonatal care units (SNCU), where newborns are treated, to treat infants infected with Covid. Additionally, the state would also dedicate 10,000 general beds of its total 30,000 Covid beds in government facilities for children and women. “All these facilities would be in place by the end of July,” said chief secretary Dwivedi. Health department officials have welcomed these initiatives. “We have less than 10 percent of beds in the hospital for children. Though we can’t say for sure now that children would be predominantly infected in the third wave, we have to be ready with beds as the number of infected children could go up compared to the first two phases. These steps are in the right direction,” said a senior health department official. Sources also said increasing ICU beds for children was also an important step as these units are totally different from the counterparts used for adult patients. The state government has also decided to lay stress on administering vaccines to mothers of children up to age 12 years on priority basis. “Their vaccination is required because we have to allow mothers of children into the ICU if needed (that is, if the children contract Covid and the infection is serious enough to be admitted to the ICU). We also have to protect mothers from Covid-19 so that we can, in turn, protect their children,” said a doctor at Calcutta’s SSKM hospital. Sources in state secretariat Nabanna said that to get mothers of children vaccinated as fast as possible they would be brought under the priority group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Three face anti-party charges in Trinamul in North Dinajpur||District Trinamul leaders in North Dinajpur have decided to remove three zilla parishad members from their posts and evict them from the party for alleged anti-party activities during the recent Assembly elections. The decision has been forwarded to the state leadership and the party’s district committee is now waiting for the former’s approval, Purnendu Dey, the leader of Trinamul’s legislative party at the zilla parishad, said on Wednesday. Those against whom the decision has been taken are Bipasha Sinha, a zilla parishad member and “karmadhyaksha” (member in charge) of industrial infrastructure and power Bipasha Sinha, Puja Acharya, the karmadhyaksha of PWD and Shah Banu, who was in charge of women’s welfare in the rural body. While Bipasha is the wife of Monodeb Sinha, the immediate past MLA of Trinamul Karandighi, Puja is the daughter of Amal Acharya, a former MLA of Itahar and former district Trinamul president. “In the Assembly elections, we won in the seats from where these zilla parishad members had won at the 2018 panchayat polls. But afterwards, it was found that all three had worked against the party’s  interest,” said Dey. Once the approval comes through, other Trinamul members of the zilla parishad will initiate the process to remove them from their posts and the party will terminate their primary membership, he added. Calls made to the three by this paper went unanswered. Intimidation charge In Alipurduar, nine BJP members of the NKS (Newlands-Kumargram-Sankosh) panchayat of Kumargram block and a zilla parishad member elected from the block left their homes to stay with John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar, since Tuesday. “Local Trinamul leaders are offering cash and intimidating them, asking them to defect to Trinamul,” Barla alleged on Wednesday. Barla resides in Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat of Jalpaiguri district. Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul president of Alipurduar, denied the charges. “BJP is losing ground  across Alipurduar. The MP is raising baseless allegations to conceal this,” he said. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar correspondents||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||State govt to focus on jab drives in containment zones to avert spread of Covid-19 in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to focus on vaccination programmes in containment and micro containment zones to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “We have decided to carry out vaccination programmes intensively in Covid-19 containment zones and micro containment zones. This will help prevent further spread of the virus,” said state chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi after a meeting on Covid vaccination programmes in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna on Wednesday. Sources in the health department said the plan to hold vaccination programmes in areas where Covid-19 positive cases are more was timely as it has been established that only mass vaccination can prevent the further spread of the virus. Mamata, who had convened the meeting, said the state was eyeing to administer 4 lakh doses every day from next week. “As the Centre decided to change the vaccination policy a couple of weeks back, the supply of vaccines was hit for the past few days,” she added. The chief minister also pointed out that the state had already administered 2 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, of which 33 lakh doses had been given to potential super-spreaders which include hawkers, transport workers, ration dealers and shopkeepers. Right now, there are 250-odd containment zones across the state. “As most of these containment zones are in urban areas, we have to carry out vaccination programmes to prevent the further spread of disease,” said an official. “If we can vaccinate 4 lakh people a day, we can cover 80 per cent of the 7 crore people who have to be vaccinated before the third phase comes,” added the official. The success of the programme, however, would depend on the supply of vaccines from the Centre to Bengal. The chief minister’s target of giving vaccine doses to 70 lakh people in July would also depend on how many vaccine doses are sent to Bengal. “We received 22 lakh vaccines in June.…The figure should have been at least 60 lakh given the infrastructure and population that we have. Now, bringing a maximum number of eligible people under the vaccination programme before the third wave would solely depend on how many vaccines are sent to Bengal from Delhi,” added an official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday also expressed concern that Covaxin was not yet authorised by the World Health Organisation, which has become a big worry for students who want to go abroad. “Many students who want to go abroad are facing problems because the Covaxin was not authorised by WHO yet. They are facing trouble in getting a visa. Those who have received Covishield are not facing any trouble,” she said. The chief minister asked chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to write a letter to the Centre asking it to take initiatives to get Covaxin authorised by the WHO at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Black fungus toll in North Bengal reaches 10||The death toll from black fungus or mucormycosis has reached 10 in north Bengal. Sources said the most recent death was of an 80-year-old Covid-19 patient on Tuesday night. “He was admitted to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri with symptoms of black fungus and had undergone a surgery. He hailed from Cooch Behar,” said a source. Sandeep Sengupta, the dean of student affairs and a gynaecologist at the NBMCH, said most of the patients infected with mucormycosis were suffering from severe comorbidities because of Covid-19 or some other serious ailment. “The patients were infected with rhino-orbital cerebral mucormycosis in which infection spreads to the brain and survival of the patients becomes difficult,” he said. Another senior doctor at the NBMCH said the patients, especially those in the high-risk category for mucormycosis, should avoid visiting damp and dusty places for a few weeks after recovering from Covid-19. “Such environment increases the risk of black fungus infection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal|| Plumber dies by suicide as EMI collection agents squat outside||A plumber hanged himself at a Murshidabad village on Tuesday, allegedly after collection agents of a private finance company “humiliated” him for EMI default on a loan taken in January when many had been encouraged to think the worst of Covid was over. The collection agents stayed put outside the house and refused to leave without the dues, his wife said. Sadhan Sinha, 40, who earned Rs 15,000-20,000 a month in normal times, had taken the Rs 1 lakh loan to buy a two-wheeler so he could get more work, his family said. But with the surge-induced latest pandemic restrictions stifling his income, he had been unable to pay his monthly instalments of Rs 3,400 for May and June. The recovery agents of the private finance company’s Samserganj branch visited his home in Bindupara village around 9am on Tuesday and asked him to clear his dues of Rs 6,800 immediately, Sadhan’s wife Mamoni, 36, said. “I begged for a few days’ time but they would not listen. They sat down outside the house saying they would not leave without collecting the dues. My husband felt so humiliated that he killed himself,” said a weeping Mamoni, mother of two sons, aged 18 and 15. Sadhan’s decision to take the loan in January and his subsequent suicide underline how millions of ordinary Indians were taken unawares by the pandemic’s second wave, blamed partly on the central government’s short-sightedness in prematurely declaring victory over the virus and letting its guard down. Loans and financing, which in bullish economic times are indicators of a healthy consumer appetite, have proved a bane for much of India that has witnessed outsized job cuts and loss of income opportunity over the past year. The Reserve Bank of India has tried to give borrowers some relief by instructing banks and financial institutions to consider a debt recast, provided dues have been cleared till March 2021. But, as Sadhan’s death suggests, not everyone could access the relief. Sadhan was eligible for a debt recast as he had paid his EMIs till April, but he was probably unaware of the apex bank’s initiative that would have allowed him to renegotiate the loan deal with the financial institution. “While the debt recast is a prerogative of the bank or the finance company, the problem is that most people who are in dire need of the facility don’t know about its existence,” a banker said. A neighbour in Bindupara said the “social humiliation” was what probably prompted Sadhan to take his own life. “He was well-liked in the area. He probably couldn’t bear the agents’ antics, which local people had noticed,” he said. Mamoni said that after the agents sat down outside the house, Sadhan had locked himself inside a room. Around 11am, when Mamoni went looking for Sadhan, she found their bedroom locked. After calling out several times, she looked through the window and saw Sadhan hanging from the ceiling fan at the end of a bed sheet coiled into a rope. Villagers broke the door open and rushed Sadhan to the Samserganj block hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. As Sadhan was being taken to hospital amid heart-wrenching scenes, the collection agents sensed trouble and fled. Hospital authorities later informed the police and a post-mortem was conducted before the body was handed over to the family. Sadhan’s elder son Rana, 18, said his father’s income had fallen after the second wave of the pandemic prompted stricter restrictions from mid-May. In his police complaint, Rana has named the two collection agents and accused them of abetting his father’s suicide by humiliating him in front of neighbours. “Late Sadhan Sinha’s son filed an FIR on Wednesday in connection with Tuesday’s incident. A case and an investigation under IPC Section 306 (abetment to suicide) have been opened,” said the superintendent of police (Jangipur), Y. Raghuvamshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Government doctor held over assault charge in Raiganj||A government doctor was arrested for allegedly assaulting some members of a government team that was on a surprise visit to a private nursing home here on Tuesday evening. Rakesh Gope, a gynaecologist posted at the Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital, has denied the charge. Sources said the North Dinajpur district administration had been receiving complaints for the past few days that some private nursing homes in Raiganj town were denying treatment to patients with Swasthya Sathi cards — which are provided under the state-run free health insurance scheme. District magistrate Arvind Kumar Mina instructed Rafikul Islam, the coordinator of the scheme in the district, to look into the charges. Late on Tuesday evening, Islam and his team started making surprise visits to private nursing homes in the town. At a healthcare facility in the Debinagar area, families of some patients told the inspection team that the hospital was not accepting the insurance cards. “The team went to speak to the hospital authorities. Gope, along with some of his associates, intercepted the team, abused the officials and assaulted some of them,” said a source in the district health department. Islam later narrated the incident to the DM and lodged a police complaint. “Gope has been booked under sections 186 (voluntarily obstructing public servant in discharging public duties), 341/342 (wrongful restraint) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) of the IPC,” said a police officer. A court here on Wednesday remanded Gope in jail custody for five days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-14
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul nominates Mukul as member of Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee||Mukul Roy, who had become an MLA on a BJP ticket and later returned to the Trinamul Congress, was on Wednesday nominated by the ruling party to become a member of the Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee. Section 255A of the Assembly rules gives the Speaker the power to appoint the PAC chairman. Sources said Trinamul intended to push Roy’s name as the PAC chairman. The PAC comprises 20 members and 14 of them are nominated by the ruling party, while the Opposition nominates six members. Roy’s was among the 14 names submitted by Trinamul. The BJP has named MLA Ashoke Lahiri in its list and wants him to become the chairman of the PAC. The BJP list also includes Suvendu’s name. Reacting to Roy’s nomination, Suvendu said that only validated the demand for the cancellation of his membership. “I’ve filed a complaint with the Speaker and he has called for a hearing on July 16. I’ll present my case with all necessary documents. If needed, we will go to court and his (Roy) membership will be cancelled,” Suvendu said. Trinamul, on the other hand, shrugged off Suvendu’s allegations. Trinamul MLA Tapas Roy said Suvendu was unaware of the nitty-gritty of the Assembly and hence, his statements don’t matter. “Suvendu has no idea of how Assembly works. He has just become the leader of the Opposition and hence will need time to understand things,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases fall by 130 in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the third straight day, by 130 to 22,378. The total number of active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till Sunday, it rose by over 56 per cent, before sliding since Monday. On Wednesday, the state reported 2,017 recoveries, 1,925 new infections and 38 deaths, including seven from Calcutta. The daily positive confirmation rate fell to 3.46 on Wednesday.“In the peak of the second wave, positive confirmation rate was around 33 per cent. It has already improved to 3.61 (on Tuesday)…and (is) expected to improve exponentially over the next 10 days or so, down to barely 1-2 per cent,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday. Positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases of samples tested, and its dip indicates less Covid spread. Bengal has 3.57 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with the most active cases. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.32 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.57 now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent, the national rate is 1.3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
24-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata ‘requests’ Modi to allow EC to hold Assembly bypolls||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday demanded that pending bypolls in seven Bengal Assembly seats be held by the Election Commission of India at once and said she was aware that the poll panel would conduct the voting only after getting Narendra Modi’s green-light. “We are watching and waiting to see (what the commission does). They (bypolls) should be held as early as possible… because the Covid-19 situation is totally controlled (in Bengal) now. So, I think they can conduct the byelections within seven days. There is no need to give so much time for candidature and candidates,” said the chief minister. A day after the Assembly election results had been declared on May 2, the commission suspended all bypolls indefinitely in view of the Covid-19 situation. Dates for Jangipur and Samserganj Assembly bypolls had already been announced following the death of candidates before voting. The decision of the bypoll suspension came at the end of an eight-phase election for Bengal that took over two months, apparently desired by none of the key stakeholders other than the BJP. “I came to know that when Prime Minister (Modi) will give the instruction, then only they (the commission) will hold the byelection. If it is so, then I will request the Prime Minister, clear the byelection,” she added. “Because now, the situation is okay. But if the third wave (of the pandemic) comes, then you cannot do anything.” The Election Commission is an independent constitutional body, but Mamata’s sarcastic appeal to Modi stems from widespread perception that the panel does the bidding of the BJP government at the Centre. Mamata lost a contentious election — now being challenged in the high court — in the Nandigram seat by a margin of 1,956 votes (0.85 per cent of the vote share) to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari (a Trinamul turncoat who is now the leader of the Opposition). She is now likely to return to her home turf of Bhowanipore, vacated by agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay last month. Besides Mamata and Chattopadhyay, finance minister Amit Mitra, who did not contest the elections on account of health concerns, has to be elected to the Assembly within six months of being sworn in. Asked about speculation in Delhi’s corridors of power regarding deliberate attempts to delay the Bengal bypolls, Mamata said: “Why? Within six months, it is the system.” Besides Samserganj, Jangipur and Bhowanipore, bypolls would also have to be held in Dinhata and Santipur vacated by BJP MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, respectively. They resigned from the Assembly in order to continue as members of the Lok Sabha. Khardah and Gosaba are the other two seats where bypolls need to be held. The chief minister urged the commission not to take more than a week or so to complete the by-poll process this time. “Let them give just seven days, 10am to 7pm (for campaign), no more. That will do, and the by-elections can be completed,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-15
