25-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders deny links with organiser of fake jab camps||Trinamul leaders are rushing to clear their names linked to a 28-year-old who had posed as an IAS officer and ran fake vaccination camps in parts of Calcutta when he wasn’t boasting on social media about his proximity to party bigwigs. Debanjan Deb, who had held "inoculation camps" in a college on Amherst Street, Sonarpur and in Kasba, was caught after Trinamul MP and actor Mimi Chakraborty got a jab but did not receive either a message or the vaccination certificate on the Centre's Co-WIN app and got suspicious. Deb, who posed as an IAS officer and joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, was arrested on Thursday with police seizing a large number of vials of an antibiotic (Amikacin), fake labels of Covishield and Covaxin from his office at Kasba. Over the last few months, Deb has on his Twitter handle shared his photographs with those of Trinamul leaders Subrata Mukherjee, Smita Bakshi,  Rajya Sabha MP and former IMA National president Shantanu Sen, CAB president Abhishek Dalmia among others. Among the many identities the accused has donned is that of a joint secretary in the West Bengal government, designation he tagged to his name in a plaque that also boasts  names of CMC administrator and former mayor Firhad Hakim, MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay and MLAs Tapas Roy, Nayana Bandyopadhyay among others. The event was held on February 26, this year. “I was extremely busy with electioneering and unaware of any such event held on February 26,” said Roy, Trinamul MLA from Baranagar. Roy said he did not give permission to anyone use his name in a plaque. He also denied ever having met Deb. Chowringhee MLA Nayana has lodged a complaint. “I am surprised to find my name in the plaque. I don’t know who organised the event, I did not attend it,” she said. The Bengal IMA states in its letter that it had organised several camps during the Covid pandemic and Deb might have attended one of the events where he clicked photographs without disclosing his identity. “There could be a deep-rooted conspiracy against our state, which has the highest vaccination rate in the country,” said Sen. “As a public representative, I often get to meet unknown people, they also take photographs without informing.” Hakim, arrested last month for his alleged involvement in the Narada sting operation case, said it wasn’t correct to link the fake IAS officer to the party. “The PM should also resign. He was photographed with Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi. Police are investigating, arrests have been made. None of our party members is  involved,” said Hakim. Three FIRs have been filed against Deb at Kasba, New Market and Amherst Street police stations, while the detective department of the city police has started a probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Landslide washes away portion of NH-55 in Bengal's Darjeeling||A major landslide washed away a portion of National Highway 55 in West Bengal's Darjeeling district on Friday, an official said. No casualties, however, have been reported so far, he said. Almost 40 metres of the national highway has been completely washed away in Gairigaon area near Tindharia early in the morning following heavy rain, the official said. The landslide has blocked traffic movement on the vital road connecting Siliguri and Darjeeling, he said. It will take time to restore connectivity through the road, he said. However, the landslide has not cut off Darjeeling as vehicles are now being diverted through a longer route via Rohini, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||SC annuls Calcutta HC order refusing to take Mamata’s affidavit in Narada case||The Supreme Court Friday annulled the Calcutta High Court's June 9 order refusing to take reply-affidavits of Bengal, its Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and state Law Minister Moloy Ghatak on the CBI's transfer plea related to the Narada scam case. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari urged the 5-judge bench of the High Court, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, to decide afresh the pleas of Mamata, Moloy and the state government before deciding on the CBI petition seeking transfer of the scam case to the high court itself. The top court was hearing three appeals including that of the state government challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by Mamata and Moloy in their role on the day of arrest of four Trinamul Congress leaders on May 17 by CBI in the Narada scam case. It has been alleged that the state ruling party leaders played a key role in stopping the CBI from performing its legal duty after the arrest of four leaders in the case. Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor of Calcutta Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI which is investigating the Narada sting tape case on a 2017 order of the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Nandigram election case: ‘Caesar’s wife’ reminder to  Calcutta High Court judge||A lawyer representing Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta High Court in her election case on Thursday urged Justice Kausik Chanda to recuse himself from the hearing as his relationship with the BJP was “comprehensive and inextricably intertwined pecuniary, personal, professional, ideological and a long-standing continuous one”. The chief minister has challenged the result of the Nandigram Assembly election in which she lost to BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari, and the matter is being heard by Justice Chanda. “The relationship of the Hon’ble Justice Kausik Chanda with the BJP is not merely of a judicial kind, i.e., of having decided or expressed a view in an identical manner beforehand, but a comprehensive and inextricably intertwined pecuniary, personal, professional, ideological and a long-standing continuous one,” said Mamata’s counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi during the hearing of the case in which she herself was present virtually. “A Hon’ble Judge of this Hon’ble Court should be like Caesar’s wife — above suspicion,” Singhvi added, saying that Justice Chanda should recuse himself from the hearing. The hearing on the matter continued for 70 minutes and the judge, who would decide whether he would release the case or dispose of the issue, adjourned the order. Last week, Mamata’s counsel Sanjay Basu had written a letter to acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, seeking reassignment of the hearing from Justice Chanda. Justice Bindal is yet to take a decision on Basu’s letter. When hearing on the election petition began on Thursday, Singhvi asked Justice Chanda that since the application for reassignment of the case was pending before the acting chief justice, whether he should wait for an administrative order or proceed judicially. “Your petitioner wrote a letter to acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal to assign another judge for hearing the case. The acting chief justice has not taken any decision on the basis of that letter yet. So this court has no legal bar to hear the matter,” Justice Chanda said. Singhvi replied that it was the judge’s prerogative to decide the matter “judicially”. Then he went on to submit several points — such as Justice Chanda’s stint as the head of the legal cell of the BJP till his appointment as the solicitor-general of India, his appearance on behalf of the BJP in several litigation, and his close relationship with BJP leaders like Dilip Ghosh and Tathagata Roy — to suggest a “conflict of interest” and urged him to release the matter. “The fact that Suvendu Adhikari is a member of the BJP and the Hon’ble Judge was an active member of the BJP will lead to a situation and perception whereby the Hon’ble Judge, in adjudicating the said election petition, may be said to be judge in his own cause,” said Singhvi. He added: “No man can be a judge in his own cause and justice should not only be done, but manifestly be seen to be done. Scales should not only be held even but it must not be seen to be inclined.” Singhvi said that as Justice Chanda was yet to get the status of a permanent judge of the court, his client felt that she might not get fair justice from this court. During the course of the hearing, Justice Chanda said that it was not uncommon for lawyers to have political affiliations. “You are associated with the Congress and fighting the case on behalf of the Trinamul Congress. That does not mean that your client will not get proper justice from you…. Then, how could this affect the judiciary? What makes your client feel that she would not get justice from this court?” asked Justice Chanda. “Judgeship is a divine role of doing justice. It is different from being a lawyer,” Singhvi said. “There should be no doubt in the mind of a litigant about the judge who is hearing his or her case. My client has her doubts on whether she would get proper justice from this court. So the judge should release the matter,” he added. Justice Chanda said a media trial was going on over the issue. “If I recuse, will it be giving into media trial?” asked Justice Chanda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders  file police complaint against BJP MLA for backing call for ‘partition’||In a first move of its kind, Trinamul leaders of Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat filed a police complaint against BJP MLA Shikha Chatterjee for backing the demand for a separate north Bengal state. Chatterjee defeated Trinamul’s Gautam Deb this time. “She (Chatterjee) has openly supported another partition of Bengal. Such a statement, we believe, can foment tension and pose problems for the elected government of the state. That is why we filed a complaint with the police against her. Appropriate legal steps should be taken against her for backing such a demand,” said Debasis Pramanik, head of Trinamul’s Dabgram-Fulbari block committee. Some BJP leaders have demanded a separate state or a Union territory status for north Bengal, but the party has said it is not its official stand. However, many in the BJP, including Alipurduar MP John Barla, are underscoring the demand in a consistent manner. “Our leaders, including party’s state president Dilip Ghosh, have unequivocally asserted that this is not our party’s stand. We don’t want any division of Bengal,” said a BJP leader in Siliguri. He added Ghosh would visit the region next week and meet party leaders workers in Siliguri and Alipurduar. ““He will speak with the MLAs and MPs who have spoken on the demand. Workers and leaders would be specifically instructed to abstain from making any comment on the issue. We will reach out to the people to reassert that our party does not support this demand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Malda accused’s kin give statements in court ||Police on Thursday got the statements of the brother and maternal uncle of Asif Mohammad, who had allegedly killed his parents, sister and grandmother, recorded before a judicial magistrate. The investigators said the statement of Asif’s brother, Arif Mohammad, was crucial as he had lodged an FIR against the accused and was present at the time of the alleged murders at Kaliachak in February. “He might be made the principal witness if his statement is found to be instrumental in the interest of the case,” said a source. Shish Mohammad, Asif’s uncle, is believed to know how Asif had collected firearms and ammunition. “Hence, his statement would cement the case against Asif,” said the source. After Asif’s arrest, the police seized seven automatic 7mm pistols, nearly 80 bullets and 10 magazines from his friends Sabir and Mahfuz. The police on Thursday produced Sabir and Mahfuz in the same court and remanded them in judicial custody for 10 days. Initially, it had been thought Asif had bought the firearms to kill the family members. “But in due course, it was evident he did not need so many firearms and bullets. It seems he had some other intention. We are trying to find out whether he wanted to earn money by selling the arms or operate a gang,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet approves proposal to issue student credit cards||The Bengal cabinet on Thursday approved a proposal to issue credit cards to students to enable them to apply for education loans up to Rs 10 lakh. “Our cabinet today okayed a proposal of issuing student credit cards. Students can avail themselves of education loan up to Rs 10 lakh and they have to repay the amount within 15 years after they get jobs,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday at Nabanna after the cabinet meeting. According to the proposal, the facility would be extended to students — who have spent at least 10 years in Bengal — studying between Class X and postdoctoral research. The maximum age limit for securing the education loan is 40. The Bengal government would be the guarantor for each of the students who would apply for the education loan from banks through the credit cards. The scheme would be launched on June 30 across the state. The chief minister said about 12 lakh Class X students, 9.5 lakh Class XII students and those pursuing bachelor degree and postgraduate degree, research scholars and postdoctoral students could secure the benefits. Trinamul Congress sources said the student loan had been promised by Mamata ahead of the Assembly polls. Sources said the credit cards would help students who wished to study abroad or at institutions of repute that were costly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
25-06-2021||West Bengal||National Gorkhaland Committee brings statehood to fore||The National Gorkhaland Committee (NGC), an apolitical body positioning itself as a “think tank” of the Indian Gorkha community, called on Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar in Darjeeling on Thursday and requested him to “keep in mind” that the aspiration of Darjeeling hills is either Gorkhaland or a Union territory. Trilok Dewan, vice-chairman of the NGC and former chief secretary of Andhra Pradesh, said while the NGC welcomes the formation of North Bengal state or Union territory, an issue raised by BJP MP John Barla, hill people want a separate state or Union territory for the Gorkhas as it is about “identity” and not just development. “We requested the governor to kindly keep in mind that our aspiration is Gorkhaland or even Union territory status. The BJP has also mentioned PPS (permanent political solution) even in their sankalp patra (manifesto) and for us the permanent solution is either Gorkhaland or Union territory,” said Dewan. “The Gorkhaland demand is important for us as the identity of Indian Gorkhas is under question and we are treated as second-class citizen and thought as citizens of Nepal,” said Dewan, referring to the Indo-Nepal friendship treaty of 1950 that allows citizens of both the countries to freely travel, settle and conduct business in each others territory. The NGC’s assertion before the governor is likely bring back focus on the statehood issue, observers believe. The governor has not issued any statement on the NGC’s reminder. The NGC had also recently said that they have decided to set up a Peoples’ Forum to expedite the demand of a separate home state. The NGC is currently reaching out to political parties “of the proposed state”, eminent citizens and institutions representing stakeholders such as “tea, tourism, cultural, natural resources … and social organisations to participate in the PF (Peoples’ Forum) and work together in this endeavour.” The NGC’s announcement comes at a time when Gorkhaland is not much of a buzzword among political parties in the hills, including the Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Both Tamang and Gurung are in alliance with Trinamul which opposes the statehood demand. Gurung before Assembly polls had merely said they would support a party that supports Gorkhaland during the 2024 Lok Sabha election. The BJP and its ally Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) are talking about a permanent political solution but they have not expressly stated that is Gorkhaland. The GNLF wants a constitutional body “not less than Sixth Schedule status”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Two ‘cough syrup smugglers’ injured by BSF bullets in Malda||Two youths of in Sovapur village of Malda district near the India-Bangladesh border were injured by bullets fired by BSF personnel early on Thursday. BSF officials have claimed their personnel had to fire two rounds to prevent the smuggling of cough syrups to Bangladesh. Relatives of the injured youths, both brothers, however, have claimed they were innocent and the BSF had fired without provocation. The injured, Tutul Sheikh, 28, and his brother Byron Sheikh, 24, are from Sovapur under Baishnabnagar police station of the district. While the bullet hit Tutul on his right hand, Byron sustained a bullet injury in his abdomen. Both are under treatment at Malda Medical College and Hospital. According to BSF sources, while personnel of the 78th battalion were patrolling at the border in the night hours, they found 20-odd persons near the border apparently trying to smuggle the cough syrup bottles over the fences to Bangladesh. “As our men challenged them, the youths attacked the team with sticks, iron rods and sharp weapons. One of our men got injured and had to fire one round in self-defence. The gang then went after another jawan who fired another round. This made the gang members escape the spot,” said a BSF source. The border guards have also claimed that smugglers were waiting at the other side of the border to receive the illegal consignment in sacks. “Later, our men frisked the area and seized 145 bottles of the cough syrup which costs around Rs 27,000, but the youths had fled,” the source added. Mozaffar Sheikh, the father of the two injured youths, claimed his sons were never involved in smuggling. “They were fired at without valid reason. This is unfortunate,” he said. Officials of state intelligence agencies, however, have ratified the statement of BSF officials. “There can be no reason for the two youths to loiter near the fences at 1am. Even so, we are trying to gather more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri witnesses protests over vaccine ‘anomaly’ and shortage||Two places in Siliguri subdivision on Thursday witnessed protests over alleged anomalies in vaccination and lack of jabs. At the Siliguri district hospital, people who gathered to get their jabs flew into rage, alleging that touts were controlling the vaccination and they were not provided with coupons for the dose despite standing in queue since early morning. “A stranger prepared a list of 100 names. Those sitting at the counter issued a few coupons and told us that there were no more coupons. We suspect a racket of brokers has become active at the hospital and is controlling the vaccination process,” said Satyajit Sen, a resident of Subhashpally in Siliguri. The protesters alleged that some people who had arrived late had their names on the list and were seen carrying coupons. “We had been standing in the queue since 3am but did not get coupons. But some others, who arrived hours later, got vaccines. This cannot happen unless middlemen are involved in the process. The district health department should look into the issue. Such anomalies should not continue at a government hospital,” said another aggrieved person. Residents raised a blockade on Asian Highway II at Bagdogra on Thursday morning, alleging shortage of jabs at a school where a vaccination camp had been going on for a week. “We have been standing in queues for hours for the past three-four days at the school but eventually, we are told everyday that the stock has exhausted,” said a resident. The blockade was withdrawn after 45 minutes following assurance from police officers that necessary action would be taken. A senior official of Darjeeling district health department said: “We need to know what exactly led to the protests. If any anomaly is found, we will take appropriate steps. Our officers are monitoring the entire vaccination process to ensure that people do not face any harassment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal|| Construction workers cry for cash aid, scrapping of Covid-induced curbs in Hasnabad||Around 1,000 workers attached to the construction industry and other unorganised sectors blocked Taki Road in Hansnabad, North 24-Parganas, for around two hours on Thursday, demanding cash aid from the government and the scrapping of Covid-induced curbs. Protesters said they were in dire financial straits as work had repeatedly been suspended for 15 months or so. The workers, who squatted on the road from 9am to disrupt traffic, also demanded the state government withdraw curbs on intra- and interstate movement of vehicles with construction materials, as those reduced work opportunities at micro levels. “We are living a nightmare. We have been surviving somehow on rice and lentils given by the government. But we don’t have money, which has created a lot of problems, including marital ones in many homes,” said Khalil Gazi, a mason from Taki. Since February 2020, the construction industry has been reeling under the pandemic. Initially, migrant workers, many from Bengal, fled worksites fearing the disease. Then came the nationwide lockdown. Gradually, the Centre allowed work with limited workforce, but curbs at local level in various states, including Bengal, hampered work. The industry expected a revival by 2021-end, but the second wave made matters worse. “Last year, I returned from Kerala in fear of Covid-19,” said Faruq Gazi, a mason from Hansnabad, adding he “infrequently” found work as a farm hand. He later joined a construction firm. “But though the Covid-19 situation improved earlier this year in Bengal, there was no regular work. My own employer had a financial crisis. In the past six months, many like me could not manage work for 30 days.” “We are not starving, but no cash aid has been given to us by the state government,” he said, adding aid of at least Rs 2,000 a month was needed. Insiders in the construction industry said problems of workers were genuine. “Work came down to a trickle from May 3 (after Assembly poll results, when the first set of  fresh restrictions were introduced). It almost came to naught from May 15. Workers are facing a cash crunch as the industry operates on no-work, no-pay principle,” said a source. After the Mamata Banerjee government offered some relaxations this month, the real estate industry is operating at 50 per cent of the normal workforce, which means that one among two eligible persons is getting work. But movement curbs mean only those staying on construction sites get jobs. Work is also hit by curbs on movement of trucks with construction materials. The government has now allowed work on construction sites if workers are vaccinated. Realtors say they have so far vaccinated around 10,000 workers. “We want to vaccinate more workers but many are stuck at home. They cannot commute in the absence of public transport. If the government makes some arrangements, more workers can join work,” Nandu Belani, president of Calcutta chapter of Credai, a body of realtors, said. There is no formal estimate as to how many people are employed in the real estate industry but construction as a whole, which also includes infrastructure such as road and bridges, gives jobs to no less than 35 lakh. Sushil Mohta, owner of Merlin Group and president of Credai West Bengal, said it is only in the last few days that work has reached 50 per cent. “It was barely 15-20 per cent before that. I visited many sites today (Thursday) and saw work getting delayed owing to lack of workers. They want to join but can’t because of transport issues,” Mohta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata seeks PM help for Covaxin’s WHO seal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention in the process to get Covaxin approved by the World Health Organisation so that students and people, who were administered the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, could travel abroad without any difficulty. “However, it is learnt that Covaxin is still not approved by WHO and it is not possible to travel abroad as many countries are allowing only those people who are fully vaccinated with WHO approved vaccines,” read the chief minister’s letter. She pointed out in her letter that a large number of students from all over the country travelled abroad every year to pursue higher studies. Many such students were vaccinated with Covaxin and they are now facing trouble to get visas of countries where they want to go for higher studies. Moreover, people from all walks of the society need to go abroad for jobs, business and other purposes and they are also facing trouble to secure visas only because they were administered Covaxin. “Hence, I request for your kind intervention so that an early approval is received for Covaxin from WHO and students do not face any problem. This will also benefit people travelling abroad for job, education, business and other purposes as well,” she wrote. Sources said the problem had become critical only because there was no choice of vaccines at a majority of the vaccination centres. “Many of those who wished to go abroad had no choice about which vaccine to take. Now, those who were given Covaxin are facing trouble. The chief minister has raised a serious issue and the Centre must solve it at the earliest,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||Total active Covid cases drop further in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day as the number fell by 70 to 22,308. The state also logged 1,952 recoveries, 1,923 infections and 41 deaths. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, plummeted to 3.45 on Thursday. The positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of total samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid spread. The total active cases had improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till Sunday, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again over these four days. Bengal currently has 3.57 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains eighth on the list of states with most active cases. The state now has a total of over 14.89 lakh Covid cases since the first was detected on March 17 last year. The total cases include over 14.49 lakh recoveries and 17,516 deaths. Of the 41 deaths reported on Thursday, eight were in Calcutta and nine in North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. Calcutta on Thursday logged 155 infections and North 24-Parganas 217. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 97.33 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.58now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
25-06-2021||West Bengal||CPM event to recall Emergency ‘dangers’ after five-year gap||The CPM in Durgapur will on Friday resume, after a five-year gap, its annual convention to mark the day then Prime Minister and Congress leader Indira Gandhi had clamped Emergency on the country on June 25, 1975. The decision to resume the convention on Emergency was taken at a meeting of the CPM’s West Burdwan district committee last week. A CPM leader said most leaders decided to hold a convention on the 46th anniversary of Emergency as the party felt the Narendra Modi government had imposed an “undeclared Emergency” on the country. “To generate awareness among people on the dangers of Emergency, we will hold a mass convention at Khoyrasole (Durgapur) on June 25 (Friday),” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a CPM district secretariat member in West Burdwan. Around 250 people have been invited to the event to be held with strict adherence to Covid protocol. CPM leaders in Durgapur said the convention was relevant, alleging Modi’s fascist mode of governance and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s autocratic ways were harming democratic institutions. On the five-year gap, some senior CPM leaders in Durgapur said the party’s electoral understanding with the Congress had nothing to do with it. However, a few others said the gap occurred to maintain cordial relations with its poll ally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-13
