26-06-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu writes to health ministry over fake jab drive in Calcutta||BJP MLA and leader of Opposition in Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari has written to the Union health ministry, demanding a probe by central agencies into a fake vaccination drive conducted in the city by a man who allegedly posed as an IAS officer. In a letter to Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, the BJP leader alleged that the man, who was arrested after his drive was busted by the police, have "influence in the ruling party". Adhikari claimed that Debanjan Deb, the main accused, held illegal vaccination camps in Kasba, Amherst Street and Sonarpur areas under the "watch of the local administration, including police and civic authorities". "Hundreds of people have already been inoculated in these camps...While copies of Aadhaar cards were procured from the recipients in Kasba, none of them received any certificate of vaccination. "The big question is - were these shots really Covishield vaccines as claimed by the accused? If so, then this raises a big question on pilferage of Covid vaccines from the government stock and this cannot happen without complicity of top civic authorities. If these were not Covid vaccines, then immediate investigation needs to be done," Adhikari said in the letter on Friday. The Calcutta Police arrested Deb (28) on Wednesday for allegedly posing as an IAS officer and organising a Covid-19 vaccination camp in Kasba area, and formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) led by the joint police commissioner (Crime). The SIT will investigate how the main accused organised Covid-19 vaccination camps where around 2000 people were suspected to have administered fake doses, a senior officer had said. Actor and Trinamul Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty, who had taken her Covid-19 vaccine shot at one of the camps set up by Deb, was the first one to raise the alarm as she did not receive the customary SMS that is sent to people after they have taken the jab. "Public health frauds like this in the midst of a raging global pandemic are making common people skeptical... I sincerely urge you to order a thorough investigation by concerned central agencies into this vaccination fraud and punish the guilty. "An impartial investigation by central agencies, undaunted by any pressure from the state's ruling party or the government, is the need of the hour to restore credibility of the entire Covid vaccination process in Bengal," Adhikari wrote to the Union health minister. The incident triggered a political storm after purported photographs and videos of the arrested person along with several TMC leaders and ministers at various programmes came into the public domain. PTI could not independently verify the authenticity of the photographs or videos. Adhikari claimed that the main accused held illegal vaccination camps decorated with "trademark blue and white balloons characteristic of the TMC government events". "While Calcutta Police has reportedly started investigating into the fraud, several incriminating photos suggestive of the accused's influence in the ruling party of Bengal have come to the fore," the BJP leader said. The TMC leadership, however, denied any involvement in the matter. Adhikari on Friday led a BJP delegation to Swasthya Bhawan, the state health department headquarters, and questioned officials how a person impersonating as an IAS officer has been organising vaccination camps that remained off the radar of the police and the department for so long. He had also claimed that it was a conspiracy of the TMC as the ruling party in Bengal was trying to tarnish the BJP-led Union government with a claim that the Centre has provided fake vaccines. "We apprehend that the Bengal government and the ruling party have hatched a large conspiracy to implicate the Centre. They are helping people with disputable identity to organise camps where fake jabs were administered to defame the Narendra Modi regime. "If there was any adverse impact on people who were inoculated, the TMC will blame the Centre for providing fake vaccines," the BJP leader had said. According to police officials, Deb allegedly had financially duped several people in Calcutta by impersonating as a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). On his social media accounts, he had posted several pictures of organising medical camps and participating in government programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Indian Tea Association, Unicef webinar on pandemic today||The Indian Tea Association (ITA) — largest association of tea planters in the country — in association with Unicef will host a webinar on Covid management in Calcutta on Saturday. Sources in the ITA said it was necessary to create awareness among the tea population of north Bengal so that they remain prepared to face any adversity due to the pandemic. “Tea garden managers, welfare and  medical officers, and other health functionaries posted in the gardens of Dooars, Terai and Darjeeling will attend the event virtually. Discussions will be held as to how the industry should function during the pandemic situation. Unicef will provide a team of specialist doctors who will prepare healthcare workers to handle the third wave of Covid-19 in a superior manner,” said Sanjoy Bagchi, secretary of the Dooars branch of the ITA. In north Bengal, the total population that dwells in the member gardens of ITA is over six lakhs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: More beds for children at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital ||A number of beds for newborns and children will come up at three units of the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) to protect children from the third wave of Covid-19. According to Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty of state health and family welfare department in north Bengal, 55 beds would be increased in Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU), Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and Sick Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU) at the NBMCH, which would double the capacity of these units. “We are taking initiatives to increase beds for children across north Bengal,” said Roy. As of now, there are 10 beds each in PICU and NICU, 31 beds in SNCU and four additional beds with ventilator facilities at the NBMCH. “We have nine district hospitals in north Bengal. In each of these hospitals, 20 beds would be increased in the PICU ward,” Roy added. In another development, the authorities of Siliguri district hospital made some decisions on Friday to ensure that there is no anomaly over distribution of coupons for Covid-19 vaccine at the facility. New ambulances The Alipurduar Zilla Parishad has decided to provide an ambulance each to the seven blocks of the district and one to the civic body. Sheela Das Sarkar, the sabhadhipati, made the announcement on Friday as the district celebrated its seventh anniversary. Sarkar also mentioned that the zilla parishad would spend Rs 8 crores, received  from the state, for construction of roads and for drinking water supply in the rural areas. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Tightrope walk for Duare Tran teams ||Bamboo bridges or boats, they are all in a day’s work for Duare Tran teams. Government officials and employees, tasked with verifying applications for the state’s Duare Tran (relief on doorstep) scheme, have to cross damaged roads and overflowing rivers to reach remote pockets of the Sunderbans to meet people affected by Cyclone Yaas. Officials said at Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas, a team led by government employee Lakshmi Sarkar had to walk for 200 metres on a 10-inch-wide makeshift bamboo bridge. “She (Lakshmi) sent us a video and picture of how difficult it was for them to reach the (potential) beneficiaries. If she had slipped from the makeshift bridge, she would have fallen into waist-deep water from a considerable height. The areas are still under water because of Cyclone Yaas and rain,” said a senior official in the district. Officials said areas under Ramakrishna gram panchayat of Kakdwip, where saline water overflowed on embankments during Yaas, remain inundated. Villagers made a bridge with three bamboo sticks to reach the nearest road. At a few places, officials waded through knee-deep water and muddy embankments to verify beneficiaries. Some had to take boats to reach coastal islands amid rain. Stung by complaints of malpractices over relief in cash and kind after Cyclone Amphan last year, the state government has this time started Duare Tran to make relief distribution transparent. The drive started on June 3 and the government accepted damage-claim applications till June 18. Officials have been asked to finish verifying them by June 30. Once done, money will be sent to bank accounts of the beneficiaries by July 8. Nabanna sources said 3,59,487 applications seeking relief for damage to homes and crops were submitted at Duare Tran camps from  six districts of the state. The worst-hit were South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. “After Yaas, heavy rain worsened the situation in many places. Add to that the threat of high tide on June 26 (Saturday). It is a challenge for us to finish the task within deadline,” said an official in Gosaba, South 24-Parganas. Officials in North 24-Parganas cited remote locations at Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj. “There are many pockets in those areas where our officials can’t reach by bike. They have to walk, which takes a lot of time,” said Sumit Gupta, the district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Supreme Court asks Calcutta High Court to hear plea by Mamata Banerjee||The Supreme Court on Friday annulled Calcutta High Court’s June 9 order that had refused to entertain counter-affidavits filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Bengal government and law minister Moloy Ghatak in the Narada case. A Supreme Court bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari asked the high court to hear the trio’s pleas to examine the counter-affidavits before holding further proceedings on the CBI’s petition to transfer the Narada case to the high court itself. The counter-affidavits were filed following the CBI’s arrest of four leaders, including two Bengal ministers, in the Narada case. The Supreme Court asked the three petitioners to file their applications in the high court before June 29 giving reasons for filing the counter-affidavits. The bench also asked the high court to examine the matter afresh uninfluenced by any observations made by it. While senior advocate Vikas Singh appeared for the Bengal government, another senior lawyer Rakesh Dwivedi represented Mamata and Ghatak in the supreme court. On behalf of the CBI, solicitor general Tushar Mehta opposed the petition challenging the high court’s refusal to entertain their counter-affidavits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal tourism department guidelines stress Covid safety||The state tourism department has issued fresh standard operating procedures for tourism stakeholders to run their businesses once ongoing Covid-19 restrictions are withdrawn or eased. Nandini Chakravorty, the principal secretary of the department, issued the dos and don’ts for tourism business in Bengal, which include training for transporters, staff and attendants of a hotel, lodge, resort or any other stay facility, stringent safety protocol and more use of the Internet to minimise physical contact. The new guidelines specify that a tourism property must designate a person as the Covid-19 officer or coordinator to deal with health issues in the property and liaise with local authorities. Only asymptomatic visitors should be let in. There should be an isolation room for every 50 rooms. All properties should avoid large gatherings for entertainment. Running facilities like discotheques should be avoided. The guidelines also suggest web check-in and online checking of documents. It stresses the need for regular sanitisation and access to medical services. Relevant information on safety protocols for Covid-19 should be displayed in the reception desk, back seats of vehicles and restaurant tables. House staff and drivers should be trained to obey protocols. The guidelines have rekindled hopes of tourism stakeholders. In north Bengal, around 10 lakh people are associated with the sector. Insiders peg losses at Rs 3,000 crore since last year and Rs 550 crore since April this year, that is, the summer tourist season. “We are ready to follow protocols and hope that the situation improves in the coming months. Like last year, we have lost the summer season again in 2021 because of the second wave of the pandemic. All of us are keeping our fingers crossed for the Durga Puja season,” said Debasish Maitra, president, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network, said the state’s decision to waive penalty for late payment of taxes for vehicles would also help the industry. In a recent notification, the state transport department said those with tax validity of their vehicles till April 28, 2021, can pay taxes minus penalty till July 31 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal headmasters threatened by outgoing Class X and XII students||Several headmasters and headmistresses in Bengal have been facing agitations and threats, overt and covert, from some outgoing Class X and XII students and their guardians who want these students’ Class IX and XI marks increased. With the pandemic preventing written exams, the marks students have obtained in Classes IX and XI are set to heavily influence their Madhyamik and higher secondary results, respectively. “Besides facing agitations, teachers are being threatened — even with murder — when they refuse to increase the marks unfairly,” said Chandan Kumar Maity, state secretary, Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses. “Some students who did not take those school exams seriously now want their marks hiked, which is an unethical and illegal demand.” The Society, an association of the heads of schools run or aided by the state government, has written to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education seeking security for teachers. Several teachers have also individually informed the board and the council, which have requested the district administrations to intervene. “They (students and guardians) have been assaulting and threatening headmasters, squatting in front of their offices, abusing them. This can’t continue,” Maity, headmaster of the Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas, said. “If the headmasters are forced to yield to pressure, it will send out a wrong message about the state’s education scene.” On Thursday, around 60 outgoing Class XII students and their guardians gheraoed the headmaster of the Damra High School in Mohammedbazar, Birbhum, till late night demanding their Class XI marks be hiked. Headmaster Tushar Mondal was released after police and the local block development officer intervened. The same day, Prafulla Majumdar, headmaster of the Mahishbathan Manindranath High School in Cooch Behar, was gheraoed and allegedly abused by students and their guardians. The agitators demanded “grace” marks in the Class XI final exams and allegedly threatened Majumdar with “dire consequences” if he didn’t comply. Majumdar has written to education department officials about the threats. Sources said the reports of agitations and harassment began arriving after the secondary board and higher secondary council announced a fortnight ago that the Class IX and XI marks would get substantial weightage in the Madhyamik and higher secondary board results, respectively. Several headmasters alleged the threats had deterred them from lodging police complaints. “The guardians and the students have been trying to justify their indefensible demand with a strange logic. They claim the students would have done brilliantly in those exams had they taken them seriously,” the headmaster of a Birbhum school said, seeking anonymity. “They say they did not take those exams seriously because nobody knew at the time that the marks obtained would play a part in the board results.” Sources said that most of the higher secondary schools had already sent the Class XI marks to the council, as instructed. They cannot now increase or decrease the marks even if they want to. “It’s simply not possible to increase the marks now as we have already sent the marks to the council,” said Mondal, the Damra High School headmaster. “I was gheraoed till 11pm on Thursday. I shall write to the council about the students’ demand, as advised by the local administration.” Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Landslide on NH55, debris on Darjeeling Himalayan Railway tracks too ||A major landslide occurred on NH55, the main link between Darjeeling and Siliguri, near Tindharia in Kurseong subdivision of Darjeeling district on Friday morning, completely halting traffic. Debris lay across 30 metres on NH55 and tracks of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) that run parallel to the highway. “Since Thursday evening, the hills saw torrential rain that led to the landslide at Chunabhati near Tindharia,” said Banhisikha Dey, ADM (development) of Darjeeling. The zone, some 30km from Siliguri, is landslide-prone. “It (the affected stretch) is one of the most vulnerable spots along NH55 where landslides occur every monsoon. Incessant rain has led to few minor landslides in some other spots of Kurseong subdivision,” said an official. Among these include Shivakhola, Rajbari-1 and the stretches between the DHR workshop, Tindharia station and Gayabari station. Because of the landslide, those in Rongtong, Tindharia and Gayabari will now have to take detours to reach Siliguri or Darjeeling. “They need to take the Subash Ghisingh Marg (Rohini Road), Pankhabari Road or move via Mirik or Peshok through Mungpoo,” said a Kurseong resident. Officials of the DHR also inspected the damaged spot. The tracks, they reported, are buried under tonnes of debris. “Mud, stones and rubble are piled on tracks parallel to the highway. It appears the tracks are intact. We can examine and restore tracks after state PWD clears the debris and carries out repairs,” said S. Chanda, chief PRO of Northeast Frontier Railway. Since March last year, this heritage rail service, which normally draws thousands of tourists to Darjeeling, has been suspended amid the pandemic. “But because it is a World Heritage Site recognised by the Unesco, we need to conserve every bit of the railways, which includes the tracks,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 1,975 recoveries, 1,933 cases in one day||Bengal on Friday reported the fifth straight day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 77, to 22,231. The state reported 1,975 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,933 new infections and 35 deaths on Friday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts, reported six and seven deaths, and 190 and 237 new infections, respectively. “Of all 23 districts, only North 23-Parganas has over 200 daily new infections at the moment. Thirteen districts have two-digit numbers now of daily new infections found. Three of them have single-digit numbers…. The total of active cases in a dozen districts is in three-digit figures,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 97.33 per cent, while the national recovery rate is 96.66. “From over 150-160 deaths, daily, till a few weeks ago, it is now less than 40 on most days. Around 10 districts, on an average, have been reporting zero deaths daily,” he added. The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.3. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent in the peak of the second wave, was 3.48 on Friday. Positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. Decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The total of active cases improved till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till Sunday, it rose by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again over these five days. Bengal currently has 3.7 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains eighth among states with the most active cases. Bengal now has a total of over 14.91 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected on March 17 last year. It includes over 14.51 lakh recoveries and 17,551 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
26-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Calcutta High Court poser on rationale of case against Mithun Chakraborty ||Justice Kaushik Chanda of Calcutta High Court on Friday asked the Bengal government’s counsel to explain the rationale behind drawing up proceedings against actor and BJP leader Mithun Chakraborty in connection with his speeches during the Assembly elections. The judge was hearing Chakraborty’s application for quashing of the proceedings drawn up against him by Amherst Street Police accusing him of spreading violence and hatred through his film dialogues at BJP election rallies. Justice Chanda’s impartiality was questioned by chief minister Mamata Banerjee because of “his close association with the BJP since his days as a lawyer”. The judge is hearing Mamata’s petition challenging BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari’s victory from Nandigram and she wants Justice Chanda to recuse himself from a case. During the hearing of Chakraborty’s plea on Friday, the actor’s lawyer said his client had merely delivered some dialogues in his film and sought the quashing of the case registered on the basis of a complaint by one Mrityunjoy Pal. Public prosecutor Saswata Gopal Mukherjee said a superstar like Chakraborty, who had a large fan base, could spread hatred through his dialogues. Justice Chanda wanted to know the rationale behind the case against the actor and asked the public prosecutor to say the dialogues that Chakraborty had reportedly said at his poll rallies. When lawyer Mukherjee quoted some of the dialogues, Justice Chanda asked: “How can film dialogues be the reason behind violence?” Chakraborty’s counsel said the dialogues were in the films that had received due clearance from the Censor Board. The public prosecutor said all details pertaining to the case were still not available and that was why the actor had been served with a notice by police. He urged the judge to fix the next hearing after Monday as the actor was supposed to send in his reply by that day. The court fixed the next date of hearing on July 2. Earlier, the case against the superstar had been assigned to Justice Tirthankar Ghosh who directed Chakraborty to face interrogation by the police virtually. The high court administration, however, later reassigned the case for disposal to Justice Chanda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
26-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP opposes Assembly bypolls to prevent Mamata Banerjee from becoming an MLA ||The BJP on Friday said the party would oppose any move to hold Assembly bypolls at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic was raging across the country in an apparent move to prevent Mamata Banerjee from becoming an MLA within six months of her swearing-in as the chief minister. Article 164(4) of the Constitution mandates that in order to continue as the chief minister, Mamata, who lost the Assembly election in Nandigram to Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, needs to be elected to the Assembly within six months of the swearing-in on May 5. State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said: “She has to go. Mamata Banerjee will no longer be the CM. Let her choose someone else from her party who has won the polls. There is no need for bypolls in the state now. We will oppose it.” Mamata had said on Wednesday that the Election Commission should conduct the bypolls in seven Assembly segments at the earliest and at once. To remain as the chief minister, Basu said, Mamata was willing to risk the lives of the people of Bengal by demanding the bypolls at a time when the second wave of the novel coronavirus was raging across the country and a third wave threatened to arrive any moment. He was speaking on the sidelines of a protest rally his party organised to mark the anniversary of the Emergency imposed by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1975. The rally was supposed to start from BJP’s Bengal headquarters in 6, Muralidhar Sen Lane in Calcutta, but police stopped it citing pandemic restrictions. “The police are not allowing us to hold a rally with merely 50 people, citing restrictions imposed because of the pandemic. If such is the case, we will not allow elections amidst the pandemic either. She (Mamata) cannot risk the lives of the people for the sake of being in power,” he added. There had been deliberations within the BJP on what the party’s stand regarding the bypolls should be. Until Friday, it was being said unofficially that the BJP leadership planned to oppose the idea of holding the bypolls now to create pressure on Mamata. A section within the BJP feels Basu has only demonstrated the party’s frustration over the appalling defeat in Bengal and its desperation to disrupt the smooth functioning of a democratically elected government. The concern over risking people’s lives by holding bypolls amidst the pandemic comes from the general secretary of a party whose top-rung leaders were accused of addressing rallies during the campaign for the Assembly polls when the second wave had hit the nation. “It is a strategy of the party to oppose holding of bypolls to pile pressure on Mamata. If you remember, Suvendu has repeatedly attacked Mamata Banerjee by calling her a non-MLA CM. The party wants to keep it that way. At least create as many hindrances in the way to her election as possible,” a BJP leader said on Friday. “But many of us feel it will disrupt the functioning of the government and trigger a negative reaction from the people,” the leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-12
