27-06-2021||West Bengal||High tide spares Bengal coast, breach floods Sagar Island||Weak wind saved coastal Bengal from the wrath of the high tide on Saturday, but the state government is worried about a 150-metre breach in a river embankment at Ghoramara Island of Sagar Islands in South 24-Parganas. A part of the island has been getting flooded regularly because the embankment has to be built afresh, but no land is available for it as of now. On Saturday, a large part of the coastline in South 24-Parganas remained unaffected by the high tide as many embankments of the district had been repaired after Cyclone Yaas and the wind lacked the strength to lift the tide. However, despite the weak wind, a large part of Ghoramara was inundated, water gushing in from the breached embankment. The island was also flooded during a similar high tide on June 11 . “On Saturday, most of the Yaas-hit areas did not face much trouble because of repaired embankments and weak winds. But Ghoramara faced fresh flooding because of the breached embankment,” said a senior irrigation official. During Cyclone Yaas, a total of 150km of river embankments were either breached or damaged in three coastal districts — South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. Most of the breaches or damages have been repaired, an irrigation department official said. The stretch of 150m of embankment in Ghoramara Island is an exception. Recently, officials of the  irrigation department and Sunderbans development affairs and district officials visited Goramara Island and found that the breached part had to be constructed afresh. “As the stretch of the embankment was washed away completely, a new embankment has to be built on land owned by local people. Now, they are not ready to part with their land. That’s why a new embankment could not be built yet,” said an official. Ghoramara is an island facing regular erosion and that is why many residents have gradually shifted to either Kakdwip or Sagar Island. “Only 7,000 to 8,000 people live in Ghoramara Island these days. But the government cannot leave them unattended. So, efforts are on to set up embankments in the breached part,” said an official. As the state government doesn’t acquire land even for public purposes since Trinamul came to power in 2011, the problem has become critical. “We are trying to make people understand that if they don’t give land for the embankment, they would face inundation with every high tide,,” said a source. In wake of Saturday’s high tide, the state irrigation department used geosynthetic sheets, a type of synthetic fabric that stabilises soil, to protect vulnerable river banks of the Sunderbans. The high tide, however, had little impact in the region as well as in coastal areas of East Midnapore because of weak wind. The high tide arrived at 10.50am on Saturday but there was not much change in water level. Most vulnerable stretches of earthen dams were covered by irrigation officials with geosynthetics sheets in South 24-Parganas. Some breaches did occur in the district, but “nothing major”. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty Bankura: Lightning killed two farmers and 22 sheep in three places in Bankura on Saturday. Lightning struck Budhon Bauri, 40, of Haringara village, Barjora, Bholanath Mollah, 35, of Rajgram, and 22 sheep which were grazing in a field in Bankura’s Patrasayar. Sources said in all 12 persons from Bankura were killed by lightning in one month. Earlier this month, at least 26 people in Bengal were killed by lighting in one day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Gautam Deb keeps watch on jab process in Siliguri||Senior Trinamul leader Gautam Deb, who chairs the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), on Saturday held a meeting with officials of the Darjeeling district administration, district health department and Siliguri Metropolitan Police to take stock of the vaccination process underway in the city and subdivision as a whole. Deb’s move follows recent protests at the district hospital here in Siliguri and in Bagdogra where people had alleged the influence of brokers in the vaccination process, as well as the recent fake vaccination case in Calcutta, said a health official. District magistrate S. Ponnambalam, police commissioner Gaurav Sharma and chief medical officer (health) Pralay Acharya were present in the meeting along with representatives of North Bengal Medical College and Hospital and Siliguri district hospital. “We discussed in detail the current Covid situation of the city and vaccination process. Though the number of cases have started going down lately, we need to take it to the baseline. I have heard that a racket of brokers is active in NBMCH. From now on, there will be inspector level officers monitoring activities there, right from treatment to vaccination,” said Deb. “Our target is to vaccinate every resident of Siliguri civic area.” He also said that officers of deputy commissioner of police rank will regularly visit all vaccination centres to root out any anomaly in the process. As of now, around 1,400 doses of vaccines are administered to people through 10 urban primary health centres. Also, another 500-odd vaccine doses are provided from NBMCH and Siliguri district hospital. Acharya said they have also discussed the surveillance of vaccination camps. “Without permission from appropriate authorities, no one will be able to organise any such camp,” he said. The state government of Sikkim on Saturday issued a notification, extending the ongoing pandemic-induced lockdown in the state, which was supposed to end on Monday, till July 5. However, with decline in the number of daily Covid-19 infections, the Sikkim government has decided to allow some relaxations from Monday. Movement of public transport between districts of the state will be allowed but vehicles will run on alternate days, based on “odd-even” registration numbers. From Monday, bars and restaurants will stay open till 10pm, with 50 per cent seating capacity, sources added. Additional reporting by Rajeev Ravidas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
27-06-2021||West Bengal||UP ATS squad interrogates  Chinese national held by BSF in Malda ||An anti-terrorist squad team from Uttar Pradesh reached Malda on Friday and interrogated Han Junwei, the Chinese national held by the BSF for allegedly infiltrating the country without a visa through the India-Bangladesh border here earlier this month, on suspicion of him smuggling Indian SIM cards to China. The ATS had arrested another Chinese national, who was known to Han, earlier this year in Lucknow. “The ATS had arrested another Chinese national San Jiang earlier this year in Lucknow. There is information that both of them were instrumental in smuggling hundreds of Indian SIM cards to China. During interrogation, San revealed Han’s name. Also, they are suspected to have links with Chinese intelligence agencies,” said a police source. On Friday, Han was produced at a local court and remanded in jail custody for 14 days. Mehetab Alam, the assistant public prosecutor of the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s Court in Malda, said: “The court on Saturday granted permission to the ATS team to take Han to Lucknow. Charges under section 420 (cheating) and the information technology act have been brought against him.” In another development, Malda police sent Han’s laptop, cell phone and other gadgets to the central forensic science laboratory in Hyderabad for detailed examination. “We believe those might contain vital information,” a state intelligence agency official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh keeps north statehood pot stirring||State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said his party had never demanded separate statehood for north Bengal but quickly added that the BJP was sympathetic to identity-based movements as they reflected lack of development in the region. Ghosh’s comments, made during his first visit to the region after the statehood demand was voiced by some leaders in the BJP, suggested that the party was treading with caution on the issue. “We are not in favour of any further division of Bengal. But simultaneously, one cannot ignore the Gorkhaland movement, the Kamtapur movement and some other movements organised in north Bengal for decades now owing to lack of development in the region. People here have voted for our party in large numbers, and thus, the elected representatives have voiced their demand. There is no abnormality in it,” the state BJP chief told journalists. Over the past few weeks, the issue of separate statehood, which has been time and again flagged by organisations and parties representing the Rajbanshi community, has found an echo in BJP MPs John Barla and Jayanta Roy and MLAs such as Shikha Chatterjee. The Rajbanshi people account for over one-third of north Bengal’s population. Some political observers think that the BJP is playing the statehood card to woo this influential vote bank and create unrest in the region to embarrass chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has this time kept the north Bengal development portfolio with herself. Although the statehood demand evoked sympathetic responses from north Bengal leadership of the BJP, the party’s state leaders had initially delinked themselves from it and said that the party never articulated any such demand. However, Ghosh’s comments on Saturday indicated that the state unit may have done a rethink on the issue. It also in a way lent credence to a view in the saffron camp that the party’s north Bengal leaders would not have raised such a demand publicly without the consent of its national leaders. “One cannot forget that before the elections, a number of central leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, were in close contact with some prominent leaders of the Rajbanshi community who have been principal proponents of the demand. So, there seems to be a pattern in which the statehood issue is being played out by the party,” said a BJP source. “Dilipda’s comments hint that the party would not be directly swatting away the statehood demand anymore,” added the source. Ghosh said he understood the rationale behind the demand for statehood. “Had there been adequate development, people wouldn’t have raised such a demand. It is evident that a section of people are exploring options to stay out of Mamata Banerjee’s rule.… While some are moving to other states for jobs, others are raising the (statehood) demand,” he said. Although Ghosh underscored that the BJP does not want any division of Bengal, he added that the party was in favour of smaller states and was instrumental in the creation of new states in the country. “In due course, if any move is made in this regard, it would be done only in consultation with residents of this region. We cannot say what will happen in the future,” the state BJP unit president said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Indian Jute Mills Association seeks Mamata Banerjee's support ||The Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA) has sought the support of chief minister Mamata Banerjee to safeguard the interests of the industry and farmers amid fears that the Centre will allow plastic bags to pack foodgrains and sugar for the kharif season starting next month. The Jute Packaging Material Act (JPMA) mandates packing all foodgrains and sugar produced in the country in jute bags. However, the inability of jute mills to meet the demand for jute bags because of a cyclone and the pandemic  had given the Union textile ministry scope to allow the use of plastic bags in the previous rabi season. But this time, the jute industry is excepting a bumper crop, which has prompted the mill owners to write to the chief minister. Raghavendra Gupta, chairman of the IJMA, said in a letter to Mamata on Friday: “Kindly intervene so that Bengal’s jute mills receive 100 per cent jute bag supply orders in 2021-22 for packing food grain and sugar and JPMA 1987 is continued in its original shape.” The industry suspects that the Centre, at the behest of the synthetic lobby, intends to scrap the JPMA. Technically, the fate of the 60-odd jute mills in Bengal, which employ 3 lakh people directly and 40 lakh people indirectly, including jute farmers, depends on the JPMA. There was a drop in the production of jute bags in the previous year because of Cyclone Amphan which destroyed about 60,000 hectares of jute farmland and the coronavirus-induced lockdown forced the closure of 17 mills. This led to a shortfall in supply of jute bags. Hence, the JPMA was diluted to allow plastic bags. However, the IJMA has contended that with the raw jute crop expected to be voluminous this year, the mills would be able to meet the demand for jute bags and no further dilution of the JPMA would be necessary. “Around 17 lakh tonnes of raw jute are expected to be produced this year. On average, the entire demand for bags can be fulfilled by 15 lakh tonnes of raw jute. Hence, we can meet the demand (for bags),” a jute mill owner said. Sources in the jute commissioner’s office said there had been a shortfall of 7.7 lakh bales of jute bags in the rabi season last November. “For the kharif season, the demand for jute bags had been placed at 22 lakh bales. Jute mill owners had earlier said that they will not be able to produce more than 15 lakh bales of jute bags. In order to meet the shortfall, plastic bags have to be allowed,” a source said. However, with the possibility of a bumper crop, mill owners believe that the shortfall of 7 lakh bales will also be recovered. Amphan and Covid-19 were unprecedented and the industry can’t be forced to suffer for those, which is why they sought the CM’s support, Gupta told this paper. The standing advisory committee on jute meets on June 30 and it is represented by the state government. According to the IJMA, the state’s representatives must speak against the use of plastic bags. Sources in the Trinamul Congress sniffed a larger conspiracy behind the intention to further dilute the JPMA. Multiple Trinamul sources pointed out that the BJP had lost in more than 105 of the 114 Assembly segments in the state’s jute belt. “The BJP has fallen flat on its face in the North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. If the use of plastic is encouraged to pack food grains and sugar, it will be a doom for the jute industry and lead to massive law and order disruption in districts where majority of jute mills are located,” a Trinamul leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Day’s Covid recoveries outnumber new cases in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday reported the sixth consecutive day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 132 to touch 22,099. The state reported 1,994 recoveries, 1,894 new infections and 32 deaths, including eight from Calcutta. The total number of active cases had declined till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till last Sunday, it had risen by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again. “In an important parameter of case growth (percentage of growth of cases over the past week, compared to the week a fortnight ago), we are 25th among states, with –64.4. That is a very significant statistic,” said a minister. Bengal currently has 3.79 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains eighth among states with the most active cases. Daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent in the peak of the second wave, was 3.42 on Saturday. A falling positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 97.34 per cent, while the national recovery rate is 96.72. The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent and the nation’s 1.3. Bengal is 23rd among states with the highest mortality rates. The state has reported over 14.93 lakh Covid-19 cases since March 2020, including over 14.53 lakh recoveries and 17,583 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
27-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal peasants express solidarity with protesters on Delhi borders||Bengal peasants showed their solidarity with the farmers’ protest on the Delhi borders that completed seven months on Saturday. State farmers joined the nationwide protest to “save democracy” from the “clutches” of the Narendra Modi government and “save agriculture” by strengthening the demand to repeal the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. While the Left-backed All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee held a two-hour protest at Sidhu Kanu Dahar in Calcutta, farmers led by the CPM’s All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) took the demonstration to the interiors. Convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee and AIKS state secretary Amal Halder said the protest was held at 125 points in rural Bengal. “June 26 is the birth anniversary of Kisan Sabha founder Sahajanand Saraswati and the farmer protest completed seven months. Although the main protest was held in Calcutta, we held demonstrations inside rural Bengal to connect farmers of the state with the all-India movement,” said Halder. The protest coming a day after the anniversary of the Emergency, Halder said: “Modi has imposed another kind of Emergency on us, evident with his government not listening to farmers for seven months.” East Burdwan, the rice bowl of Bengal, held the most number of protests, 50. Abhijit Mondal, a farmer in East Burdwan’s Galsi who took part in the protest, said: “As farmers struggle to survive amid the pandemic, the farm laws seek to open gates to corporate loot.” In Calcutta, ISF leader and Bhangar MLA Naushad Siddiqui and his supporters were arrested from Mayo Road while  expressing solidarity with the farmers’ movement and protesting against alleged incidents of post-poll violence. Police said they did not have permission for the assembly. AIKS leader Tushar Ghosh slammed the police for “highhandedness”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
27-06-2021||West Bengal||‘Mamata Banerjee is the real Leftist leader’||Getting hold of Ritabrata Banerjee at a time of organisational ferment in the Trinamul Congress (TMC) is not easy. One moment he is holding a press conference, the next he is meeting trade union leaders or having one-on-one discussions with tea garden owners or industrial bigwigs. In between, he’s busy seeking blessings and guidance from senior party leaders. Banerjee, 42, has a new job; he was recently anointed state general secretary of the Indian National Trinamul Trade Union Congress or INTTUC. The whisper is that the post was reward for his work in the tea gardens of north Bengal the past three years without any fanfare or hype. Banerjee says, “Ever since I joined the TMC in 2018, apart from other organisational work, the honourable chief minister asked me to focus on the tea gardens and tribal welfare in the area.” The assignment, he says, was cathartic. Banerjee was with the CPI(M) till 2018, when he was expelled, allegedly for a lifestyle whose lavish ways didn’t sit well with communist ideology. He was also accused of womanising and speaking against top leaders of the party to the media. Banerjee’s defence had been that he was a “victim of jealousy of leaders who always tried to malign” him. He also said, “Had I been dumb in Parliament, I would not have faced this fate.” Bright, young and well-spoken, Banerjee’s meteoric rise in the CPI(M) had been the stuff of legend. He is said to have been mentored by the former chief minister of West Bengal, Buddhadeb Bhattacharya. And when he was sent up to Rajya Sabha at 34, there was a hubbub of disapproval in party circles. It is said that cutting young leaders down to size is part of the CPI(M) house style. Dynamic young leaders such as Saifuddin Chowdhury, Prasenjit Bose and Jagmati Sangwan (Haryana) were expelled after each of them had a falling out with the party greybeards. Within a month of his expulsion from the CPI(M), Banerjee was appointed  convener of the newly-formed tribal welfare committee of the TMC. The primary task of the committee was to spot lapses in tribal welfare schemes and recommend suggestions for improvement, especially in the tea gardens of north Bengal that are inhabited by adivasis. I ask what his takeaway has been and he replies, “Mamata-i prakrita Bampanthi... Mamata Banerjee is the real Leftist leader.” He continues, “The tea gardens had been languishing in abject poverty. She increased their daily wages from Rs 67 (in 2011) to Rs 202 (in 2020), introduced several revolutionary welfare schemes such as Chaa Sundari to improve their lot... Chaa Sundari is unique in India — not conceived even in the tea gardens of Kerala, a communist state.” The scheme is meant to provide housing for permanent tea garden workers. The logical question is, despite all this, why did the TMC fare so poorly in the tea belt in this year’s Assembly elections? Especially in Alipurduar? Banerjee responds, “It’s true, but our vote share has significantly increased compared to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.” He is confident that when the Chaa Sundari scheme is fully implemented, more people will be drawn towards the TMC. Another challenge in the tea gardens, according to Banerjee, is bringing together the disparate unions under a single umbrella. There are 408 tea gardens across the districts of Darjeeling, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri — and their workforce, comprising Gorkhas, Mundas and Oraons, is key to 16  Assembly seats. Banerjee is currently working towards knitting all the unions under the Trinamul Chae Bagan Shramik Union. Though traditionally a Left bastion, the TMC grabbed all Assembly seats there in 2016. But in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls it lost all the seats to the BJP, which made a flurry of poll promises — promises that were ultimately never kept. Speculation is that the BJP did well in 2019 because, among other things, a sizeable number of traditional Left votes shifted to its kitty. Those votes, Banerjee argues, are now turned TMC-wards. “It’s an irony that as the Left Front got decimated in the Assembly polls, Left-minded people started looking at Mamata Banerjee as a viable alternative leader.” He stresses that not just in Bengal, but nationally, the working class — farmers, industry workers and migrant labourers — feels only Mamata Banerjee can represent them and fight for their demands. “No wonder farmers fighting the draconian Farm Bill rallied beside her during the recent Assembly polls,” he adds. Does he feel bad that his former party has no representation in the Bengal Assembly now? Banerjee responds, “The party is like the proverbial ostrich that kept its head buried in the sand amidst a desert storm. They started believing that they are the only contractors of Left ideology in India.” 1978: Banerjee is born in Calcutta 1998: Begins political career as an activist of the Students’ Federation of India, the student wing of the CPI(M) 2008: Becomes all-India general secretary of the SFI 2011: Is chosen by the Left Front as its candidate for the by-elections to the Calcutta South Lok Sabha seat, which Mamata Banerjee vacated when she became the chief minister; loses to Subrata Bakshi of the TMC 2014: Is nominated to the Rajya Sabha 2018: Expelled from the CPI(M) and soon after joins the TMC 2021: Made the state general secretary of the INTTUC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-11
