28-06-2021||West Bengal||Four members of West Bengal Bar Council claim chairman acted on his own for CJ removal||Four West Bengal Bar Council members Monday wrote to the Chief Justice of India claiming its chairman and TMC MLA Ashok Deb acted on his own in seeking the removal of Calcutta High Court Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. Registering their dissent, the four elected members of the Bar Council jointly wrote to the CJI that the letter by Deb is "highly derisive and by no figment of imagination represents the sentiments of the majority of the bar". The letter came a day after Deb, a six-term MLA, demanded Bindal's removal on the alleged ground that he was "biased" in his approach. "The contents of the letter was neither discussed as an agenda in any meeting of the council, nor we the below members were aware about it until through some social media posts," the letter signed by Kailash Tamoli, Rabindranath Bhattacharya, Samir Paul and Mihir Das said. "The chairman has acted on his own, without consulting the elected members of the Bar Council of West Bengal," they claimed. The four alleged the June 25 letter was written by Deb to "please" the ruling party of which he is an MLA. Deb's letter to the CJI, meanwhile, came in for criticism by also the BJP, which sought to know if the move was an attempt to "browbeat the judiciary". The saffron party claimed that Deb made the demand as the high court is holding the Mamata Banerjee administration to account for alleged post-poll violence. Deb, in his letter to CJI N V Ramana, said, "We beseech your Lordship to take immediate steps for removal of Hon'ble Justice Rajesh Bindal as a Judge of Calcutta High Court. Referring to some recent matters being heard by the high court, including the assignment of Mamata Banerjee's election petition against BJP's Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari to Justice Kaushik Chanda and the Narada sting tapes case, Deb alleged that the acting chief justice, who is the master of roster, is "biased". BJP national IT department chief Amit Malviya claimed in a tweet that the reasons for seeking Bindal's removal are purely political. "Just because Calcutta High Court is holding the Mamata Banerjee administration to account for the post poll violence, the CM is using Ashok Kumar Deb, TMC MLA from Budge Budge, under the garb of Bar Council to seek removal of acting Chief Justice. Bid to browbeat judiciary?" Malviya tweeted. Justice Chanda, who was assigned Banerjee's election petition, had on June 24 reserved his order on her application seeking his recusal from the case on account of his old association with the BJP. Banerjee has claimed Justice Chanda had been an active member of the BJP till his appointment as the Additional Solicitor General in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Lies and misinformation: Bengal Governor hits back after Mamata calls him 'corrupt'||In yet another face-off with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday alleged he was involved in the Jain Hawala case, provoking a sharp rebuttal from the latter who accused her of propagating "lies and misinformation". Banerjee, who called Dhankhar "corrupt", also criticised him over his recent visit to North Bengal, claiming a conspiracy was being hatched to divide the region. The TMC supremo said she has written to the Centre thrice seeking his removal. Infuriated over her remarks, Dhankhar, locked in a running feud with Banerjee, rejected the accusations as a "knee-jerk reaction" to his raising questions over the contents of the speech he is supposed to read out at the start of the upcoming assembly session. "The allegations levelled by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee don't have an iota of truth. It is unfortunate that she is spreading misinformation and misinterpreting facts. It doesn't suit a chief minister to make such allegations," he told a hurriedly called press conference at Raj Bhavan. According to sources close to the two, the chief minister was livid over Dhankhar's call for a special audit of the accounts of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and his objections to the contents of the draft speech that he is supposed to read at the start of the inaugural session of the newly elected assembly. Banerjee was also miffed at Dhankhar meeting BJP leaders in North Bengal, especially party MP John Barla, who recently demanded Union Territory status for the region. "He is a corrupt man. He was named in the charge sheet in the 1996 Jain Hawala case. Why has the central government allowed a governor like this to continue?" she told reporters. Jain Hawala Case was a huge politial and financial scandal in the 1990s in which money routed through hawala channels was claimed to have been given to top politicians across various parties. Those named included L K Advani, V C Shukla, Sharad Yadav and many more. However, the charges against them didn't stand legal scrutiny and the case fell through. Banerjee dubbed Dhankhar's visit to North Bengal a "political stunt" as he only met BJP MLAs and MPs. "Why did he suddenly tour North Bengal? I can sense a conspiracy to divide North Bengal," she alleged. Rejecting Banerjee's allegation that he was a "corrupt" man who was charge-sheeted in the Jain Hawala case, Dhankhar accused her of spreading "lies and misinformation". "The allegations levelled by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee don't have an iota of truth. It is unfortunate that she is spreading misinformation and misinterpreting facts. It doesn't suit a chief minister to make such allegations," he said. Terming Banerjee's accusations against him a "knee- jerk reaction" to his raising questions over the contents of the speech he is supposed to read out at the start of the upcoming assembly session, Dhankhar said he will not "cow before such malicious remarks" and continue to perform his constitutional duty. "She should name the charge sheet in which I was named. I was never named in any of the charge sheets in the Jain Hawala case," he said while referring to Banerjee as her "younger sister". The governor, however, mentioned the names of two TMC leaders, who were then with other parties and their names figured in the case. "Wonder how a leader of stature @MamataOfficial can level baseess and false allegations-perhaps too confident the sensation narrative would find takers in pliable media. "Allegations are categorically denied as baseless, FALSE and diversionary cover up tactics," he later tweeted. Dhankhar said, "Just 10 minutes before her press conference, I received a call from her. I had put forward some questions regarding the governor's speech. She said she has nothing to do (with the speech) as the cabinet had passed it. It seems her comment at the press conference was a knee-jerk reaction." He had raised objections to some of the contents of the governor's address last year too but later read out what was given to him by the state government. Earlier in the day, before wrapping up his week-long visit to Darjeeling, the governor alleged that GTA had turned into a "den of corruption". "I will ensure that there is a full special audit by CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) of GTA accounts so that those who were on the board of administrators are made duly accountable," he had said. The sharp exchanges between the two top constitutional authorities in the state saw the Bengal BJP leadership firmly stand behind the governor and the ruling TMC accuse him of speaking "half-truths". "The governor is saying that he was not named in the charge sheet. But he is not saying that he was never named in the scam. Tomorrow, we would come out with more details. The governor should be the last person to talk about constitutional norm as it is he who has been violating it," TMC Rajya Sabha deputy leader Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said. State BJP vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar backed Dhankhar and accused the TMC of trying to humiliate him. "The TMC, to hide its sins and corruption, is maligning the constitutional post of governor. This is unprecedented and shameful. We condemn it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||I will ensure full special audit by CAG of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration: Bengal Governor||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said that he will ensure a special audit of the accounts of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), an autonomous body that looks after the development of Darjeeling hills, by the CAG, as he has received several complaints in this regard. In the complaints made by representatives of the people and others to him, the GTA was levelled as a "den of corruption" and though crores of rupees were allotted to it, there has been no matching development, the governor said. Dhankhar said that the representations he received claimed that there has been no audit in the GTA for several years. "I will ensure that there is full special audit by CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General of India) of GTA accounts so that those who were in the board of administrators are made duly accountable," he told reporters, wrapping up his week- long stay at the Darjeeling Raj Bhavan here. Dhankhar said that since 2017, there has been no elected body, terming it as "decimation of democracy". As per the Gorkhaland Territorial Act of 2011, the GTA was established for the region comprising Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong subdivisions and some mouzas of Siliguri subdivision in Darjeeling district. The GTA Sabha was constituted on August 2, 2012 with 45 elected members and five members nominated by the governor. The Hill Affairs Branch of the state government's Home and Hill Affairs Department is the nodal branch to look after the matters of the GTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Mamata, others file fresh pleas before Calcutta HC for submitting affidavits||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Law Minister Malay Ghatak and the state government on Monday filed fresh applications before the Calcutta High Court for submitting affidavits before it in connection with the CBI's plea for transfer of the Narada sting tapes case, as per a direction of the Supreme Court. Annulling the high court's June 9 order refusing to take reply-affidavits of the state, the chief minister and the law minister, the apex court had on June 25 asked a five-judge bench of the high court to decide afresh their pleas before making a decision on the CBI petition seeking transfer of the case. The investigating agency has sought transfer of the Narada case from the special CBI court here to the high court. The next hearing of the Narada sting tapes case in the five-judge bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal is scheduled on Tuesday. Following the apex court's order, the state government, the chief minister and the law minister filed fresh applications on Monday for filing affidavits. Three appeals including one by the state government were filed before the Supreme Court challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak in their role on the day of arrest of West Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamull Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee on May 17 by the CBI in the Narada sting case. In its transfer application of the Narada case from the special CBI court here to the high court, the investigating agency has made the chief minister and the law minister parties in the matter. The probe agency claimed that while the chief minister had sat on a dharna at the CBI office here soon after the arrest of the four accused, Ghatak had been present at the Banskhall Court premises during the virtual hearing of the case before the special CBI court there on May 17. The five-judge bench of the high court, comprising ACJ Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee, had granted interim bail on May 28 to the four Narada scam accused. The special CBI court had granted them bail on May 17 itself, but the order was stayed by the high court, which remanded them to judicial custody They had been placed under house arrest on May 21 by the high court, modifying its earlier order of stay on the bail. The Narada sting operation was conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours At that time, the four arrested politicians were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee government. The sting operation was made public ahead of the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata calls Bengal Governor 'corrupt', asks for his removal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday called Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar a "corrupt man" and questioned the purpose of his recent tour of North Bengal, alleging that a conspiracy was being hatched to divide the northern part of the state. "He is a corrupt man. He was named in the chargesheet in the 1996 Hawala Jain case. Why has the central government allowed a governor like this to continue?" she told reporters at the state secretariat, without elaborating. Banerjee said Dhankhar's visit to North Bengal was a political stunt as he only met MLAs and MPs of the BJP. "Why did he suddenly tour North Bengal? I can sense a conspiracy to divide North Bengal," the CM alleged. The Trinamool Congress supremo also said she has written multiple letters to the Centre for the removal of Dhankhar. "As per the Constitution, I will continue to meet him, talk to him. and follow all the courtesies... But, the union government should act based on my letters," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal tightens rules for private firms organising vaccination camps||The West Bengal government health department has revised procedures for private organisations running Covid vaccination centres throughout the state in the light of fake immunisation drives that were busted after a man posing as an IAS officer was arrested for organising them. A meeting was held on Monday afternoon after which the state health department came up with a fresh set of rules that have been framed to ensure that beneficiaries are not duped. Private organisations running vaccine centres would have to keep an inventory, specifying the source of the vaccines and cold chain maintenance mechanism for storing the vaccines. Besides, each organisation will have to send a daily update to Swasthya Bhawan on the number of doses being administered at the camp. A nodal officer, to be appointed by the organisation, will have to submit weekly reports to the health department on the safety and tolerability of the vaccine. A list of people who took the vaccine, either first or second dose, would have to be updated every Sundays. For running camps, permission has to be obtained from the local police station, along with an approval from the chief medical officer of health in Calcutta and district health authorities. The price of vaccines must also be displayed at the site. Clubs and private firms that want to organise vaccine camps  will have to apply to the district health authorities and also submit an agreement letter from the organisation appointed to administer the vaccines. The organisers would also have to submit a plan for post-vaccine care at the centres and submit it to the health department. Before camps become operational, health department officials will carry out an inspection. How the vaccines would be transported will also have to be shared in advance with the authorities. Ultimately, permission for running a vaccine centre would be given only after heath department officials inspecting the site are satisfied that every single norm has been adhered to. On Sunday, Swasthya Bhawan had asked for a list of all vaccination sites being run by private hospitals. Jolly Choudhuri, the nodal officer for vaccinations in the state, had pulled the plug on all outdoor camps and off-site Covid vaccination centres for Monday till the list was submitted to the health department. Police investigations into the fake vaccine camps organised by Debanjan Deb, a Calcutta resident posing as a joint commissioner of Calcutta Municipal Corporation, revealed that more than 1,500 people were administered an antibiotic, Amicacin, that was purchased in bulk from Bagri market. Deb also had a huge stash of fake labels of Covishield, a vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. One of the vaccine camps that Deb had organised was held near the Kasba police station. Yet, police did not have a clue that fake vaccines were being administered at the camp till Trinamul MP Mimi Chakraborty raised a red flag. She received her vaccine there, but got suspicious after she did not receive a message on the Co-WIN platform to confirm her status as vaccinated. The new state government guidelines specify that organisers of all vaccination camps must use the Co-WIN web platform and the authenticated code from the app would have to be displayed prominently at the site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid lockdown: Bengal announces some relaxations from July 1 ||Buses, run by both state and private operators, will be back on the streets from July 1, while gyms and salons will be allowed to open as the Bengal government decided to introduce further relaxations to lockdown curbs imposed nearly two months ago amid the second wave of the pandemic. Partial restrictions will, however, remain in effect till July 15, barely six days short of the Trinamul’s annual July 21 rally. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who announced the relaxations on Monday, said that a decision on the rally will be taken later. The state government has decided to allow 50 per cent of the bus fleet to be on the road from July 1. These will be allowed to run with 50 per cent capacity.  But train services will continue to remain suspended. In the last seven days, there were violent demonstrations in localities around Calcutta with the local residents demanding resumption of train services. While the state government had earlier allowed private offices to open for a specific number of hours, unavailability of public transport had led to resentment among people as relaxations in several sectors appeared to have been made keeping the affluent in mind _ like allowing those with private cars to go to vaccination centres. The government has also allowed salons, parlours and gyms to open with 50 per cent staff  with the condition that both the staff and customers would have to be vaccinated. It is not clear whether those who haven’t received vaccines yet will be allowed to visit parlours or gyms. So far, there has been no restriction on people visiting malls where high-end salons and parlours are located. For vegetables, fruit, fish and meat sellers, the state government has decided to keep  markets open for six hours from 6am to noon. Restrictions on movement of people after 9pm will remain into effect. While there was no fresh directive issued for private taxi and autorickshaw operators, in most part of Calcutta, three-wheelers have been operating without any check.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Deb faked his 'official status' all along, yet no one suspected a thing ||The Special Investigation Team of the Calcutta Police’s detective department has seized stamps, forged documents of various departments of the state government and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation during a raid carried out  at the residence of Debanjan Deb, who was masquerading as a civil servant while organising fake Covid vaccination camps. The search operation was carried out late on Sunday night at the Madurdah residence of the Deb’s where the accused’s father Manoranjan, a retired excise department official, is in quarantine after testing Covid positive. It is not known whether Deb’s family members too were given the fake vaccine doses in camps that he held where over 1,500 unsuspecting citizens were duped. During the raid, the police  also recovered three debit cards and bank passbooks, which are being verified. Reacting to the fake IAS officer case, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that although the state government was in no way involved, police and  Calcutta Municipal Corporation(CMC) cannot deny their responsibility. “Those who play with people’s lives are worse than terrorists. I am surprised at his audacity. Such frauds go around clicking selfies with important people and use them elsewhere. Police and CMC cannot say they were unaware what was going on. The BJP could have provided support too,” Mamata said. Investigations have also revealed that Deb had a brush with the law in the past and a deeper probe could have helped prevent the fake camps. In March last year, the Electronics Complex police station had interrogated him after an oral complaint of  cheating during a job recruitment. The police let him go for want of enough  evidence against him. But his encounter with the police did not dampen Deb’s spirit who appears to have stepped up his nefarious activities. The Coronavirus outbreak provided Deb the opportunity to delve  into social work, distributing masks, sanitisers while interacting with top leaders of the ruling party and getting close enough with some of them to  be clicked alongside. A student of Taki House in Sealdah, Deb completed his graduation from Charuchandra College in zoology. Though he had enrolled for a post-graduate degree in genetics from Calcutta University, he never completed it. He had appeared for the civil services exam in 2014 but could not clear  it. To his parents and many others, he was a government officer who would move around in a blue beacon carrying car, with security. "When he was interrogated by the Electronics Complex police station, his parents came to know he had lied about being an IAS officer,” said a police officer. “For more than a year they knew their son was faking as a high-ranking official with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation," he said. Posing as a joint commissioner in the civic body, Deb had even carried out raids in several establishments. Some of these exploits had even made it to the pages of some Bengali dailies, along with his photographs. "In spite of  the photographs and news of  raids he was carrying out in the name of the CMC, nobody lodged any complaint against him. Either CMC officials were completely unaware, or someone had turned a blind eye,” said a police officer. During his interrogation, Deb claimed that  last year in September-October, he had taken on rent an office space from one Ashok Roy for which he paid a rent of Rs  65,000. The police are verifying his claim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases drop for a week in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday reported the seventh consecutive day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 215 to 21,884, less than 22,000 again after June 8. The state also reported 2,022 Covid recoveries, 1,836 new infections and 29 deaths. The total of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the all-time high of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again over the week. In these seven days, there has been decline in active cases by around 5 per cent. Nearly 2.96 lakh people were vaccinated by the state on Sunday, with close to 81,000 getting fully vaccinated. “Nearly 21 per cent of the state’s population has received at least one dose of vaccine, while around 4.7 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated… this is very, very important,” said a minister, adding Bengal was ahead of the national averages of 19.9 per cent (at least one dose) and 4.2 per cent (fully vaccinated). Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent in the peak of the second wave, was 3.34 on Sunday. On Sunday, Calcutta logged 191 new infections and North 24-Parganas 206. Eleven Bengal districts logged double-digit figures of new infections, and Malda, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.36 per cent, while the national rate is 96.72. Of the 29 deaths reported on Sunday, six each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. Fourteen of the state’s 23 districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. “We have managed to arrest deaths in the 46-60, 61-75 and 75-plus age brackets,” the minister added. The 61-75 age bracket of the Covid infected has a mortality rate of 3.4, but nearly 7,400 (42 per cent) of total deaths. In Bengal, men accounted for around 11,900 (67.5 per cent) of all deaths.The state’s mortality rate is 1.17 per cent, while the national rate is 1.3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Three held for e-gambling with ‘links to China’ in Nadia’s Karimpur||Police arrested three youths for online gambling and cash fraud from Nadia’s Karimpur early on Sunday and seized some 800 SIM cards and several Paytm barcodes from them. The police acted on a tip-off on the syndicate allegedly involved in online gambling purportedly linked to operations in China. Sources said nearby residents had tipped off the police after becoming suspicious of the three youths who stayed in the same house. Accused Ramen Karmakar, Mujibur Sheikh and Manabendra Sarkar, in their early 30s, were produced in a court in Tehatta on Sunday and sent to five days of police custody. The police said the trio, in their early thirties, were charged with deception and forgery. The cyber crime wing of Krishnagar district police has been asked to interrogate them on the root of the racket. Police sources confirmed that during preliminary interrogations, the trio confessed to duping people of money through UPI-based interfaces including Paytm.. They also admitted to their links to online gambling associates operating from China. This prompted sleuths to call up  the cyber crime wing. “The trio also said they had cheated innocent people of their credit or debit card details and card verification values (CVV) by posing as bank officials,” said a police official. A sleuth said it could not be immediately ascertained who their victims are. “But since we noticed several cases that registered for online illegal gambling with signs pointing to Chinese links across the country in the recent past, we took the matter seriously.” A police officer from Karimpur said they were trying to find out the sum of money siphoned so far in this case and bank accounts where remittances have been deposited. “The source of the SIM cards and Paytm barcodes and how they procured those in such huge numbers are also being investigated,” he added. “It is too early to comment on their involvement. But it appears the trio has deep-rooted links (to the racket). At least the huge quantities of SIM cards and PayTM barcodes indicate so. We have taken them on remand and will begin interrogations to track the network,” said additional superintendent of police (rural) Krishanu Roy. A police officer with expertise in cyber crime said online gambling was generally done by creating secure groups on WhatsApp or Telegram. “The group admins refer to websites, on which group members can play games and place bets. To skip the surveillance of Indian authorities, domains of these sites are generally located in China and payments are routed through India-based gateways like Paytm. The benefit remittances are usually transferred to several linked bank accounts to avoid scanners of income tax,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Northeast Frontier Railway to introduce vistadome coaches to enable passengers enjoy scenery||The Northeast Frontier Railway will introduce vistadome coaches on two routes by August to enable passengers enjoy the natural beauty. According to NFR sources, trains with vistadome coaches will run on the Siliguri Junction-Sevoke-Alipurduar Junction route and the Lumding-Badarpur route in Assam. “The vistadome coaches will be added to passenger trains running between Alipurduar and Siliguri junctions. Similar coaches will be attached to trains which run along the Lumding-Badarpur route. The plan is to introduce the coaches in August provided that existing Covid-19-related restrictions are withdrawn and the situation becomes normal,” NFR chief public relations officer S.Chanda said. Railway minister Piyush Goyal had launched similar coaches on Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express special train. From the coaches, which have huge window glasses, and even a glass roof, one can enjoy the rivers, valleys, waterfalls and scenic beauty of Western Ghats during the journey. “We believe such coaches would equally attract people to travel on the two routes in the NFR zone. Passengers can enjoy the pristine forests, hills and rivers across the Dooars,” said a railway official. The Dooars tracks cut through Chapramari and Mahananda wildlife sanctuaries and the Buxa Tiger Reserve and through the fringes of Jaldapara and Gorumara forests. The NFR sources said each train would have two vistadome coaches. “The coaches will be ready in Chennai and will reach us by next month. There will be 44 seats in each coach and can revolve 180 degrees,” Chanda said. Around three years ago, the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway had launched vistadome coaches on its trains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Email scam: Professor of Kalyani University duped of Rs 90,000||A professor of Kalyani University was allegedly duped of Rs 90,000 by an email scam that used her university vice-chancellor Manas Kumar Sanyal’s name. Hindi professor Biva Kumari, a resident of Rishra, purchased 12 gift cards for Rs 7,500 each from an e-commerce site mentioned in the email. “I couldn’t imagine the email was fake....the gift cards were meant to help a children’s trust,” she said, adding she bought the cards in response to three emails. When after refusing the fourth time, she called up Sanyal to apologise, she came to know he knew nothing about it. On Sunday, she filed a complaint with Kalyani police, which was added to the original complaint lodged by registrar Debansu Ray on Saturday. Starting Saturday, many staff, students and officials said they received the email, prompting the registrar to lodge the complaint against unidentified persons. Some like Amalendu Bhunia, the dean of the arts faculty, became suspicious of the email and called up Sanyal to ask if he had indeed sent it. The university has issued a notification asking people to not respond to such emails. VC Sanyal said: “It is quite obvious that the email ID has been created with ill intentions and to malign the office of the vice-chancellor.” Kalyani police have begun a probe. Sources said investigating officials are trying to locate the internet protocol address from where the purported mail was sent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
28-06-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress courts Rajbanshi leader close to BJP||Trinamul is trying to win over Ananta Maharaj, a leader of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association (GCPA) with clout among the Rajbanshis, who has backed the BJP in recent polls, to get the influential community on its side. Trinamul leaders have started communicating with Ananta, who was living in Assam in recent years. Administrative sources said decks are being cleared to drop some old cases against him. “Senior Trinamul leader Rabindranath Ghosh met him. Then, he (Ananta) returned  home in Barogila of Chakchaka (on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town) a few days back from Assam. There is information that curbs on his bank accounts have been relaxed and there is no indication that warrants pending against him will be executed,” said a source. Ghosh, the most prominent Trinamul face in Cooch Behar, did not reveal much. “All I can say is that Ananta Maharaj is a nice person,” he said. A senior Trinamul leader in Alipurduar said this clearly indicated that Trinamul’s distance from Ananta, believed to be instrumental behind the BJP’s stellar show in north Bengal in recent Lok Sabha  and Assembly polls in Rajbanshi-dominated belts, is about to be bridged. The Rajbanshis play a key role in the outcome in half of eight parliamentary and 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. “We got leaders like Bangshibadan Barman (leader of another faction of the GCPA) and Atul Roy (who headed the Kamtapur Progressive Party) on board while the BJP managed to get Ananta on their side. Eventually, it was found that Ananta matters more,” said a Trinamul leader in Cooch Behar, alluding to his party’s poor poll performance  in the region. That is why, though Ananta is a principal proponent of the demand of separate statehood, Trinamul wants him. Insiders say the timing is right. “Before Assembly polls, even home minister (Amit Shah) met him (Ananta)....But now, discontent is brewing as the BJP has not done anything for the Rajbanshis,” said the leader. Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP president who was in Cooch Behar on Sunday, scoffed. “We have good relations with Ananta Maharaj and he is with us,” he said. Hundreds of posters allegedly of banned Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), formed in the 1990s by some Rajbanshi youths, were found in Chopra block of North Dinajpur on Sunday. Each had a text in Rajbanshi: “In Chopra, Trinamul should stop torturing Rajbanshis, who are sons of the soil, or else we are there (KLO).” Police are trying to ascertain the authenticity of the posters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
28-06-2021||West Bengal||District administration takes initiative to develop community healthcare unit near Buxa fort||Residents of the tiny hamlets in and around Buxa hills of Alipurduar will finally have access to basic healthcare in their locality. For the first time, the district administration has taken the initiative to develop a community health unit near the historical Buxa fort. The unit, to be manned by paramedics and health workers, will have three beds. “The idea is to provide primary treatment to people in hilly villages that one can’t access by car. The health unit is likely to be ready by next month,” said Prashanta Barman, the BDO of Kalchini block under which the area falls. So far, the residents of these hilly hamlets carry patients in bamboo cots and trek for 10-15km to reach locations where they can put the patient in a vehicle and finally head for the district hospital in Alipurduar. “In March this year, a patient brought to the hospital was pronounced dead. The doctors that time had commented that he would have stayed alive if he had been  provided with some primary treatment. It is good that the administration has finally thought of opening a community health unit in Buxa,” said a source in the district health department. A few days back, Barman, along with Surendra Kumar Meena, the Alipurduar district magistrate, and a small team had trekked 11km across hills to reach Adma, a remote village in Buxa hills, to initiate the Covid-19 vaccination process. The Alipurduar  district administration has also decided to build a concrete gallery on the ground of Buxa fort that was used as a detention centre by the British, for tourists to sit, relax and enjoy the pristine natural beauty. Every year, hundreds of tourists, especially trekkers, visit the fort surrounded by lush green forests, with the Bhutan hills forming the background. “However, there is no proper place for them to sit and relax. That is why the gallery has been planned,” Barman, the Kalchini BDO, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-10
