29-06-2021||West Bengal||Vaccination in Bengal at lowest, alleges Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday attacked Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging that Covid-19 vaccination is the lowest in the state and fake inoculation camps are being organised here. He also claimed that "organised post-poll violence" is taking place in the state and though it has a woman chief minister, women are facing atrocities. Nadda alleged that Banerjee, also the Trinamool Congress supremo, is "changing her version" every other day on the vaccination programme, and the state government has failed in the process, though the Centre is providing free vaccines to states. "If you see the data, the vaccination is lowest in Bengal. This is the only state where you would see fake vaccination camps are being run. We have never heard about fake vaccination. Even TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty got a jab of the fake vaccine," he said. Several persons, including the mastermind, were recently arrested for organising dubious camps in Kolkata where people were administered fake vaccine doses. The BJP president is virtually addressing the first executive committee meeting of the partys state unit after the assembly polls. The post-poll violence clearly reflected the failure of the state administration, Nadda said. Aadhaar cards and ration cards of BJP workers have been taken away and the police have remained a mute spectator, he alleged. "All of this happened under a woman CM. A lot of atrocities have been faced by women. If women are not safe, what sort of governance are the people of West Bengal getting from the TMC?" he asked. Without mentioning the BJP's failure to achieve its much-hyped target of winning the state assembly election, Nadda exuded confidence that in the next five years, the party will take a big leap and will form the government in the next polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal delay in DGP appointment may lead to fresh tension with Centre||The Mamata Banerjee government may be walking into a fresh set of troubles by not initiating the process of appointing Bengal's next Director General of Police (DGP), given that the incumbent is set to retire on August 31. As per Supreme Court directives, the state government should have sent a list of contenders to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) months earlier. But since the Trinamul Congress-led government is yet to do so, it opens itself up for criticism from the apex court which is monitoring DGP appointments  for all states. Earlier this month, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had raised the issue, claiming that norms were flouted during the incumbent DGP, Virendra’s appointment. In a tweet, the Governor had mentioned that the state government should have sent names of three top contenders to UPSC by June 1. “Directives of the Supreme Court came to be flouted in effecting appointment of the present incumbent of Virendra as DGP. Those concerned with such flouting of honourable SC order need to be held accountable. Such disregard of the SC directive is not at all appreciated,” Dhankhar had said in his tweet. The Supreme Court has set guidelines for appointment of DGPs in states. But such appointments remain mired in controversy with several  state governments often looking the other way and continuing to play favourites while making key postings. The SC has instructed states to send names of the contenders to UPSC three months before the retirement of the current DGP. UPSC is then supposed to prepare a panel of three on the basis of merit and seniority on the condition that they all have two years of service left. State governments are to pick the candidate from this panel. The apex court’s guidelines also forbid states from appointing any IPS officer to the post on ad hoc basis. “Often states end up picking their favourites, ignoring seniority,” said a retired IPS officer. Virendra’s predecessor, Surajit Kar Purakayastha, was appointed DG in 2016, bypassing six senior officers. The Mamata Banerjee government went on to create a special post for him to continue after his retirement. DG (CRPF) Kuldiep Singh should be the replacement for Virendra since he was senior-most. But given his stint with the Central force and the additional charge he holds, that of handling the NIA, it is unlikely that Singh would like to return to Calcutta. Also, Singh is due to retire in September next year, which means he would have a tenure of less than a year if he was appointed to the post. According to sources, Singh’s batchmate Manoj Malviya, now posted as DG (Organisation), is not in Mamata's good books. Also, he faces cases of alleged corruption pertaining to his tenure outside the state. All these factors make him an unlikely choice. Next in the line is 1987 batch IPS P Nirajnayan, who was made DGP by the Election Commission during the assembly elections, in place of Virendra. Mamata removed Nirajnayan soon after taking oath as chief minister for the third time. “She regards Nirajnayan as EC’s man and would not like to see him lead the state police force,” said an officer. With no clear favourites in the running, and the shadow of Supreme Court directives looming, Mamata is yet to make her choice clear for the next state police chief, something that could well invite censure from the apex court and lead to fresh escalation of tensions with the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Vaccingate: Deb's cousin who cheated him arrested||The Calcutta Police’s special investigation team arrested Kanchan Deb, a cousin of IAS impersonator Debanjan Deb, late on Monday night with  officers saying the 37-year-old was at first an eager participant in the various fraud schemes run by Deb but later went on to cheat him. Police are now trying to find out how and why Kanchan cheated his cousin. Sarat Patra, a former assistant to a physician (now deceased) in the Taltala area, was also arrested on Monday night.  Both Patra and Kanchan were scheduled to be produced in court later in the day. During his stint with the physician, Patra had learnt to  administer injections and dress wounds. That training was used by Deb while running his fake vaccine camps where Patra administered the fake doses. Deb had organised two camps in Kasba and City College where vials of fake Covishield vaccines were given to unsuspecting users. Over the years, Deb had also taken fancy to getting his name published in newspapers and being photographed with the political brass. On receiving news of “adulterated petrol” being sold in Kasba near his office, Deb carried out a "search" while posing as aCalcutta Mniciapl Corporation and had his photographs carried in the next morning’s dailies. He also conducted an "election", where all his employees voted for him. He declared himself winner of the elections of West Bengal Employees Federation, which was published in some newspapers of Calcutta. The police are trying to find if any such organisation exists in Bengal and whether Deb has any ties with it. “It is quite possible he just picked up a name and usurped it like his identity,” said a police officer. On Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee broke her silence on the fake vaccine racket operating in the city. “Those who play with people’s lives are worse than terrorists. I am surprised at his audacity. Such frauds go around clicking selfies with important people and use them elsewhere. Police and CMC cannot say they were unaware what was going on. The BJP could have provided support too,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal govt extends existing restrictions till July 15||The Bengal government on Monday extended the existing stricter restrictions till July 15 but green-lighted all modes of road transport at 50 per cent passenger capacity and widened the working hours of shops and other establishments from July 1. Suburban local trains and Metro rail services, however, will remain suspended for now. “The stricter restrictions are being extended till July 15. We will also allow some more activities and see whether Covid-19 cases are rising,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna on Monday after holding a review meeting. An official said later: “The idea is that we should know whether we can go forward towards restoring near-normality by allowing some more relaxations. We can move forward only when we are sure that the relaxations will not result in another spike in infections.… We can check this by allowing relaxations in a phased manner.” The official added: “The experience has not been bad, with positive cases in the state declining continuously despite the relaxations given 15 days ago.” Some of the key relaxations announced on Monday: ⚫ All modes of road transport including state-run and private buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws can operate at 50 per cent passenger capacity. ⚫ Salons and beauty parlours can function between 11am and 6pm at 50 per cent capacity. ⚫ Shops dealing with vegetables, fish, meat, milk and eggs can remain open between 6am and 12 noon. ⚫ All other shops can stay open between 11am and 8pm. ⚫ Private companies and offices can operate with 50 per cent employees. ⚫ Gyms can stay open from 6am to 10am, and from 4pm to 8pm. The chief minister said that all these facilities would be allowed, subject to vaccination of the employees and compliance with other protocols. “We came to know that some people are still not wearing masks. We have to ensure that the third phase of the pandemic does not create trouble in the state,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar is a corrupt man, says Mamata Banerjee ||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said he had a disagreement with the state government over the draft of the address he would have to deliver at the beginning of the Assembly’s budget session on Friday as he had found “certain discrepancies” in the speech. Dhankhar said he had intimated the state government in writing about the “discrepancies” and expressed his desire to discuss the matter with the chief minister on Tuesday. Before the governor revealed his disagreement with the address, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said Dhankhar was corrupt. “Minutes before her press conference (at Nabanna), I received a call from her... I put forward some questions regarding the speech. She said she had nothing to do, as the cabinet had passed it…. It seems her comment  at the press conference was a knee-jerk reaction,” Dhankhar said at a hurriedly convened news conference at the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta. Sources in the state government said the Raj Bhavan occupant was suspected of trying to include in his address  the BJP’s “baseless” allegations regarding post-poll violence against it in Bengal and the law and order in the state. They said he has also been demanding a “guarantee” of live television coverage of the address, which the ruling dispensation fears is indicative of his intent to go off-script in full public view. Dhankhar said he hoped Mamata would meet him on Tuesday to discuss the matter with him, adding that he hoped for an amicable resolution acceptable to all. After explaining his disapproval of the draft address, Dhankhar went on to attack Mamata referring to some of her comments made earlier in the day during a news conference in Nabanna. Swatting away the chief minister’s allegation that he was charge-sheeted in the Jain Diaries case — a politico-financial hawala scandal of the 1990s — Dhankhar said: “The allegations… don’t have an iota of truth. It is unfortunate that she is spreading misinformation, misinterpreting facts…. It does not suit a seasoned politician like her,” he said. “I never expected a leader of her stature to create sensation, engage in misinformation…. Your governor was never named in any charge-sheet. There is no such document…. Nobody has been convicted in the hawala case” he added, referring to Mamata as his “younger sister”. Dhankhar said the chief minister should have consulted the likes of former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha — named in the charge-sheet — who is now her party’s national vice-president. The day began with the governor levelling allegations of irregularities related to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). Dhankhar — accused by the chief minister of conducting the trip to north Bengal in order to foment tension in the region and encourage divisive forces — said  the GTA was a “den of corruption and nepotism”, demanding a CAG audit of the funds allotted to the body. Mamata dismissed the suggestion. “The governor is trying to dictate everyone, even our officers… right after our government was blessed with such a massive, historic mandate by the people. Repeatedly overstepping the constitutional bounds of his office. He is just the governor…. Who is he to say all this?” asked Mamata, reiterating that she has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi thrice demanding Dhankhar’s removal, urging the Centre to come clean on whether it was going to do so. “He is a corrupt man. Why has the (Union) government allowed a man like him to continue…? He should clarify whether his name is there in the charge-sheet of the scam,” she added. “Out of our utmost respect for the Constitution, I will continue to meet him, talk to him… follow all the courtesies and protocol, for as long as he is here…. The Union government should act based on my letters.” During his visit to north Bengal, Dhankhar met a number of BJP lawmakers and other leaders of the saffron camp, including John Barla, the BJP’s Alipurduar MP who has been a key recent proponent of the contentious demand for statehood of north Bengal. Mamata questioned the meeting. “We also have information that some people have been asked to organise movements on the issue. Why did he go there? Does he want to divide north Bengal? I have never seen a governor like him,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||BJP leadership gives green signal to use Suvendu's picture alongside Dilip on party posters in Bengal||The BJP central leadership has given the green light to use the picture of the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari alongside that of state unit chief Dilip Ghosh on party posters in Bengal. The decision, seen as an elevation of Trinamul turncoat Suvendu’s status, has allegedly widened the rift between his and Ghosh’s camps. Many insiders are questioning the emergence of the MLA as a parallel power centre in Bengal BJP. “Suvendu is on the lookout for opportunities to edge past old-timers like Dilipda. The nod to use his pictures on party posters alongside Dilipda will further strengthen Suvendu’s grip on the party,” a source in the BJP said. The rift between the two came out in the open this month when Suvendu visited Delhi and met heavyweights, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. Ghosh told journalists he had no clue about Suvendu’s Delhi trip. The Nandigram MLA said the state unit general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty was aware of it. “He (Suvendu) has convinced Amitavada to approve his activities. This is how he wants to team up against Dilipda,” the BJP source said. It is in this backdrop that party old-timers feel that the central leadership’s nod to Suvendu’s pictures on posters will further disturb the balance of power. A senior BJP leader said the move to accommodate Suvendu’s picture on posters goes contrary to the party’s decision ahead of Bengal polls. To avoid the risk of feuds, the central unit had decided only on Ghosh’s picture on posters with those of central leaders. Sources close to Suvendu said central leaders had a change of heart on the poster issue as the MLA was the leader of the Opposition. “The leader of the Opposition is undoubtedly an important post. But it should be remembered that Dilipda is unhappy with Suvendu for going to  Delhi without telling him. it proves Suvendu is trying to supersede Dilipda. At such a point, giving the former more focus could have been avoided,” a BJP veteran said. State BJP general-secretary Sayantan Basu denied anything unusual in the use of the leader of Opposition’s picture on party posters and refuted talks of a rift between Ghosh and Suvendu. “Both the state party president and leader of the Opposition are equally important for us. They have equal contributions to make and designated responsibilities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports drop in active cases by 59.9%||Bengal on Monday reported the eighth consecutive day of a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases, by 304 to touch 21,580. The state reported 2,033 recoveries, 1,761 new infections and 32 deaths in the past 24 hours. This dip in infections and active cases reflected in the key parameter of case growth, which is the percentage of growth of cases over the past week compared to the week earlier. Bengal now is 23rd among states in case growth, with  a fall of 59.9 per cent. With Calcutta logging 164 new infections and North 24-Parganas 186, Monday was the first time since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases in 24 hours. Fifteen Bengal districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day. Best-performers Malda and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Of the 32 deaths, seven were from the city and nine from North 24-Parganas. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. Five others reported one each. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.38 per cent, while the national rate is 96.83. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 3.52 on Monday. The dip in  percentage of positive cases out of samples tested indicates reducing Covid-19 spread. The total number of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702 from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But for 11 days till June 20, it had risen again by over 56 per cent, before starting to fall again in these eight days. Bengal in all has 14.96 lakh Covid-19 cases since March 2020.  It includes 14.57 lakh recoveries and 17,644 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal University issues notice announcing  enrolment fee waiver for poverty-stricken||The North Bengal University on Monday issued a notice announcing waiver on the enrolment fees of various semester exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students who are either from BPL families or have been financially affected because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the applicant will have to submit proper documents to validate their claim. Sources said that for the past few days NBU Students’ Unity had been raising demand for such a waiver. They also submitted three memorandums to the varsity authorities. “It is good that the NBU authorities have come up with a notice. But we believe the process of getting the waiver should be simplified,” said Anindita Pandit, a student of Kalipada Ghosh Tarai Mahavidyalaya in Bagdogra. Pranab Ghosh, the registrar of the NBU, said: “The decision has been taken in view of the pandemic situation. We want the students to get the benefit before appearing in forthcoming semesters exams. Students who are financially affected due to the pandemic or are from poor families can get the waiver. They will, however, have to provide us a certificate issued by the district magistrate, the sub-divisional officer or the block development officer in support of their application.” According to varsity sources, around one lakh students study in undergraduate courses in 49 colleges affiliated to the varsity while there are around 4,000 students who are pursuing post-graduation in different subjects at the NBU. For UG courses, students studying in courses which involve use of laboratories need to pay Rs 700 as enrolment fees while for other courses, the fee is Rs 500. For PG courses, the fees is Rs and Rs 450, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Indian Meteorological Department issues alert of heavy rain in north Bengal from June 27 to July 3||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an alert of heavy to very heavy rain in north Bengal from June 27 to July 3. A weatherman explained the shift of a low-pressure trough and moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal as reasons. Most parts of north Bengal saw downpour on Monday. Yaba tablets Police at Maynaguri, Jalpaiguri, seized 60,000 Yaba tablets worth Rs 60 lakh used by drug abusers from the border of Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri districts at Kaldibandha on Sunday night. Three men have been arrested. Those arrested have been identified as Biplab Hussain, Azidul Mian and Hazrat Mian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Border Security Force arrests Nadia man with Bangla wife on border||The Border Security Force on Saturday night caught an Indian youth and a 19-year-old Bangladeshi woman when they illegally sneaked into India through a porous spot of the boundary at Bhimpur in Nadia district. While Jaykanto Chandra Roy, 24, is from Santipur-Ballabhpur in Nadia district, the woman is a resident of Khulna in Bangladesh. Roy, the son of a farmer, had illegally crossed over to Bangladesh in March ostensibly to marry the woman with whom he had interacted through social media for a year. According to Roy, BSF sources said, he had married the woman in March and stayed there till Saturday before making their way to India. The duo were apprehended by the BSF’s 82-Battalion. The BSF questioned the two at the border outpost and later handed them over to Bhimpur police. The police arrested them and booked them for illegally crossing the border. They were produced in a court in Krishnagar on Sunday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. The woman was eventually sent to a home in Krishnagar. A BSF spokesperson said: “The youth is an Indian but he went to Bangladesh illegally and returned with a woman illegally sneaking through an unfenced border point with the help of touts. The Bangladeshi woman will be charged under Foreigners’ Act.” During the interrogation, Roy has apparently revealed that he entered Bangladesh with the help of tout from Taraknagar. On June 26, he paid Rs 10,000 to a Bangladeshi broker to return to India by crossing the border. A senior officer of the BSF’s south Bengal frontier in Calcutta said: “The youth and the woman claimed to be a couple. Nevertheless, the intention of the youth was not quite clear to us. We are committed to preventing trafficking of women. Human traffickers often adopt new methods and trap innocent girls and push them into prostitution.” A senior officer of Bhimpur police station said: “This is a quite unusual case. Love united this couple beyond the geographical boundary but law separated them. It is now for the court to decide the future of the couple.” A lawyer said the Indian youth should have adopted legal means to live happily ever after with his wife. “He should have brought the woman to India on a tourist visa and married her here. Tying the nuptial knot under the special marriage act could have helped the girl get a residential visa.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Calcutta High Court to hear Mamata Banerjee's affidavit||Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal of Calcutta High Court said on Monday that a five-judge bench would examine from Tuesday the affidavits filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Malay Ghatak in connection with the CBI’s allegations against them following the arrest of four politicians in the Narada case. The five-judge bench headed by Justice Bindal has decided to examine the affidavits following a Supreme Court verdict to the effect. On June 9, the high court had refused to entertain the pleas by Mamata and Ghatak to examine the affidavits. The duo then approached the Supreme Court against the higher court’s decision. On Friday, the Supreme Court asked the high court to hear the pleas to examine the affidavits before holding further proceedings on the CBI’s petition to transfer the Narada case to the high court itself. The CBI had arrested four heavyweight leaders, including two Trinamul ministers and an MLA, in connection with the Narada case on May 17. The chief minister and a few other Trinamul leaders had rushed to the CBI office in the city following the arrests and left after the four leaders were granted bail by the CBI court. But late in the evening, the CBI moved the high court and charged Mamata with creating disruption at the Calcutta office of the central investigative agency. The CBI had also accused the law minister of trying to influence the city's sessions court judge by attending the courtroom during hearing of the bail pleas of arrested leaders. In their plea before the five-judge bench hearing the Narada case, the CBI had made the chief minister and the law minister respondents. But when both the ministers filed affidavits to clarify their stand in regard to CBI's allegations, the acting Chief Justice had declined to hear the ministers. Both Mamata and Ghatak had moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s stand. Last week, the Supreme Court directed the five-judge bench of the high court to hear the chief minister and the law minister. Lawyers appearing for Mamata and Ghatak on Monday informed the high court about the Supreme Court’s directive and sought immediate hearing of their pleas. To this, the acting Chief Justice said the pleas would be heard from Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-8
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Calcutta High Court to hear Mamata Banerjee's affidavit||Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal of Calcutta High Court said on Monday that a five-judge bench would examine from Tuesday the affidavits filed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Malay Ghatak in connection with the CBI’s allegations against them following the arrest of four politicians in the Narada case. The five-judge bench headed by Justice Bindal has decided to examine the affidavits following a Supreme Court verdict to the effect. On June 9, the high court had refused to entertain the pleas by Mamata and Ghatak to examine the affidavits. The duo then approached the Supreme Court against the higher court’s decision. On Friday, the Supreme Court asked the high court to hear the pleas to examine the affidavits before holding further proceedings on the CBI’s petition to transfer the Narada case to the high court itself. The CBI had arrested four heavyweight leaders, including two Trinamul ministers and an MLA, in connection with the Narada case on May 17. The chief minister and a few other Trinamul leaders had rushed to the CBI office in the city following the arrests and left after the four leaders were granted bail by the CBI court. But late in the evening, the CBI moved the high court and charged Mamata with creating disruption at the Calcutta office of the central investigative agency. The CBI had also accused the law minister of trying to influence the city's sessions court judge by attending the courtroom during hearing of the bail pleas of arrested leaders. In their plea before the five-judge bench hearing the Narada case, the CBI had made the chief minister and the law minister respondents. But when both the ministers filed affidavits to clarify their stand in regard to CBI's allegations, the acting Chief Justice had declined to hear the ministers. Both Mamata and Ghatak had moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s stand. Last week, the Supreme Court directed the five-judge bench of the high court to hear the chief minister and the law minister. Lawyers appearing for Mamata and Ghatak on Monday informed the high court about the Supreme Court’s directive and sought immediate hearing of their pleas. To this, the acting Chief Justice said the pleas would be heard from Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
29-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Vaccine shortage triggers protests at several jab centres ||Protests at several vaccination centres erupted in both south and north Bengal on Monday as jabs fell short of demand. At least five persons, including a woman, received minor injuries when around 2,000 people, who had come for their second dose of the vaccine, rushed towards a counter at a rural hospital in Hooghly’s Singur. Sources said the hospital had the capacity to administer vaccines to 500 people, but over 2,000 people turned up after getting auto-generated text alerts for the second dose from the government server. “I came here on getting the alert but faced a free-for-all when the counter opened. Many got injured amid the pushing and shoving. I left,” said a retired school teacher. The chaos alarmed hospital authorities and a police team from Singur controlled the situation. The cops asked 500 people to queue up, which left many people fuming. In Nadia’s Santipur, 200 people staged a demonstration at the state general hospital when authorities at the vaccination centre failed to give them a second dose of Covishield. People, mostly the aged, alleged they were scheduled to get the jab and had queue up from dawn, but the hospital authorities around 10am said they couldn’t give the jabs. An agitation erupted at Ranaghat subdivisional hospital after the hospital issued registration slips to only 100 beneficiaries though over 500 persons were waiting. Then, 100 more slips were issued. Hospital superintendent Shayamal Kumar Porey said most were eligible for the second dose. “We have limited supply of vaccines and advised them not to panic as there is no harm in getting the jab a few days though 84 days have passed since their first dose.” It was a similar situation at a Jhargram public health centre after authorities told people they had only 150 vials and would not be able to vaccinate everyone present. Protests erupted in at least two locations of Alipurduar district as hundreds who turned up at two health centres for Covid-19 vaccination had to return without getting the shot. In Kalchini block’s Jaigaon town on the India-Bhutan border, over 100 people, mostly senior citizens, did not get the second dose though around 90 days had passed since their first dose. “I received my first dose (Covishield) on March 24 and the health staff had told me I will get the second after 84 days. Today, I told them that 90 days have passed. They asked me to visit the centre after a couple of days. It is nothing but harassment for elderly persons like us,” said Ramprasad Sharma, 65. Many protested in front of the centre, wielding certificates of the first dose. Health officials of the block had to intervene and bring the situation under control. “In Kalchini block, we are vaccinating potential super-spreaders. People should understand that the second dose can be administered between 84 and 112 days after the first dose. They need not panic,” said Subhash Kumar Karmakar, block medical officer of health of Kalchini. Around 200 women of Alipurduar-II block, who are mothers of children aged 12 years or below, and priority candidates for the jab for to ensure the safety of the children before the likely third wave of the pandemic, had to return home without getting the first dose. On Sunday, they had been told by ICDS centres about getting the first dose on Monday. Around 1,000 women reached the primary health centre of the block at Jashordanga, many from 5am. “We waited for hours but many of us did not get the jab,” said Sabita Debnath, a resident. Some women got agitated amid the delay and tried to enter the centre. Health staff called up the police who rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Tanmoy Debnath, the block medical health officer, said overcrowding hampered the vaccination process.  “We hope the situation will improve from Tuesday,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-9
