30-06-2021||West Bengal|| Mamata opens credit window for students, but warns of fraudsters||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee launched one of her biggest welfare schemes, easy credit for students, on Wednesday but used the occasion to caution the youth against fraudsters, particularly those that use the internet to dupe people, at a time when her government is being targeted by the Opposition BJP for a recently unearthed fake vaccine racket. “Look at the vaccine scam. It had nothing to do with the state government, it was an isolated case,” Mamata said, while launching the student credit card scheme, the latest among welfare programmes promised before the elections, which would entitle students to soft loans for higher education. “When the attack on Parliament took place, the vehicle used had a logo of the Parliament. Government logos are copied and used. These things happen,” she said alluding to the prime accused who was impersonating as an officer of the Calcutta Corporation while organising fake vaccination camps, all the while armed with forged documents to prove his "official" credentials. Debanjan Deb, the prime accused who has been arrested with a few of his accomplices, went around the city conducting raids, distributing masks, seeking funds for projects from contractors while posing as an IAS officer. He had photographs and his name engraved in foundation stones with the who’s who of the Trinamul Congress. All of which have contributed to the embarrassment to Mamata and her government. Mamata’s comments on Wednesday came hours after the Calcutta High Court’s acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal questioned the state government. “Even if he had been an IAS officer could he have moved around with a blue beacon in his car? He moved around as a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. What was the municipal commissioner doing? How could he not identify the person?” asked the acting chief justice . Mamata, however, defended her government and party, saying none could be blamed. “Many people ask for selfies. I refuse sometimes. No one knows how the photographs will be used. I am sitting in the first row of an aircraft and the photos are getting clicked from row 20. These things are happening,” she said. Mamata reminded state education minister Bratya Basu that the education department would have to take complete responsibility of the students' credit card scheme and monitor the process. “The communication code for the system should only be known to two persons and they will be held responsible if anything goes wrong,” she said. Under the scheme, a student of Class X or higher can avail a soft loan of up to Rs 10 lakh to pursue higher studies in schools, colleges, institutes in Bengal, other states and, also, abroad."No guarantor is needed for this loan. The state will stand guarantee," Mamata said at an online press conference. Any applicant can avail the facility till the age of 40. The loan would have to be repaid in 15 years. “There are many who were forced to take a break from studies for personal reasons but would like to get a second chance. This scheme will offer that,” said Mamata. “Undergraduates, post-graduates, doctoral and post-doctoral students in India and abroad can avail of a total of Rs 10 lakh as loan.” The Bengal government is among the first to offer a student credit card. Bihar is in the process of organising one. Currently, credit cards for students are only offered by some private banks, including ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt's aircraft search prompts Suvendu's 'pushpak rath' sneer at Mamata||The West Bengal government’s search for an aircraft operator, with the offer of an assured 45 hours of flying every month, has raised questions on the necessity of such expenditure for a cash-strapped government with Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari coming out with a caustic tweet on Wednesday. The West Bengal Infrastructure Development Corporation had floated the tender for hiring the fixed-wing aircraft on June 11 with earnest money is fixed at Rs 10 lakh. Among the requirements listed by WBIDC are: the firm should have a minimum of five-year experience of operating a fixed-wing twin-engine aircraft with a minimum capacity of 8-10 passengers, the aircraft has to be an air-conditioned, pressurised super mid-size aircraft like a Falcon- 2000 with stand-up cabin space and be capable of flying any distance within India. The tender document mentions that the aircraft should be equipped for meeting standards of use by a VIP. “Pushpak Rath for (self-proclaimed) PM??? Dissatisfied with the helicopter's range, the process of acquiring a 10 seater airplane has been initiated. Convenient for whimsical crisscrossing of the entire country for upcoming Lok Sabha poll campaigning? On Govt expenses?” tweeted Adhikari, the BJP leader who held the transport department when he was a minister in the Mamata Banerjee government. The chief minister, who often speaks about her austere lifestyle and is known for being a frugal eater, is, however, showing an inclination to travel like her counterparts in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. In 2016, the Bengal government had floated a tender for an aircraft with a capacity of seven to nine passengers for a period of five years. Sources said the Bengal government pays Rs 70 lakh per month to the Delhi-based agency which had received the contract. The aircraft was lying idle for the most part of 2020 after the pandemic-induced lockdown was imposed while the state paid for it. The decision to get the aircraft in 2016 was taken after Mamata found travel by rail and road cumbersome when she used to frequent the districts, especially in North Bengal. More Opposition leaders spoke out against the Bengal government's desire for an aircraft. "When the state is going through a financial crisis such expenses are meaningless. Problem is neither Pisi (Mamata) nor Bhaipo (Trinamul all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee) are comfortable staying on the ground," said Sujan Chakraborty, CPM central committee member. "There is a competition between Modi and Mamata on who can waste more public money. People are watching this competition," said Abdul Mannan, veteran Congress leader. In September 2011, Mamata after returning from North Bengal had complained of a conspiracy when the flight she was in could not land for around 30 minutes. Five years later, in December 2016 Mamata claimed another conspiracy to eliminate her after the flight she was in could not land at the Calcutta airport. In April 2019, during the run-up to the Lok Sabha polls, Mamata’s chopper lost its way near the Bangladesh border and took 55 minutes to cover a 22-minutes journey from Siliguri to Chopra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Centre seeks report from Bengal on fake vaccination camp in Calcutta||The Union Health Ministry has asked the Bengal government to inquire into instances of Covid-19 vaccination camps being organised allegedly by unauthorised people in some areas of Calcutta and submit a report in the next two days. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to Hari Krishna Dwivedi, Chief Secretary of Bengal, seeking a factual report on the matter. Bhushan referred to a letter written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan by Suvendu Adhikari, Leader of Opposition in Bengal, on June 25 in which attention has been drawn to the instances of Covid-19 vaccination camps being organised allegedly by unauthorised people. It is also pointed out that in some of these camps, and notably in the Kasba locality of the Calcutta Municipal area, none of the beneficiaries have received any vaccination certificates generated from Co-WIN, giving rise to apprehensions about the genuineness of these vaccination camps, Bhushan said in his letter. He said as per the guidelines, all vaccination sessions for Covid-19 have to be organised through the Co-WIN portal and all vaccinations too have to be recorded on Co-WIN. Also, vaccination certificates are generated from Co-WIN after the vaccination events are successfully recorded by the vaccinators and that, these certificates are then given to the beneficiaries in digital or physical form, he said in the letter. The Centre has also advised states from time to time that vaccination certificates must be issued to beneficiaries. "Non-issuance of these certificates, therefore, does lead to the apprehension of 'fake' vaccination camps and also raises doubts on contents of injections delivered in such camps. Such instances, if not promptly enquired into and suitably addressed, may also lead to the possibility of their recurrence," Bhushan said. "It is requested that the matter may be urgently enquired into and the factual position about the serious allegations raised in the letter referred to above, clarified immediately and that, suitable and strict action may be taken in the matter, if necessary. It is also requested that a factual report on the matter may be sent to this ministry in the next two days," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court allows Mamata, state govt to file affidavit in Narada case||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday allowed the Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to file her affidavit before it in connection with the CBI's plea for transfer of the Narada sting tapes case. The court has however fined Mamata and the TMC government Rs 5,000 for not filing the affidavit on time. As the lawyers representing Mamata, Ghatak, the state and the CBI concluded their submission, a five-judge bench of the high court headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal reserved order on their application on Tuesday, which was filed afresh following a Supreme Court direction on the matter. Advocate General Kishore Dutta for the state and senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi representing Mamata had pleaded in favour of allowing them to file the affidavits, which was earlier refused by the high court. Appearing for the CBI, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta had opposed the prayer submitting that it cannot be allowed after he had concluded his arguments in connection with the transfer petition of the Narada sting tape case. Annulling the high court's June 9 order refusing to take reply-affidavits of the state, its chief minister and the law minister, the Supreme Court had on June 25 urged the five-judge bench to decide afresh their pleas before deciding on the CBI petition seeking transfer of the Narada case. Following the apex court's order, the state government, the chief minister and the law minister filed fresh applications on Monday for filing affidavits. Three appeals including one by the state government were filed before the top court challenging the high court's denial for filing of affidavits by Banerjee and Ghatak in their role on the day of the arrest of West Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee on May 17 by the CBI in the Narada sting case. The CBI has made the chief minister and the law minister parties in its transfer application of the Narada case. It claimed that while the chief minister had sat on a dharna at the CBI office here soon after the arrest of the four accused, Ghatak had been present at the Bankshall Court premises during the virtual hearing of the case before the special CBI court there on May 17. The five-judge bench of the high court, comprising ACJ Bindal and justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee had granted interim bail on May 28 to the four Narada scam accused. The special CBI court had granted them bail on May 17 itself, but the order was stayed by the high court, which remanded them to judicial custody They had been placed under house arrest on May 21 by the high court, modifying its earlier order of stay on the bail. The Narada sting operation was conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours At that time, the four arrested politicians were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee government. The sting operation was made public ahead of the 2016 Assembly elections in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Financial assistance much preferred than loan: North Bengal tourism stakeholders||Tourism stakeholders in north Bengal said financial assistance would have helped the sector rather than loans announced by the Centre for the revival of industry. While announcing stimulus for the Indian economy in New Delhi on Monday, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said working capital loans or personal loans would be provided to people associated with the tourism industry so that they could take care of liabilities and restart businesses. She said tourist guides — around 10,700 of them across India are registered with the Union tourism ministry — could apply for a loan up to Rs 1 lakh. Travel and tourism stakeholders like hotel and restaurant owners and transporters recognised by the Union tourism ministry can avail themselves of a maximum loan of Rs 10 lakh. The Centre also decided to issue free tourist visas to five lakh foreigners as part of the stimulus. Raj Basu, a veteran in the north Bengal tourism industry, said he welcomed the decision to issue free visas. “But at the same time, we would like to say most of us cannot afford to take any loan because our earnings have dropped drastically since last year. There are huge uncertainties and we really don’t know how to repay a loan,” said Basu. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network, underscored another point. “A guide’s earning is completely dependent on tourist inflow. When tourist inflow has stopped, how can a guide be helped by a loan of Rs 1 lakh? How will he repay it? The government should have instead thought of some financial assistance for their sustenance during the crisis,” he said. Lukendra Rasaily, the chairman of the Sikkim Tourism Development Corporation, said the Centre should have announced the relief earlier. “Had such a relief been announced during the first wave of Covid-19, it would have helped. Many would probably have taken the loan and recovered the amount during the five months of tourism activity between the first and second waves. Now that the second wave has ruined many (tourism stakeholders) completely, they are in no position to take loans. If they do, the possible third wave will sink them completely. I feel some people will still apply for loans,” said Rasaily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC reiterates demand for Jagdeep Dhankhar’s removal||The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday reiterated its demand for the removal of Jagdeep Dhankhar as Bengal governor and mounted a scathing offensive on his disagreement with the state cabinet’s draft of his address to the Assembly on coming Friday. Dhankhar had said he wanted to discuss certain “discrepancies” in the draft speech with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and hoped she would call on him on Tuesday. But Mamata didn’t go to the Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. Sources in the government said she might meet the governor before his address to the House on Friday but acceding to his demands would remain “out of the question”. Trinamul spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the constitutionally recognised route was that the governor would be aided and advised by a council of ministers, headed by a chief minister. “He is not swayambhu (self-manifested)…. The issue at hand is between the chief minister and the governor. But these things, which should remain confined to these two foremost constitutional figures of the state, by bringing that into the public domain, the governor has violated his oath of secrecy,” Roy told a press conference. Addressing the press conference with Roy, another Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu said: “… prior to this, in the legislative history of India, the address for such a session drafted by a cabinet… not one governor has talked about changing the draft, adding or removing content.” Basu and Roy repeatedly stressed the “need” for Dhankhar’s removal by the Centre. “The Centre must give Bengal freedom from him,” said Basu. “He disregards his real boss, the President of India, on his Delhi trips…. He undermines the role of BJP state president here, by appropriating the mantle of the leader of the Opposition,” he added, going on to say Dhankhar was “probably” the first governor since Independence who conducts news conferences and gives interviews to privately owned media houses on his own, demanding a code of social and mainstream media conduct for governors. “He misuses Twitter, Facebook…. Naturally, the Constitution of 1950 does not specify the dos and don’ts with regard to these things, for a governor,” said the minister. “I demand before the Centre that when various governors are misusing social media, there should be a specific guideline setting the limits of gubernatorial conduct in such spaces,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-6
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports dip in total number of active Covid-19 cases||Bengal reported the ninth straight day of a dip in total number of active Covid-19 cases, by 464 on Tuesday to 21,116. The state reported 2,024 recoveries, 1,595 new infections and 35 deaths. With Calcutta logging 131 new infections and North 24-Parganas 176, Tuesday was the second successive day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported over 200 new cases. Fifteen districts reported double-digit figures in a day, Malda and Purulia single-digit figures. Of 35 deaths, seven were from Calcutta and 11 from North 24-Parganas. Thirteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday, while three others logged one each. The total of active cases had fallen till June 9 by around 89 per cent to 14,702, from the peak of 1,32,181 on May 21. But over 11 days till June 20, it rose by over 56 per cent, before falling by over 8 per cent again over these nine days. Now, Bengal’s recovery rate is  97.41 per cent, while the national rate is 96.88. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, fell to 3 per cent on Tuesday. “We are back in the driving seat,” said a minister. “There is no doubt left that we will get over the residual impact of the second wave in a matter of weeks,” said the minister. Bengal now has a total of 14.98 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.59 lakh recoveries and 17,679 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||TMC members of Hemtabad panchayat samiti seek sabhapati’s removal||Trinamul members of the Hemtabad panchayat samiti in North Dinajpur have sought the sabhapati’s removal, accusing him of nepotism and corruption. In all, 13 members of the rural body have written to the party’s district chief Kanaialal Agarwala, requesting him to remove Shekhar Roy, their party colleague and elected head of the samiti. In the 2018 panchayat polls, Trinamul bagged 14 of 15 seats in the samiti, with one seat going to the BJP. Roy was chosen as the sabhapati. “He has indulged in corruption and nepotism and sometimes worked against the party’s interests. That is why we want his removal and have sought a nod from the district president. Then, we will table a no-confidence motion against him,” said a member. Roy denied the charges. “Some (Trinamul members) try to bag contracts of jobs in Hemtabad block. It is unethical as they are elected representatives. As I object, they want to remove me. I have no problem in stepping down. I will follow the party’s orders.” Agarwala said he has forwarded the letter to the state leadership and were awaiting instructions. Six Trinamul members of a panchayat in Dinhata-I block of Cooch Behar district were expelled from the party on Tuesday. These members of Gitaldaha-II panchayat of the block had tabled a no-confidence against the Trinamul chief of the panchayat without consulting the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Kurseong Municipality rename hall dedicated to Subash Ghisingh||A sudden move by the Kurseong Municipality to allegedly rename a new community hall planned to be dedicated to Subash Ghisingh, the former supremo of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), has sparked a controversy in the hills. Hill Trinamul leaders have criticised the civic body where its ally Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang faction) is in power. The GNLF threatened a movement if the decision wasn’t revoked. Sources said in February 2017, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that the hall, planned in Kurseong by the state government, would be named after Ghisingh. “She had also renamed Rohini Road as Subash Ghisingh Raj Marg. We thanked her for her gesture,” said Robin Lama, a GNLF central committee member in Kurseong. The state north Bengal development department sanctioned Rs 3 crore for the hall and state PWD built it as a space for cultural and other events. A few days back, the civic body had inaugurated the hall, calling it the Municipal Community Hall, a source said. Shanta Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha member of Trinamul who hails from the hills, openly aired her disappointment. “It is disappointing that civic authorities changed the hall’s name (when) the announcement was made by none other than the chief minister,” she said. The GNLF has threatened a protest from July 1 if the new name stayed on. “We appeal to the civic body to change the name immediately. If they don’t, we will launch a sit-in at the civic body from July 1. The state government’s decision can’t be changed by a civic board,” Lama said, adding they would submit a memo to the Kurseong SDO on Wednesday. Civic body members said the political parties were making a “fuss out of a non-issue”.“We inaugurated the building after state PWD told us it was ready. We will name it in an appropriate manner once we get an official communication from the state. There is no politics in it,” said Subhash Pradhan, vice-chairman of Kurseong municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt to probe breach of three dykes in East Midnapore||The Mamata Banerjee government is set to proceed with an inquiry into the breach of three embankments during Cyclone Yaas in East Midnapore after three specific complaints were lodged by citizens with the anti-corruption branch (ACB) of the state government. The development is considered to be significant as it could be the first case where the ACB could be allowed to conduct a full-fledged inquiry into the breach of newly constructed embankments after the chief minister recently raised questions on the issue. “I have heard that three specific complaints have been lodged with the ACB alleging corruption in construction of embankments in East Midnapore. The complaints would be processed by the ACB soon,” said a senior state government official. According to practice, the ACB will primarily find out whether the complaints have any veracity. If the complaints are found to be true, the ACB will then seek permission from the top brass of the government to proceed. “Once the permission is granted, the ACB will lodge a case and the investigation will start,” said an official. Sources in the government said the probe could bring Suvendu Adhikari, former irrigation minister and now the leader of the Opposition, and his family within its ambit. “The embankments were built between 2014 and 2017. Although Suvendu was not irrigation minister at that time, he was the most powerful leader in the district. So, his role in building the embankments could come under scanner,” a source said. Sources also said the ACB had its technical wing to conduct probe into government projects like embankments. Sources in the irrigation department said a total of 80-100km of embankment had been constructed between 2014 and 2017 in Digha and its surroundings. The entire construction was carried out following the same design. “But the embankment were breached at three places under the impact of Cyclone Yaas. Primarily, it appears there were some issues in the execution of the project at certain places. If the design was faulty, the entire embankment would have been washed away. So, there is a scope for conducting a full-fledged inquiry into the issue,” an official said. The state government has decided to strengthen the ACB to ensure that the body can probe all the complaints lodged with it against all public servants. The state government has appointed 34 sub-inspectors, three DSPs and nine inspectors in the branch. “The chief minister is eager to strengthen the ACB to ensure that all complaints coming up against the public servants can be probed in order to ensure that corruption in government schemes and projects is uprooted,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Women hit street, block road to protest transfer of cop||Over 500 residents, mostly women, of Canning in South 24-Parganas blocked a road for hours on Tuesday to protest the transfer order for inspector-in-charge of the local police station Atibur Rahaman to Kurseong. The protesters squatted on the main Canning-Baruipur Road in front of the police station early on Tuesday. Later, another group organised the blockade that held up traffic from 9am to 11am. Rahaman, a resident of Haldia, had joined the Canning police station last October after his transfer from Bankura. Local sources said Rahaman won the hearts of women in Canning by laying stress on their safety and cracking down on hooch dens. Canning subdivisional police officer Gobinda Sikdar tried to persuade the protesters to leave, but they refused, demanding Rahaman be allowed to stay on. Finally, when Rahaman requested people with folded hands to lift the blockade, they paid heed. “It is only because of his policing that women in Canning feel safe now,” said Chandrani Chakraborty, a homemaker. Lovely Halder, another protester, added: “He forced many hooch counters to close, saving many families.” Rahaman said while he respected people’s sentiments, he was a public servant and routine transfers were a part of his service life. He said the protest against his transfer was “embarrassing”. “I am afraid this could be misconstrued,” he said. “I am a duty-bound, uniformed police officer, and routine transfers are a big part of our service life.” A senior police officer of Baruipur district said a cop is a public servant, and his transfer order is issued in public interest. “It is done according to the existing provisions, and by the discretionary powers of the appropriate authority. One cannot disobey it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal Medical College and Hospital unveils post-Covid psychiatry clinic||A post-Covid psychiatry clinic has been opened at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) here to treat people suffering from recovery trauma. Nirmal Bera, the head of department of psychiatry at the NBMCH, said hospital authorities had planned to open a specialised OPD for post-Covid psychiatric care to address psychological effects of Covid-19 prevalent among a section of patients. “This is for the first time that a post-Covid psychiatric clinic has been opened in the state. The clinic has 30 beds, but there are plans to include 10 more. Apart from the OPD of the department of psychiatry where psychiatric care was given to both Covid positive and negative patients, we now have a dedicated clinic for patients suffering from mental trauma after recovering from Covid. Those who are Covid negative will continue to visit the OPD for psychiatric treatment,” Bera added. The clinic was inaugurated on Monday by Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty appointed by the state health department in north Bengal, and Rudranath Bhattacharya, NBMCH’s patient welfare committee chairman. Doctors at the NBMCH said a number of new machineries would be used at the clinic, including Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation, a non-invasive procedure that uses magnetic fields to stimulate nerve cells in the brain to improve symptoms of depression. “The psychiatry clinic will not only treat patients but will stand by their families to help them come out of the anxiety and distress,” said a doctor at the hospital. Uttam Majumder, an assistant professor at the department of psychiatry, said many patients have visited the OPD with different mental problems in the past one year. “We have seen several patients suffering from mental issues after recovering from Covid-19. This clinic will provide them proper treatment to get rid of the psychological impact of the disease,” Uttam added. In another development, a 16-bed Covid safe home was opened at the North Bengal Dental College and Hospital (NBDCH) — located on the premises of the NBMCH on Monday. Also, around 160 people, associated with healthcare and ancillary services were handed over certificates of appreciation for their efforts during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Nadda's vaccine count claim for Bengal creates stir||On the campaign trail, BJP national president J.P. Nadda had enriched Bengal’s political history by crediting the state with cradling a certain “Vivekananda Thakur”. Post-elections, Nadda is giving Amit “200-plus-seat” Shah stiff competition by trying his hand at elementary mathematics. On Tuesday, Nadda told the BJP state executive over video: “I am very sorry to inform you that if an all-time low vaccination is taking place anywhere, it’s in Bengal.” Several officials and healthcare professionals involved in the Covid vaccination drive in Bengal were perplexed. The following are some of the figures they shared: ⚫ Bengal has so far administered 2.17 crore doses “despite irregular supplies from the Centre”, they said, adding that the figure was expected to rise as the day progressed. “We administered 2.17 crore doses till Tuesday, but the Centre gave us only 1.98 crore doses.… The state government procured 18 lakh doses directly from the manufacturers by spending Rs 59 crore from the state exchequer,” said a source. “This shows that the state had the intention.… But more people could not be vaccinated because of the irregular supply of vaccines from Delhi,” the source added. ⚫ Data available in the public domain reveal that only two states have given more than 3 crore doses — Maharashtra 3.21 crore and Uttar Pradesh 3.12 crore. “Uttar Pradesh has a population of about 20 crore while Maharashtra has more than 12 crore people.… Bengal has about 10 crore people. So it can’t be said that we are lagging behind all other states,” said an official. Three more states — Rajasthan, Karnataka and Gujarat — are ahead of Bengal in terms of doses administered. Two are BJP-run, and complaints have been aired about central bias. Another official said: “Bengal has the capacity to administer 5 lakh doses every day but the state could not touch the upper limit even a single day because of the shortage in supply. We gave 4 lakh vaccines in a day last week. This proves that we have the capacity but we could administer only 1 lakh vaccines a day for many weeks because of the shortage of doses.” * On Tuesday, Bengal vaccinated more than 2.78 lakh people — trailing only Maharashtra (3.84 lakh) and Andhra Pradesh (2.88 lakh). In comparison, BJP-run states like Gujarat (2.62 lakh), Uttar Pradesh (1.86 lakh) and Karnataka (2.54 lakh) lagged behind Bengal. Senior government officials said Bengal had developed an efficient inoculation mechanism, which was proven by the zero wastage in the state as compared to 8 to 10 per cent wastage in some other states. The numbers till now may be loaded against Nadda’s claims but that is unlikely to deter either him or his party from their offensive. The same trait was on display in February when footage showed Nadda thundering from a stage that this is the land of “Vivekananda Thakur”. State BJP sources said the party would try to make the bogus vaccination camp case in Calcutta into an issue. “There has been no scam in vaccination anywhere, if it happened it happened in West Bengal…,” a source said. The case has embarrassed the Trinamul Congress as several senior leaders were seen in photographs with the kingpin. But, government sources said, the chief minister has ordered strong action and a drive has been launched to avert such scams in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Rain triggers inundation, water-logging, erosion of river banks in Dooars, Malda||Incessant rain in north Bengal and Sikkim since Monday night led to inundation, water-logging and erosion of riverbanks, mainly in the Dooars and Malda district. According to the India Meteorological Department, similar weather conditions are likely to continue for another three-four days. “There is a forecast of steady rainfall in sub-Himalayan Bengal and the daily rainfall would range between 70mm to 200mm,” said a source at the IMD. The downpour led to flash floods in Nagrakata and Dhupguri blocks of Jalpaiguri district on Tuesday. The Sukhanijhora stream flowing through Sulkapara swelled in Nagrakata and flowed over a bridge in the morning. Around 500 families at Sukhanibusty, which is on the other side of the bridge, were isolated from the block headquarters. The Hatinala stream flowing from Bhutan spilled over the banks and flooded different localities of Banarhat in the Dhupguri block. The water entered at least 2,000 houses in the afternoon. It, however, started receding in the evening when the downpour stopped for some time. As the Ganga, Mahananda and Fulhar swelled in Malda district, erosion was reported from at least two blocks. Minister of state for irrigation and waterways Sabina Yeasmin said officials of the Farakka Barrage Project Authority had been asked to carry out urgent anti-erosion works in Kaliachak 3 block. Malda district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra said relief materials had been stocked in all blocks. “The rivers are flowing close to danger levels. Officers in various blocks are monitoring the situation. We are coordinating with them,” Mitra added. Low-lying areas like Milanpally, Ashoknagar, Haidarpara, Hakimpara, Pradhan Nagar and Champasari in Siliguri were water-logged on Tuesday. The Darjeeling district administration has identified 500 shelter points in case of evacuation of people following heavy rain and landslides. “If any flood-like situation or landslide occurs, residents of the affected area will be shifted immediately to these centres. An emergency centre was also opened at the district magistrate’s office and we are monitoring the situation round the clock. Our officers are in touch with weather experts, irrigation department and agencies concerned to collect data,” said a district administration official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
30-06-2021||West Bengal||Scope for defeat debate eludes Bengal BJP’s state executive meet||Several Bengal BJP functionaries who had been prepared to vent their ire against central leaders, especially Kailash Vijayvargiya, at a state executive committee meeting on Tuesday were left disappointed as the five-hour exercise lacked the scope for interactions and mostly featured speeches by the party’s top honchos. In the first such exercise since the BJP’s debacle in the Assembly polls, 50-odd members of the state committee met at the party’s office at Hastings in Calcutta, while around 250 others, including national president J.P. Nadda, joined the meeting virtually. “Although there is no set format for these meetings, a certain degree of interaction is allowed conventionally as some members of the committee are invited to voice their opinion... That is why we had hoped we would be able to speak our minds. But we remained silent listeners while our leaders kept delivering long speeches,” a state secretary said. This person added that district BJP presidents generally read out their reports — treated in the party as feedback from the ground — in front of state and the central leaders. But all the district presidents had been asked to share their written reports ahead of Tuesday’s meeting and hence, there was no scope for them to speak either. “We were asked to send the reports beforehand. Since we had joined virtually, our mics were muted and we couldn’t utter a word,” a district president said. Vijayvargiya, the central minder of the BJP for Bengal, has been the biggest target of several state leaders after the debacle. Some of the attendees who were forced to remain silent on Tuesday got livid after seeing Vijayvargiya sitting next to Nadda in the Delhi office. “He (Vijayvargiya ) had been invited to the meeting but didn’t turn up until Nadda-ji joined virtually. We had thought the party was finally doing away with Vijayvargiya. But it was disheartening to see that the man responsible for the election loss was actually being sheltered by the party president,” a state BJP secretary said. A source in the state committee said leaders at the national and Bengal levels were deliberately trying to divert attention from the most important task — an analysis of what went wrong with the party in the Assembly polls. Even on Tuesday, the primary focus of the state executive committee was on the alleged post-poll violence after a meek political resolution that described the performance in the polls “disappointing”. The meeting started with a speech by state BJP president Dilip Ghosh. Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari also spoke at the session that concluded with an address by Nadda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-7
