01-07-2020||Comment||Death in the time of Covid-19||These are strange times.  Not a day goes by with deaths taking place due to the deadly Coronavirus.  There are deaths caused by other ailments too.  With travel and other restrictions in force, many are left to die alone with funerals being low-key affairs, causing immense distress to family members. Take the case of Mrs C, an 80-year-old who died in early May of illness after being in hospital for about 10 days.  Both her children were in the US and could not attend the funeral, let alone be with their mother when she was ill as flights from the US to India had not yet resumed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The children were deeply saddened that they could not kiss their mother goodbye before she was buried.  “I keep asking myself why this had to happen now and I know it was beyond my control.  Yet I cannot get over the pain and I think about her dying without us and start crying,” said J, her daughter. Her brother, who also lives and works in the US is more realistic. “Mother lived a good life and I suppose her time had come.  If times were normal, we would have been with her during her last days, but that was not to be.” Both of them saw the video of the funeral and the burial.  That was some consolation at least. Mr D, 67, died of a heart attack at home on a quiet Saturday afternoon in mid-April this year. Caught totally unawares, his shocked wife called the neighbour who in turn called a doctor who came within 20 minutes only to formally pronounce Mr D dead. It was lockdown time and with no flights, their two unmarried children in Australia could not travel; nor could the married daughter from Delhi come. The body was kept in the morgue for three days but when all hopes of the children coming failed, a funeral with just 14 people took place.  A priest came to the morgue, offered prayers and the body was taken to the crematorium for cremation. Mrs D is yet to get over the shock, unable to comprehend the sudden death of her husband.  Without her children around, she seems helpless; the phone calls from them are cold comfort.  Of course, it is equally distressing for the children. These are just two cases of non-Covid deaths and there are scores of similar cases not just in Bengaluru but across India and elsewhere.  What is heart-breaking is that deaths – Covid-related or non-Covid-related – in present times has taken on a new, altered format. Indeed, it is bad enough that the near and dear ones cannot be present to take care of or be of help to their loved ones in their final days but they also have to contend with the trauma of not being present at the final farewell. Limiting funeral visitors to just 20 means a sizeable number of close friends, relatives, neighbours and well-wishers cannot attend, leaving them disappointed and even angry. Ironically, as in the case of Mr D’s funeral, only 14 people were present although 20 are allowed. A lot of people, even close relatives or friends are simply scared to attend funerals.  Many elderly people prefer to pray for the departed souls from within the safe confines of their homes rather than be present at the burial or cremation place. Typically, among Christians, a funeral Mass is held in church, ending with a eulogy and then final pre-burial rituals and rites take place at the cemetery.  More often than not, the church is packed with near and dear ones and a sizeable crowd also gathers at the cemetery with wreaths, flowers and candles. Likewise, funerals of people belonging to other religions too are usually well-attended. Emotional distanicng But in the time of Covid, the funerals are different.  The atmosphere is grim and somewhat surreal with the few present wearing masks, responding to prayers in an inaudible manner and maintaining the mandatory social distancing that translates into emotional distancing!  No warm handshakes, tight hugs or kisses. Everyone maintains a healthy distance while offering their condolences. Of course, a professional videographer or cameraman is hired to film the funeral or live-stream it; a close relative or friend could also be filming the funeral via his or her smart phone. While a video may provide some comfort to the close family members who could not attend the funeral, it is not the same as being physically present where the bereaved receive a lot of support and comfort that is such a crucial part of the grieving process.  Now, many are left to grieve alone. The ordeal does not end with the burial or cremation.  With most public offices working fewer hours and with limited staff, post-death tasks relating to death certificates, bank settlements, limited condolence visitations and absence of memorial services can amplify the already stressed family members’ feelings. Death, as we all know, is a sad happening, tough to bear even in normal circumstances. One can only imagine the severity of grief and stress of the bereaved at the loss of a loved one amid the coronavirus pandemic. Indeed, to reiterate, these are strange times and much as everyone wishes to die with dignity and with the usual rituals that honour a person’s life, it may not be possible in most cases due to the stringent guidelines to reduce the spread of the virus.  As this pandemic does not seem like ending soon, one has no choice but to be realistic, accept this unfamiliar situation and adapt to new, alternate ways of dealing with the death of a loved one. (If you are experiencing a loss or feel distressed and need help, there are many centres that provide advice and counselling services such as Parihar (080-22943224/25) Nava Karnataka Mahila Rakshana Vedike (9490135167) Samaja Seva Samithi (080-26600022) etc)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/death-in-the-time-of-covid-19-855640.html
01-07-2020||First Edit||Fighting Covid-19: Karnataka losing initial gains?||Karnataka appears to be fast losing the initial gains in its fight against Covid-19 due to lack of cohesion at the top, fatigue among an over-worked bureaucracy, failure to anticipate the rise in cases and total unpreparedness to deal with the emerging situation, especially in Bengaluru.  As things stand today, there is already a scarcity of beds and ICU facilities though only about 0.02% of Bengaluru’s 1.2 crore population is currently undergoing treatment, and situation can easily be imagined if even 1% or 1.2 lakh people in the city contract the disease. Having failed to ramp up infrastructure during the lockdown, when it should have, the government is now aimlessly running around like a headless chicken trying to identify Covid care centres and create the required beds. With cases spiralling, the government has belatedly identified 518 private hospitals across the state to treat Covid patients, without giving them adequate notice to strengthen their internal systems like appointing qualified manpower and creating ICU facilities. The disconnect and one-upmanship at the political level has been a stumbling block right from the start. As the pandemic unfolded, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa divested Health Minister B Sriramulu of all Covid-related responsibilities and handed them over to Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar. With Sriramulu sulking, the chief minister once again redrew the boundaries and allotted the rest of the state to the former and Bengaluru to Sudhakar. With both often releasing contradictory media statements, Yediyurappa appointed a third minister, S Suresh Kumar as the sole Covid spokesman. Recently, Sudhakar went into home quarantine after some of his family members tested positive and Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan informally stepped into his shoes. But Yediyurappa had other plans and appointed Revenue Minister R Ashoka to oversee Sudhakar’s responsibilities in the interim, triggering heartburn among the DyCM, health minister and medical education minister. Meanwhile, Suresh Kumar withdrew as the spokesman citing his preoccupation with the SSLC exams. Now, it is once again a free-for-all and in the absence of a strong political leadership, the bureaucracy has become directionless, not knowing from whom to take orders or whose instructions to follow. It is high time Yediyurappa took direct control or appointed a single minister to deal with Covid. Complaints about delay in admission of positive patients are rife and the government should not lose any time in augmenting the bed capacity while at the same time ensuring that there is no lag in contact tracing, both of which are crucial to checking the spread of the virus. A well-oiled machinery is the need of the hour, and the state simply cannot allow matters go astray at this critical juncture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/fighting-covid-19-karnataka-losing-initial-gains-855638.html
01-07-2020||In Perspective||Wrong to withhold Covid-19 test result||Karnataka has done well thus far in managing the Covid-19 crisis - even Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the efforts of the state government machinery in fighting the deadly disease. We see the same level of foresight when, with the continuing spike of Covid-19 cases in the state, the Karnataka government decided to reimpose Sunday curfews and extend the timing of night curfew (from 9 pm to 5 am) to 8 pm to 5 am with effect from June 29. Besides, all government offices shall remain closed on all Saturdays from July 10. However, the recent notification by the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare is a little disconcerting. This office issued a notification on June 27 which mandates the government and private laboratories to withhold the result of the Covid-19 test from the patient, though the details will be shared with the surveillance officers, surveillance units and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This order has been passed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The said Act mentions that the government may make temporary regulations to prevent the spread of any dangerous epidemic disease. On a closer look at the order of the Director, we see that this order does quite the contrary. If the patient or his/her family do not know the test result and neither do the doctors, there will be a delay in seeking treatment. There is no mention in the order as to how the doctors will be informed of the test result. It could also lead to a situation where the patient may access care at a non-Covid facility and the doctors at that facility will end up treating the patient without knowing the test result. These doctors at the facility and other healthcare workers may end up getting infected. This is a situation where the people providing relief are themselves vulnerable to the disease. This is very different from most other cases in a hospital where, say, for example, a case of road traffic accident or a patient of liver failure doesn’t really infect the healthcare providers and the latter can continue their work of saving lives without risk to their own. There is also a significant risk of transmission of infection to other patients who may be admitted to such healthcare centres for unrelated problems, and if they were to undergo surgery, the risk of death is greatly amplified. Further, the patient not knowing his or her own status can also lead to a delay in self quarantine and a wider spread to the contacts. A delay in seeking care may lead to the patient seeking care at a much later stage when the symptoms may have aggravated, and it may be too late for the patient. As we see from the points mentioned above, this will only does the opposite of what the Epidemic Disease Act wishes to achieve. It may not be farfetched to say that such an order may even impinge on the Right to Life of that patient which is guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Disconcerting part Sadly, the course of action notified here is only going to worsen the disease. The more disconcerting part here is that a similar order was passed on June 13, 2020 by the BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) which said that the test report will not be shared directly with the patient but instead, the laboratory will share the report with the MCGM (Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai) and the latter will in turn share it with the patients. But the judiciary acted on this. The Supreme Court of India took suo motu note of this as part of the monitoring by the top court of the facilities provided to Covid-19 patients, and directed the Maharashtra government on June 19 to provide the reports of test for Covid-19 to the patients directly. Despite the court’s clear directive to a neighbouring state against such an order, we saw a similar order in Karnataka, just eight days later. The global pandemic we are facing today needs a continued prudent approach so that we all come out of it with the minimum damage. Just like the doctors are tweaking their treatment regimens basis new data and experience as it emerges, the administrative machinery too would do well to keep updating its orders and decisions basis the evolving situation on the ground, including keeping track of what is happening in the other states. As eminent historian Arnold J Toynbee said, `those living in an age of crisis must become pioneers of a better age, striving to find positive solutions, and thereby turning the age into one of achievement’. (Dr Sumana Arora has worked in senior management positions in some of the leading hospitals including Apollo Group, Medanta Group and Parkway Pantai India Operations; Dr Subramaniam Swaminathan is Senior Consultant, Infectious Diseases, Gleneagles Global)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/wrong-to-withhold-covid-19-test-result-855642.html
01-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Prayer services in Udupi dioceses to resume from July 6||Udupi diocese has decided to allow churches in its jurisdiction to hold mass and prayer services from July 6, said Udupi Bishop Rev Dr Gerald Lobo. He said even though the Government of Karnataka had allowed the churches, which were barred from having any communitarian religious celebrations due to Covid-19 pandemic, to resume worship and other activities from June 8, considering the health and safety of our people as of paramount importance, the United Christian Forum for Human Rights, Udupi had decided not to conduct common worship and other religious activities in the churches of Udupi district till June 30. The Forum which met at Udupi Bishop’s house to discuss the further course of action decided to allow services to resume from July 6. “As the faithful are without the Holy Mass/ Worship for nearly a hundred days, most of them are yearning for spiritual nourishment. The Covid-19 situation is worsening day by day. The only alternative we have is to learn to live with the virus with all the precautions. The government has allowed most activities in the state. However, the Sundays beginning with July 5 will be under lockdown as a precautionary measure. Based on this rationale, it has been decided that the churches of Udupi diocese will be opened for people to participate in the mass/ worship from July 6. The parish priests shall discuss with the Parish Pastoral Council with regard to the mandatory guidelines before resuming the masses,” said the Bishop. Due to the lockdown norms in Karnataka, Sunday Mass/ Worship (including Saturday evening) cannot be celebrated for people till August 2. Once the lockdown is lifted, masses on Sundays can be resumed. Churches falling inside containment zones should wait till the situation is improved and only then after discussing with the Parish Pastoral Council members may resume weekday masses/ worship, he added. The parish priests/ pastors should supervise the arrangements for the celebration of masses and should be responsible to adhere to the mandatory norms laid down by the Centre, State and district administrations.    The churches had remained closed since March 22 in Udupi district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prayer-services-in-udupi-dioceses-to-resume-from-july-6-855831.html
01-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nitte develops contactless Covid-19 temperature detector 'Celcius'||Faculty members of the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, NMAM Institute of Technology (Nitte) have designed and developed a simple and cost-effective touchless temperature detector ‘Celcius’ for the thermal screening of its employees. In every organisation, it has been made compulsory to check the body temperature of each employee while entering the workplace. The developed product helps read the body temperature upon sensing the presence of the forehead of a person. The product has features, such as automatic detection, separate indication for normal temperature and fever in the system. The product was launched by Dr Niranjan N Chiplunkar, Principal, NMAMIT, Nitte. Sukesh Rao M, Associate Professor, Dileep Kumar M J and Prajwal Hegde, Assistant Professors in the Department of Electronics and Communication, were involved in the design and development of this cost-effective equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nitte-develops-contactless-covid-19-temperature-detector-celcius-855833.html
01-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi records 3rd death, 8 new Covid-19 cases||Death toll in the district due to Covid-19 increased to three with a 72-year-old person succumbing to the pandemic on Wednesday. District Health Officer Dr S V Munyal said, the person identified as P-15272 had been admitted for treatment at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cold and cough and died during treatment on Wednesday. Travel history of the deceased and primary and secondary contacts were being traced and its the case of first Covid-19 death in the city, he said.  Covid-19 positive cases in the district increased to 336 with 8 more testing positive on Wednesday including the deceased. Contacts of two patients P-15345 male 45 years and P-15348 male 58 years were being traced. Patient P-15346 male 11 years and P-15347 male 40 years were contacts of P-9151, while P-15349 female 32 years had returned from Nagaland and P-15350 female 12 years and 15351 male 50 years had returned from Maharashtra. As per the Health Department bulletin, 303 patients have recovered and discharged and 30 were active cases with 3 deaths being reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-records-3rd-death-8-new-covid-19-cases-855945.html
01-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru reports 50 +ve Covid-19 cases, 13 discharged||Mysuru district recorded the highest of 51 Covid-19 positive cases for a single day so far, taking the total cases detected till Wednesday to 321. However, 13 patients were cured and discharged on Wednesday, making the total active cases in district 127. Among them, one is isolated and treated at home, while the others are treated at the designated Covid-19 Hospital. Among the 51 cases confirmed on Wednesday, 20 are primary contacts of already existing Covid-19 positive patients. Twenty-one of them are KSRP police personnel, who have a travel history to Bengaluru. One is an inter-state traveler, while three are inter-district travelers. The remaining six of them have ILI or SARI symptoms. Among the 51 new patients, 32 are from institution quarantine and 19 are from home quarantine. As per the details provided by the district administration, the total number of persons observed to date are 12,622. The total number of persons, who have completed 14 days’ isolation is 9,603. The total number of persons isolated at home for 14 days is 2,772. The total number of persons isolated in facility quarantine for seven days is 120. The total samples tested so far are 20,531 and those found negative are 20,210. So far, a total of 191 patients have been discharged and a total of three patients have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-reports-50-ve-covid-19-cases-13-discharged-855960.html
01-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||21 Covid-19 cases in Chamarajanagar||Chamarajanagar reported a spike in Covid-19 cases with 22 (one from Bengaluru) testing positive for the virus, on Wednesday. This includes the car driver of Superintendent of Police H D Anand Kumar and accounts officer and cashier of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (Cesc). As the driver tested positive, the SP has decided to stay on home quarantine for a few days. It may be mentioned that no tests were conducted in Chamarajanagar since the last few days after a lab technician tested positive. The samples were sent to Bengaluru for testing and after four days, the reports have confirmed 22 positive cases. A Cesc employee (P-10631) had tested positive earlier. Two positive cases on Wednesday are the primary contacts of that person. In all, 1,684 samples were sent to Bengaluru, out of which the results of 904 samples have been released on Wednesday. While 22 tested positive, 882 patients have tested negative. One of the patients is from Bengaluru and is being treated at the hospital there. Out of 21 patients of the district, 16 are from Gundlupet taluk and five from Chamarajanagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/21-covid-19-cases-in-chamarajanagar-855961.html
01-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Prohibitory orders from 6 pm in Mysuru from Friday||Prohibitory orders will be in force from 6 pm in Mysuru city from Friday as the risks of the spread of Covid-19 seem to be increasing, since a couple of weeks. Besides, Rs 200 in the city and Rs 100 in rural areas would be imposed on those, who come out without wearing masks. Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar announced this after holding a meeting with the Deputy Commissioner, officials of the Police, Health and other departments, at the new DC’s office on Bannur Road here, on Wednesday. If people should reach their respective homes, by 6 pm, the shops need to be shut by 5.30 pm. It has to be recalled that only a couple of days ago, on June 29, Police Commissioner Chandragupta had issued a notification, stating that the Prohibitory Orders would be in force from 8 pm to 5 am on the next day, and there will be complete lockdown on Sundays, up to August 2. The people of Mysuru district celebrated, a bit too early, on May 15, when Covid-19 cases were nil, after all 90 patients, till then, were discharged. The first case, Patient (P) 20 was reported on March 21. Since Unlock 1.0, there have been more confirmed cases of Covid-19. For a couple of weeks, there has been an increase in detection. There have been three deaths, related to Covid-19, till Monday night. Somasekhar, also District In-charge Minister said, "All shops and other business establishments, except essential services, should be closed by 6 pm. As Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the Mysuru district, people should cooperate with the district administration. They should maintain social distance." "If people still crowd at public places, they will be penalised. The decision has been taken as severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms are leading to more and more Covid-19 positive cases, of late,” he said. Screening has been beefed up at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), as many people visit the yard, for either selling their products or to buy them, the minister said. He said, "The government has decided to subject police personnel above the age of 55, especially those suffering from various health issues, to Covid tests, as a precautionary measure."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prohibitory-orders-from-6-pm-in-mysuru-from-friday-855963.html
01-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Prayer services in Udupi churches from July 6||Churches under Udupi Diocese will hold mass and prayer services from July 6, Bishop Rev Dr Gerald Lobo said. Earlier, the churches were barred from religious celebrations due to Covid-19 pandemic. Though the government had allowed churches to resume worship and other activities from June 8, the United Christian Forum for Human Rights, Udupi, had decided not to conduct common worship and other religious activities in the churches of the district until June 30 keeping in mind the health and safety of devotees. The Forum, which met at the Bishop’s house, to discuss the further course of action, decided to allow the services from July 6. “As the faithful are without the Holy Mass/ Worship for almost a hundred days, most of them are keen on spiritual nourishment. The Covid-19 situation is worsening day by day. The only alternative we have is to learn to live with the virus with all the precautions. As Sunday will witness total lockdown, it was decided that the churches under Udupi diocese will be opened for people to participate in the mass/worship from July 6. The parish priests shall discuss with the Parish Pastoral Council about the mandatory guidelines before resuming the masses,” the Bishop said. Due to the lockdown, Sunday Mass/Worship (including Saturday evening) cannot be celebrated for people until August 2. Once the lockdown is lifted, the masses on Sundays can be resumed. Churches falling inside containment zones should wait till the situation improves and after discussing withthe Parish Pastoral Council members may resume weekday masses/worship, he added. The parish priests/pastors should supervise the arrangements for the celebration of masses and should be responsible to adhere to the mandatory norms laid down by the Centre, state government and district administration, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prayer-services-in-udupi-churches-from-july-6-855998.html
01-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Biggest spike in Covid-19 cases in a day in Dakshina Kannada||Eighty-four people, including a police officer of the rank of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and a seven-day-old baby, tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday. With two youth arrested for conspiring to steal cattle in Bajpe testing positive, Bajpe Police station was sealed for sanitisation. All its eight personnel were sent to quarantine. Puttur women’s police station also was sealed after a woman constable was tested positive. She hails from Kalaburagi and was staying at the quarters in Sampya. She was working at Gundia check post. The quarters have also been sealed. Cook tests positive A 52-year-old cook, serving at Puttur Government Hospital, also tested positive. The cook is the resident of Shanthinagara in Kodimbadi. The hospital was also being sanitised, according to sources.  On Tuesday, 15 doctors, including five postgraduate students and a chief medical officer, had tested positive for Covid-19. With 84 patients testing positive, this is the biggest spike in a single day since the first positive case was confirmed in the district on March 22 (a Dubai-bound youth from Bhatkal had tested positive then). Six of the 84 people have international travel history from Sharjah and one has an interstate travel history. While 28 persons with Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), 38 positive cases are the primary contacts of the already infected people. The contact tracing of the seven is underway while samples of four persons were collected before their surgery and were tested positive and their contact tracing is underway, DC Sindhu B Rupesh said. The total positive cases recorded in the district so far are 823. A total of 372 are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. As many as 444 had been discharged so far after recovery. The DC said two Covid patients (P9588 and P10589), who were undergoing treatment in the ICU, have recovered and shifted to the ward of the hospital. Three infected are undergoing treatment at the ICU of the designated Covid hospital. 22 Fresh cases in Udupi A student of SSLC was one among the 22 patients who were tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The student from Byndoor had already written three examinations. She tested positive for the virus on Tuesday night. She will appear for the remaining exams in the supplementary examinations. Sources suspected that she might have contracted the infection from those who had arrived from Mumbai. Till Wednesday, three SSLC students had contracted the virus. Udupi district reported 22 fresh cases on Wednesday. The total number of cases testing positive for Covid-19 is 1,228 as on Wednesday. The swab samples of 397 are awaited. As many as 218 tested negative on Wednesday and 1,069 cases were discharged and 156 cases are being treated in Covid hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/biggest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-in-dakshina-kannada-855999.html
01-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Uproar in TP meeting over remark on its president||Pandemonium affected the general meeting of the Taluk Panchayat following comment from a member on Taluk Panchayat President Tekkade Shobha Mohan. Following a discussion on the proposed land for the construction of a crematorium at Peraje, member Nagesh Kundalpadi said that there is no land for a crematorium and this has been causing a great inconvenience to the people. “This is a matter of shame for the Taluk Panchayat president. Tahsildar Mahesh is behaving irresponsibly,” he said in a raised tone. This remark led to a heated debate among the member, Tahsildar and the Taluk Panchayat President. The Tahsildar said that the allegation by the member is far from the truth. A proposal has already been submitted for a crematorium at Peraje, he added. Shobha Mohan condemned the move by the member Nagesh for using an objectionable word against her. Disrespect to a woman cannot be accepted, she said. Member Appu Ravindra pointed out that last rites are being performed on a riverbank, owing to lack of a crematorium, at Arekadu.  To an issue raised by social justice standing committee president Shridhar Dabadka, the official concerned said that a separate proposal has been submitted to open a fair price shop in Kundakatcheri. The licence has been issued for a fair price shop in Bhagamandala, he added. The meeting resolved to issue a notice to cooperative department officer Ravi, who has not been turning up to the meetings. An official from the Cooperation Department said that 60% subsidy is being provided to the people from SC communities, who have availed long term loan from PLD bank. A share amount of Rs 25,000 will be provided to women’s cooperative bank, he added. Executive officer K Lakshmi said a grant of Rs 50 lakh has been released for various development works in Madikeri taluk. However, the fund is yet to be credited to the bank account. An action plan for projects worthRs 2 crore needs to be drafted. Madikeri TP is in the fourth position in the implementation of housing schemes. Taluk Panchayat Vice President Santu Subramani, members Kumuda Rashmi, Shashi, Indira, Ganapathy and Roy Thammaiah were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/uproar-in-tp-meeting-over-remark-on-its-president-855993.html
01-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 1||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 6 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 6,04,678 as of July 1 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 17,840 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 3,44,644  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-1-855661.html
01-07-2020||National||West Bengal urges Centre not to schedule flights from 8 cities with high Covid-19 cases||The West Bengal government on Tuesday urged the Centre to not schedule any flight from high prevalence cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Pune to the state for two weeks amid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. In a letter to Civil Aviation Secretary P S Kharola, West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha requested him to stop the movement of flights from eight cities to Kolkata or Bagdogra for two weeks starting July 6. "West Bengal is also witnessing a steep rise in cases. A large number of cases has been reported from people coming (to) the state from outside with infection. The government of West Bengal has decided to stop or curtail movement of incoming flights and trains into the state. "Accordingly, I approach you with a request kindly not to schedule any flight to West Bengal from high prevalence places like Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Chennai, Indore, Ahmedabad and Surat and stop movements of flights from these cities to Kolkata or Bagdogra for two weeks starting July 6," Sinha wrote in the letter. Sinha also requested the aviation secretary to limit the number of flights to Kolkata, Bagdogra and Andal from other cities to a frequency of once a week for each airline from July 6 to 31. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had on Monday said that her government would urge the Centre to limit domestic flights to the state to just one day a week, as the number of infections went up once people from outside started returning to West Bengal. The chief secretary made a request to the Union government to temporarily stop trains to West Bengal from places having high incidence of COVID-19 cases so that the spread of the virus can be arrested, she had said. West Bengal on Tuesday registered its highest single-day spike of 652 COVID-19 cases, which pushed the total tally in the state to 18,559, the health department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-urges-centre-not-to-schedule-flights-from-8-cities-with-high-covid-19-cases-855663.html
01-07-2020||National||DH Toon | 'Deleted the apps, now waiting to hear Chinese to writhe in pain!'||Following the stand-off between the Indian Army and the China's PLA along the LAC, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) on Monday, citing country's security concerns, has banned several popular Chinese mobile applications in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-deleted-the-apps-now-waiting-to-hear-chinese-to-writhe-in-pain-855664.html
01-07-2020||National||1 CRPF personnel, one civilian killed in terrorist attack in Jammu & Kashmir's Sopore||A CRPF personnel and a civilian were killed in a militant attack in Sopore town of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Wednesday. Three more CRPF men were also injured in the attack. Reports said militants opened indiscriminate fire on a CRPF patrol party of 179 Battalion near Model Town, Sopore, 52 kms from Srinagar, at around 7:35 am. One personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a civilian were killed while three other security force personnel were injured in the attack, officials said. “We lost one CRPF personnel and one civilian in a terrorist attack at Sopore. Three CRPF personnel also got injured in the attack,” the Kashmir Police said on Twitter. However, the family of the slain civilian alleged that the security forces pulled him out of his car and shot him. A CRPF spokesman while denying the allegations said the civilian vehicle which was coming from Sopore to Kupwara was caught in the firing. “An old man who was driving the vehicle stopped the car and got down from the vehicle to move away for a safe spot but got killed by terrorists firing. Later the young boy was rescued by security forces who took position nearby,” he said. Reports said immediately after the attack the area was sealed and a search operation was launched to nab the assailants. This was the second attack on the CRPF in Sopore in recent months. On April 18, militants fired at a CRPF party, killing three personnel. While most of the encounters in recent months have been happening in southern districts of Kulgam, Shopian and Pulwama, a senior police officer said, north Kashmir has more battle-hardened militants active on ground than the South.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-crpf-personnel-one-civilian-killed-in-terrorist-attack-in-jammu-kashmirs-sopore-855687.html
01-07-2020||National||Record 507 Covid-19 deaths in single day in India; 18,653 new cases||With 507 people succumbing to coronavirus in a day, the highest so far, India's Covid-19 death toll rose to 17,400 while the total tally climbed to 5,85,493 after 18,653 new cases were reported on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.   The number of active cases stands at 2,20,114,while 3,47,978 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, according to the updated data at 8 am. "Thus, around 59.43 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 507 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 245 are from Maharashtra, 62 from Delhi, 60 from Tamil Nadu, 25 from Uttar Pradesh, 20 from Karnataka, 19 from Gujarat, 15 from West Bengal, eight each from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, seven each from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, six each from  Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab, five from Bihar, four from  Haryana, two each from Kerala, Odisha, Puducherry and Uttarakhand and one each in Assam and Himachal Pradesh.    The country had recorded a massive spike of 2,003 deaths on June 17 following a data reconciliation exercise carried out by states and UTs which brought to the fore large number of fatalities previously reported in Maharashtra and Delhi which were not attributed to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-507-covid-19-deaths-in-single-day-in-india-18653-new-cases-855710.html
01-07-2020||National||PM greets Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday greeted Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on his 71st birthday, wishing him a long and healthy life. "Birthday wishes to our energetic Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu Garu. May he lead a long and healthy life," the prime minister tweeted. He said Naidu is admired across the political spectrum for his warm nature, intelligence and wit. "He has also been exceptional as the Chair of the Rajya Sabha," Modi said. Naidu was born on this day in 1949 in Chavatapalem in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-greets-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-on-birthday-855717.html
01-07-2020||National||Support in US for India banning TikTok and other Chinese apps||India's ban on 59 Chinese apps, including the popular TikTok, has been widely noted in the US, including by some prominent lawmakers, who have urged the American government to follow suit as it is believed that the short video-sharing app is a major security risk to the country. India on Monday banned 59 apps with Chinese links, including TikTok and UC Browser, saying they were prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. The ban, which comes in the backdrop of India's current stand-off along the Line of Actual control in Ladakh with Chinese troops, is also applicable for WeChat and Bigo Live. “India bans TikTok and dozens of other Chinese apps in the wake of deadly clash,” powerful Republican Senator John Cornyn said in a tweet as he tagged a news report in The Washington Post. Republican Congressman Rick Crawford tweeted that “TikTok must go and it should have been gone yesterday.” Last week, US National Security Advisor, Robert O'Brien had alleged that the Chinese Government is using TikTok for its own purposes. “On TikTok, a Chinese-owned social media platform with over 40 million American users, probably a lot of your kids, and younger colleagues, accounts criticising the CCP (Chinese Communist Party) and Beijing's policies are routinely removed or deleted,” O'Brien said in his public remarks. At least two bills are pending in the US Congress to ban federal government officials from using TikTok on their cell phones, reflecting such a sentiment can gain momentum in the US after India's decision. “Would that be the same Chinese TikTok that was used to tank attendance at the Tulsa Rally?” tweeted Peter Navarro, Assistant to the US President for Trade and Manufacturing Policy, as he tagged a news report from The New York Times on India's decision to ban these Chinese social media apps. Fox News anchor Laura Ingraham urged the US to do the same. “LEADING THE WAY, WHERE'S THE US? India bans dozens of Chinese apps including TikTok” she said in a tweet. Author Gordon Chang said that India just banned 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok. “Why can't the US do the same?” he asked. According to Forbes, with the release of the new clipboard warning in the beta version of iOS 14, now with developers, TikTok seems to have been caught abusing the clipboard in a quite extraordinary way. “So it seems that TikTok didn't stop this invasive practice back in April as promised after all,” it said. An amendment moved to the “Moving Forward Act” in the US House of Representatives being debated this week prohibits officers of Transportation Security Administration (TSA) using the TikTok cellphone app. Republican Senator Joshua David Hawley, introduced a legislation in April prohibiting federal employees from using the social media video application TikTok on government-issued devices. "This is a necessary step to protect the security of the US,” he said. A similar legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Ken Buck. “It (TikTok) is owned by a Chinese company that includes Chinese Community Party members in leadership and it is required under Chinese law to share user data with Beijing,” said Senator Hawley, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, during a recent Congressional hearing. “TikTok has admitted that it has sent user data to China. To put it bluntly, this is a major security risk for the American people,” Hawley said. “What kind of data is TikTok collecting as it runs on our phones? A heck of a lot more than you would think. Images, of course, that users post. But TikTok also collects information about the messages that you send, about the apps that you use--the other apps on your phone,” he said. “It collects the sites that you visit. It collects your search history. It collects your keystrokes. It collects your location data. It stores all of this and maybe lots, lots more. And I can tell you, as the father of two small children who already have many of their friends on social media even though they're quite young, I find this absolutely horrifying. And we know that it's a national security risk,” Howley said. According to Clyde Wallace, deputy assistant director of the Cyber Division at the FBI, where he oversees Cyber Division Operations and the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force, TikTok is one example of an application that the average citizen doesn't understand the implications of what's behind it and what data can flow from an application like that's basically controlled by a state-sponsored actor. “I think that lends into the bigger threat that China poses today in that it's a holistic society approach to the United States. It's not just the TikTok application. It's the data warehouses that store that data. Whether they be here in the United States, owned by the Chinese, or within the Chinese borders themselves where that information is stored,” Wallace said. In a statement on Tuesday, TikTok India Head Nikhil Gandhi said the company, which has some 200 million subscribers in India, has not shared any information of its users in India with any foreign government, including the Chinese government, and that it places the highest importance on user privacy and integrity. The list of Chinese apps that have been banned by India also includes Helo, Likee, CamScanner, Vigo Video, Mi Video Call - Xiaomi, Clash of Kings as well as e-commerce platforms Club Factory and Shein.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/support-in-us-for-india-banning-tiktok-and-other-chinese-apps-855743.html
01-07-2020||National||Aarogya Setu app back after technical glitch||Aarogya Setu, the coronavirus-tracking mobile application, resumed functioning early Wednesday after a technical glitch. It said some users had difficulties logging in for some time on Tuesday. "Some users have reported login errors on #AarogyaSetu. Our technical teams are on the job. We will be back soon. Sorry for the inconvenience," Aarogya Setu tweeted earlier. After rectifying the problems the Twitter handle of the Aarogya Setu app stated, "Setu is back!! "The tech teams ensured that Setu is back to doing what it does the best - Keeping You Safe!! And yes, all user data is safe!!", the tweet further said.     The app was developed by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to track Covid-19 cases and for contact tracing. More than 13.60 crore people downloaded the app as the government had made it mandatory to download it while travelling on flights, trains and entering government offices, malls and offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-app-back-after-technical-glitch-855747.html
01-07-2020||National||Govts trying to manage perceptions, give sense that Covid-19 problem not as bad: Rahul Gandhi||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge, Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said governments were trying to “manage perception” that the problem at hand was not as bad as it appears to be. In an interaction with nurses of Indian origin from across continents, Rahul said he believed that the government should face the problem as it is instead of managing perceptions. “I believe that look we have to face the problem, so we should accept the problem, define the problem accurately and then fight the problem,” the former Congress President said. He assured Vipin Krishnan, a nurse from AIIMS, that he would take up with the Delhi government the issue of pending compensation to the frontline warriors against Covid-19 who had died while on duty. Krishnan and his wife are recovering from Covid-19 which he had contracted while on duty at AIIMS. He had flagged the instances of two nurses who had died in the national capital but their kin were yet to receive Rs 1 crore compensation announced by the Delhi government. “You are a non-violent army,” Rahul told the nurses even as he assured help to Krishnan.  Other than Krishnan, Rahul interacted with Anu Ragnat, a nurse from the former Congress President’s Lok Sabha constituency of Wayanad and settled in New Zealand, Narendra Singh from Rajasthan’s Sikar and currently in Australia and Sherlylmol Puravady, an Indian nurse settled in Britain. Ragnat shared the experience of New Zealand which is lauded the world over for its “hard and early response to the virus”. Sherlylmol shared her experience of working in an acute medical unit in Liverpool and still remaining unaffected by the virus and lauded fellow Britons for being respectful towards health workers. “We have dedicated shopping time for the NHS staff or the care workers. Every Thursday the government is, you know, putting it as the clapping for carers and things like that. So it is so supportive, all supermarkets are very supportive,” Sherlylmol said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-trying-to-manage-perceptions-give-sense-that-covid-19-problem-not-as-bad-rahul-gandhi-855748.html
01-07-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for termination of MoU with China, Chinese companies||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre to terminate all memorandum of understanding (MoU) with China and Chinese companies for trade and business, amid escalating tensions at the border which led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers. Petitioner Supriya Pandita, an advocate from Jammu, also sought a direction to the Centre to make public its trade policies with the government of China. The petitioner cited an MoU signed between Chinese and Adani Group of Companies for setting up manufacturing units at Mudra. She said such MoU for trade and business was not only arbitrary and against the will and sentiments of the people of India, but it also went against the Prime Minister's own policy of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. Though Union government banned 59 mobile applications from China in a welcome step, allowing a few select business houses to enter into MoU with China and its companies was discriminatory, the plea said. "It is a need of time to implement a uniform trade policy vis-vis government of China because security threat and national security policy can not be selectively applied favouring some entity and discriminating others," the plea contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-termination-of-mou-with-china-chinese-companies-855751.html
01-07-2020||National||AIIMS doctors team up with IIT-Delhi to launch app for patients needing plasma therapy||Resident doctors of AIIMS with the help of IIT-Delhi students have developed a mobile application to track real-time Covid-19 patients in the hospital, who can become potential plasma donors 28 days after recovery along with those who have been discharged. The app named COPAL-19 has details of patients who have already been discharged from AIIMS, those currently undergoing treatment and their blood groups so that patients who require plasma therapy can get it in time without any hassle, AIIMS RDA President, Dr Adarsh Pratap Singh, said. "Amidst shortage of donors for plasma therapy, team of AIIMS Resident Doctors along with IIT-Delhi team developed an app to correct the mismatch between Covid-19 discharged patients and patients requiring plasma donation. It was a great initiative by Dr Abhinav Singh Verma and IIT Delhi students," Dr Singh said. The app was launched at the premier hospital on the occasion of Doctors' Day. Dr Verma, a resident doctor of the neurosurgery department at AIIMS, the main person behind the COPAL-19 app, said its a simple user interface application with automated donor matching. Though it has been launched for AIIMS patients primarily for now, the app will be available on open platforms. It will be an open-source code app that people from other institutions can copy and use in their hospitals, Dr Verma said. "This app will act as a bridge between patients seeking plasma therapy and are moderately and severely symptomatic and donors who have recovered from Covid-19 and have completed 28 days post-recovery," Dr Verma explained. The app will also automatically track donors who will be eligible to donate plasma after a cycle of every 14 days. He also referred to the case of his senior who got infected with the virus and recalled the difficulties they had to face arranging plasma for him.  "Finding plasma for him turned out to be a herculean task. We randomly contacted our friends and put it up on social media platforms, but even then arranging a plasma donor took more than 12 hours. "We were already working on developing such an app but it was after this incident that we really pushed for it and finally launched it today," he said. "Currently, 70 plasma donors are registered with the application," Dr Verma said. Once the app goes live, anybody who wants to register themselves as a plasma donor can simply download the app and fill in their details in a simple format. AIIMS blood bank is also linked by a back-end so they will also get the details and help the needy patients get it. Patients also can register themselves and get details of plasma donors matching their blood group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-doctors-team-up-with-iit-delhi-to-launch-app-for-patients-needing-plasma-therapy-855777.html
01-07-2020||National||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, PIL in SC for policy to prohibit liquor consumption in India||A PIL was filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday (July 1) with a plea to direct the Centre and States to frame a policy for prohibiting the use of intoxicating drinks and drugs, except for medicinal purposes, in view of rapidly spreading Covid-19 pandemic. In his plea, advocate and BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay contended that there should be an effective health warning that covered at least 50% of liquor bottles and containers on both sides, highlighting health hazards. "Consumption of liquor and intoxicating drinks increase the risk of injury, domestic violence, crime against women. Besides, it would exacerbate health vulnerability, risk-taking behaviour and mental issues during Covid-19 pandemic," his plea claimed. The petitioner said the cause of action in the matter arose after the Centre has on May 4 allowed sale of liquor even during the lockdown. Maintaining that consuming liquor caused 2.5 million death a year, he also asked the court to direct the Centre and States to ban the advertisement of intoxicating drinks and start a campaign to educate people about the health hazards through electronic, print and social media. Upadhyay also pleaded for insertion of a chapter on deleterious effect of intoxicating drinks in the syllabus of primary classes in the spirit of right to health and education guaranteed under Articles 21 and 21A of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-pandemic-pil-in-sc-for-policy-to-prohibit-liquor-consumption-in-india-855787.html
01-07-2020||National||India, Pakistan exchange lists of civilian prisoners||India and Pakistan on Wednesday exchanged lists of civilian prisoners and fishermen in their respective custodies as per the provisions of a 2008 agreement. India handed over lists of 265 Pakistani civilian prisoners and 97 fishermen in its custody to Pakistan, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. Similarly, Pakistan has shared lists of 54 civilian prisoners and 270 fishermen in its custody, who are Indians or believed-to-be Indians, the MEA said. The Indian government has called for early release and repatriation of civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen, along with their boats, from Pakistan's custody, it said. In this context, Pakistan was asked to expedite the release and repatriation of seven Indian civilian prisoners and 106 Indian fishermen to India whose nationality has been confirmed and conveyed to Pakistan, the MEA said. Pakistan has also been asked to provide immediate consular access to Indian fishermen and 18 believed-to-be Indian civilian prisoners who are in Pakistan's custody, it said. The government has also sought from Pakistan that it expedite the grant of visas to the members of the medical experts' team and facilitate their visit to that country to assess the mental condition of believed-to-be Indian prisoners of unsound mind, lodged in different Pakistani jails, the MEA said. The Indian government has also sought from Pakistan that it organise an early visit of the Joint Judicial Committee to that country and to organise an early visit of the four-member team to Karachi in connection with release and repatriation of Indian fishing boats. India remains committed to addressing, on priority, all humanitarian matters, including those pertaining to prisoners and fishermen in each other's country, the MEA said. India has also urged Pakistan to expedite necessary action at its end to confirm the nationality status of 88 Pakistani prisoners, including fishermen, whose repatriation is pending for want of nationality confirmation by Pakistan, it said. India and Pakistan exchanged the list of prisoners in keeping with the provisions of the 2008 Agreement under which such lists are exchanged every year on January 1 and July 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-exchange-lists-of-civilian-prisoners-855803.html
01-07-2020||National||Fresh trouble for arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari||Elusive arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari is in further trouble with the CBI registering a fresh case against him for allegedly receiving USD five million from Samsung Engineering Co Ltd to woo officials for an ONGC project in Gujarat's Dahej. The registration of the case came after a preliminary inquiry suggested money changing hands to swing the deal. Bhandari, who is believed to be in London, is facing several cases related to corruption in arms deals registered by the CBI, Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax Department. The fresh FIR has also named the then Senior Manager of Samsung Engineering Co Ltd (SECL) Hong Namkoong, UK-based Foster Wheeler Energy Ltd and Bhandari's UAE-based company Santech International FZC besides unidentified officials of ONGC and its special vehicle ONGC Petro Additions Ltd (OPAL) among others. A consortium of M/s Linde, Germany, and M/s SECL had won the contract. According to the FIR, Bhandari as Director of Santech International entered into a criminal conspiracy with SECL and other unknown officials of ONGC/OPAL He allegedly charged a consultancy fee of USD 49.99 lakh from it, in violation of the integrity clause in the contract agreement between the Korean major and OPAL, they alleged. The investigators claimed that Bhandari had acquired a property in London's Bryson Square using the money. ED had earlier claimed that the property has links to Congress president Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra. The alleged consultancy fee was received in overseas accounts of Bhandari's Santech International, the FIR claimed. The amount received by Bhandari was to "induce unknown public servants to show undue favour to the consortium of Linde-SECL" in awarding the contract of OPAL's Dual Fuel Cracker unit to be set at Dahej Petrochemical complex in Gujarat. During investigations, it came to light that Bhandari had email exchanges with Hong NamKong of SECL regarding the Dahej project, and one of the communications on 3 April, 2008 had an attachment 'Consulting Service Agreement' between both the parties. However, the agreement signed between SECL and OPAL had said that the former had not indicated in the bid about the involvement of any agent or consultant or payment of any remuneration for the project in India or abroad. Later enquiries made it clear that SECL transferred USD 49.99 lakh in the account of Bhandari's company soon after it received advance payment from OPAL. The FIR said Bhandari acquired a property on Brynston Square in London by purchasing 100% shares of M/s Vertex Management Holding in his own name for 19 lakh pounds. "The deal was stipulated to be completed on or before end of August 2009 ie just after the transfer of Rs 22 crore (USD 50 lakh) on 13 July, 2009 in the account of the company associated Bhandari," it said adding the property on Bryson Square was sold to Skylite Investments FZE, UAE during 2011-12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-trouble-for-arms-dealer-sanjay-bhandari-855817.html
01-07-2020||National||Two agricultural experts from India named by UN chief to scientific group for 2021 food summit||Two eminent agricultural experts hailing from India have been named members of an international scientific group, aimed to offer foremost scientific evidence for sustainable food systems, established by UN chief Antonio Guterres ahead of a global food summit next year. Prof. Rattan Lal of Ohio State University and Dr. Uma Lele of the International Association of Agricultural Economists (IAAE) are among the Scientific Group Members named by Guterres, a statement issued by the UN spokesperson said. Lal, a preeminent Indian-American soil scientist, was named last month as the 2020 World Food Prize Laureate for developing and mainstreaming a soil-centric approach to increasing food production that conserves natural resources and mitigates climate change. Lal serves as distinguished university professor of Soil Science and founding Director of the Carbon Management & Sequestration Center at The Ohio State University. A native of India and citizen of the United States, Lal has in his career of over 50 years and across four continents promoted innovative soil-saving techniques that benefited the livelihoods of more than 500 million smallholder farmers, improved the food and nutritional security of more than two billion people and saved hundreds of millions of hectares of natural tropical ecosystems. Lele, the first woman to be awarded a Ph. D. in agricultural economics by Cornell University, was elected President-Elect of the International Association of Agricultural Economists in July 2018. According to Lele’s profile on her website, she has five decades of experience in research, operations, policy analysis, and evaluation in the World Bank, universities and international organisations. Guterres, in collaboration with the United Nations (UN) Rome-based Agencies, will convene the Food Systems Summit in 2021, as a critical contribution to the Decade of Action to deliver the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The summit aims to raise global awareness to understand the food systems challenges that nations must solve, build a global conversation on the way in which nations produce, process, and consume food, and galvanise global actions and commitments to change food systems to provide safe, nutritious food for all within the planetary boundaries. As noted by the Secretary-General in the recent policy brief on the Impact of COVID-19 on food security and nutrition, investment both during and after the coronavirus crisis can accelerate movement toward food systems that are more inclusive and resilient to future pandemics and that offer better protections for all, the UN statement said. With a view to facilitate this process and its success, Guterres formed a number of support structures. A multi-stakeholder Advisory Committee will provide strategic guidance and feedback on the Summit’s overall development and implementation. An independent Scientific Group will bring to bear the foremost scientific evidence, and help expand the base of shared knowledge about experiences, approaches, and tools for driving sustainable food systems. UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed will Chair the Advisory Committee, which will comprise Member State representatives as well as senior officials of relevant UN agencies, other international organisations, and individual experts across different sectors, including farmers, indigenous peoples, civil society, researchers, academics, young people, and business leaders. The Scientific Group will be Chaired by Dr. Joachim von Braun of Bonn University Germany.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-agricultural-experts-from-india-named-by-un-chief-to-scientific-group-for-2021-food-summit-855818.html
01-07-2020||National||Civil Service aspirants now allowed to change UPSC exam venue||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civil-service-aspirants-now-allowed-to-change-upsc-exam-venue-855821.html
01-07-2020||National||SC declines interim bail to Covid-19 positive 1984 riots case convict||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to entertain an interim bail plea by Mahender Yadav, ex-MLA and co-convict of former Congress MP Sajjan Kumar in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, on the ground that he was Covid-19 positive. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and B R Gavai said Yadav was being given medical care in the hospital and the court cannot make a differential treatment in his case to allow a relative to attend to him. "Everything possible is being done for the treatment of the petitioner. The family has no grievance related to the treatment. The application cannot be entertained," the bench said. Petitioner led by senior advocate R Basant submitted that he had already undergone one year of sentence out of 10-year jail term awarded to him for offence under Section 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) of the IPC. He said the petitioner was already admitted to the ICU of LNJP Hospital in Delhi but two constables remained posted outside his ward, and no relative was allowed to visit him. The bench, however, said when a person is in a general ward or ICU for treatment of Covid-19, no relative is allowed. The court cannot make any exception of this rule, the bench said, declining to consider the matter. Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, appearing for the CBI, opposed the plea, stating that it would set a bad precedent. The victims' side was represented by senior advocate H S Phoolka. In his plea, Yadav contended that he had tested Covid-19 positive on June 26 and his condition has been deteriorating. He said one of the jail inmates who shared the barrack with him had died on June 15. After this, out of 29 inmates, 17 were found positive for the virus. He said he is 72 years old and suffers from diabetes, prostate, urinary tract and knee joint problems, which may be fatal as he is now Covid-19 positive. He sought interim bail for proper medical treatment, saying he was willing to abide by any condition. A special leave petition filed by him has been pending in the top court against the conviction and sentence in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-interim-bail-to-covid-19-positive-1984-riots-case-convict-855826.html
01-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets on Ashadi Ekadashi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday extended greetings on Ashadi Ekadashi, praying for a happy and healthy world. "May Lord Vitthal's blessings bring good health and prosperity to the poor and deprived. May Vitthal's blessings be upon you to keep your world happy and healthy," he said in a series of tweets in Marathi. The prime minister said Ashadi Ekadashi is a day to commemorate the "Warkari" tradition. "Salutations to Saint Dnyaneshwar, Namdev, Eknath, Ramdas, Tukaram, and many others who have always inspired us by teaching equality and social harmony," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-on-ashadi-ekadashi-855830.html
01-07-2020||National||Patanjali can sell its drug but not as 'cure' for Covid-19: AYUSH Ministry||The Union AYUSH Ministry Wednesday said Patanjali can sell Coronil but only as an immunity booster, days after yoga guru Ramdev’s company launched it as a medicine for Covid-19 and is now calling it a product to “manage” the disease. Patanjali Ayurved Ltd said there is no disagreement now between it and the Union ministry, which had last week asked it not to sell the ayurvedic drug till the issue it examined.   At a press conference, Ramdev lashed out over the flak he received after the launch of the drug, saying some people are hurt by the “rise of Indian culture”. "I want to tell people who want to try these medicines that there is no restriction on their sale now and they will be available in a kit everywhere in the country from today," Ramdev said, referring to Coronil and the two other products Patanjali is promoting together. The company claimed that the AYUSH Ministry has “categorically agreed” that Patanjali had “appropriately worked on Covid-19 management”. "Now there is no difference of opinion between AYUSH Ministry and Patanjali,” it added in a statement. The ministry confirmed that Patanjali can sell the product but not as a cure for the disease. ] “AYUSH Ministry has only given permission to sell this particular formulation as an immunity booster and not as a medicinal cure for Covid-19,” it said. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand High Court issued notices to Patanjali, the Centre and the state government to file their replies within a week on a plea accusing the herbal products company of the COVID-cure claim it made at the launch of the drug. In Haridwar, Ramdev told reporters that the AYUSH ministry had asked him to use the term “Covid management” in place of “Covid treatment” and he is following the instruction  Even while backtracking on describing Coronil as a “treatment” for Covid-19, the company stuck to its claim that its trial on mild to moderately ill patients was successful. The company’s statement said the trial, conducted after the necessary approvals, showed 100 percent recovery of patients within seven days. “Some people feel research is a monopoly of those who wear a suit and tie. They think a saffron-wearing sanyasi has no right to do any research. What sort of untouchability and intolerance is this?" he said. “As per the ministry, Patanjali is allowed to manufacture and distribute its Divya Coronil tablet, Divya Swasarivati and Divya Anu Talia across India, as per the manufacturing licences granted by State Licensing Authority, Ayurvedic and Unani Services, Govt of Uttarakhand,” the company said. The Uttarakhand department was among the agencies which had questioned Patanjali’s claim to have developed a drug to cure Covid-19. The department had said Patanjali had only been given a licence to manufacture an immunity booster. Ramdev said the rise of Indian culture hurts a section of people, particularly the allopathic drug manufacturing multinational corporations which feel threatened every time an ayurvedic medicine launched by Patanjali comes into the market. He claimed there are at least two allopathic drugs in the market, selling for Rs 500 and Rs 5,000, in the name of coronavirus cures, but nobody is talking about them. "I and Acharya Balkrishna are from humble families,’ he said, referring to the head of the company. “We have been working for the past 35 years to enhance the prestige of yoga and Ayurveda. Building a disease-free India is our mission and it will continue," he said. Patanjali said ayurvedic drug licences and controlled clinical trials “are two different streams.” The company got approval for Coronil and Swasarivati on the basis of their “traditional reported usages” and has now connected them with “modern research-based clinical findings”, it said. Uttarakhand Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice R C Khulbe issued notices to Patanjali, the Centre, the state government and other agencies, seeking their reply over a PIL accusing the firm of misleading people with its claim. The notices also went to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), the private Jaipur-based institute which Patanjali said had collaborated with it on drug trials. BJP leader and former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Shanta Kumar came out in support of Ramdev, saying it is an insult to crores of Indians when the yoga guru is made to look guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patanjali-can-sell-its-drug-but-not-as-cure-for-covid-19-ayush-ministry-855836.html
01-07-2020||National||Government to kickstart cashless treatment for road accident victims with Rs 2.5 lakh cap per case||The government on Wednesday said it is ready with a blueprint to implement a cashless treatment scheme for road accident victims. The scheme will have an insurance coverage cap of Rs 2.5 lakh per case, as per communication to transport secretaries and commissioners of the states. The scheme assumes significance as India accounts for about 5 lakh road accidents per annum, one of the highest globally, in which about 1.5 lakh people are killed and about 3 lakh are crippled. "Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has prepared a blueprint for implementing the scheme of cashless treatment of motor accident victims, as contemplated under the MV Act, 2019. This includes treatment of victims during the crucial golden hour," the ministry said in a statement. In this regard, the transport ministry has written to principal secretaries and secretaries in charge of transport in all states and union territories soliciting their views on concept note of the scheme by the 10th of this month. The scheme also includes the creation of a Motor Vehicle Accident Fund. "The National Health Authority being the nodal agency for PM-JAY (Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri - Jan Arogya Yojana) and having footfall across he country with over 21,000 hospitals on board has been entrusted to implement the scheme," the statement said. The ministry further said that the scheme envisages "to provide compulsory insurance cover to all road users in the country". The fund would be utilised for treatment of road accident victims and for payment of compensation to the injured or to the family of person losing life in hit and run cases, the statement said. The proposed modalities of the scheme have been designed in a way that they allow access to quality care at the right time for all individuals, irrespective of their capability to pay, it added. NHA's robust IT platforms which are used for implementing PM-JAY may be leveraged to provide cashless treatment for road accident victims for treatment including the golden hour (first hour of the accident), the communication to the states said. "All road accident victims of Indian or foreign nationality will be considered eligible for the scheme as its beneficiary. The scheme will have a cap of Rs 2.5 lakh/person/accident," as per the communication. Trauma and healthcare services to road accident victim will be financed through an account which will be established under the road ministry for the implementation of the scheme, it said. "The funds will have contributions from the insurance companies through general insurance council for ensured vehicles and for hit-and-run-cases," the communication said and added that the ministry will pay for the accidents for uninsured vehicles. Besides, the vehicle owners will be liable to pay the cost of treatment as a part of compensation in case of uninsured vehicles. As many as 32 of 36 states/union territories are implementing PM-JAY and the scheme provides benefits to about 13 crore families. Under the scheme, victims will be provided access to cashless trauma care treatment at the nearest appropriate hospital in the country, as per the communication. "Hospitals have to ensure provision of stabilisation in case they refer the patient to an empaneled PM-JAY hospital where the complete treatment may be provided," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-kickstart-cashless-treatment-for-road-accident-victims-with-rs-25-lakh-cap-per-case-855842.html
01-07-2020||National||Centre plans to bring cashless treatment for road accident victims||The  Centre is planning to launch a cashless treatment scheme with a cap of Rs 2.5 lakh per case to road accident victims to ensure everyone should get medical care.  For the cashless scheme for road accident victims, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) will set up a Motor Vehicle Accident Fund under it. Both Ministry and General Insurence Companies will contribute to the fund. The accidents and hit and run cases by the insured vehicle, the General Insurence Company will bear the cost while accidents caused by uninsured vehicles the Ministry will pay the expenditure. Besides, the vehicle owners will be liable to pay the cost of treatment as a part of compensation in the case of uninsured vehicles. The Ministry asked the state opinion about the scheme. NHA’s (National Health Authority) robust IT platforms which are used for implementing AB-PM JAY (Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana) may be leveraged to provide cashless treatment for road accident victims for treatment including the golden hour (first hour of the accident), the Ministry in its letter the state said. “All road accident victims of Indian or foreign nationality will be considered eligible for the scheme as its beneficiary. The scheme will have a cap of Rs 2.5 lakh/person/accident,” as per the communication. Trauma and healthcare services to road accident victim will be financed through an account which will be established under the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways for the implementation of the scheme, it said. “Hospitals have to ensure the provision of stabilisation in case they refer the patient to an empaneled PMJAY hospital where the complete treatment may be provided,” it said. As many as 32 of 36 states/union territories are implementing PMJAY and the scheme provides benefits to about 13 crore families. Under the scheme, victims will be provided access to cashless trauma care treatment at the nearest appropriate hospital in the country, as per the communication. The scheme gained significance as India accounts for about 5 lakh road accidents per annum, one of the highest globally, in which about 1.5 lakh people are killed and about 3 lakh are injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-plans-to-bring-cashless-treatment-for-road-accident-victims-855853.html
01-07-2020||National||Indian, Chinese armies identify expeditious and phased de-escalation as priority: Sources||India and Chinese militaries have emphasised on the need for an expeditious, phased and step wise de-escalation as a priority at a nearly 12-hour corps commander-level meeting on Tuesday which was aimed at ending the seven-week bitter standoff in eastern Ladakh, military sources said. They said the discussions at the talks reflected the commitment of the two sides to reduce tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and more meetings are expected, both at military and diplomatic levels, to arrive at a mutually agreeable solution. The sources said the process of disengagement along the LAC is "complex" and in such a context, speculative and unsubstantiated reports need to be avoided. The talks took place on the Indian side of the LAC in Chushul sector in eastern Ladakh. The meeting began at 11 AM and continued for nearly 12 hours, the sources said. "The meeting on Tuesday was long and held in a business like manner keeping in view the Covid-19 protocols. The discussions reflected the commitment of both sides to reduce the tensions along the LAC," said a source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-armies-identify-expeditious-and-phased-de-escalation-as-priority-sources-855857.html
01-07-2020||National||Kolkata family compelled to keep Covid-19 patient's body in freezer for two days||In a shocking incident the family members of an elderly man who died of Covid-19 were forced to keep his body inside a freezer at home for nearly two days as his test results were awaited. The family members alleged that they had no other option as despite repeated calls to the Health Department and approaching the police they did not get any proper response on how to preserve the body till the test results arrive. The elderly man died on Monday (June 30) at around 3:00 pm at his residence. According to his family members, they called a doctor at home. His swab samples were collected earlier in the day and sent to a private laboratory for testing. "The doctor who arrived with full protective gear told us to wait for the test result as the deceased had symptoms of Covid-19 as he would not be able to issue death certificate without seeing the test report," said the Akshay Mullick, nephew of the deceased.   The family members said that after his death they went to the local police station from where they were asked to call on the Health Department’s helpline and from there also they did not get any response. Then they visited several morgues in the city so that the body can be preserved until the result arrive. But the morgues also refused stating that they did not have the infrastructure to keep the body of suspected Covid-19 patient.  “Then on Tuesday, we went to Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) who advised to go to Swasthya Bhawan (the Health Department’s headquarters). But there we were told to wait for the report,” the family members said. Left with no other options the family members bought a large freezer and kept the body inside it. The test report arrived late on Tuesday night. Finally, the body was taken by KMC officials at around 3:30 pm on Wednesday. The incident has generated severe panic among the other residents of the multistoried building. “Not only was the body was here for about two days but family members of the deceased also used the elevator and have touched the main gate. Everyone in the building is anxious,” said a resident of the building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-family-compelled-to-keep-covid-19-patients-body-in-freezer-for-two-days-855860.html
01-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: A CRPF personnel, civilian killed in Kashmir militant attack and much more||In today's episode, A CRPF personnel and a civilian were killed in a militant attack in Sopore town of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district, India and Pakistan exchange lists of civilian prisoners and fishermen in their respective custodies as per the provisions of a 2008 agreement, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari says that India will not allow Chinese companies to participate in highway projects, Gold prices in India hit an all-time high and At least six workers killed following a boiler blast at the 2nd thermal power station of Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-a-crpf-personnel-civilian-killed-in-kashmir-militant-attack-and-much-more-855864.html
01-07-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh likely to visit Ladakh on July 3: Report||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to visit Ladakh on Friday to review India's military preparedness in view of the bitter border standoff with the Chinese army in the region, sources said. During the visit, Singh is expected to hold high-level meetings with senior military leadership, they said. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in the standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-likely-to-visit-ladakh-on-july-3-report-855874.html
01-07-2020||National||Free grains reach to only 2.14 crore migrants across India; no beneficiaries in Goa, Telangana||The government distributed free food grains to 2.14 crore migrant labourers with no ration cards in May and June, but none have been covered in Goa and Telangana, the Union Food Ministry said on Wednesday. While two states Goa and Telangana did not distribute free grains for both the months, six states and union territories, namely Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Sikkim and Ladakh, did not distribute the grains in June, the ministry's data showed. The Narendra Modi government had announced free foodgrains for an estimated 8 crore migrant workers, with neither central or state ration cards, for two months at a cost of Rs 3,500 crore. They were allotted 5 kg of foodgrains per person and 1 kg of chana dal per family for two months.       "So far, free foodgrains have been distributed to 2.14 crore migrant workers so far across the country. This number is not static," Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said in a digital press conference.       "Some states have lifted fully, some have not as migrants have moved to the home state, while some have taken more than their allocation because migrant labourers were many in those states," he said.       In fact, six to seven states including Goa and Telangana have written to the Centre informing that they won't be able to implement the scheme as migrant labourers have moved out of their states, he added.       As per the ministry's data, 80 percent of the total foodgrains allocation of 8 lakh tonnes were lifted fully by 28 states/UTs. The other eight states/UTs lifted partially.       However, these states managed to distribute only 1,07,031 tonnes in two months so far.       As per the ministry's data, 60,810 tonnes of free grains were distributed to 1.21 crore migrant workers in the month of May against the target of 8 crore people, while 46,221 tonnes were distributed to 92.44 lakh migrants in June.       In May, free grains were distributed maximum in Rajasthan to 42.47 lakh beneficiaries, followed Maharashtra (15.36 lakh), Karnataka (12.31 lakh), Assam (9.19 lakh), West Bengal (9.17 lakh), Tamil Nadu (4.66 lakh), Haryana (4.52), Punjab (4.44 lakh), Uttar Pradesh (4.39) and Bihar (3.68 lakh). In the month of June, maximum migrant workers were covered in Rajasthan at 42.47 lakh, followed by West Bengal (9.17 lakh), Haryana (8.40 lakh), Karnataka (8.16 lakh), Assam (7.11 lakh), Punjab (4.44 lakh),  Delhi (2.73 lakh), Uttar Pradesh (2.25 lakh), Himachal Pradesh (1.57 lakh) and Jammu and Kashmir (1.44 lakh). The secretary said the distribution of free grains was less than one percent of the total allocation in 12 states, while it was zero in states like Goa and Telangana. The distribution was lagging in states such as Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Puducherry, Kerala among others. He, however, did not elaborate on the reasons for the poor distribution of grains under the scheme. The states have been asked to submit the beneficiaries list by July 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-grains-reach-to-only-214-crore-migrants-across-india-no-beneficiaries-in-goa-telangana-855883.html
01-07-2020||National||Priyanka Gandhi asked to vacate government accommodation within a month; Congress slams move||The Centre on Wednesday asked Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to vacate the government bungalow allotted to her in Lutyen’s Bungalow Zone in the national capital by August 1. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development cancelled the allocation of the official bungalow to Priyanka citing that she no longer had the Special Protection Group (SPG) security cover that came with a provision for government accommodation. Congress sources said Priyanka would vacate the bungalow within the stipulated time. The Modi government had withdrawn the SPG security cover of Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka in November last year. “Consequent upon withdrawal of SPG protection and grant of Z+ security cover by Ministry of Home Affairs, which does not have provision for allotment/retention of government accommodation on security ground to you, the allotment of Type 6B house number 35, Lodhi Estate, New Delhi is hereby cancelled with effect from 01/07/2020,” the ministry said in a letter to Priyanka. It noted that as per the rules she can stay in the same bungalow for a period of one month. “It is, therefore, advised to vacate the house on or before 01/08/2020. Any stay beyond 01.08.2020 will attract damage charges/penal rent as per rules,” said the letter signed by G P Sarkar, Deputy Director o Estates (A-1), in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Congress slammed the Modi government for asking Priyanka to vacate the government bungalow. “The notice to Priyanka asking her to vacate the house reflect the uneasiness of Modi and Yogi who are unsettled by her relentless attack on their policies,” Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said. “You can make us vacate 100 houses, but you cannot stop us from becoming the voice of the people. You cannot stop us from making people aware of the workings of a failed government,” Surjewala said. Priyanka was alloted the bungalow in 1997 on the recommendation of the Special Protection Group after she got married to Robert Vadra. The SPG had then contended that Priyanka, who was guarded by the elite force, required a bungalow of certain specification to ensure security cover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-asked-to-vacate-government-accommodation-within-a-month-congress-slams-move-855884.html
01-07-2020||National||Need ration, not bhashan: Rabri’s response to PM’s tweet in Bhojpuri||Former Chief Minister of Bihar, Rabri Devi, has suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that his focus should be on benefitting the poor in real terms instead of giving hollow speeches. “People want ration, not bhashan (speeches),” tweeted Rabri in Bhojpuri. She was responding to Modi’s tweet in Bhojpuri wherein the Prime Minister said that the foodgrains distributed to the poor (the scheme has been extended till November) under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Kalyan Yojna will benefit crores of beneficiaries. Rabri, who is adept at Bhojpuri language, responded to the PM’s tweet in the same lingo and said, “Respected Prime Minister, In the month of June, only 35.3 percent people in Bihar got the ration. How will a poor sustain his or her life under such circumstances. The poor want ration, not your bhashan.” The Prime Minister, in his address to the nation on Tuesday (June 30), specifically mentioned that ration would be distributed under PM Jan Kalyan Yojna till November 2020. Incidentally, the Bihar election too is slated to be held in November. Modi’s speech (of doling out sops) is seen against this backdrop. “In his 16-minute speech, PM Modi twice mentioned Chhath festival (scheduled to be held in November), knowing very well its significance for the people of Bihar. Modi and the BJP will go all out to wrest Bihar after it got a drubbing in Maharashtra and Delhi,” said Mrityunjay Tiwary, RJD spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-ration-not-bhashan-rabri-s-response-to-pm-s-tweet-in-bhojpuri-855887.html
01-07-2020||National||Government designates 9 Khalistani separatists as 'terrorists'||The government on Wednesday designated nine elusive Khalistani separatists, including Babbar Khalsa International's Pakistan-based chief Wadhawa Singh Babbar who is wanted in Kanishka bombing case, as "terrorists" under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. These nine persons are "involved in various acts of terrorism" from across the border and from foreign soil and have been relentless in their "nefarious efforts" of destabilizing the country, by "trying to revive militancy" in Punjab through their "anti-national activities and through their support to and involvement" in the Khalistan Movement, an official statement said. The designation as terrorists came following the government amending the UAPA in August 2019. Till then, only organisations could be designated as terrorist outfits. Besides Babbar, the others who were designated as terrorists include International Sikh Youth Federation chief Lakhbir Singh, Khalistan Zindabad Force chief Ranjee Singh and Khalistan Commando Force chief Paramjit Singh. All of them are based in Pakistan. Germany-based "key members" of Khalistan Zindabad Force's Bhupinder Singh Bhinda and Gurmeet Singh Bagga, US-based Sikh for Justice's Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, Canada-based Khalistan Tiger Force chief Hardeep Singh and Babbar Khalsa International's UK chief Paramjit Singh have also been designated as terrorist. In September last year, India had designated Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar, Lashkar-e-Taiba chief Hafiz Saeed, LeT chief commander Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi and underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, all based in Pakistan. With this, India has designated 13 persons as terrorists. According to a gazette notification, Babbar and Paramjit Singh involved in Kanishka bombing in 1985, assassination of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh in 1995, bomb blast in Delhi Liberty and Satyam cinema halls in 2005 and Shingar cinema hall in Ludhiana in 2007. Lakhbir Singh is accused of sending weapons and explosives from Pakistan to India to carry out terror strikes in Punjab while Ranjeet Singh is involved in at least ten bomb blasts, including on Pooja Express and Sealdah Express trains as well as the murder of Rashtriya Sikh Sangat chief Rulda Singh and Sant Ramanand and Sant Niranjan Das in Austria's Vienna in 2009. Panjwar and his outfit is found to be involved in several terror incidents, including the killing of Major General B N Kumar, who was Chairman of Bhakra Beas Management Board and 18 students at Thappar Engineering College in Patiala among others. Bhinda and Bagga, who was earlier arrested in Germany in connection with the conspiracy to target chief of Radhasoami sect and a series of explosions, also find their name in the terrorist-designate list along with Pannun, who is accused of "instigating and abetting" youth to join them in Khalistan Referendum 2020 and providing financial help to youths in the region for creating violence or fear to disturb peace in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-designates-9-khalistani-separatists-as-terrorists-855909.html
01-07-2020||National||At 14-hr meet with China, India conveys ‘lack of trust’||India has conveyed its “lack of trust” on local Chinese commanders deployed in eastern Ladakh, to the senior leadership of the People’s Liberation Army in a marathon meeting in which the two countries agreed upon an “expeditious, phased and stepwise de-escalation of troops as a priority” along the Line of Actual Control, the disputed border between the two neighbours. Because of the trust factor, it has now been decided that each of the withdrawal steps undertaken by either side would have to be cross-checked and vetted by senior officers of the two armies before both sides proceed to the next step. This was conveyed to the Chinese military at a crucial meeting at Chushul between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Leh-based 14 Corps and Maj Gen Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military Region continued for nearly 14 hours and ended at half-past midnight on Tuesday. It was the third such meeting in the last month. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday is expected to fly to Leh for an on-the-spot appraisal by Lt Gen Singh and other senior officials. Accompanied by the Army Chief Gen M M Naravane, Singh would also interact with the troops and commanders besides visiting the Military Hospital at Leh where some of the injured soldiers are recuperating. For nearly two months, the troops from India and China are locked in a tense face-off at multiple locations in eastern Ladakh including Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso and Depsang Bulge. The face-off led to a violent clash on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers including their commanding officer and a significant number of Indian troops were killed. The two sides discussed a peaceful de-escalation plan three times but the troop presence in east Ladakh has not thinned so far. Both increased their men, firepower, and wherewithal on either side of the LAC. While the June 6 disengagement plan remains an accepted road map for the two armies, sources said more meetings are expected at the military and at the diplomatic level, in future, to arrive at mutually agreeable solutions and to ensure peace and tranquility along the LAC as per bilateral agreements and protocols. “Both sides have emphasised the need for an expeditious, phased and stepwise de-escalation as a priority,” sources said. The mutual concurrence is in keeping with the agreement between the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart during their conversation on June 17 that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 sincerely. In the meeting, Lt Gen Singh and Maj Gen Liu discussed threadbare each of the friction points in the Galwan valley like Patrol Point-14, PP-15, PP-17 and 17A as well as heavy PLA troop presence in the Finger Complex in the northern banks of the Pangong Tso and Depsang Bulge north of Galwan. It has been decided that the disengagement process at each sector will have a time element so that senior commanders can cross-check and verify. This would be a time consuming and long-drawn affair, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-14-hr-meet-with-china-india-conveys-lack-of-trust-855912.html
01-07-2020||National||Jagan inaugurates cancer care centre in Guntur, another to come up at Kurnool||Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy who inaugurated a Cancer Care Centre at the Guntur Government Hospital on Wednesday (July 1) said that the State-run hospital facilities in Andhra Pradesh would be improved to the best standards nationally. Reddy said that every citizen of AP would soon be provided with a digital health card and every mandal would have a PHC with a doctor and a 104 ambulance. The health cards will store all the medical history of the patient. The cancer care centre, to run in association with the Natco Trust, is the first such comprehensive facility in the public sector, the Chief Minister said. A similar unit would come up at the Kurnool general hospital in one-year's time, the CM said, adding that such initiatives help in bringing cancer cure nearer to the poor. Reddy had, earlier in the day, flagged off 1088 ambulance vehicles coinciding with the National Doctors’ Day. “I am delighted to see this huge fleet roll out to serve the needy. This day should be written in golden letters in the State’s history as nowhere else 1088 ambulances were launched on a single day,” Reddy said. “We should instill confidence among the public that these ambulances now respond immediately as the service was neglected during the previous (TDP) government. We had witnessed rats nibble infants in the government hospitals and surgeries performed under cell phone light. The change we are making now should be clearly visible,” Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jagan-inaugurates-cancer-care-centre-in-guntur-another-to-come-up-at-kurnool-855913.html
01-07-2020||National||Registration for entry to Kerala to continue; 52 percent returnees lost job||Even as the centre decided to do away with the requirement of inter-state entry passes, Kerala government would continue to mandate on registration for those entering Kerala. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that registration for entering Kerala would continue to be mandatory in order to ensure proper screening and quarantining. As many as 151 more fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Wednesday, whereas 131 recovered from the infection. One person who ended life by suicide at Kozhikode a few days back was tested Covid-19 positive. Six more CISF personnel of Kannur got infected. The Kerala government decided to launch a Dream Kerala scheme for rehabilitation of NRIs restrung owing to job loss. The Chief Minister said that of the 1.43 lakh NRIs who already returned to Kerala, 52 percent had lost the jobs. NRIs had considerably contributed to the state's economy with annual remittance of around Rs. one lakh crore. As per the Dream Kerala scheme service of returnees with expertise in various fields would be utilsed for development projects of Kerala. A hackathon for pitching ideas would be conducted. A steering committee headed by the Chief Minister would be formed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/registration-for-entry-to-kerala-to-continue-52-percent-returnees-lost-job-855914.html
01-07-2020||National||Chinese apps ban will give opportunity to Indian tech: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The ban on Chinese apps will give a great opportunity to Indian technocrats to develop Indian mobile applications,  which will be in line with the government's Clarion Call of Atma Nirbhar Bharat, Union minister for Electronics and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Wednesday.  Speaking at an event commemorating five years of Digital India, the Minister asked the IT industry to encourage start-ups and young talent to build good apps which can be an alternative to Chinese apps.  The Minister was speaking the first time after the government's decision on banning 59 Chinese apps on the charges that threaten to national security and privacy concerns.  In the online event, which was attended by Infosys’ Non-Executive Chairman, Nandan Nilekani, and Nasscom President Debjani Ghosh, the Minister said the government will encourage from its end to develop indigenous app but they also need a helping hand from organisations like Nasscom and industry veterans like Nilekani.  The emergency powers were exercised by the Centre to address the issue of apps leaking user information and that all required legal processes were being followed, the Minister said.  The dependence on these 'foreign apps with their own agenda for a variety of reasons' must stop he said adding that it was remarkable how the domestic app economy had risen in the last few days following the ban on Chinese apps.  The Minister also said that Cabinet's approval will be sought soon for a policy to provide broadband through landlines. India is one of the largest markets for landlines and cable operators can also use it to give broadband connections to apartments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-apps-ban-will-give-opportunity-to-indian-tech-ravi-shankar-prasad-855915.html
01-07-2020||National||52 CISF jawans test positive for Covid-19 over past 2 weeks||Fifty-two CISF jawans at a nearby camp have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past two weeks, following which a health officer has been tasked with surveillance, contact tracing and further quarantine measures. The health department has also issued a Standard Operating Procedure to the commandant of the camp at ValiyaVelicham, which houses over 200 CISF personnel, to strengthen quarantine protocol. The District Medical Officer said the SOP was issued after 52 of the 98 samples taken till Tuesday tested positive. "A deputy District Medical Officer (DMO) has been entrusted with the surveillance and contact tracing and further quarantine procedures," he told PTI. He said most of the personnel were from other states, including Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. "We suspect most of the jawans contracted the disease as they travelled from their home towns. Nine of the cases were through contacts. We will collect more samples," the DMO said. The decision to ensure strict quarantine and follow other health protocols at the camp was taken at an online meeting chaired by the District Collector, in which the CISF Commandant, Kannur Airport Managing Director and top health officials participated. Health officials said the functioning of the airport would not be affected in the current situation. The CISF Director-General had on Tuesday said that a senior official of the Force would be in charge of the Kannur camp for the welfare of the soldiers. Kannur DIG, K Sethuraman, police chief G H Yatish Chandra and other senior officials visited the barracks and took stock of the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/52-cisf-jawans-test-positive-for-covid-19-over-past-2-weeks-855917.html
01-07-2020||National||Ex A-G Rohatgi, other counsel refuse to appear for Chinese company||Former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi on Wednesday declared that he would not represent the company that prepared the mobile application 'TikTok' in a court, a day after the Union government's action to ban 59 Chinese Apps in the country. Senior advocate Rohatgi, and other counsel Rajiv Nayar and Aman Sinha also expressed their unwillingness to appear for ByteDance, the manufacturer of the video-sharing application during such tense times, following the bloody clash with the Chinese Army that claimed lives of 20 India soldiers at East Ladakh. Nayar told a TV channel that his conscience does not allow to argue for a Chinese company. Sinha also tweeted that he was asked by a junior lawyer to appear for TikTok which he has "flatly refused". Senior advocate A M Singhvi, who had earlier appeared for Chinese company ByteDance (India) Technology Pvt Ltd, also said he did not intend to represent the company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-a-g-rohatgi-other-counsel-refuse-to-appear-for-chinese-company-855919.html
01-07-2020||National||Fight over who will represent Delhi Police continues, HC asks lawyer to show authorisation letter||The usual controversy over who will represent the police in a Delhi violence-related case irked the Delhi High Court which on Wednesday directed a central government counsel to show that he was appointed by the Lieutenant Governor (LG) to represent the probe agency in the matter. The high court which was hearing the Delhi Police’s plea challenging a trial court’s order granting bail to the owner of a private school in a case related to communal violence in north east Delhi during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in February. The high court had earlier stayed the trial court’s order granting bail to accused Faisal Farooq, the owner of the private school. The issue cropped up when Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi and central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan said they have been authorised to represent the Delhi Police in the matter while Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra maintained that Central Government has no power to file this petition against the June 20 order of the trial court and the state has to be represented by him. This controversy has also happened in the matter earlier when, on June 22, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta withdrew his name from the case “out of disgust”, and also in other similar cases. Justice Suresh Kait, on Wednesday while holding the proceedings through video conferencing, directed Mahajan to file a proper document during the day to establish that Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has appointed him as the counsel to file this petition. “It is made clear that if the counsel who has filed the petition fails to bring the approval letter from the LG, the interim order (of stay) shall be vacated,” the judge said, adding that a copy of the documents to be filed be also given to Mehra. The matter was heard by the court in two sessions- pre lunch and post lunch. While in the pre-lunch session, Lekhi maintained that he was appearing for the Delhi Police, he was not present in the second session of the hearing and on being asked by the court, Mahajan replied that it was embarrassing for the attorneys to appear in such matters and a controversy is raised every time. “Due to this controversy ASG Aman Lekhi is not comfortable to address the court and has not appeared in the post lunch session,” the court noted as Mahajan’s submission in its order. When the court asked Mahajan to show the authorisation letter of LG, he said he was given instructions by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Legal) to file the petition on behalf of Delhi Police and appear in the case and sought time to place on record the LG’s order. “Till date you do not have the letter from LG, then how you are appearing. If you do not have sometime in your hand, say so then I will deal with it,” the judge said. The high court also took strong objection to the fact that on the first date of hearing, Mehra had appeared and raised the issue that the Central government cannot file the petition on behalf of Delhi Police, however, on the next date of hearing on June 23, neither he nor anyone else appeared and it was under the impression that on behalf of State ASG Lekhi is appearing in the matter. The high court noted that however, this time additional standing counsel, Delhi government, Rajesh Mahajan appeared on behalf of Mehra and said that the petition is not maintainable as it is filed on behalf of the state by the Central government. The high court also observed that this issue was being raised in every third matter and it has seen it in the orders passed by other benches of the high court. In the criminal case, Faisal Farooq, owner of the Rajdhani School in Shiv Vihar locality was among the 18 arrested, for alleged involvement in burning and damaging property of the adjacent DRP Convent School. The police has challenged the trial court bail order saying the decision was ex-facie unwarranted. The Delhi Police had on June 3 filed a charge sheet before the court against Farooq and 17 others in the incident in which the building of a private school was burnt down in North East Delhi. The trial court, in its bail order, had noted that the charge sheet filed against him in the case was bereft of material showing his alleged links with the Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group and Muslim clerics. It had directed Farooq to surrender his passport and not leave the National Capital Region without permission of the court. He should mark his attendance on every alternate Wednesday at the police station concerned. It also asked him not to tamper with evidence or influence the witnesses. The Crime Branch of the Delhi Police had filed the charge sheet against the accused for allegedly conspiring with the Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group, Jamia Coordination Committee and Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz for creating riots, in and around his school. It has also been alleged that protestors against the CAA had received funds from the PFI, formed in 2006 in Kerala as a successor to the National Democratic Front (NDF).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fight-over-who-will-represent-delhi-police-continues-hc-asks-lawyer-to-show-authorisation-letter-855922.html
01-07-2020||National||EC defends decision to allow postal votes for those above 65 years||The Election Commission on Wednesday defended its decision to allow voters above 65 years and Covid-19 positive and suspect people to cast postal votes, saying it was done to their exposure in public and not deprive them of their voting rights. The EC's response came as CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury shot off a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on Monday objecting to taking "unilateral" measures without consulting parties and warning that these could lead to instances of "manipulation and malpractice" resulting in "potential favor of the ruling party".  The EC had allowed people above the age of 80 years last October and those above 65 years and Covid-19 affected people postal votes in June. In response to Yechury, Deputy Election Commissioner Chandra Bhushan Kumar said the Representation of the People Act, 1951 allowed the EC to decide on the postal vote in consultation with the government. On allowing people above 80 years and disabled voters the facility of postal votes, Bhushan said in his letter that the EC piloted the project in last year's Jharkhand election when 680 senior citizens and 1,338 disabled used the facility. In Delhi Assembly elections, 2,557 senior citizens, 429 disabled, and 19 voters involved in essential services used it.  On extending services to all those above 65 years, Bhushan said the EC considered the "extraordinary situation" due to Covid-19 to "minimise their exposure in public and yet not deprive them of their voting rights". He also said the EC has held meetings with parties in Bihar, where Assembly election is due later this year, and directed to limit the number of voters in each polling station to 1,000 and to create auxiliary polling stations in the same locality so that social distancing norms are enforced during voting. Bhushan said, "electors and political parties/entities are the most important stakeholder in our electoral system. All efforts are made to ensure their inclusiveness without compromising the integrity of the process." "Commission has been consistently applying the existing statutory framework in the interest of electors, which enables their maximum participation, especially in challenging times like the present one. Commission would welcome any suggestion for further steps required to be taken to meet the emerging challenges. Commission, as in the past, always values the inputs of the political parties," he added. However, Yechury said the EC has not responded to the core issue raised by him about consultation with parties. "These decisions are not specific to one single state. It is for the entire country. That is why there is a need for a consultation with parties at national level," he told DH. In his letter on June 29, Yechury had said, "from the media reports we are constrained to infer that the tearing hurry that the ECI displays is on account of the impending Bihar Assembly elections scheduled to be held in November, 2020." He highlighted that consensus among parties and the Election Commission is necessary for introducing new voting practices which will adversely affect the verifiability of a large number of voters, "thus, transparency and integrity of the process; not to mention, the leverage available to the incumbent administration in organising the postal ballots". "Our electoral system has always treated physical verifiability of the voters as the bedrock of integrity. With the two amendments to the Rules, a very large number of voters will be out of the verifiability matrix. This assumes great significance because of instances of manipulation and malpractice even with the comparatively low number of postal ballots used by service personnel on election duty," he said. "With the unresolved question of opaque electoral bonds on poll funding, which remains pending before the Supreme Court, where the ECI has itself agreed with us that this poses a major challenge in monitoring and supervising income/expenditure, this new use of postal ballots will further aggravate the situation in potential favour of the ruling party," Yechury said in the letter. Yechury reminded the Election Commission that it had always insisted that it would not unilaterally exercise power given to it under Article 324 that allows "control and superintendence" of elections mandated by the Constitution. He said it had created an "extremely healthy precedent" of recognising the political parties, representing the people, as principal stakeholders. He noted that the Model Code of Conduct (MCC), a major electoral reform, was arrived at through the consensus of the entire spectrum of parties. "Even though this is not backed by statutory empowerment, it has never been questioned. This practice has reinforced transparency in the system earning widespread appreciation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-defends-decision-to-allow-postal-votes-for-those-above-65-years-855925.html
01-07-2020||National||Indra Mani Pandey appointed India's Permanent Representative to United Nations in Geneva||Seasoned diplomat Indra Mani Pandey has been appointed as India's next Permanent Representative to the United Nations and other international organisations in Geneva. Pandey, a 1990-batch Indian Foreign Service officer, is currently serving as an additional secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). "He is expected to take up the assignment shortly," the MEA said in a statement. Pandey succeeds Rajiv K Chander in Geneva. In his nearly three-decade career, Pandey served in Indian missions in Damascus, Cairo, Islamabad, Kabul, Muscat and Geneva. He also served as joint secretary in the Disarmament and International Security Affairs division of the MEA at its headquarters in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indra-mani-pandey-appointed-indias-permanent-representative-to-united-nations-in-geneva-855928.html
01-07-2020||National||Be more sensitive to poor; implement PMGKAY proactively: Centre to laggard states||Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Wednesday said some states like West Bengal and Bihar are lagging behind in distribution of free ration under the PMGKAY and they should be more "sensitive" towards the poor during this COVID-19 crisis and take proactive measures.       The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), announced as part of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to help those affected due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, was earlier valid for a three-month period from April to June. The same has been extended for five months till November. More than 80 crore people will be provided 5 kg free wheat/rice per month along with 1 kg free whole chana to each family per month under the scheme. This is over and above the subsidised grains given under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). "We have no problem in providing foodgrains to states. When it is being given free, I don't understand what is the problem with states in distribution. We are taking this issue seriously," Paswan said at a digital press conference. Several letters have been written to laggard states and even spoken to chief ministers and food ministers of those states, he claimed. "Despite all efforts, they are not taking any action. They should be more sensitive towards the poor in this crisis and take proactive steps." As per the latest data, West Bengal has not begun the distribution of June month quota of free ration under the PMGKAY, while only 47 per cent achieved in Bihar, 48 per cent in Madhya Pradesh, 60 per cent in Manipur and 66 per cent in Delhi in the same period. Paswan said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has extended the PMGKAY for next five months, even though 22 state chief ministers had sought for only three months. "We thank the Prime Minister for this. Our ministry has given direction to all states to begin lifting the grains for distribution for next five months immediately. There is no shortage of foodgrains with us," he said. The minister also mentioned that the states should plan and lift the grains immediately from the state-owned FCI godowns so that they do not face problems in distribution during the rainy season, he said. About 93 per cent foodgrains distribution achieved in the month of April and May, respectively, while only 75 per cent distribution took place in June under the PMGKAY, he added.   There was less than 90 per cent of foodgrains distribution during the April-June period in the states of West Bengal, Sikkim, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Manipur, Delhi, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, data showed. On pulses distribution under the PMGKAY, Paswan said 4.49 lakh tonnes of pulses have been distributed so far against the target of 5.87 lakh tonnes for the April-June period. On availability of chana (gram) for distribution in next five months under the scheme, he said the government has more than 29.49 lakh tonnes of this pulse in stock, sufficient to meet the demand under the PMGKAY. Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the distribution of free grains and pulses under the PMGKAY and to migrant labourers would cost the exchequer Rs 1,48,938 crore. This includes Rs 1,22,839 crore for free grains and Rs 11,800 crore for pulses under the PMGKAY. Under Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme for migrant labourers, the food secretary said the cost of free grain distribution for May-June was Rs 3,109.52 crore. The foregone cost of Central Issue Price for foodgrains (which comes to approximately Rs 1,400 crore per month ) entails an expenditure of approximately Rs 11,200 crore. "Thus, the estimated cost for distribution of food grains (rice and wheat) and pulses will be Rs 1,48,938 crore approximately," he added. On ration card portability, Paswan said 20 states/UTs so far are ready with infrastructure to provide the service and the central government requests others to join at the earliest. He said many states highlighted the challenges related to slow internet or limited connectivity and assured that he will take up these issues with the telecom ministry for appropriate solutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/be-more-sensitive-to-poor-implement-pmgkay-proactively-centre-to-laggard-states-855930.html
01-07-2020||National||Flying out of India: Visa application process begins for eight countries||Gearing up for the resumption of international flights after July 15, the Visa application process has now restarted for seven countries, including Belarus, Denmark, Norway, Portugal, South Korea, Turkey, Dominican Republic, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).  The Visa Facilitation Services (VFS) Global will recommence the process for three more countries including the United Kingdom by July 6. While visas for all 11 countries can be applied from VFS Visa  Application Centre (VAC) in New Delhi, its Bengaluru Centre will process visas only for the UK and Ireland.  UK-bound passengers could apply for all category visas in 10 cities including Bengaluru (Global Tech Park VAC) from July 6. The other cities are Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Chennai (subject to local lockdown regulations), Jalandhar, Kochi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi and Pune.  Student visas and long-stay visa applications for Ireland will also be processed at all these 10 cities from July 6.  The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has approved online e-Visa applications under all categories for Emirates passengers from June 25. Re-entry visa applications for Italy will commence at the VFS New Delhi center on July 3.  Passport status  On the status of passports submitted before services were suspended, the official said passports returned to VFS Global after assessment by the Embassy/Consulate will be given back to the customers when the VACs are allowed to re-open. VFS Global does not seek a medical report for customers visiting its Centres. However, “the reports are often part of required documentation in some visa applications (may or may not be related to Covid-19).” The official advised applicants to check the updated document checklist for the destination country, “in case any medical and vaccination histories are required as part of the visa application.”  For applicants who already hold a valid work or residence permit, the travel/entry will depend on entry restrictions of that country. “For fresh applications, this depends on the country you are applying for. Several countries have put in place border control measures, temporarily disallowing certain non-essential travelers from submitting visa applications.” Those with existing visas that have expired or expiring soon, could re-apply for a fresh visa when operations resume. VFS Global had processed six million applications from 51 centers in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flying-out-of-india-visa-application-process-begins-for-eight-countries-855935.html
01-07-2020||National||'Bharat Ratna for Dalai Lama' clamour grows amid stand-off along India-China disputed boundary||A section within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s mentor Sangh Parivar wants the government to send out a strong message to China by conferring India’s highest civilian award – Bharat Ratna – on Dalai Lama, the octogenarian icon of the protest against the communist country’s occupation of Tibet.  The proposal to confer the Bharat Ratna on Dalai Lama is being vetted at the highest echelons of the government. A section within the officialdom in New Delhi is in favour of giving it a thought, particularly in view of China’s recent aggression along the disputed boundary with India. The others, however, advised caution, as such a move by India would trigger a strong response from China, sources in New Delhi said. Dalai Lama has been living in India ever since he fled the Potala Palace in Lhasa in March 1959, to escape the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), which had by then occupied Tibet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is also understood to be considering a few other proposals, including one to send the 84-year-old Buddhist monk greetings from the high offices in New Delhi on his forthcoming birthday on July 6. A final decision, however, is likely to be taken only after factoring in the progress in talks between senior diplomats and military officials of the two sides to resolve the stand-off along India-China disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh. “We must honour him (Dalai Lama) with Bharat Ratna,” said Pankaj Goyal, the general secretary of the Bharat Tibbat Sahyog Manch (BTSM), which was floated by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). “I feel more and more that His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama should be given the Bharat Ratna,” Nirupama Rao, former Foreign Secretary, posted on Twitter, just days after the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA soldiers had a clash at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. “He (Dalai Lama) deserves it for his service to humanity, his compassion, courage, and his abiding faith in democracy and fundamental freedoms, all values that our Republic upholds,” tweeted Rao, India’s former envoy to China. Shanta Kumar, a senior BJP leader and former Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh, had in April 2019 submitted to the Union Government a letter signed by the MPs of several political parties, recommending Bharat Ratna for Dalai Lama. Eminent personalities like historian Ramachandra Guha and former West Bengal governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi too advocated for conferring the award on him. So did Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Dalai Lama, a staunch advocate for non-violence and freedom, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989. He has only been arguing for “genuine autonomy” – not independence from the Chinese Government’s rule – for Tibet. Beijing, however, still calls him a “separatist” and accuses him of running a campaign to split China. His visit to Rashtrapati Bhavan on an invitation from the then President Pranab Mukherjee in December 2016 triggered a strong protest from China. So did New Delhi’s decisions in 2009 and 2017 to allow him to visit Arunachal Pradesh, where China claims nearly 90000 sq kms of the territory of India to be its own. New Delhi, however, always dismissed the protests from Beijing, underlining that the Dalai Lama was an honoured guest of India and he was always free to visit any part of the country. But just two months before Modi had an “informal summit” with Chinese President Xi Jinping at Wuhan in central China on April 27 and 28, 2018, the cabinet secretariat issued an advisory in New Delhi asking “senior leaders” and “government functionaries” in the states as well as at the Centre to stay away from events attended by Dalai Lama. New Delhi’s move was obviously intended to avoid irking Beijing ahead of Modi-Xi “informal summit”, which India had hoped would bring back on track its relation with China after it had reached its nadir over the 72-day-long military face-off between the two nations in Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan the previous year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-ratna-for-dalai-lama-clamour-grows-amid-stand-off-along-india-china-disputed-boundary-855939.html
01-07-2020||National||Narendra Modi quits Weibo; BJP says PM sends strong message at personal level too||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday quit “Weibo” – two days after his government banned the use of the micro-blogging app developed by the Sina Corporation of China. PM Modi deleted his profile picture as well as all his 115 posts on Weibo, after the micro-blogging app delayed to act on the request of his office to close his account. “Weibo”, an equivalent of Twitter, was one of the 59 Chinese apps the Modi Government banned on Monday. New Delhi’s move came amid continuing military stand-off along the disputed India-China boundary in eastern Ladakh. The Ministry of Electronics and information Technology stated that the apps had been used in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order” The Prime Minister had opened his account on the Weibo in May 2015 ahead of his first state visit to China. His posts in Chinese were a part of New Delhi’s public diplomacy campaign to reach out to the people of the communist country. He had 2.44 lakh followers on the Chinese micro-blogging platform. Though the Prime Minister’s Office initiated the process to close the account soon after the ban on Weibo and 58 other Chinese apps were imposed, the “complex” procedure delayed the process. The 113 posts were manually deleted by Tuesday. Two other posts – with pictures of Modi and the Chinese President Xi Jinping – remained for another day. It was difficult to delete posts with pictures of Chinese President. The remaining two posts were also deleted on Wednesday. The Embassy of India in Beijing had posted three statements on “WeChat” – another Chinese social media app – detailing New Delhi’s position on the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the disputed India-China boundary. The statements were removed on June 20. Posts on social media in the communist country are constantly subjected to censorship. Several foreign apps – like Twitter, WhatsApp and Facebook – are banned in China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-quits-weibo-bjp-says-pm-sends-strong-message-at-personal-level-too-855942.html
01-07-2020||National||With 3.87 lakh Covid-19 cases in June, India past six lakh-mark; Centre steps up testing||As India added nearly four lakh, Covid-19 patients in June, the government on Wednesday asked states to step up testing and enabled all doctors to prescribe tests for the highly infectious disease. On June 1, India had 1,98,127 confirmed cases of Covid-19 which ballooned to 5,85,493 on June 30. On July 1, India had crossed the six lakh mark and the total number of confirmed cases was 6.03,214 at 8:30 p.m. on Wednesday. In a letter to state governments, Health Secretary Preeti Sudan and ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava asked them to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified doctors, including private practitioners, to prescribe Covid test to any individual fulfilling the ICMR guidelines. “ICMR has strongly recommended that laboratories should be free to test any individual in accordance to the ICMR Guidelines and State authorities must not restrict an individual from getting tested, as early testing will help in containing the virus and saving lives,” a health ministry statement said.  The fresh directions from the Centre came as India added fresh Covid-19 cases rapidly after reaching the one lakh mark on May 18. By June 2, India had two lakh cases, it added another lakh in 10 days to reach the three lakh mark on June 12. The progress to four lakh cases was in eight days on June 20. India had added another one lakh case to reach the five lakh mark on June 26. Sudan and Bhargava told the state governments and union territories the capacity utilisation of the testing labs, particularly in private sector, was grossly sub-optimal. ICMR has so far approved a total of 1,056 laboratories for Covid-19 testing of which 764 labs were in the public sector and 292 in the private sector. The centre has asked states to take up testing in campaign mode by setting up camps, using mobile vans in high incidence areas to collect samples of all symptomatic individuals and their contacts and test them using the rapid antigen testing platform. The laboratories have also been asked to load the testing data on the ICMR database and also report to state, district, city authorities for surveillance and contact tracing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-387-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-june-india-past-six-lakh-mark-centre-steps-up-testing-855944.html
01-07-2020||National||States laggard in implementing free food grains scheme: Paswan||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the free food grains for poor initiative till November, the Centre on Wednesday asked the state governments to implement the scheme proactively claiming that eight states and UTs were laggard in this regard. Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Ramvilas Paswan said states such as West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, and Bihar had failed to distribute free food grains to 100% beneficiaries from April to June despite getting more than adequate stocks from the Centre. “I don’t understand what is the problem with the states in the distribution of food grains. We are treating the matter very seriously,” Paswan told reporters through a video link. He said eight states and union territories had distributed less than 90% of food grains to beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) that was launched soon after the country went under lockdown to combat Covid-19 late March.  Under the PMGKAY nearly 81 crore poor in rural and urban areas were entitled to free 5kg wheat or rice per person and one kg pulses per household for three months – April, May and June – over and above their entitlements under the National Food Security Act. Modi extended the PMGKAY by another five months on Tuesday. Paswan said West Bengal had distributed 59% of the food grains allocated to it for the three months of the scheme, Sikkim (68%), Madhya Pradesh (68%), Bihar (75%), Manipur (80%), Delhi (84%), Jharkhand (86%), Maharashtra (87%) and Dadra, Nagar Haveli, Daman & Diu (87%). Paswan said ironically some of the above states had written to the Centre to extend the PMGKAY by another three months. The minister said the Centre had decided to give the whole chana against the demand for specific pulses from the states as milling operation of pulses were affected due to the lockdown. He said the Centre had enough stocks of chana to meet the demand for the extended PMGKAY. Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the distribution of free grains and pulses under the PMGKAY and Atma Nirbhar Scheme for migrant labourers would cost the exchequer Rs 1,48,938 crore||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-laggard-in-implementing-free-food-grains-scheme-paswan-855947.html
01-07-2020||National||Vishwa Hindu Parishad's website hacked||The website of the VHP was hacked on Wednesday with its International President Alok Kumar saying that "provocative messages" were posted on its home page. The website was hacked in the morning after which VHP's top leadership had decided to shut the site down temporarily. The website showed that it is "under maintenance" when one logs into it. Kumar said they have approached the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and Delhi Police Cyber Cell seeking action against the hackers. In a video statement, he said it was a matter of concern as the hackers had posted "provocative" slogans on the website. He claimed they posted messages like "No genocide of Muslims, No to hindutva, Dalits and Muslims should fight against Modi government" on the website. "This is not a small incident. This is to provoke our supporters and members. This is aimed at creating communal disturbance," he said. In 2013, VHP's official Facebook page was hacked with its leaders then claiming that "malicious religious and political" material were posted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vishwa-hindu-parishads-website-hacked-855955.html
01-07-2020||National||Indian Railways start process to allow private passenger trains in its network||Indian Railways on Wednesday (July 1) started the process of allowing private players to operate passengers trains in its network as it invited Request for Qualification (RFP). The project entails an investment of around Rs 30 000.  As per the proposal, private players can bid for operating on 109 pairs of routes through the introduction of 151 modern trains. “Majority of Trains to be manufactured in India (Make in India). The private entity shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operation, and maintenance of the trains,” the railway ministry said in a statement. The 109  routes have been formed into 12 Clusters across the Indian Railway network and each train shall have a minimum of 16 coaches said a statement from the Ministry. The concession period for the project will be 35 years and a private entity responsible for financing, procuring, operation, and maintenance of the trains. The trains are to be designed for a maximum speed of 160 kmph. With several companies including Indigo, Vistara, Spice Jet, R K Catering, and MakeMyTrip and others showing interest to participate in operating private trains, the ministry is keen on starting the project earliest. The private companies, which bags the tender to operate the train, have to pay lease charges and haulage charges (or freight charges for using infrastructure) to Indian Railways. Apart from fixing fare, private companies also have provided inside facilities like catering, cleaning, and supply of beddings to passengers. During the pre-lockdown period IRCTC, a catering, and ticketing arm of railways operated three trains-New Delhi-Lucknow, Mumbai -Ahmedabad, and Ujjain-Varanasi. Since all the three trains operated successfully with occupancy was more than 70 %, the railways wanted to hand over more routes to private companies, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-start-process-to-allow-private-passenger-trains-in-its-network-855958.html
01-07-2020||National||Indian Railways scraps tender for thermal cameras to avoid Chinese firms||Close on the heels of BSNL cancelling tender to 4G up-gradation project, Indian Railways also scrapped a bid for thermal cameras after vendors said the specifications may favour Chinese firms. RailTel, a public sector undertaking in the Ministry of Railways last month floated a tender for  800 Artificial Intelligence-based surveillance cameras that measure body temperatures of individuals and even detect whether a person is wearing a mask or not. However, vendors made a plea to RailTel that specifications in the tender favoured  Chinese company Hikvision, one of the world’s largest video surveillance companies which currently dominates India’s CCTV market. They said the technology—DeepInMind—which is part of the specification for the cameras and mentioned in the tender document, is a proprietary feature of Hikvision. Now,  RailTel has decided to float fresh tender which will encourage wider participation including non-Chinese companies as well as domestic companies.  Earlier the railways decided to cancel signalling contract given to Chinese companies in dedicated freight corridor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-scraps-tender-for-thermal-cameras-to-avoid-chinese-firms-855964.html
01-07-2020||National||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan expresses gratitude to doctors for their selfless service during Covid-19 pandemic||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday expressed deep gratitude to doctors for their selfless service during the COVID-19 pandemic, saying "they are our real heroes". On National Doctors' Day, Vardhan also released Good Clinical Practice Guidelines Handbook and Prospectus for Fellowship Programme for International Students (FPIS) of National Board of Examinations (NBE). Exhorting the medical community to pledge to follow ethical behaviour in their profession, he said, "Good Clinical Practice Guidelines Handbook is an attempt to provide guiding points to all Diplomates of National Board (DNB) residents to follow the principles of ethical and professional conduct expected from a medical professional. The exercise is aimed at the safety of doctors and patients alike." He emphasised on the importance of understanding their roles and responsibilities as a 'Good Clinical Practitioner' during the formative years of DNB resident training life, the Union health ministry said in a statement. The National Board of Examinations came into existence in 1975, as a wing of the National Academy of Medical Sciences and has been conducting postgraduate medical examinations at the national-level since 1976, the ministry said. Vardhan also released Fellowship Programme for International Students (FPIS), prospectus for 2020-2021, in 11 specialties of 42 institutions, the ministry said.  "This is the first time that International Fellowship Programme is being launched for international students from all countries, including SAARC nations, at Post MD or MS level through common fellowship entrance test and would go a long way in enhancing the prestige of the country in the international medical sphere," he said. Congratulating doctors, Vardhan paid tributes to Dr B C Roy, in whose honour the country celebrates July 1 as the National Doctors' Day. "Becoming a doctor is a personal achievement, becoming a good doctor is a continuous challenge. It is the only profession where one can earn their daily bread and serve the entire humanity at the same time," he said. The minister also expressed deep gratitude to doctors for their selfless service during the COVID-19 pandemic. "They are our real heroes," Vardhan said. On the course structure, he said National Board of Examinations (NBE) flagship DNB programmes are offered in 82 disciplines and sub-specialties of modern medicine, which includes DNB Programme in 29 broad, 30 super specialties and fellowship programme in 23 sub-specialties across 703 private and government institutions.  "The NBE is encouraging government, PSU, municipal, private sector hospitals across the country to start the DNB programme to bridge the specialist gap in the country by increasing the number of postgraduate seats using existing infrastructure and clinical resources," Vardhan was quoted as saying in a statement. The Board was registered as an autonomous organisation under the Union health ministry in 1982 with the objective of conducting high standard post-graduate examinations in the field of modern medicine on all India basis, formulating basic training requirements for eligibility, developing curriculum for post graduate training and accreditation of institutions where this training is imparted.  The students enrolled are called Diplomates of National Board (DNB).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-expresses-gratitude-to-doctors-for-their-selfless-service-during-covid-19-pandemic-855965.html
01-07-2020||National||Doctors' Day: India lauds its brave doctors' contribution in fight against Covid-19 pandemic||Hailing doctors for their selfless service and spirited fight against the Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the nation in saluting the medicos on National Doctors' Day, which has assumed even greater significance this year for the role played by these frontline warriors during the pandemic. People from various walks of life, including political leaders, actors and sportspersons, took to Twitter and other social media to express their gratitude to the medical fraternity, calling the doctors as "real heroes" and the "strongest pillar" in the fight against coronavirus. The day is celebrated since 1991 in memory of former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, who was also a prominent medical practitioner and freedom fighter. "India salutes our doctors -- exceptional care givers who are at the forefront of a spirited fight against Covid-19," the prime minister wrote on Twitter to mark Doctors' Day. In a short video of his recent speech, he said while mother's give birth, doctors ensure our rebirth. They are saving lives by putting themselves in danger, Modi said. In his message, President Ram Nath Kovind said, "We express our gratitude to the doctors for their selfless service in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The nation admires and salutes your professionalism and sacrifice in the service of fellow citizens." The West Bengal government had announced a state holiday on the day in the honour of doctors and other medical personnel engaged in the fight against Covid-19. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee remembered Roy and lauded all the doctors, health workers, their family members and the administration for their services for the well-being of the people. Roy's birth and death anniversary are on July 1. "On #DoctorsDay I congratulate all doctors, health warriors, the administration and their families. As a token of appreciation, GoWB has declared a State Holiday today in honour of the frontline COVID warriors," Banerjee tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi expressed solidarity with health workers and described them as "a nonviolent Army" risking their lives to save people from the coronavirus pandemic. He also held an online interaction with nurses on the coronavirus situation . Union Minister Amit Shah said the country's brave doctors have been leading the battle against Covid-19. "Their uttermost commitment to keep the nation safe and healthy in these challenging times is truly exceptional. Nation salutes their devotion and sacrifice," tweeted. Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi said each of the doctors was being presented a certificate of commendation for their work during the current situation. The former IPS officer said, "The biggest tributes to the Covid-19 warriors in white on the part of the people would be to observe self discipline, social distancing, using of masks and adherence to other norms." "Doctors and others work in very very harsh conditions and the equipments they wear are very uncomfortable. We all extend our tributes to these COVID warriors in white dress for their services," she added. Nisha Mohan, a doctor and Project Medical Referent of the Doctors Without Borders Covid-19 treatment centre, said wearing PPEs for long hours and work exertion is causing many healthcare workers body aches and headaches. "Another issue faced by the medical staff is the personal struggle for them to stay safe and the fact that they are away from their families," she said. Hastags like DoctorsDayIndia, Doctorslife, Thankyou and Doctorsday2020 were trending on the social media. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the doctors are fighting one of the toughest battles of this century. "Their heroic stories of service and sacrifice will inspire several generations to come. On this Doctors Day, let's celebrate their unparalleled contribution to our society," he said. The theme of this year's Doctors Day is “Lessen the mortality of COVID 19”, according to the Indian Medical Association. The country has reported 5.85 lakh cases and over 18,000 deaths so far. "This certainly is a different Doctors Day.... Every clinic and nursing home should rededicate itself in the service of the nation and the humanity," it said while stressing that meritorious service by doctors during the pandemic should be identified and honoured. Indian batting legend Sachin Tendukar said that doctors have always been "our shield and refuge" in any health crisis. "On #DoctorsDay, let us all appreciate the 24/7 selfless efforts of our front-line doctors and pray for their safety & well being," he said Twitter. Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli said that not just on July 1 but everyday "we should celebrate the spirit of our doctors and health care workers". "Thank you for your commitment towards helping so many people. I salute your spirit and dedication. #NationalDoctorsDay," he tweeted. Bollywood actor Salman Khan hailed the doctors as the "strongest pillars of our country in this pandemic". "To our real heroes, thank you for your commitment to serve society, especially in these difficult times. We appreciate all your wonderful efforts. You are the embodiment of selflessness, compassion and love," former cricketer Yuvraj Singh tweeted. "We now appreciate them even more because they are risking their lives to save us... we truly admire your courage," he said in a video message. To mark the day, Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan released Guidelines Handbook and Prospectus for Fellowship Programme for International Students (FPIS) of National Board of Examinations (NBE). The handbook is an attempt to provide guiding points for ethical and professional conduct expected from a medical professional, Vardhan said during the online release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-day-india-lauds-its-brave-doctors-contribution-in-fight-against-covid-19-pandemic-855968.html
01-07-2020||National||134 news Covid-19 cases reported in CRPF; total tally over 1,300||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) reported 134 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of the cases in country's largest paramilitary to over 1,300, officials said. As per latest data, out of the total 1,385 coronavirus cases in the force, 682 are under treatment, while 694 have recovered. A total of 134 fresh cases have been reported in the 3.25 lakh personnel strong CRPF, the lead internal security force of the country, in the last 24 hours. Twenty-two personnel also recovered during the same time period, the officials said. There have been nine deaths from the disease in the CRPF that is mainstay for anti-Naxal operations and counter-terrorist operations in Kashmir valley. The ITBP too reported 23 fresh cases and 14 recoveries on Wednesday. As per official data, the about 90,000 personnel-strong force has a total of 354 cases out of which 251 have recovered from COVID-19, while 103 personnel are under treatment. There have been two deaths in the ITBP that is mandated to guard the 3,488 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/134-news-covid-19-cases-reported-in-crpf-total-tally-over-1300-855969.html
01-07-2020||National||BSNL, MTNL cancel 4G upgradation tender aimed at keeping China's Huawei, ZTE out of India's telecom sector||Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Limited (MTNL) have cancelled tender inviting bids from companies for supply of equipment for upgrading its network to 4G – a move, which is apparently aimed at keeping away Huawei and ZTE Corporation of China away from the project and stopping them from expanding footprints in India's telecom sector. The decision by the two state-owned telecommunication service providers comes amid the continuing military stand-off between India and China along their disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh. New Delhi is also likely to review its December 2019 decision to allow the Huawei and ZTE to take part in the 5G trial in India. The US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on Tuesday designated the Huawei and ZTE and their parent and subsidiary companies, as well as affiliate firms, as “national security threats”. The companies were earlier accused of spying for the Chinese Government. The US has been nudging New Delhi to keep the two Chinese companies out of the 5G roll out in India. India on Monday banned 59 apps linked to China, alleging that they were used in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. The tender was issued on March 23 for planning, engineering, supply, installation, testing, commissioning and annual maintenance of the 4G mobile network in the North, East, West and South zones of BSNL and Delhi and Mumbai License Service Area of the Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Limited (MTNL) on turnkey basis. The state-run telecom company now issued a notification to cancel it. A fresh tender is likely to be floated within two weeks after a panel of expert comprising BSNL and Department of Telecom officials submit the report. The revised tender may exclude the companies of the neighbouring communist country from participating in the process. The BSNL tender was to upgrade 49,300 sites to 4G and the addition of 7,000 new sites in two metropolitans-- Delhi and Mumbai for Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL). The Chinese telecom major ZTE and Huawei which already supply equipment to Indian telecom firms were eyeing a major part of tender. In the wake of the military stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi already asked the BSNL to reduce the dependence on Chinese telecom companies in its 4G network.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsnl-mtnl-cancel-4g-upgradation-tender-aimed-at-keeping-chinas-huawei-zte-out-of-indias-telecom-sector-855974.html
01-07-2020||National||Plea filed in SC for NEET-UG centre in Gulf and Middle East countries||A plea was filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking a direction to the National Testing Agency and the Medical Council of India to conduct NEET-UG 2020 examinations in centres across the Middle East and other gulf countries. Petitioner Abdul Azeez questioned the validity of the Kerala High Court's order of Tuesday, June 30, dismissing the plea, saying the students studying abroad would be adversely affected by the decision. The central government's decision to conduct the NEET-UG 2020 examination on July 26 amidst the COVID-19 pandemic was a risky decision with the future of expatriate students. The NTA, which provided examination centres abroad for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for an engineering course, ought to provide centres for conducting NEET-UG 2020 as well, his plea stated. Refusal to allot examination centres abroad for NEET-UG 2020 was "arbitrary" and would cause "severe mental stress" to students preparing for it for years, the plea contended.  The High Court had said the NTA and MCI, being expert bodies, could only decide about the matter and it could not issue any such direction in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a special leave petition, the petitioner contended the right of students to education was being jeopardised by the state action as they were being unfairly discriminated only on the ground that they had studied abroad. It said the High Court should have considered the future of the students in light of the current extraordinary situation and directed the NTA or the MCI to sanction exam centres in the Middle East and other Gulf Countries. It also claimed that the High Court erred egregiously in not setting aside the decision of the NTA and the MCI to conduct NEET-UG until the normalcy was restored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-neet-ug-centre-in-gulf-and-middle-east-countries-855976.html
01-07-2020||National||Covid-19: 11 new cases reported in Himachal Pradesh, total state tally 965||Eleven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, taking the coronavirus tally in the state to 965, officials said. Of the fresh cases, four were reported from Una district, two each from Hamirpur and Bilaspur and one each from Shimla, Sirmaur and Kangra districts, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, R D Dhiman said. In Kangra, a 65-year-old woman from Kuthera village in Palampur tehsil tested positive, Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said, adding that she is being shifted to Palampur military hospital. The woman had returned recently from Delhi. Meanwhile, 28 patients -- 22 from Hamirpur, four from Kangra and one each from Shimla and Mandi-- recovered from the infection on Wednesday, Dhiman said. So far, 603 people have recovered, while 11 have migrated out of the state, he said. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 340 and fatalities at nine. Kangra has the maximum number of active cases in the state at 109, followed by 84 in Hamirpur, 50 in Solan, 34 in Una, 16 in Shimla, 18 in Bilaspur, nine in Sirmaur, seven in Chamba, six in Mandi, five in Kinnaur and two in Lahaul-Spiti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-11-new-cases-reported-in-himachal-pradesh-total-state-tally-965-856002.html
01-07-2020||National Politics||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi says weavers in Varanasi suffering, seeks financial package||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday alleged that weavers in the prime minister's constituency, Varanasi, are being forced to pledge their jewellery and houses to survive, and said only a concrete financial package can help them. "UP CM at an event told the PM that lakhs of jobs are being provided in small and medium industries. But the reality is that weavers who are the pride of Varanasi, PM's parliamentary constituency, are today forced to live by pledging their jewellery and houses. All their work has come to a standstill during the lockdown," she said in a tweet in Hindi. She said the condition of small entrepreneurs and artisans is bad. "Only a concrete financial package and not mere propaganda can help them emerge from this crisis," she said. The Congress leader tagged a news report alleging that weavers in Varanasi are on the verge of starvation and are being forced to pledge their jewellery and houses to survive. The Congress in-charge for Uttar Pradesh had on Tuesday targeted the chief minister on unemployment and alleged that the UP government was trying to cover up "massive unemployment" through advertisements. She said the ground realities were far different as 1.5 lakh state residents have left for Mumbai in search of employment. "The Uttar Pradesh government made several announcements relating to job creation at an event held recently. But the labourers on the ground have a different story to tell. "There is no work in UP, which is why everybody has been forced to return to their previous places of work. According to data, around 1.5 lakh people from UP have already returned to Mumbai," she had said in a tweet in Hindi on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-priyanka-gandhi-says-weavers-in-varanasi-suffering-seeks-financial-package-855806.html
01-07-2020||National Politics||Banning Tiktok impulsive decision; substitute Indian apps needed: TMC MP Nusrat Jahan||Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan on Wednesday termed the Centre's decision to ban 59 Chinese apps including TikTok as an "eyewash and an impulsive decision" and said the union government should substitute them with Indian apps as the livelihood of many people are associated with these applications. Jahan, an actor-turned parliamentarian with a huge following in TikTok, said people should not suffer from this ban as they did after demonetisation. "TikTok was just like any other social media platform for me to connect with my fans and audience. If it's in the national interest, I completely stand by the ban. But banning a few Chinese apps is just an eyewash by the Central government and an impulsive decision," she said in a statement. Questioning the Centre on the future of those who lost their job in these companies due to the ban, the MP said, "What about the Chinese Investments in Companies which came out with the PM's picture in front-page ads, post demonetisation? What was achieved through Diplomacy and visits by the PM? "Also, what about the content creators who lose their monthly income to run households now? These questions remain unanswered.[sic]" The first-time parliamentarian also said that the government has to take steps to move away from Chinese supply chains without adding to inflation and putting pressure on the common man's pockets. The Centre should come out or allow the creation of substitute apps so that livelihoods are not lost, Jahan later told reporters. "People should not suffer from this ban, just like it happened during demonetisation. The central government should come up with a substitute plan to create Indian apps, so that people don't lose jobs and they don't need to depend on Chinese or any other foreign apps," the TMC MP said. West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee had said that banning apps will not be enough, asserting that China needs to be given a befitting reply. India on Monday banned 59 apps with Chinese links, including the hugely-popular TikTok and UC Browser, saying they were prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. The ban came in the backdrop of a standoff along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/banning-tiktok-impulsive-decision-substitute-indian-apps-needed-tmc-mp-nusrat-jahan-855975.html
01-07-2020||National Politics||Punjab CM urges Centre to revoke orders asking Priyanka Gandhi to vacate govt accommodation||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged the Centre to withdraw the orders directing Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to vacate her government accommodation in Delhi. Taking exception to the Centre's order, Singh urged the government to withdraw the same in the interest of Gandhi’s security and safety. The Centre on Wednesday asked the Congress leader to vacate her bungalow in Lutyens' Delhi within a month following withdrawal of her SPG protection. According to an order issued by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, Gandhi was asked to vacate her bungalow on or before August 1 failing which "it will attract damage charges/penal rent as per rules". The Punjab chief minister said the central government should reinstate Priyanka Gandhi’s SPG cover and restore her accommodation in view of the threat perception which she continues to have as a member of the Gandhi family. “Political considerations and differences cannot and should not be allowed to come in the way of ensuring foolproof security and safety of any person, especially when that person belongs to a family that had lost two members to terror attacks,” he said in a statement here. “Given this background, the safety of Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi remains a matter of concern for the entire nation…,“ he said. Singh said neither the withdrawal of Priyanka Gandhi's SPG cover nor the cancellation of her government accommodation was “justifiable” in the circumstances. Any compromise on Priyanka Gandhi’s safety could be construed as a “political witch-hunt”, especially when these orders have come at a time when she has been strongly and unrelentingly criticising the handling of the COVID-19 crisis in Uttar Pradesh, especially the prime minister's parliamentary constituency of Varanasi, he warned. All people, irrespective of their ideology, have the right to criticise and demand explanations from the government in a democracy, Singh said, adding it is even more applicable to politicians. The senior Congress leader also noted that despite the continued political attacks on his government by the opposition Akali leadership, he has personally ensured that the Badal family's safety is not put at stake at any cost. Not only had he offered SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal continued use of a government house in the state, his government had complimented the central security of the former chief minister with a huge posse of Punjab Police personnel, he observed. “Bullet proof land cruisers and vehicles for Badal's security had been arranged by the government and would continue to be provided, irrespective of the differences between the ruling Congress and the SAD in Punjab,” the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-urges-centre-to-revoke-orders-asking-priyanka-gandhi-to-vacate-govt-accommodation-856006.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Medium-intensity earthquake hits J&K||A medium-intensity earthquake of magnitude 4.6 hit Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday night, the National Centre for Seismology said. The quake occurred at 11.32 pm at a depth of five kilometres, it said. There were no immediate reports of loss of life or property.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/medium-intensity-earthquake-hits-jk-855633.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||With five fresh casualties, Covid-19 toll reaches 68 in Bihar||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Bihar rose to 68 with five more fatalities in the last 24 hours, while the state's tally inched towards the 10,000-mark with 370 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, the health department said here. According to the daily bulletin issued by the department on coronavirus, the number of confirmed cases in the state has reached 9,988. Two deaths were reported from Rohtas district while Patna, East Champaran and Gaya have accounted for one casualty each. Details like comorbidities of the deceased or their time of deaths were not known. Patna district now accounts for the maximum number of six casualties, and also tops the state in terms of the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases. A total of 713 people have tested positive in the district so far. The district has witnessed a steep hike in its tally in the last 10 days during which close to 100 people have tested positive in Paliganj sub-division alone. District Magistrate Kumar Ravi has ordered an inquiry to ascertain whether there was a violation of norms at a marriage ceremony that was held on June 15 in Deehpali village and which appears to have triggered the biggest infection chain in the state so far. According to a release issued by the district administration, the sub-divisional officer of Paliganj has been asked to investigate as to whether measures like wearing of masks and social distancing were observed and the cap of 50 attendees was followed.  "If any violation comes to the fore, stern legal action will be taken against those responsible for the arrangements," said the release. The groom, who was suffering from fever at the time of the wedding, died two days after the marriage. It was not known whether he was infected since his family members cremated the body without waiting for authorities to collect the samples. Nonetheless, the administration tested samples of 259 people in the vicinity subsequently and 95 tested positive for Covid-19, said the release adding that eight containment zones have been set up in the affected areas. Covid-19 cases have been reported from all 38 districts in the state and only two Jamui and Sheohar have respective tallies lower than 100. Besides Patna, other districts that have reported a high number of cases are Bhagalpur 494, Madhubani 456, Begusarai 421 and Siwan 412. State Health Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said that a high number of fresh cases notwithstanding, Bihar's recovery rate of 77 per cent is significantly higher than the national average of 59 per cent. He also said the state has succeeded in increasing its testing capacity and 8,231 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested till date was 2.20 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-five-fresh-casualties-covid-19-toll-reaches-68-in-bihar-855657.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistani terrorist killed as Army foils infiltration bid in Rajouri||A Pakistani terrorist was killed on Wednesday as the Army foiled an infiltration bid by a group of militants along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, an Army officer said. Troops intercepted the group when it entered 400 metres into this side from across the LoC in Keri sector of Rajouri around 0555 hours, triggering a gunfight, the officer said. He said one terrorist was killed and an AK 47 rifle along with two magazines was recovered from his possession. The search operation to track down other members of the group was on when last reports came in, the officer said, adding further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-terrorist-killed-as-army-foils-infiltration-bid-in-rajouri-855702.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi applauds role of doctors, CAs in Covid-19 fight||"India salutes our doctors -- exceptional caregivers who are at the forefront of a spirited fight against COVID-19," he wrote on Twitter to mark Doctors' Day. In a short video of his recent speech, he said while mother's give birth, doctors ensure our rebirth. They are saving lives by putting themselves in danger, he said.  Dr BC Roy's birth anniversary is celebrated as Doctors' Day. July 1 is also observed as Charted Accountants Day. In his message, the prime minister said our industrious CA community has a major role to play in ensuring a healthy and transparent economy. "Their services to the nation are deeply valued. Greetings on Chartered Accountants Day." In a short video clip, he said the responsibility on the society's economic health lies with CAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-applauds-role-of-doctors-cas-in-covid-19-fight-855703.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court seeks Centre's stand on PIL seeking country origin on products sold on ecommerce sites||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre on a plea seeking directions to it to ensure that the name of the manufacturing country is displayed on products being sold on e-commerce sites. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Centre and e-commerce platforms Amazon, Flipkart and Snapdeal seeking their stand on the plea by July 22. The court also issued notice to some other e-commerce platforms like Reliance Retail's Ajio life, Nykaa retail and Decathlon Sports. The Central government's standing counsel Ajay Digpaul accepted notice on behalf of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. The plea by a lawyer has sought implementation of the Legal Metrology Act 2009 and the rules framed under it which mandate that country of origin has to be displayed on products being sold on e-commerce websites. The petition has claimed that the mandate was not being enforced with respect to e-commerce entities. It has contended that enforcement of the mandate was important in the current scenario when citizens intend to comply with the central government's appeal to promote and purchase Indian goods and not from some neighbouring countries. Therefore, it was essential that the country of origin is displayed on products being sold on e-commerce platforms, the petition has said.  The petitioner, during the hearing, contended that the Government e-Marketplace (GeM), a special purpose vehicle under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, had issued a notification making it mandatory for sellers to enter the country of origin while registering new products on the platform, for promoting 'Make in India' and 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. Moreover, sellers who have already uploaded their products before issuance of the notification are being reminded to update the country of origin, failing which their products will be removed from the GeM, he said during the hearing held via video conferencing. The GeM has also enabled a provision for indicating the percentage of local content in the listed products and has also enabled the 'Make in India' filter on its portal, he said during the hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-seeks-centres-stand-on-pil-seeking-country-origin-on-products-sold-on-ecommerce-sites-855729.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Wake up dadu: 3-year-old boy cries near grandfather's body, who died in Jammu & Kashmir's Sopore militant attack||A heart-wrenching picture of a three-year-old boy sitting by his dead grandfather, who was killed in a militant attack in north Kashmir's Sopore town Wednesday, went viral on social media. Reports said militants opened indiscriminate fire on a CRPF patrol party of 179 Battalion near Model Town, Sopore, 52 kms from Srinagar, at around 7:35 am. One personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a civilian were killed while three other security force personnel were injured in the attack, officials said. In the picture, the child, who had a miraculous escape, is seen sitting on the blood-splattered body of his grandfather. Kashmir police also tweeted a photo of the child being carried to safety by a policeman. The tweet reads: “JKP #rescued a three years old boy from getting hit by bullets during #militant  #attack in #Sopore.” The child was trying to wake up his dead grandfather unmindful of the reality that the latter was no more. The little boy identified as Ayaad was travelling along with his grandfather Bashir Ahmed Khan (65) from Srinagar to Sopore, where oversaw the progress in construction work at one of his projects. Khan, a contractor, was heading towards the construction site in Sopore Wednesday morning, unaware of the bloody cross-fire on his way that lay in store for him. What added to the grief of the family members was a video showing the 3-year-old boy in a police vehicle, speaking in broken Kashmiri, “be gache gare (I want to go home)”. Policemen provided him with a bunch of chocolates and rolls of biscuits to console him and bring him out of shock. Another picture that went viral shows a CRPF jawan asking the little boy to come towards him. It is speculated that the image was most likely taken when the exchange of fire was on. At the HMT residence of the slain Khan, in the outskirts of Srinagar, a pall of gloom descended upon the family and the locality. “My father has been killed and those who killed him should be killed as well. Didn’t they see a little kid along with my father,” cried Khan’s daughter. Khan’s son alleged that his father was dragged out of his vehicle and shot at by the Security Forces. However, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sopore Javaid Iqbal said that the dead man first tried saving his grandson was hit by bullets in between. “There were many other vehicles stuck at the spot due to the attack. They left their vehicles behind and ran for cover. Unfortunately, one of the civilians was hit by bullets and died,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wake-up-dadu-3-year-old-boy-cries-near-grandfathers-body-who-died-in-jammu-kashmirs-sopore-militant-attack-855768.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: 78 new cases reported in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded 78 fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 18,092, according to an official report here.  The coronavirus toll in Rajasthan stands at 413. Alwar reported a maximum of 29 cases, while Jaipur reported 25 cases. Kota, Jhunjhunu, Sriganganagar reported 8, 7 and 5 cases respectively, the report stated. One case each was reported in Bharatpur, Dausa, Pali and Rajsamand.  Of the total cases, 13,920 people have been discharged and 3,347 are active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-78-new-cases-reported-in-rajasthan-855772.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Three deaths take Jammu and Kashmir's Covid-19 toll to 104||With three deaths on Wednesday, Covid-19 mortality in Jammu and Kashmir reached 104, elderly with comorbidities being the most among these.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-deaths-take-jammu-and-kashmirs-covid-19-toll-to-104-855775.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Cop masturbates before women complainants, suspended||In a shocking incident, an Uttar Pradesh cop was caught on video, masturbating in front of two women complainants inside a police station in the state's Deoria district, about 350 kilometres from here. The cop, identified as Bhishmpal Singh Yadav, who was the then in-charge of Bhatni police station in the district, has been suspended, police sources said. According to sources, a woman and her teenage daughter had approached the cop in connection with a land dispute, when the incident happened. The video, which went viral on social networking sites, shows the suspended SHO masturbating while talking to the teen and her mother. The teen later said that the Yadav had made obscene gestures, when she accompanied her mother, had approached the cop twice earlier also. ''I ignored his vulgar gestures twice thinking that these things do happen....but when he did it again the third time, I made a video secretly....I took help of my friends to make it viral,'' she said. ''A cop is supposed to serve the people....if he starts behaving in such a manner then who will seek help from them....such people must be punished,'' the teen added. Though the incident happened around a week ago, it came to light on Wednesday, when the video went viral. District police chief Shripati Mishra said that the cop had been suspended and an FIR against him had also been registered at Bhatni police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cop-masturbates-before-women-complainants-suspended-855780.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to expand cabinet on July 2||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion will take place on Thursday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. Chouhan flew to New Delhi on Sunday to hold consultations with the central BJP leadership over the much- talked about cabinet expansion. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a programme here on Wednesday, Chouhan said, "The governor will take oath today. The cabinet members will take oath tomorrow." Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel has been given the additional charge of Madhya Pradesh in view of incumbent Lalji Tandon's hospitalisation. Asked about the delay in cabinet expansion, Chouhan said, "Only amrit (elixir) comes out of manthan (churning), vish (poison) is consumed by (Lord) Shiva." Around 20 to 25 new members, including some former Congress MLAs who had joined the BJP in March, are likely to be inducted into the cabinet, sources in the BJP earlier said. Chouhan took oath as chief minister for a record fourth term on March 23 this year, after Kamal Nath resigned from the top post following rebellion by nearly two dozen MLAs of the Congress. Most of the rebels were considered close to former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress and joined the BJP more than three months ago. The initial 'mini' expansion of the Chouhan cabinet took place on April 21 with the induction of five ministers, including two former Congress MLAs. When asked about Chouhan's announcement of cabinet expansion on Thursday, Kamal Nath told reporters, "This is for the first time in the history of the country when the cabinet expansion is taking place after such a long time. Only time will tell what was the reason for this delay and what will be its results."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-chief-minister-shivraj-singh-chouhan-to-expand-cabinet-on-july-2-855784.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Thousands of Uttarakhand border villagers relying on Nepalese mobile towers for connectivity||Kunwar Singh Kutiyal complains there are no Indian mobile towers within several kilometres of Uttarakhand's Vyas Valley, near the Indo-Nepal border, where he lives, and he has to depend on Nepalese infrastructure to connect to the world outside. A resident of Kuti village of the Valley, he said he noticed that the Nepalese government recently provided Wi-Fi facilities in Changru village on its side of the border to strengthen communication for their security personnel deputed at a post there. “We also need such facilities in our villages. We need to depend only on Indian communication facilities,” he said. Kutiyal is not a lone voice pressing this demand. He represents thousands of villagers of three localities -- Vyas Valley, Chaundas valley and Dharchula sub-division -- in this district who have no connectivity due to the lack of Indian mobile towers. Some of them somehow manage to procure Nepalese SIM cards and use them to get Internet and phone connectivity by latching onto Nepalese network. “Around 40,000 villagers in about 40 villages in these localities have no connectivity. Around 3,000 of them rely on Nepalese Internet connection,” Dharchula Sub-Divisional Magistrate AK Shukla said on Tuesday. He said that poor connectivity also hampers implementation of flagship government schemes in the border villages. "Due to the lack of proper network facilities in most parts of Dharchula sub-division, payments related to MGNREGA works cannot be made to the beneficiaries nor can online classes be held in sub-divisional schools," Shukla said. “We need a strong and dependable network for communication at Dharchula border with Nepal,” the SDM said. The Vyas Valley is adjacent to Indian territory of Kalapani, which Nepal recently claimed as its own. Villagers have approached the administration several times in the past with the demand to bolster mobile network infrastructure and submitted a number of memorandums, Shukla said. There is just one low-capacity BSNL mobile tower at Dharchula which barely meets even the town's requirements, he said. A section has tried to justify the poor connectivity, saying it is meant to deny Internet access to smugglers and criminals operating in the border, but it does not hold much ground as Nepalese network is widely available in the area, Shukla said. “In the light of these facts, the communication policy at the Indo-Nepal border needs to be reviewed as better communication facilities to border people is the need of the hour,” the SDM said. The Congress MLA from Dharchula, Harish Dhami, said he has offered his MLA funds to create communication facility in the area. “I am ready to give whatever money is required for installing basic infrastructure of communication at the Indo-Nepal and India-China border,” Dhami said. According to residents of the Vyas Valley, three Nepalese mobile companies cover around 186 km length (north-south), from Kalapani to Pancheshwar, with their mobile towers at different locations. According to Krishna Garbiyal, a resident of Garbiyang village in Vyas Valley, they get strong Nepalese network up to 15 km inside Indian territory. MS Waldia, a retired army colonel, said Indian citizens using Nepalese SIM cards and networks poses a threat to national security. “The government should pay more attention to the communication needs of border villages in view of Nepal's recent aggressiveness towards India,” said Waldia. Almora MP Ajay Tamta said BSNL is conducting a survey in the area to assess communication needs of people. “As soon as the survey gets completed, work on installing towers will be started,” Tamta said. India Nepal relations hit a rough patch recently after Nepal completed the process of redrawing the country's political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating three strategically important Indian areas -- Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. India has termed as "untenable" the "artificial enlargement" of the territorial claims by Nepal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thousands-of-uttarakhand-border-villagers-relying-on-nepalese-mobile-towers-for-connectivity-855785.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Occultist arrested for raping woman in Greater Noida||An occultist was arrested in Greater Noida on Wednesday for allegedly raping a woman on the pretext of finding solutions to her family problems, police said. The incident took place on Monday in the Rabupura police station area when the 20-year-old woman's husband took her to the occultist, 35, officials said. The couple met the accused at his residence in nearby Faleda village from where he took them to a farmland. The occultist gave the couple some ash to eat after which he raped the woman while her husband remained unconscious, the officials said. "There he gave us some ash to eat which apparently had something mixed in it. I went unconscious soon after consuming the ash. When I regained sense, I saw my wife lying nearby without clothes. She then narrated the whole ordeal to me," the woman's husband alleged in the complaint. The man said he later confronted the accused, who threatened him of dire consequences and asked him to go away. An FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and the accused arrested on Wednesday near his village, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/occultist-arrested-for-raping-woman-in-greater-noida-855796.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||No prior Covid-19 test required to admit pregnant women for delivery, surgery: AAP govt to HC||The AAP government on Wednesday told the Delhi High Court that prior Covid-19 test was not mandatory for admitting pregnant women in hospitals for in-patient interventions, including surgery and deliveries, and in emergent situations, treatment would not be denied for want of test results. The test can be conducted simultaneously with the treatment and if the result comes out to be positive, the pregnant woman would ideally be transferred to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital for further management, the Delhi government told the high court. It also told a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that it has "expanded" the use of Rapid Antigen Testing at hospitals to ensure availability of test results in quick time and this will further take care of difficulties being faced by people/patients, including pregnant women. "As regard to admission in hospitals for in-patient interventions including surgery, delivery etc., prior Covid-19 test is not mandatory and in emergent situations, the treatment must not be denied for want of Covid-19 test results. The test may be conducted simultaneously as per ICMR testing strategy. "However, the pregnant woman if found positive on testing is ideally to be transferred to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals for further management," the Delhi government said in its affidavit. The submissions were made in response to a PIL by a lawyer who has sought that test results of pregnant women be given priority. The high court on June 22 had remarked that 5-7 days cannot be taken for getting Covid-19 results for pregnant women prior to admitting them in hospitals for child-birth and asked the ICMR and Delhi government to look at expediting it. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in its response filed through central government standing counsel Vivek Goyal, said it has issued guidelines for management of pregnant women during the Covid-19 pandemic and there are no restrictions for testing pregnant women for Covid-19 symptoms. Goyal, during the hearing, said ICMR cannot decide which category of patients should be given priority in testing. Delhi government, in its response, further said that it is trying its level best to make available and do Covid-19 testing across all sections of the population with possible and justified prioritisation. The lawyer representing the Delhi government sought more time to file an affidavit with regard to giving priority to tests of pregnant women. The bench, thereafter, listed the matter for further hearing on July 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-prior-covid-19-test-required-to-admit-pregnant-women-for-delivery-surgery-aap-govt-to-hc-855797.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||LeT militants carried out Sopore attack, says Kashmir IGP, refutes charges of civilian killing by CRPF||Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that Lashkar-e-Taiba militants who were hiding in a mosque carried out an attack at a paramilitary party in Sopore town that led to the death of a CRPF trooper and a civilian while a minor boy was rescued. He said there was no retaliation from the security forces and it was later found that militants had left behind one full magazine and another one from which 30 bullets were used in the premises of a local  mosque. “The attack was carried out by two Lashkar-e-Taiba militants that include a foreign militant Usmban Bhai and a local militant Adil. They fired 30 bullets as evident from the magazine recovered from the mosque premises. Another magazine was also recovered which was full,” Kumar said in a hurriedly called presser, here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/let-militants-carried-out-sopore-attack-says-kashmir-igp-refutes-charges-of-civilian-killing-by-crpf-855841.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 situation brought under control with joint efforts of Delhi and central government: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Covid-19 situation has been brought under control for now with the "combined efforts" of Delhi government, Centre and other organisations, but cautioned people against any lapse in social and personal behaviour that may again lead to a rise in cases. Addressing an online media briefing, the chief minister said that the situation is not "terrible" as predicted one month ago, asserting that at present, the number of active coronavirus cases has been decreasing instead of increasing. He said the central government's website had projected a total of one lakh Covid-19 cases and of these, 60,000 active cases by June 30, but the number of active cases is currently around 26,000. "After this projection, we did not sit idle and started approaching all those who could help us in dealing with the situation. We approached hotels, banquet halls, Centre, social and religious organisations for help. "We pleaded before all to save Delhi, where we did not get help  (Jahan madad nahi mili wahan unke per pakade)," he said. For the last few days, the Centre has been overseeing Delhi's preparations. Recently, Union Home Minister Amit Shah announced a numbers of steps, including house-to-house survey, ramping up testing and bed capacity, to arrest the spread of coronavirus. "In Delhi, the number of people recovering from coronavirus is also increasing. Similarly, the number of deaths is decreasing...at present, the Covid-19 situation is not terrible as much as it was earlier. This is the result of combined efforts of all," he said. He also said that one month back, the recovery rate was around 38 percent, but it is now 67 percent, adding that out of a total of 87,000 cases, 58,000 people have so far recovered from the dreaded virus. He said that the there were 8,500 beds in hospitals one month back, but the bed capacity has now reached around 15,000. "Earlier, when we conducted Covid-19 test on 100 people, 31 came positive. Now, only 13 cases are coming positive on testing of 100 people. All these things show that the situation is now under control, " the chief minister said. Kejriwal, however, asked people to not pay attention to experts' views on social media that the peak of Covid-19 has gone in Delhi, and requested citizens to wear masks, wash hands and maintain social-distancing norms instead. "There should not be any lapse. After much effort, we have come out of the situation that was a month ago. We will continue our teamwork. There is proverb - 'Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst'. We will continue our preparations to deal with any situation," he said. According to him, it is the result of hard work of all and the AAP government will make more efforts in the coming days. The coronavirus recovery rate in the national capital reached 66.03 percent on June 29 as against the national rate of 58.67 percent, according to official figures. In June, the national capital added over 64,000 fresh cases to its tally, while over 47,357 patients recovered, were discharged or migrated. Delhi's recovery rate breached the 50 percent mark on June 20, after hovering below it for almost a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-brought-under-control-with-joint-efforts-of-delhi-and-central-government-cm-arvind-kejriwal-855847.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||AAP holds protests against rising fuel prices||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday held protests in various states against the rising fuel prices. Prices of petrol and diesel were hiked for the 22nd time on Monday in just over three weeks. In Delhi, the AAP volunteers protested at the party headquarters in ITO. AAP leader and Delhi minister Rajinder Pal Gautam participated in the protest. "The rising prices of petrol and diesel in the corona era has broken the back of the public. On the other hand people are losing employment due to corona and there is no relief from the Centre," he said. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak claimed that some protesters were arrested by police and kept in Rajinder Nagar police station. However, no immediate reaction was available from police. On its Twitter page, the AAP shared details and pictures of protests held at Raipur, Rajkot, Patna, Panipat and Dibrugarh in different states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-holds-protests-against-rising-fuel-prices-855851.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 testing campaign will help reduce deaths, but UP might see rise in cases: CM Yogi Adityanath||The number of Covid-19 cases might increase in Uttar Pradesh after a campaign to test people starts from Thursday, but it will certainly help in reducing deaths, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday. He also stressed on checking the spread of vector-borne diseases like malaria and dengue in the state. "From Thursday, a special campaign for medical screening for Covid-19 will be started in six districts of the Meerut division which are Meerut, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur and Baghpat,” the chief minister said. In the rest 17 divisions, the campaign will be run between July 5 and July 15, he said. When every persons of the state is screened, “the figure of those affected by the coronavirus will increase but it will certainly succeed in reducing death figures," Adityanath said. The chief minister made the announcement during an event here to launch the Dastak campaign for control of vector-borne diseases. This campaign should be like that conducted for encephalitis eradication, Adityanath said. "In 2016 and 2017, the state witnessed more than 600 deaths due to encephalitis. But in 2018-19 their figure decreased and in 2019, it (death figure) came down to 126," he said. "Reducing encephalitis, which has killed thousands of children in east Uttar Pradesh in the past 40 years, by 60 per cent and death caused by it by 90 per cent is an achievement. We have to make similar efforts for diseases like dengue, malaria, diarrhoea, kalazaar etc. For this a campaign is being started today in all 75 districts," Adityanath said. Thirty-eight districts in the state are affected by encephalitis. Urban areas face the threat of dengue and several places face the threat of malaria and chikungunya. To check their spread, inter-departmental coordination is being ensured, he said. "We, the 24 crore people of the state, will fight the coronavirus and also deal with vector-borne diseases effectively," the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-testing-campaign-will-help-reduce-deaths-but-up-might-see-rise-in-cases-cm-yogi-adityanath-855856.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||UP's Covid-19 tally crosses 24,000-mark, death toll mounts to 718||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday reported 21 more fatalities due to Covid-19 and 564 fresh cases, officials said. The death toll in the state now is 718 with the coronavirus tally reaching 24,056. Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 16,629 of the total infected have been discharged after getting cured. The rate of recovery is around 69 per cent, he said. The state now has 6,709 active Covid-19 cases, Prasad added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ups-covid-19-tally-crosses-24000-mark-death-toll-mounts-to-718-855858.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Anandiben Patel takes oath as Madhya Pradesh governor||Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel took oath as governor of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday at a ceremony at Raj Bhawan here. Patel was given additional charge as Madhya Pradesh governor following the illness of incumbent governor Lalji Tandon. Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh High Court Ajay Kumar Mittal administered the oath of office to Patel in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, some other state politicians and officials, the Raj Bhawan spokesperson said. Patel had served as Madhya Pradesh governor earlier too, before her appointment as Uttar Pradesh governor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anandiben-patel-takes-oath-as-madhya-pradesh-governor-855878.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||MP Cabinet expansion: Shivraj Singh Chouhan braces to swallow 'poison'||Ongoing political crisis in the BJP appears deepening with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan admitting, rather philosophically, that “ Shiv” is destined to swallow the “poison” while announcing that his cabinet expansion will take place on July 2. The much-deferred cabinet expansion has raised a political storm as the BJP high command is reportedly averse to let the chief minister induct his old loyalists. Jyotiraditya Scindia's insistence on taking at least 8 of his supporters in the proposed expansion has only added to a beleaguered Chouhan’s woes. If the chief minister accommodates Scindia supporters and four other defectors, who quit the Congress in March, he will be left with barely 15 slots to adjust other BJP aspirants. The five-member cabinet has 29 more berths left for fresh faces and the number of aspirants is around 50.     “Whenever there is a churning, ambrosia emerges. The ambrosia gets distributed but poison is left for Shiv to swallow”, quipped the chief minister when media men asked about reported tug-of-war in the BJP over cabinet expansion on Wednesday. On Tuesday, Chouhan tweeted an Urdu couplet which may be roughly translated in English to mean that “ You came posing as sympathiser but turned out to be a bandit.  And your banditry every moment has left wounds on the heart as your memories. The cryptic Urdu couplet has left political observers wondering whether the chief minister had tweeted it to target the BJP high command or Jyotiraditya Scindia or his powerful detractors within the party. Even as the BJP high command appears unyielding on its stand that the chief minister gives chance to fresh faces rather than relying on his old teammates of previous cabinets, hectic churning is still going on to strike a balance between the leadership’s demand and the chief minister’s wish-list. BJP national vice president and MP in-charge Vinay Sahastrabuddhe is mediating between Chouhan-loyalist senior MLAs and the high command. If comprise is struck, the oath-taking ceremony is likely to take oath on Thursday. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandi Ben Patel will administer the oath to the new ministers in place of her MP counterpart Lalji Tandon who is recuperating in Lucknow after he fell ill two weeks ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-cabinet-expansion-shivraj-singh-chouhan-braces-to-swallow-poison-855906.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||National Conference leaders demand end to their 'illegal and unlawful' detention; write to Jammu and Kashmir administration||As many as 19 prominent National Conference leaders who are under house detention in different parts of the Kashmir valley since August last year, have sought immediate end to "illegal and unlawful" curbs on their "fundamental right to movement". The leaders, including party's general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar and Kashmir provincial president Nasir Aslam Wani, have sent identical letters to the Jammu and Kashmir Principal Secretary (Home), urging him to lift the restrictions on their movement. In their letters, the NC leaders said they are being subjected to an "illegal confinement" and are suffering incarceration at their residences since August 5 last year, when the centre withdrew special status of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state and divided it into two union territories. They said that no order for their detention has been served to them till date. They said their “fundamental right of movement has been illegally and unlawfully curtailed” and any movement beyond the confines of the house has been restricted. No order, whether preventive or otherwise, justifying such confinement has till date been served upon them, they have said. Sagar, the Public Safety Act against whom was recently quashed by the Jammu and Kashmir High Court, said that despite the court order, his movement has been restricted by the police. The leaders said that either they should be given the order on their detention or they would move a court to get directions for their release. The leaders, who also included former ministers Mohammad Shafi Uri, Abdul Rehman Rather, Choudhary Mohammad Ramzan and Mubarak Gul, said despite repeated requests to either set them free or provide them with orders specifying the arrest and grounds thereof, no steps have been taken till date. Demanding immediate removal of all restrictions on their movement, the leaders threatened to take legal course to end their "illegal confinement". Most of these leaders, including former ministers and legislators, were taken into preventive custody or kept under house arrest on August 5 last year, when the Centre also announced revocation of the special status to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370. Three former chief ministers including National Conference president Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah along with other leaders were released subsequently after revocation of the PSA against them. Among others who have approached the home department include former ministers Aga Syed Roohullah, Mir Saifullah, Basharat Bukhari and Mohammad Khalil Bandh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-conference-leaders-demand-end-to-their-illegal-and-unlawful-detention-write-to-jammu-and-kashmir-administration-855911.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Cultural body objects to mention of Jayasi's 'Padmavat' in school textbook||A cultural organisation in Rajasthan has objected to the mention of queen Padmini in a Class 10 textbook as the reason behind the attack on Chittorgarh by Alauddin Khilji. The reference in the general knowledge book which led to the objection by the Chittorgarh’s Johar Smriti Sansthan (JSS) is Awadhi poet Malik Mohammed Jayasi’s (1540 AD) poem “Padmavat”, according to which Alauddin Khilji attacked erstwhile Chittorgarh Rawal Ratan Singh for his wife Padmini. The organisation said the authorities have attempted to connect two historical episodes divided by over two centuries and two different regions in the textbook, ''Rajasthan ka Itihas Evam Sanskriti''. "The difference between periods of Rawal Ratan Singh (1303 AD) and Malik Mohammed Jayasi (1540 AD) is about 237 years. During this period, none of the historical books say Alauddin Khilji attacked Chittorgarh for Padmini. It is a historical blunder being repeated again and again to play with sentiments of the Rajputs," said 84-year-old head of the JSS, Takhat Singh Solanki. The JSS identifies itself as a social-cum-research body, which holds yearly Johar Mela to mark the self-immolation of women after Rawal Ratan Singh lost Chittorgarh to Alauddin Khilji. The organisation came to limelight after it banned the entry of tourists at the Chittorgarh fort and hung effigies of “Padmavat” movie director Sanjay Leela Bhansali, actor Ranveer Kapoor and Salman Khan for the supporting the movie. JSS treasurer Narpat Singh Bhati said it seems the present government has done this to appease their vote bank. "The Rajputs have never bothered about a series of attempts made by consecutive governments to tarnish our rulers. But, our tolerance has a limit when it comes to the sacrifices which shaped modern India,” he said. Udaipur-based historian Chandra Shekhar Sharma said Ziauddin Barani (1285-1357 CE) in his book Tariq-I-Firoz Shahi wrote that Khilji attacked Gujarat king Karna of Vaghela Dynasty in 1301 AD to capture his wife. The Persian historian didn’t mention Padmini as the reason behind the attack on Chittorgarh, he said. “Even the Khilji’s court historian Amir Khusro in his war memoir Khazian ul-Futuh did mention about the attack on Chittorgarh but not a word on Padmini,” said Sharma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cultural-body-objects-to-mention-of-jayasis-padmavat-in-school-textbook-855926.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh rise by 268 to 13,861; death toll 581||The Covid-19 case count in Madhya Pradesh climbed to 13,861 on Wednesday with addition of 268 new cases, including 73 from Morena, during the last 24 hours, officials said. With 9 more people succumbing to the viral infection, the death toll in the state has risen to 581, they said. Of them, four deaths were reported from Bhopal, three from Indore while one each patient died in Morena and Barwani, officials said. A total of 260 persons were discharged from hospitals in the day, taking the number of recovered cases to 10,655. Of the 268 fresh cases, the highest count of 73 was reported from Morena district bordering Rajasthan''s Dholpur, followed by 41 cases in Bhopal and 25 each in Indore and Gwalior, officials said. Morena is emerging as a new hotspot in the state with 132 new cases being reported during the last two days, taking the total count in the district to 481. The number of cases in Indore, the worst-hit district, rose by 25 to 4,734 and death toll to 232, the state health bulletin said. The number of cases in Bhopal stood at 2,830 including 101 fatalities. No new coronavirus case was reported from 20 districts since Tuesday evening. While Covid-19 cases have been reported from all 52 districts, only four of them did not have any active cases as on Wednesday, as per the bulletin. The state has 1,039 active containment zones. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 13,861, active cases 2,625, new cases 268, death toll 581, recovered 10,655, total number of tested people 3,72,811.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-rise-by-268-to-13861-death-toll-581-855941.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan launches 'Kill Corona' campaign||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday launched his government's fortnight-long "Kill Corona" campaign, which aims to screen every household in the state for the infection. At the launch, Chouhan said that when he took over as the state chief minister in March, the basic amenities to fight the pandemic were in a dismal condition. "The situation in Madhya Pradesh is now much better than before. I took oath at 9 pm of March 23 and went directly to Vallabh Bhavan (state secretariat), because I realised the seriousness of the disease and the dangers it posed," he said. "No systems were in place to fight the pandemic and the state had only one lab with a testing capacity of 60 samples per day," he said. Claiming that the system to fight COVID-19 has been strengthened from top to bottom, Chouhan said the state has 30 labs and testing capacity has increased to 9,000 samples per day. He said the coronavirus situation in Madhya Pradesh has improved significantly. "Madhya Pradesh now stands at number 12 among the big states in terms of the number of COVID-19 cases and has a recovery rate of 77 per cent," he said, adding that the state was at fourth place earlier. By July 15, the teams of health workers will cover every household in the state as part of the 'Kill Corona' initiative and if needed, the campaign will be extended further in bigger districts, he said. The chief minister also claimed that the movement of people from Rajasthan's Dholpur district has led to a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases in Morena. "People entering Morena from the neighbouring state are now being screened," he said, urging people to follow necessary safety norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-chief-minister-shivraj-singh-chouhan-launches-kill-corona-campaign-855946.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||66 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Uttarakhand; tally rises to 2,947||As many as 66 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Uttarakhand on Wednesday, taking the coronavirus tally in the state to 2,947.  A state health department bulletin here said 22 cases were reported from Nainital, 20 from Dehradun, nine from Uttarkashi, five from Almora, four from Tehri and two each from Haridwar, Champawat and Udham Singh Nagar.  Most of them have a travel history to Delhi-NCR and Mumbai, it said.              With the addition of new cases, the state's Covid-19 tally rose to 2,947. As many as 2,317 patients have recovered and 41 have died due to the disease, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/66-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-uttarakhand-tally-rises-to-2947-855949.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 2,442 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 89,802 on July 1||As Delhi's coronavirus count inched towards 90,000, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the COVID-19 situation has been brought under control for now but cautioned people against any lapse in social and personal behaviour that may again lead to a rise in cases. The city recorded 2,422 fresh coronavirus cases taking the tally to 89,802. Sixty-one fresh deaths were recorded pushing the toll to 2,803. Mahesh Verma, the head of a Delhi government committee tasked with strengthening the preparedness of hospitals to battle coronavirus said the city's COVID-19 tally may not reach 5.5 lakh cases by July end as was estimated, but one needs to see how the virus behaves during the monsoon. Last month, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had estimated that the city's coronavirus count could reach a lakh by June end and 5.5 lakh by July end. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said the situation is not "terrible" as predicted a month ago, asserting that at present, the number of active coronavirus cases has been decreasing instead of increasing. He said the situation has been brought under control with the "combined efforts" of the Delhi government, the Centre and other organisations. "In Delhi, the number of people recovering from coronavirus is also increasing. Similarly, the number of deaths is decreasing... at present, the COVID-19 situation is not as terrible as it was earlier. This is the result of combined efforts of all," Kejriwal said. He also said the recovery rate a month ago was around 38 per cent, but it is now 67 per cent, adding that out of a total of 87,000 cases, 58,000 people have so far recovered. He said the central government's website had projected a total of one lakh COVID-19 cases and of these, 60,000 active cases by June 30, but the number of active cases is currently around 26,000. "After this projection, we did not sit idle and started approaching all those who could help us in dealing with the situation. We approached hotels, banquet halls, Centre, social and religious organisations for help. "Where we did not get help, we pleaded before the people to save Delhi (Jahan madad nahi mili wahan unke per pakade)," he said. As June ended, the coronavirus count of the city stood at 87,360, accounting 75 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the national capital. According to the data, 66,526 fresh coronavirus cases were reported from June 1 to June 30. The silver lining, however, is that for the fifth consecutive day, the city's daily addition of the cases is in the range of 2,000. In June, the daily figures had almost touched 4,000.     Verma, who is part of a five-member committee that was constituted by the Delhi government last month for healthcare infrastructure augmentation and strengthening of overall preparedness of hospitals to battle COVID-19, said before making a new forecast, the number of cases should be monitored over the next couple of days. "It's only three-four days since there has been a decline. We have to keep a watch over the numbers for another couple of days and then only we can forecast. We were expecting almost one lakh cases by the end of June but we have added about 65,000 cases. A new pattern is emerging," he said. Verma, who is also the vice-chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, said due to the surge, everyone became more proactive and there was increased testing, which contributed to the general management of cases. For the last few days, the Centre has been overseeing Delhi's preparations. Recently, Union Home Minister Amit Shah announced a number of steps, including house-to-house survey, ramping up testing and bed capacity, to arrest the spread of coronavirus. Kejriwal said there were 8,500 beds in hospitals one month back, but the bed capacity has now reached around 15,000. "Earlier, when we conducted COVID-19 test on 100 people, 31 came positive. Now, only 13 cases are coming positive on testing of 100 people. All these things show that the situation is now under control," he said. Kejriwal, however, asked people not to pay attention to experts' views on social media that the peak of COVID-19 has gone in Delhi, and requested citizens to wear masks, wash hands and maintain social-distancing norms instead. "There should not be any lapse. After much effort, we have come out of the situation that was a month ago. We will continue our team work. There is a proverb - 'Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst'. We will continue our preparations to deal with any situation," he said. Meanwhile, a Delhi government panel has recommended roping in postgraduate students, pooling of resources of hospitals and cash incentives to address the problem of shortage of staff in hospitals amid a surge in coronavirus cases, sources said. The two-member committee, comprising Verma and Dr BL Sherwal, director, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), was formed last week. The panel submitted its recommendations to the government and they were forwarded to the Cabinet, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-2442-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-89802-on-july-1-855951.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Nine-month-old child among 6 fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||Six more persons, including a nine-month-old child, tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh on Wednesday, taking the tally in the union territory to 446. Four members of a family in sector 50 here contracted the infection, as per the medical bulletin. A 21-year-old woman and 33-year-old man, residents of sector 41, also tested positive for the virus, it stated. Three coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. A total of 367 persons have been cured of coronavirus as of now, the bulletin said. A total of 7,792 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 7,317 tested negative while reports in 27 cases are awaited, it stated. There are 73 active cases as of now in the city. Six persons have so far died of coronavirus in the UT, as per the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nine-month-old-child-among-6-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-855971.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 tally may not reach 5.5 lakh by July end, but need to see how virus behaves in monsoon: Mahesh Verma||The Covid-19 tally in the city may not reach the estimated number of 5.5 lakh cases by July end but one needs to see how the virus behaves during the monsoon, Mahesh Verma, head of a Delhi government committee tasked with strengthening the preparedness of hospitals to battle coronavirus, said on Wednesday. Verma, however, said before making a new forecast, the number of cases should be monitored over the next couple of days. Verma is part of a five-member committee that was constituted by the Delhi government last month for healthcare infrastructure augmentation and strengthening of overall preparedness of hospitals to battle Covid-19. The committee had said that the national capital would see one lakh cases by June end and 5.5 lakh cases by July end. Verma said based on the current scenario, it looks unlikely that Delhi will see 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July. "But now monsoon is round the corner. We do not know how the virus will behave since it is a new virus. Earlier, we would say it would go away in summer but it never went away. "Monsoon is also a season for viral diseases. We do not know whether the viral load for those diseases will compound coronavirus. Let us wait for a few days to see whether it is a temporary decline or whether there will be any surge," he said.  According to Delhi government's health bulletin figures, between June 13 to 27, there were seven days on which over 3,000 cases was reported. However, after June 27, there was a decline in the number of cases reported on a single day. On June 29, 2,084 cases were reported within 24 hours. The next day, the number was 2,199. "It is only three-four days since there has been a decline. We have to keep a watch over the numbers for another couple of days and then only we can forecast. We were expecting almost one lakh cases by the end of June but we have added about 65,000 cases. A new pattern is emerging," Verma said. Verma, who is also the vice-chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, said due to the surge, everyone became more proactive and there was increased testing, which contributed to the general management of cases. As the numbers witnessed a sharp ascend, Delhi has significantly ramped up testing, mostly after the Rapid Antigen methodology was permitted. He also said everyone, be it from the Ministry of Home Affairs to the Delhi government to the municipalities, chipped in, which was also responsible for the results. He added the serological survey, which started last Saturday, will show some results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-tally-may-not-reach-55-lakh-by-july-end-but-need-to-see-how-virus-behaves-in-monsoon-mahesh-verma-855989.html
01-07-2020||North and Central||Muzaffarnagar woman beaten to death by in-laws over dowry||A woman was allegedly beaten to death on Wednesday by her in-laws in Budhana town of the district over dowry, police said. They said Shaziya’s husband Sameer has been arrested, while other accused members of his family are absconding. According to an FIR lodged by Shaziya’s father Amir Ahmad, her ln-laws had been harassing her for more dowry and they allegedly beat her to death on Wednesday. The victim’s family staged a protest by keeping her body outside the SSP office, demanding strict action against the accused. They dispersed after the police spoke to them and assured action. The body has been sent for postmortem, police said, adding they are searching for the remaining accused. In another case, a man shot at his 30-year-old married sister, named Priya, after some arguments, police said, adding she has been hospitalised in critical condition. According to an FIR lodged with the police, Bunty (26) went to his sister's house at Bhopa village on Wednesday when they had some arguments over some issue. The FIR said that Bunty opened fire, leaving Priya injured. Bunty has been booked for attempt to murder, they said, adding he is absconding, and that an investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muzaffarnagar-woman-beaten-to-death-by-in-laws-over-dowry-855992.html
01-07-2020||Panorama||Respect our healthcare workers||Today is July 1, and every year this day is observed as National Doctors’ Day to express gratitude and acknowledge the dedication and commitment of the doctors’ towards our society. The observance of the day honours legendary physician and West Bengal’s second Chief Minister, Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy whose birth and death anniversary coincides on the same day. As I write this, 2020 is a very remarkable year for not just doctors but all our frontline workers in the medical fraternity. As the pandemic continues to rise, our doctors, nurses, carers and paramedics around the world are facing an unprecedented workload in overstretched health facilities, and with no end in sight.  In my view, the pandemic has taught us three critical things. Firstly the economic cost of physician burnout. Secondly, getting used to the new- normal which has significantly impacted everyone and doctor's life and his family also had to change. Thirdly, psychological safety should receive attention. Physician burnout costs the United States health care industry $4.6 billion a year, a number that brings a new spotlight to an age-old problem. There are no such studies from India. For a country like India, the doctor-patient ratio is dismal. Due to this, doctors, especially those working in the public sector are faced with significant patient load. It is not uncommon to hear a single doctor catering to 100–200 outpatients a day. Further, if the doctor is a trainee or a teacher/supervisor, they have the additional load of academics, teaching, and supervising the academics In India, the pandemic has made most physicians and surgeons over the age of 60 take up voluntary retirement. Many ICUs don’t have enough allied health workers, which complicates the issue. Even though physician burnout is widespread, it’s difficult to put a price tag on the phenomenon in a way that medical institutions can understand. Around the world, health-care professionals are putting their lives on the line to combat and control the pandemic. But it is important to note that some of the physicians, nurses and paramedical staff have taken major life decisions too.  They are working in stressful work environments, not just because the virus is little understood, but because in most settings they are under-protected, overworked and themselves vulnerable to infection. They are staying away from family to ensure the infection is contained and not spread. Many of them are also seeing patients pass away while on a ventilator. Clinicians at times also feel frustrated by the limitations of overstretched health systems. They moved into unfamiliar clinical areas, joined new rotas at short notice, and covered gaps created by the pandemic. They have left other roles in research and education to help with the clinical efforts, increased working hours.  Teaching programmes and learning opportunities are yet to restart. One of the notable trends of the new- normal scenario has been that your “Doctor is online”. As a neonatologist, I notice, parents no longer had to take time off work or find transportation to get their children to an appointment. “I’m asking questions and answering questions,” seeing kids in their homes and with their families. “It feels like a very complete visit. The pandemic taught us that teleconsultations are the new normal and. The pandemic also underscores the urgent need to strengthen the global health workforce. A new report by WHO titled “The State of the World’s Nursing 2020” calls for urgent investment in nurses. Nurses account for more than half of all the world’s health workers, providing vital services throughout the health system. It is important to understand that healthcare workers are not just treating a flood of critically ill patients during the pandemic at the same time they are risking their own health, witnessing higher rates of death and experiencing acute stress that could lead to mental health issues. First, although prior to this pandemic there were undoubtedly situations where clinicians could be at risk of being physically harmed by their patients. The pandemic changes this all as GPs and nurses whether working in the community or in hospitals, run a significant risk of catching the virus from their patients. (The writer is the  Founder Chairman and Neonatologist, Cloudnine Group of Hospitals, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/respect-our-healthcare-workers-855644.html
01-07-2020||Panorama||Covid-19: Senior citizens, the worst sufferers||Who are the worst sufferers in the current Covid-19 situation? The plight of migrant workers is all too well known and has attracted a lot of media attention. Possibly, senior citizens belong to the next worst category.  The case of senior citizens is a bit different from the migrant workers.  Away from the media glare, they suffer within the confines of homes, without being visible on the roads or rail tracks trudging hundreds of miles with heavy loads or small children on their backs and shoulders evoking sympathy all around.  These senior citizens have a much greater susceptibility to Covid-19 infection and death, compared to people from other age groups, because of their already weakened health. After the gradual withdrawal of lockdown, they are becoming even more vulnerable as asymptomatic younger members of the household have now started to go to workplaces outside, with a higher risk of carrying back infection to their older family members.  Out of fear, the senior citizens remain confined at home without their minimum quota of physical exercises like walking or going to the park.  Unlike the younger generations, they are not tech-savvy to interact with friends through social media and hence suffer more from loneliness. Those living without any support of younger family members have no option but to go out for their daily chores (like shopping for groceries or medicines) inviting the additional risk of contracting infection.  Because of social distancing norms, their wait at stores and pharmacies is also much longer than before increasing their hardships. Many of them are further burdened as the supporting helpers (like maids and cooks) are abstaining from work.   People unfortunate enough to die in hospitals suffer the trauma and the indignity of dying alone in hospital beds as relatives and friends are not allowed to see them and whose last rites are not even performed properly. Without explicitly spelling out, policymakers - using the social cost-benefit calculus which values a person’s life at his potential earnings over the rest of his lifetime (a measure of the person’s social productivity) - would also be tempted to save a young person’s life over a senior citizen’s when deciding on whom to give a bed or ventilator support in a situation of overstretched hospital facilities. The health insurance cost is becoming prohibitively expensive for senior citizens at a time of their lives when their medical needs are greatest. For example, two 70+ members of a family have to shell out more than Rs. 60,000 per year to get a megre Rs 3 lakh medical cover each. Even with medical insurance, they usually have to bear 20-30% of hospital bill out of their pockets, as insurance does not cover all expenses. This is after undergoing the hassles and harassment from the insurance companies to reimburse expenses on all kinds of pretexts. Unlike the poor, the so-called middle-class senior citizens are not eligible for the much-vaunted Ayushman Bharat scheme which presumably gives a family cover of Rs 6 lakh per year. All these are coming at a time when the bank interest rates have been steadily falling. Senior citizens who depend on interest income from bank fixed deposits, instead of inflation-indexed pensions, are getting their income squeezed more and more. There is a misconception here, even among economists. It is argued that real interest rates (equal to nominal interest rates minus inflation) have not fallen, when along with reduction in inflation, the nominal interest rates are also being cut equally. Hence, there would be no adverse impact on interest earners. This argument is invalid for senior citizens since consumer prices are rising even when consumer price inflation is falling, unless, of course, we are considering a negative inflation rate (which is not the case in India). So, for senior citizens, the nominal income from interest earnings is  falling while the nominal cost of living as reflected in expenditure on food, house rents, electricity bills and medical costs is rising. Clearly, the standard of living of the senior citizens depending on interest earnings for survival is going down. Mutual funds Some may advise the senior citizens to go for mutual funds in a regime of falling interest rates for better returns. For one, mutual funds are subject to market risks, giving highly variable returns even when their average earning over a long period may well be higher than from bank fixed deposits. Senior citizens need steady flow of cash to meet their fixed (or rising) monthly expenditures and cannot afford to invest in mutual funds or gold or real estate. Even if nothing much can be done to redress the manifold hardships of the senior citizens, a couple of steps can be immediately taken to reduce their financial burden to some extent. One, make all senior citizens eligible for government-provided Ayushman Bharat medical insurance scheme. If some more affluent senior citizens prefer to opt out of this scheme, the choice should be left to them. Second, the overall cap of the Senior Citizen Savings Scheme (SCSS) - which gives somewhat higher interest rates than bank fixed deposits - should be raised from the current Rs 15 lakh to say, Rs 25 lakh. Since only documented senior citizens can avail of this scheme, there is no risk of misuse by others. The fiscal burden of financing the additional cost  - equal to the interest rate differential between SCSS and bank FDs  multiplied by additional Rs 10 lakh over the lifetime of the senior citizen -  would not be much, specially as part of the taxable interest income would come back to the exchequer. Given that people in higher income brackets will have to pay more taxes, the net benefit to the poorer senior citizens would be proportionately more, making it a ‘progressive’ subsidy.  (The writer is a former Professor of Economics, IIM-Calcutta and Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-senior-citizens-the-worst-sufferers-855645.html
01-07-2020||Panorama||'They want to kill me’: Many Covid-19 patients have delirium||Kim Victory was paralyzed on a bed and being burned alive. Just in time, someone rescued her, but suddenly, she was turned into an ice sculpture on a fancy cruise ship buffet. Next, she was a subject of an experiment in a lab in Japan. Then she was being attacked by cats. Nightmarish visions like these plagued Victory during her hospitalization this spring for severe respiratory failure caused by the coronavirus. They made her so agitated that one night, she pulled out her ventilator breathing tube; another time, she fell off a chair and landed on the floor of the intensive care unit. “It was so real, and I was so scared,” said Victory, 31, now back home in Franklin, Tenn. To a startling degree, many coronavirus patients are reporting similar experiences. Called hospital delirium, the phenomenon has previously been seen mostly in a subset of older patients, some of whom already had dementia, and in recent years, hospitals adopted measures to reduce it. “All of that has been erased by Covid,” said Dr. E. Wesley Ely, co-director of the Critical Illness, Brain Dysfunction and Survivorship Center at Vanderbilt University and the Nashville Veteran’s Administration Hospital, whose team developed guidelines for hospitals to minimize delirium. Now, the condition is bedeviling coronavirus patients of all ages with no previous cognitive impairment. Reports from hospitals and researchers suggest that about two-thirds to three-quarters of coronavirus patients in I.C.U.’s have experienced it in various ways. Some have “hyperactive delirium,” paranoid hallucinations and agitation; some have “hypoactive delirium,” internalized visions and confusion that cause patients to become withdrawn and incommunicative; and some have both. The experiences aren’t just terrifying and disorienting. Delirium can have detrimental consequences long after it lifts, extending hospital stays, slowing recovery and increasing people’s risk of developing depression or post-traumatic stress. Previously healthy older patients with delirium can develop dementia sooner than they otherwise would have and can die earlier, researchers have found. “There’s increased risk for temporary or even permanent cognitive deficits,” said Dr. Lawrence Kaplan, director of consultation liaison psychiatry at the University of California, San Francisco Medical Center. “It is actually more devastating than people realize.” The ingredients for delirium are pervasive during the pandemic. They include long stints on ventilators, heavy sedatives and poor sleep. Other factors: patients are mostly immobile, occasionally restrained to keep them from accidentally disconnecting tubes, and receive minimal social interaction because families can’t visit and medical providers wear face-obscuring protective gear and spend limited time in patients’ room.  “It’s like the perfect storm to generate delirium, it really, really is,” said Dr. Sharon Inouye, a leading delirium expert who founded the Hospital Elder Life Program, guidelines that have helped to significantly decrease delirium among older patients. Both her program and Dr. Ely’s have devised recommendations for reducing delirium during the pandemic.The virus itself or the body’s response to it may also generate neurological effects, “flipping people into more of a delirium state,” said Dr. Sajan Patel, an assistant professor at University of California, San Francisco. The oxygen depletion and inflammation that many seriously ill coronavirus patients experience can affect the brain and other organs besides the lungs. Kidney or liver failure can lead to buildup of delirium-promoting medications. Some patients develop small blood clots that don’t cause strokes but spur subtle circulation disruption that might trigger cognitive problems and delirium, Dr. Inouye said.   Temko, a 69-year-old mortgage company executive, couldn’t speak because of the breathing tube in his mouth — he’d been on a ventilator at U.C.S.F. Medical Center for about three weeks by then. So, on a Zoom call nurses arranged with his family, he wrote on paper attached to a clipboard. “He wants us to kill him,’” his son gasped, according to Temko and his wife, Linda. “No, honey,” Linda implored, “you’re going to be OK.” At home now in San Francisco after a 60-day hospitalization, Temko said his suggestion that his family shoot him stemmed from a delirium-fueled delusion that he’d been abducted.“I was in a paranoiac phase where I thought there was some sort of conspiracy against me,” he said. When he was first placed on the ventilator, doctors used a lighter sedative, propofol, and dialled it down for hours so he could be awake and know where he was — a “regimen to try to avoid delirium,” said Dr. Daniel Burkhardt, an anesthesiologist and intensivist who treated him. But then Temko’s respiratory failure worsened. His blood pressure plummeted, a condition propofol intensifies. To allow the ventilator to completely breathe for him, doctors had him chemically paralyzed, which required heavier sedatives to prevent the trauma of being conscious while unable to move. So Temko’s sedation was switched to midazolam, a benzodiazepine, and fentanyl, an opioid — drugs that exacerbate delirium. “We had no choice,” Dr. Burkhardt said. “If you’re very sick and very unstable, basically what happens is we conclude you have bigger proble You know, I have to get you to live through it first.” After about two weeks, the sedative-weaning process began, but other delirium-related quandaries emerged. Temko began experiencing pain and anxiety, compelling doctors to balance treating those conditions with using medications that can worsen delirium, they said. The repeated nursing visits Temko needed interrupted his sleep-wake cycle, so he’d often take daytime naps and become sleepless and agitated at night, said Jason Bloomer, an ICU nurse. At home, his wife kept her phone by her pillow so she could hear him via a nurse’s tablet. “He would wake up and was confused and anxious and he’d start getting all worked up to where the ventilator couldn’t work,” said Temko, who would reassure him, “It’s OK, breathe.” His hallucinations included a rotating human head. “Every time it came around, someone put a nail in it, and I could see that the person was still alive,” he said.  He met with Dr. Kaplan, the psychiatrist, who recognized his symptoms as delirium, partly because Temko bungled tests like naming the months backward and counting down from 100 by sevens. “He could only get from 100 to 93,” Dr. Kaplan said, adding, “The cardinal sin of delirium is always impaired attention.” Dr. Kaplan prescribed Seroquel, which he said helps with perceptual disturbances and anxiety. Temko said another turning point came when Bloomer said that with months of hard work, recovery was likely. International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/they-want-to-kill-me-many-covid-19-patients-have-delirium-855646.html
01-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Masking my scepticism||A few months ago, when news of a pandemic was just beginning to pick up speed, I had already grown tired of the buzz around the issue. Sanitise your groceries? Wear masks every time you leave home? Ah yes, that must be the side of dystopian reality I ordered with breakfast.  That morning, when my neighbourhood BMTC bus arrived, I had a good chuckle at the masked driver and the sanitiser-touting conductor. The BMRCL employee at the metro station ticket counter elicited a similar reaction from me with the half-litre bottle of disinfectant beside her. My friend arrived in a tizzy, hugging me warily before squeezing out a glob of glittery gel onto my palms. I was touched that she would share something so precious.  Soon, my friends and I found ourselves in deep thought at the closest fast food joint, overeating fries contemplatively. This was, of course, after we had each washed our hands to different one-hit wonders for the requisite twenty seconds. As we discussed at length the complete clearing-out of hand sanitiser and the hoarding of provisions, I set my final fry back down. I could no longer contain myself. “This is all so silly. There is no need to panic,” I found myself stating emphatically to the group, “In about a week, this will all be history. People are just overreacting, and I refuse to be a part of it!” Mercifully, my companions sensed my distress and changed the subject to the economy and other pleasant matters for the rest of the afternoon.  There is, however, something about a long bus journey back home that leads you into introspection like nothing else. I asked myself if I was being a little too sceptical. Perhaps it would not hurt to be a little more cautious. What if all my fearful fellow travellers were right in multiplying their shopping twice and sanitising thrice?  I laughed and shook my head. If only everyone had my calm demeanor and graceful poise. They will all feel so silly when the hubbub dies down and they are left with forty-odd packets of instant noodles. Who would be laughing then? Well, time proved that it was certainly not me. Subsequent weeks of repeatedly phoning medical shops and praying fervently for grocery delivery slots taught me a very important lesson I will not soon forget. Even if “anti-bandwagon” is your middle name, sometimes the best course of action is to close your eyes and jump right on, if only to drive out and stock up on essentials… and don’t forget your mask!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/masking-my-scepticism-855643.html
01-07-2020||Second Edit||Government e-Marketplace welcome but be realistic||The Central government’s decision that all sellers on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) should declare the country of origin of products when they are being registered on the portal is a measure to promote local production. GeM is a platform for public procurement under the Ministry of Commerce and the changes being introduced in it have to do with the government’s Make in India policy and Atmanirbhar Bharat, according to an official statement. The government also changed its procurement policy by discontinuing the practice of global tendering for contracts worth less than Rs 200 crore. This was intended to help small and medium industries and businesses which have been hurt badly by the lockdown. The changes on the GeM platform seek information not only about the place of manufacture but also details of local content in products, and lay down guidelines on localisation. A Make in India filter has been added to ensure that the government and its agencies only purchase products that contain a minimum of 50%  of local content.  These are unexceptionable because the measures are intended to help and encourage local businesses, and should be part of the economic policies of any government. But they should also be realistic and take into consideration the capacity and needs of the industry. It is significant that the new measures have been introduced in the wake of the hit the economy has taken as a result of the lockdown and the rising sentiment in the country against China because of the intrusion across the LAC. The government has proposed to adopt self-reliance, called Atmanirbharta now, as a policy to revive the economy. Measures that discourage imports from China may also be considered as part of that policy. The new GeM norms should be seen in that light.  But it may be unrealistic to think of a major reduction in imports from China in the present circumstances. India’s economy is dependent in a major way on goods and technology from China and is not in a position to do without them. China accounts for 15% of India’s imports while our exports make up only 2% of  China’s trade. A reduction in trade will hurt India much but may not have any impact on China. Only if India can cater to its own needs can it think of any major cut in trade with China or use it as a pressure tactic. The Make India programme has not yielded any great results till now. So, it will be difficult to fully implement the ‘’boycott China’’ slogan that is being raised now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/government-e-marketplace-welcome-but-be-realistic-855637.html
01-07-2020||South||Six dead, 17 injured in boiler explosion in Tamil Nadu's Neyveli lignite plant||At least six workers were killed, and 17 others injured following a boiler blast at the 2nd thermal power station of the state-owned Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited in Neyveli, 212 km from here, on Wednesday. This is the second such incident during the Covid-19 lockdown period. The incident took place at the 5th unit of the 2nd thermal power station at around 10 am during the maintenance process.  Thick billows of smoke could be seen coming out of the massive premises in videos shot by onlookers. This is the second time in as many months that the 2nd plant, which is a 1,470 MW facility comprising of seven 210 MW units currently generating 450 MW power, has witnessed an explosion. A blast which took place in the month of May had claimed four lives. NLC said in a statement that one executive, two supervisor, three non executive employees and 17 contract employees were involved in maintenance activities when the blast took place. “Six people have lost their lives in the incident. 17 people were injured and 16 were rushed to a private hospital in Chennai for further treatment," M Sree Abhinav, Superintendent of Police, Cuddalore District, told DH. NLC said all six deceased were contract employees. It also said it has instituted two inquiries one by P K Mohapatra, retired Director (Technical), NTPC, and another by Director (Power), NLC, in go into the incident.  Also, unit head of TPS 2 has been placed under suspension pending enquiry. The company also said all the four units of TPS 2 stage 2 have been ordered for shut down for immediate safety audit. NLC said the incident took place at the 5th unit when workers restarted the boiler in the morning. “We are still investigating how the accident happened. We have also shifted the injured to a private hospital in Chennai,” an official with NLC said. As six people died in the second blast in two months, activists and political parties pinned the blame on NLC management for not “properly maintaining its facilities.” PMK MP and former Union Health Minister Anbumani Ramadoss said the NLC management has failed to take steps to renovate the 2nd power plant, which was commissioned 34 years ago. “Though the average lifespan of a thermal unit is 30 years, and it can be operated for another 20 years after renovation, the NLC management has not renovated the second unit since its commissioning,” he said. While the first three units are 34 years old, the remaining four of the total seven units were commissioners 29 years back. Anbumani blamed the accidents in the past two months on “lack of proper maintenance” of the units by the NLC. He also demanded compensation of Rs 1 crore for families for each of the dead. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and assured all possible help. “CISF is already on the spot to assist the relief work. Praying for the earliest recovery of those injured,” Shah said. CM Palaniswami also condoled the death of the six workers and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakh each to the next of kin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-dead-17-injured-in-boiler-explosion-in-tamil-nadus-neyveli-lignite-plant-855727.html
01-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu custodial death: Father-son duo thrashed all night by Sathankulam police personnel, says woman cop||Personnel at the Sathankulam police station here thrashed a deceased father-son duo the whole night there, with lathis used for allegedly assaulting them and a table carrying bloodstains, a woman head constable attached to the station has told a judicial probe. Mentioning Head Constable Revathy's statement in a four-page report to the Madras High Court Madurai Bench, the Judicial Magistrate probing the deaths said she feared receiving a threat if she revealed the facts. The Madras High Court, which has taken up the matter of the death of the duo-- P Jeyaraj and Bennicks, alleged victims of police torture, had on Tuesday transferred the probe to the CB-CID under DSP Anil Kumar. It had also ordered protection for Revathy and her family. In her statement, Revathy told the JM that the two persons were "beaten up the entire night by police personnel there (Sathankulam PS) using lathis." "..due to this there were bloodstains on the lathis and a table and she said they (stains) should be collected immediately as they (policemen) could try to erase them," the report said. The JM alleged non-cooperation by the personnel at the police station, including when he sought handing over of the lathis and said the cops heeded to his demand only after being 'compelled'. One of them even fled the place by scaling a wall when sought for his lathi. He further submitted that Revathy did not sign on her statement immediately and did so after a long time upon being assured of her safety. Her statement was "recorded carefully", even as she was apprehensive of receiving threat if she revealed the truth. The JM said that throughout his stay at the station on June 28, the police did not cooperate and one of them displayed "macho and intimidating body language", even as a constable made disparaging remarks against him later. Incidentally, three personnel, ASP D Kumar, DSP C Prathapan and the constable Maharajan had on Tuesday appeared before the High Court on being summoned by it over the matter. The constable told the court he was "overstressed" and had made the remark against the Judicial Magistrate by mistake. The JM further stated that the settings of the CCTV hard disk in the police station, despite having sufficient space of one terrabyte, were configured in a way that the day's footage will be "automatically deleted." The High Court had earlier said that from the report filed by the Judicial Magistrate, it was able to discern that the Sathankulam police were taking advantage of the fact the investigation of the case was in limbo and were attempting to cause the disappearance of evidence. They were emboldened enough to even intimidate the JM during the investigation in the station, Justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi had noted. The original statement of the Revathy should also be given to the DSP Anil Kumar. Jayaraj and his son Bennicks, arrested for 'violating' lockdown norms over business hours of their cellphone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23, with the relatives alleging that they were severely thrashed at the Sathankulam police station by the personnel earlier. The incident had triggered a nationwide furore, leading to the suspension of five policemen, including an inspector and two Sub-Inspectors. The Superintendent of Police had been shunted out of Tuticorin and put on compulsory wait. All the personnel posted at Sathankulam police station earlier have been transferred out. The probe into the case has been since transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) by the Tamil Nadu government, though the Court transferred the case to the CB- CID till CBI took over, fearin evidence may disappear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-custodial-death-father-son-duo-thrashed-all-night-by-sathankulam-police-personnel-says-woman-cop-855735.html
01-07-2020||South||Death of Tuticorin father-son duo 'brutal killing': Rajinikanth||Top star Rajinikanth on Wednesday described as "brutal killing" the death of a Tuticorin father-son duo, alleged victims of police torture, and expressed shock over the 'inappropriate behaviour' of some policemen with a Judicial Magistrate probing the matter. "#sathyama vidave koodathu (this should not be spared at any cost,)," the actor said about the episode in a tweet, with the hashtag in Tamil trending on Twitter minutes after he put up the post with an image of him, striking a visibly angry pose. "While the entire humanity has opposed the brutal killing of the father and son by torture, I was shocked at the way some policemen behaved and spoke in front of the (judicial) magistrate. All those involved should get appropriate punishment. This should not be spared," he said. P Jeyaraj and his son Bennix, arrested for 'violating' lockdown norms over business hours of their cellphone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23, with the relatives alleging that they were severely thrashed at the Sathankulam police station by the personnel earlier. The incident had triggered a nationwide furore, leading to the suspension of five policemen, including an inspector and two Sub Inspectors. The former SP is on compulsory wait. Earlier, the Judicial Magistrate probing the deaths had informed the Madras High Court Madurai bench that police personnel at the Sathankulam station did not cooperate with him, even as one of the constables made disparaging remarks against him. Another policeman had displayed "intimidating, macho body language." Subsequently, the court had summoned three policemen, including an Additional SP, on Tuesday where the constable who allegedly made the remarks against the JM had submitted he spoke so by mistake since he was "overstressed." The court, which has taken up the case, had transferred the investigation to CB-CID till the CBI takes over the probe. The Tamil Nadu government had on Monday transferred the probe to CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-of-tuticorin-father-son-duo-brutal-killing-rajinikanth-855779.html
01-07-2020||South||SI arrested; Murder charges slapped against 6 in custodial deaths case in Tamil Nadu||Crime-Branch CID on Wednesday slapped murder charges on six people, including two sub-inspectors, and arrested one of them as it took over the probe into the alleged custodial torture leading to the death of a father-son duo in Tamil Nadu, amid intense judicial scrutiny and nation-wide outrage. Within hours of taking over the probe on the directions of the Madras High Court, the specialised investigating agency altered the FIRs to include murder charges against SIs Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan, as many constables and members of Friends of Police (volunteers) of the Sathankulam police station, CB-CID sources said. While Ragu Ganesh was arrested by the CB-CID, which took over the investigation following an order from the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, special police teams have been formed to nab five other policemen who are said to be involved in the case. Sub-inspector Balakrishnan, constables Murugan, Muthuraj, Sellathurai and Maharajan are the five others whose names have been included. However, the name of Sridhar, the inspector who was in-charge of the Sathankulam police station, was missing. Ragu Ganesh is the sub-inspector who filed the FIR on June 19 night against P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix following a complaint for head constable S Murugan and constable Muthuraj that the duo assaulted them following an argument. However, footage recorded in a CCTV installed near Bennix’s mobile shop had demolished all the “lies” in the FIR. Sources said the first arrest made after altering the FIR against the policemen to 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Ragu Ganesh will be produced before a magistrate following which he is likely to be sent to CB-CID custody for interrogation. The altering of the FIR comes a day after the High Court said the “anti-mortem” injuries found on the bodies of the duo and the statement by a woman head constable of the station was “prima facie enough” to charge the policemen involved in the incident for murder. The police woman had told the Judicial Magistrate probing the case that the father-son duo were beaten through the night after their arrest on June 19. On Wednesday, she was given police protection, but the head constable said her fears continue to remain. The district administration has also sent her on leave following a suggestion by the High Court which also expressed the fear that “there will be an attempt to intimidate her and make her resile from her version” given to the JM. The first arrest in the case comes hours after Anil Kumar, Deputy Superintendent of Police, CB-CID, Tirunelveli who was appointed as the Investigating Officer (IO) by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, took charge of the case. The case was transferred to the CB-CID by the Madurai Bench, which had on Tuesday expressed the fear that crucial evidence could get dissipated by the time the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took over the probe. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also issued notices to Director General of Police, Inspector General (Prisons), and Thoothukudi SP seeking a report on the custodial deaths of the father-son duo. The NHRC asked them to submit their response within six weeks. Meanwhile, Tamil actor Rajinikanth also broke his silence over the issue on Twitter by posting a picture of him quite angry. "I was shocked at the behaviour of the policemen who had the audacity to behave the way they did before the Judicial Magistrate even after the human race condemned their inhuman act. "Everyone involved in the crime should be punished. They should not be let off," he wrote. After taking Jeyaraj and Bennix into custody during which they were alleged to have been tortured, the police shifted them to the Kovilpatti sub-jail on June 21. However, the son died on June 22 and the father on June 23 due to injuries sustained during the custody. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/si-arrested-murder-charges-slapped-against-6-in-custodial-deaths-case-in-tamil-nadu-855814.html
01-07-2020||South||Kerala: Why Vellapally Natesan is not facing backlash from major political parties||It is a week since K K Mahesan, a local leader of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam (SNDP), which represents the Hindu Ezhava community in Kerala, was found hanging and some letters, purportedly written by him accusing SNDP general secretary Vellappally Natesan of abetting suicide, surfaced. Even as the police are yet to arraign Natesan or any others as an accused in the abetment case and the family of the deceased raising suspicions over the probe, the political parties in Kerala, especially the opposition parties Congress and BJP, have not yet come up against it except for some local leaders and dissident leaders extending support to the family. The political clout Natesan has been enjoying by being at the helm of the outfit of the Ezhava community that constitutes over 20 percent of Kerala's population could be the obvious reason for the mainstream political parties not to take an open stand against him. Natesan's son and Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) president Thushar Vellapally, who contested against Rahul Gandhi in Wayanad, is NDA convenor in Kerala. BJP state president K Surendran said that the party was not taking any stand on the matter.  Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran was not available for comments. Mahesan, who was a close confidant of Natesan and secretary of the Kanichikulangara union of SNDP, was found hanging in the union office, which is close to Natesan's house in Alappuzha district, on June 24. Subsequently some letters, purported to be suicide notes of Mahesan, surfaced in the social media. One letter said that he and his wife would end their life in front of Natesan's house if Natesan tried to trap him in the case, while another said that he was being made scapegoat in an ongoing Crime Branch probe into a cheating case pertaining to a micro-finance scheme of the SNDP. Mahesan's nephew M S Anilkumar told DH that though some leaders of all parties from Aluppuzha district, including a minister, local MP and MLA, visited the family and offered support, so far no state leaders of any political parties have extended support. The family has genuine concerns that an effective probe by local police against Natesan won't happen as the local police officials have a good rapport with him. Hence the family urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to constitute a special team to probe into the incident. Alappuzha district police chief P S Sabu said that the investigation is progressing and so far, no decision on arraigning Natesan or any others has been taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-why-vellapally-natesan-is-not-facing-backlash-from-major-political-parties-855832.html
01-07-2020||South||657 new coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh; tally crosses 15,000 mark||The addition of 657 fresh cases pushed the Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh to 15,252 on Wednesday. In the last 24 hours, six coronavirus deaths were reported, taking the overall toll in the state to 193, the latest bulletin said. Kurnool and Krishna districts reported three deaths each, taking the individual tally to 68 and 66 respectively, the highest in the state. The bulletin said 342 Covid-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours and were discharged from hospitals. With this, the total number of those recovered stood at 6,988, leaving 8,071 active cases. On Wednesday, the state also crossed the nine-lakh mark in the number of coronavirus sample tests, aggregating 9.18 lakh till date. The state boasted of carrying out 17,199 tests per million population, ahead of Tamil Nadu's 15,204. According to government data, the cumulative 15,252 coronavirus cases in AP included 12,813 locals, 2,036 from other states and 403 foreign returnees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/657-new-coronavirus-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-crosses-15000-mark-855838.html
01-07-2020||South||Kerala: Father ends life as daughter of social media fame falls critically ill||In a gut-wrenching incident, father of a nine-year-old Kerala girl, who shot to fame last year with her electrifying dance to the tune of a percussion performance during a temple festival, was found hanging, while the girl was in a critical condition with a brain ailment. Devu Chandana, daughter of Chandra Babu, 39, hailing from Nooranadu in Alappuzaha district became a social media sensation last year after a video footage of Devu's electrifying dance performance to the tune of a percussion performance at a temple festival went viral of social media. She subsequently got an opportunity for performing at a TV show also. Chandana recently fell ill following brain ailments and was admitted to SAT Hospital attached to the government medical college hospital in Thiruvananthapuram about a week back. Her condition was reported to be critical. Chandra Babu, who is a painting worker, was found hanging from a tree near the hospital premises on Wednesday morning. He had visited Chandana in the critical care hospital. Prima facie suspicion of police was that he ended life after he was hit by depression over his daughter's illness and financial problems. His younger daughter had also died of some ailments a few years ago. Sources at SAT hospital said that the exact cause for Chandana's illness has not been found yet. Her samples were sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune also for diagnosis. Meanwhile, Chandra Babu reportedly received financial contributions from many quarters in view of Chandana's illness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-father-ends-life-as-daughter-of-social-media-fame-falls-critically-ill-855850.html
01-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh deputy Chief Minister, Minister resign, quit MLC posts on being elected to Rajya Sabha||Andhra Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose and Minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana resigned from their posts here on Wednesday, YSR Congress sources said. They also quit their membership of the Legislative Council, following their election to the Rajya Sabha on June 19. Since they cannot continue as MLCs for more than 14 days, as per law, upon their election to Rajya Sabha, Bose and Ramana tendered their resignations. Bose and Ramanas resignations as MLCs have been immediately accepted and the Legislature Secretary P Balakrishnamacharyulu issued a notification accordingly, notifying the two vacancies under the MLAs quota. Bose had tenure till March 29, 2021 while Ramana was supposed to retire in March 2023. The duo forwarded their resignations from the Council of Ministers to Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy but there has so far been no formal communication on whether or not they were accepted, party sources said. Bose held the Revenue portfolio and Ramana, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries. Bose and Ramana were two of the four members elected to the Rajya Sabha from AP in the biennial election held on June 19. The newly elected members received a communication from the Rajya Sabha Chairmans office saying there was "no immediate requirement" of subscribing oath or affirmation. "A newly elected member is entitled to all facilities, perks and privileges that are available to members of Parliament, from the date of commencement of term of office, which is the date of notification by the Ministry of Law and Justice of his election to the Rajya Sabha," the communique said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-deputy-chief-minister-minister-resign-quit-mlc-posts-on-being-elected-to-rajya-sabha-855882.html
01-07-2020||South||As Andhra Pradesh grapples with Covid-19, CM Jaganmohan Reddy launches 1088 ambulances at once||A massive fleet of over one thousand ambulances, expected to have a major role in Andhra Pradesh’s fight against Covid-19, were launched by Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy in Vijayawada on Wednesday. Though the planning and procurement process for the new fleet to strengthen the existing 104 and 108 services began in September 2019, the ambulances arrive as a major fillip to the health infrastructure at a time the state is grappling with cases spurt. Andhra Pradesh has a total of 15,252 cases, with 657 new cases added on Wednesday morning. Out of the 1088 new ambulances, 676 are 104 services i.e., Mobile Medical Units with high-end medical equipment, which would be assigned one for each mandal across the state. Through these vehicles, 20 types of medical services including screening for communicable and non-communicable diseases including Covid-19 could be provided. 744 doctors will be attached with these units who will visit every village once every month to offer medical services. The Reddy government had last week announced to screen every household in the state for Covid-19 in a three-month timeframe, aided by the ambulance services, especially in the rural areas.  The rest 412 new ambulances are the 108 service ambulances, out of which 26 are exclusive neonatal ambulances equipped with Sick Newborn Care Units and over 100 ambulances are fitted with advanced life support equipment. 282 are basic life support ambulances. These 412 new vehicles add to the existing 336 ambulances under AP’s 108 service. “With the new fleet, we have one ambulance for every 74,609 persons, progressing from earlier 1,19,454,” officials said adding that the procurement was made with Rs 201 crore, with the aim of quick, better medical attention saving people’s lives. The expected response time for 108 is 15 minutes and for 104 is 20 minutes, to ensure the patient is provided medical care with the golden hour.  “Apart from oxygen cylinders, these 104 service ambulances are equipped with ventilators, infusion pumps, syringe pumps, comfortable stretchers and have provisions for labour. Surveillance cameras are also enabled, to ensure proper health care monitoring by doctors,” CMO officials said. The free 108 services and Aarogyasri, a health care programme for the poor, are identified as initiatives of late CM YS Rajasekhara Reddy.   Health and family welfare minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas accused the TDP regime under Chandrababu Naidu “of neglecting the ambulance services, leaving the vehicles in a dilapidated condition.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-andhra-pradesh-grapples-with-covid-19-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-launches-1088-ambulances-at-once-855890.html
01-07-2020||South||Cow grievously injured by crude bombs in Chittoor passes away||A cow that was grievously injured by chewing an explosive-laden substance in Chittoor district expired in the wee hours of Wednesday. The appalling incident occurred on Sunday evening at Kogileru village of Peddapanjani mandal when few cows from a goshala wandered into the nearby forestry area. Crude bombs kept in rotting substances were placed in the bushes to attract wild boars. Following treatment locally, the badly wounded cow was taken to a veterinary hospital in Tirupati in an effort to save its life. “The veterinary surgeons there declared the chances of its survival as minimal. We brought the cow back to the goshala and it expired at about 3:30 AM this morning,” Anitha Arjun Reddy, the caretaker at the Sri Jalakanteshwara Goshala said. Lokesh Reddy, SHO of Panjani Police station told DH that they have arrested three men in connection with the crude bombs, causing the cow's death. A case was registered earlier under 286 (using explosives to cause hurt) 429 (mischief of killing, maiming cattle), etc., IPC sections, Section 11 of The Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act 1960 and relevant provisions of the explosives act. In another such cruelty on animals, a wild monkey was hanged to death from a tree by three men in Khammam district of Telangana, last week. The Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations condemned the incident and appealed to the governments to act on their responsibility towards animals. “The brutal killing of a monkey in Telangana is in complete disregard of the constitutional mandates and the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 provisions. This crime going unpunished will encourage the locals and hunters elsewhere to engage in hunting, resulting in indiscriminate, illegal killings of animals endangering the safety and sanctity of wildlife in general,” FIAPO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cow-grievously-injured-by-crude-bombs-in-chittoor-passes-away-855918.html
01-07-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,018 new coronavirus cases; overall tally breaches 17,000 mark||Telangana continued to witness a spike in Covid-19 positive cases with 1,018 new infections being reported on Wednesday taking the overall tally in the state to 17,357. The fatalities also increased to 267 after seven more people succumbed to the virus, a state government bulletin said. Out of the 1,018 fresh cases, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), accounted for 881 followed by 36 in Medchal district and 33 in Ranga Reddy district, it said. A total of 788 people have been discharged on Wednesday after treatment taking the total number of discharged to 8,082 so far, while 9,008 patients were under treatment, it said. According to the bulletin 4,234 samples were tested on Wednesday. Cumulatively 92,797 samples have been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1018-new-coronavirus-cases-overall-tally-breaches-17000-mark-855997.html
01-07-2020||State||Coronavirus: Athani police station sealed for two days||Athani police station has been sealed for two days for disinfecting its premises as a person who died of Covid-19 on June 29, had visited the premises to file a complaint. Five police personnel who were present during the visit of the person have been sent into quarantine as a precautionary measure. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi informed DH that the 32-year-old person who died of Covid-19, had come to the police station to file complaint regarding his wife on June 25. Later he suffered health complications and died on June 29. His swab sample has tested positive for Covid-19. The police station was sealed on Wednesday morning for disinfection and will remain closed until Thursday evening. Other primary and secondary contacts of the deceased were being traced, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-athani-police-station-sealed-for-two-days-855786.html
01-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Doctors suggest home isolation, telemedicine for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients||Burdened with a spurt in Covid-19 cases, top medical practitioners on Wednesday told the state government that asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms should be kept under home isolation so as to free up beds in hospitals. This was the consensus during an emergency meeting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa chaired with experts. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said guidelines on home isolation will be issued on either Wednesday night or Thursday morning. “We’ve requested the government that if asymptomatic patients are kept at home, then we can cater to others at hospitals,” Dr Sudarshan Ballal of Manipal Hospitals said. Dr Vivek Jawali of Fortis said asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who are below 60 years of age can be managed at home. “Patients who are above 60 and have symptoms are people who need to be watched,” he said. Allaying fears over home isolation, Dr Sharan Patil of Sparsh Hospital said asymptomatic patients did not need any treatment. “They need just isolation. If they become symptomatic and develop breathing problems or fever, they can be guided to a hospital that has availability of beds,” he said. “Also, there’s no reason for them to worry as they’ll be treated with telemedicine.”  Experts who participated in the meeting included Dr Giridhar Babu from the Public Health Foundation of India, Dr Bhujang Shetty of Narayana Nethralaya, Dr Pradeep Rangappa of Columbia Asia and Ashish Sathapathy from WHO among others. “The case fatality rate for India is 3.5%. It is 3.13% in Delhi, 5.86% in Mumbai and 4.49% in Maharashtra. Ten days back, it was 0.98% in 28 districts of Karnataka where we have tele-ICU. This went up to 5% in Bengaluru. Now, it is 2.08% thanks to timely measures that were taken,” Dr Rangappa explained. According to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), doctors suggested that the doubling period (of cases) should be reduced and “strict enforcement of precautionary measures in closed places, close contact and crowded areas.” The doctors also told the government that the staff strength at the field-level needed to be increased for contact tracing. Many doctors underlined that uninterrupted oxygen and supply chain for new drugs were effective for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “Bengaluru is at least a month behind Delhi and Mumbai. These cities have failed in some things and have succeeded in others. So, we don’t have to reinvent the wheel. We can adopt what they’ve done right,” Dr Shetty said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-doctors-suggest-home-isolation-telemedicine-for-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-855927.html
01-07-2020||State||Docs push home isolation, telemed for asymptomatic patients||Burdened with a spurt in Covid-19 cases, top medical practitioners on Wednesday told the state government that asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms should be kept under home isolation so as to free up beds in hospitals.  This was the consensus during an emergency meeting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa chaired with experts.  Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said guidelines on home isolation will be issued either Wednesday night or Thursday morning.  “We’ve requested the government that if asymptomatic patients are kept at home then we can cater to others at hospitals,” Dr Sudarshan Ballal of Manipal Hospitals said.  Dr Vivek Jawali of Fortis said asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who are below 60 years of age can be managed at home. “Patients who are above 60 and have symptoms are people who need to be watched,” he said.   Allaying fears over home isolation, Dr Sharan Patil of Sparsh Hospital said asymptomatic patients did not need any treatment. “They need just isolation. If they become symptomatic and develop breathing problems or fever, they can be guided to a hospital that has availability of beds,” he said. “Also, there’s no reason for them to worry as they’ll be treated with telemedicine.”  Experts who participated in the meeting included Dr Giridhar Babu from the Public Health Foundation of India, Dr Bhujang Shetty of Narayana Nethralaya, Dr Pradeep Rangappa of Columbia Asia and Ashish Sathapathy from WHO among others.  “The case fatality rate for India is 3.5%. It is 3.13% in Delhi, 5.86% in Mumbai and 4.49% in Maharashtra. Ten days back, it was 0.98% in 28 districts of Karnataka where we have tele-ICU. This went up to 5% in Bengaluru. Now, it is 2.08% thanks to timely measures that were taken,” Dr Rangappa explained.  According to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), doctors suggested that the doubling period (of cases) should be reduced and “strict enforcement of precautionary measures in closed places, close contact and crowded areas.” The doctors also told the government that the staff strength at the field-level needed to be increased for contact tracing. Many doctors underlined that uninterrupted oxygen and supply chain for new drugs were effective for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.  “Bengaluru is at least a month behind Delhi and Mumbai. These cities have failed in some things and have succeeded in others. So, we don’t have to reinvent the wheel. We can adopt what they’ve done right,” Dr Shetty said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/docs-push-home-isolation-telemed-for-asymptomatic-patients-855931.html
01-07-2020||State||On day 5, no. of students skipping SSLC exams rises to 32||A total of 32 students have missed the opportunity to write the SSLC exams due to Covid-19 in the last five days. The examinations started on June 25 at around 3,000 centres in the state, even as the Covid-19 cases surged. Wednesday was the fifth day of the exams and 97.96% of the students appeared for the social science subject paper. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said these students were not allowed to appear for the exams as they tested positive for Covid-19. “We have completed five days and so far, 32 students were not allowed to appear for the exams as they had contracted the virus,” Kumar told a press briefing on Wednesday. With this figure, the total positive cases in SSLC students will go up from 13 to 32 from day one to day five. The department of education will continue to hold the exams, allowing the students who do not want to write the exams now to appear for the supplementary exams as fresh candidates. The department changed/shifted 31 examination centres after the areas in which they are located were declared containmentzones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/on-day-5-no-of-students-skipping-sslc-exams-rises-to-32-855932.html
01-07-2020||State||Shivakumar’s day out: Congress plans massive outreach for KPCC President||In a massive outreach effort, the Congress plans to touch at least one crore people on July 2 when its newly-appointed president D K Shivakumar will take formal charge.  A lot is riding on this event for Shivakumar: His formal coronation as the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president will be a show of strength for a faction-ridden party and a war cry from a leader who appears determined to show his detractors that he may be politically bloodied, but is indefatigable as he leads the Congress into the next Assembly elections. After all, his appointment came while his detractors began writing his political epitaph following his 50-day incarceration last year in connection with alleged money laundering.  The party’s social media wing is exploring all options to ensure Shivakumar’s coronation - Pratigna Dina (Day of Oath) - is streamed live on as many platforms as possible. The event, which will be streamed live across 7,831 locations in the state, will also be shown on the personal social media accounts of some top 30 Congress leaders, according to sources. While Shivakumar will take charge as the party president in the party’s Bengaluru headquarters, party workers across the state will join him simultaneously in lighting a lamp, singing Vande Mataram and reading the Constitution’s preamble. Only 150 leaders have been invited to attend the event in Bengaluru. It is scheduled to start at 10.45 am and conclude at around 1 pm.  In the run-up to the big event, the party already has a missed call campaign. Over one lakh missed calls have been received and another two lakh are expected. All of them will get a link to view the event via SMS. Also, the event’s link will be sent via WhatsApp to some two lakh numbers, sources said.  Shivakumar belongs to the powerful Vokkaliga community. The last Vokkaliga to head Karnataka Congress was S M Krishna, who steered the party to victory in the 1999 Assembly polls. With the other dominant community, Lingayats, seen to be backing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the Congress will look at Shivakumar to consolidate the Vokkaligas in the party’s favour.  But Shivakumar is expected to face tougher challenges from within, especially from factions that tried to block his appointment as KPCC president. For long now, Shivakumar is known to have a no-love-lost relationship with Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah. Their camaraderie will be key going forward, party observers say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivakumar-s-day-out-congress-plans-massive-outreach-for-kpcc-president-855948.html
01-07-2020||State||Rerun of Ballari in Yadgir as health staff fail to walk the talk||A video of the district health department staff dragging the body of a Covid-19 victim and dumping it into a pit for burial went viral on Wednesday. This comes close on the heels of a similar incident in Ballari recently, where bodies of Covid victims were thrown into a pit before the burial. It had caused widespread outrage among the people.   The 45-year-old victim had conducted his daughter's marriage at Sirawara in Raichur district on Sunday. The man developed breathlessness on his way back to his native place Honagera in Yadgir taluk on Monday and later died. Results of his throat swab samples, collected after his death, returned positive for Covid. The video clip showed two staff of the health department dragging the body of the deceased after tying it to a wooden pole in a field at Honagera village to dump it in a pit. As the field is a little faraway from the road, the staff are seen dragging the body and taking a break on the way. The body was dumped in the pit and someone is seen instructing the staff to leave the pole in the pit itself.  They throw the PPE, masks and gloves into the pit, which was then filled with mud with the help of an earthmover. The body was kept at the mortuary of the district hospital for a while, as the residents had opposed performing the last rites at the village burial ground. It was later taken to the field owned by the deceased for the last rites. Only his younger brother was present on the occasion as the victim's wife, children and relatives have been kept in isolation. Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash G Rajaput said that the matter would be looked into and details would be sought from the health department.    6 suspended over Ballari incident Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said the government would ensure that Ballari-like incidents would not recur, reports DHNS from Bengaluru.  "Already action has been taken. We're going to take steps to ensure such a thing does not happen again," he told reporters. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said six people involved in the Ballari incident were suspended on Wednesday morning. "On Tuesday, we had a video conference with the Ballari deputy commissioner, who has tendered an unconditional apology," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rerun-of-ballari-in-yadgir-as-health-staff-fail-to-walk-the-talk-855952.html
01-07-2020||State||‘Doctors overburdened, due to lack of supporting staff’||The doctors, serving in the designated Covid Hospital are overburdened, due to a lack of supporting staff in Mysuru. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “There are vacancies of nurses and D group employees in the district hospital, where Covid patients are being isolated and treated. Thus, the doctors themselves have to do the work that should be done by nurses and D group employees.” DC said, “There is no dearth of doctors. But, there are no employees for operating the lift, for house-keeping for laundry and others. If people crowd in front of the hospital, there is no staff to ask them to vacate the place. The doctors themselves do all add jobs,” he said. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that the issue of existing vacancies in the Health department has come to his notice. “MLA and former minister S A Ramadass has also met the Health Minister and the Health department secretary and appealed them to fill the vacancies. Ramadass has also pointed out that the Health department can get staff if the salaries of the posts are hiked. Steps will be taken to solve the problem, in a couple of days,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/doctors-overburdened-due-to-lack-of-supporting-staff-855962.html
01-07-2020||State||Flu Infections could reduce Covid-19 deaths, finds study||Could flu infections have given some Indians herd immunity to Covid-19? This is what a study by Bengaluru-based scientists says. The study, which was conducted by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), uses disease and vaccination data in the public domain with respect to measles, Hepatitis B virus, polio, tuberculosis and flu from 25 countries across the globe, including India. In their study, the authors have revealed: “There is no correlation between Covid-19 incidences or deaths, as well as vaccination coverage, with respect to diseases such as measles, Hepatitis B virus and polio. However, countries with lower cases of tuberculosis and higher cases of flu have a significant correlation with respect to Covid-19 deaths.” While global studies previously tried to correlate BCG (a tuberculosis vaccine) with the reduced number of deaths due to Covid-19 in certain countries such as India, this study is one of the first to also link flu exposure to reduced Covid-19 fatalities.  The key observation is that countries such as India and Australia which have a high percentage of flu-positive samples, have also been observed to have a lower Covid-19 death rate. In addition, the researchers discovered that in countries such as the United States, Italy, Spain and France where health officials regularly conduct flu vaccinations, Covid-19 induced deaths showed a “significant positive correlation value of 0.42.” The study, which is under peer-review, postulates three primary reasons for why a group of people previously exposed to the flu would enjoy a lower incidence rate of Covid-19. First, the exposure to the flu may be lowering the surface expression of ACE2 receptors on human cells which serves as the entry point for the coronavirus to hook onto and infect the cell. Secondly, non-specific immunity is also increased upon flu infections - as is already known for several other viral infections. The third reason is viral interference, a phenomenon in which one virus hinders the replication of another virus in the body. Among the evidence cited is a nine-year-study of people with Influenza A infections. Among them, it was discovered that the flu had prevented subsequent rhinovirus infections. The study determined that a combination of flu exposure, plus a country with a BCG vaccination programme, such as India, Egypt, South Africa, show a relatively lower fatality rate of Covid-19 in that country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flu-infections-could-reduce-covid-19-deaths-finds-study-855978.html
01-07-2020||State||Karnataka mulls separate graveyard for Covid-19 victims||Health Minister B Sriramulu on Wednesday said he would soon order the officials concerned to identify two acres of land outside cities and towns for the disposal of bodies of those who die of Covid-19. The move follows the reports of the locals and the graveyard committees not allowing the burial of the Covid-19 victims, fearing virusspread. “We have been receiving a lot of complaints about the locals opposing the burial of the bodies of those who died of Covid-19. In order to address this issue, I will order the district administrations immediately to identify two acres of land outside the towns and cities to bury/cremate the Covid-19 victims. This is being done in many states, including Madhya Pradesh,” the minister told reporters after chairing a progress review meetinghere.  Ayurveda for Covid-19 treatment Replying to a query on a proposal to provide Ayurveda medicine to treat Covid-19 patients, the minister said, “Ayurveda specialist Dr Giridhar Khaje had administered Ayurveda medicine to 10 Covid-19 patients admitted to Victoria Hospital. All 10 patients have recovered. The doctor has come forward to administer Ayurveda medicine to over 42,000 contacts of the Covid patients for free. I have asked RGUHS vice-chancellor to submit a report of treating Covid patients with Auyrveda medicine.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mulls-separate-graveyard-for-covid-19-victims-855980.html
01-07-2020||State||Srinivas University gets recognition from DSIR||Srinivas University, Mangaluru, received recognition from the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR), Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India, to intensify scientific and industrial research. The primary endeavor of DSIR is to promote research and development (R&D) activities of educational institutes and industries. It provides a link between recognised universities, scientific laboratories, and industrial establishments for the transfer of technologies through the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) and facilitates investment in RD through Central Electronics Limited (CEL). DSIR is issuing recognition certificates to well known and proven educational institutes/universities and industries strong in research and development activities. This recognition allows the universities to waive the Customs and Excise duties for purchasing of equipment, instrument spares, and consumables for R&D activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/srinivas-university-gets-recognition-from-dsir-855985.html
01-07-2020||State||Touchless temperature detector ‘Celcius’ launched||Faculty members of the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, NMAM Institute of Technology, Nitte, designed and developed a simple and cost-effective touchless temperature detector ‘Celcius’ for the purpose of thermal screening of the employees. In every organisation, it was made compulsory to check the body temperature of each employee while entering their workplace. The product developed helps in reading the body temperature upon sensing the presence of the forehead of a person. The product has features like automatic detection, separate indication for normal temperature and fever in the system. The product was launched by Dr Niranjan N Chiplunkar, principal, NMAMIT, Nitte. Sukesh Rao M, associate professor, Dileep Kumar M J and Prajwal Hegde, assistant professors in the Department of Electronics and Communication who were involved in the design and development of this cost-effective equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/touchless-temperature-detector-celcius-launched-855991.html
01-07-2020||State||'Masses with Sunday Liturgy' on Friday evening||With the state government announcing lockdown on Sunday, Mangalore Diocese Bishop Rev Fr Peter Paul Saldanha permitted Parish Priests to have ‘Masses with Sunday Liturgy’ on Friday evenings (after 4 pm). “This provision can be used only when the lockdown is mandated on Sunday. This permission cannot be extended to other days and other times,” the Bishop explained in the pastoral measures released to churches.  The Bishop stressed that the pastoral response of having Friday evening masses with Sunday liturgy is a temporary measure(an exception) made for the benefit of Catholics who find it impossible to attend masson Saturday evening. On other days and times, masses are to be celebrated as indicated in the ‘Liturgical Ordo’. The faithful can draw spiritual benefits by participating in the weekday masses celebrated without Sunday liturgy. “Catholics prevented from entering the church for Mass due to number restrictions need not be disappointed by a situation beyond their control. They should spend adequate time in prayer, spiritual readings in their homes and do charity,” he added. Bearing in mind the increasing number of cases of Covid-19, containment zones in and around parishes, Parish Priests are granted permission to decide about having or not having Masses in their respective parishes in consultation with Parish Pastoral Council and Covid-19 Safety Committee, the Bishop stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/masses-with-sunday-liturgy-on-friday-evening-855995.html
01-07-2020||State||Flight scheduled from Kuwait cancelled, residents express displeasure||The cancellation of flights has left many Indians in Kuwait disappointed. The stranded people from the coast have expressed their displeasure at MLAs and MP from the district.  There was a demand for a flight from Kuwait under Vande Bharat Mission to help the stranded to reach Mangaluru. Karnataka chapter of Kuwait Kerala Muslim Association had arranged a flight on June 27. However, the government had not given permission for its landing in Mangaluru. Accordingly, the flight was cancelled.  The flight that was scheduled on June 27 had 164 passengers, including pregnant women. Majority of them had lost their job in Kuwait and were struggling for food and lodging there. The audio clippings in which the stranded people express their displeasure at BJP MP and MLAs has been widely shared on social media.  In the audio clipping, residents are seen saying, "Dear MLAs and MP from the coast, we are struggling here with 48-degree Celsius temperature. No one is helping us to return to our native. Only Moodbidri MLA Umanath Kotian and former MLC Capt Ganesh Karnik have listened to our grievances. Others are not even receiving our phone calls. There are 13 BJP MLAs from undivided DK district. Is Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa not listening to you?" "Thinking that you (BJP) will lend us a helping hand, we had spent our money to come back to our native and exercise our franchise. Now, you are not even ready to listen to our woes.." the voices said in the audio clipping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flight-scheduled-from-kuwait-cancelled-residents-express-displeasure-855996.html
01-07-2020||State||Developers must seek buyers’ approval to alter building plan||In an effort to curb ‘unauthorised’ modifications to building layout plans, the Karnataka Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) issued fresh guidelines on Wednesday, making it mandatory for all project developers to take permission of buyers before altering the plan. Even though this is already specified in the RERA Act, 2016, under Section 14(1)&(2), the government has now issued guidelines to enforce the provision. Accordingly, all builders will have to seek permission from at least two-three buyers if they want to change the layout plan for a project already registered with K-RERA. As per the guidelines, a promoter will have to first secure the permission of the local authorities concerned for alteration of the plan, while also getting the consent of the buyers and then upload both sets of documents on to the K-RERA portal. In the application, the promoter will have to mention in detail all the changes in amenities, facilities or building layout area, apart from specifying when the project will be completed with the altered plan. A fee (which is 50% of the original registration fee) will also have to be paid to K-RERA, according to a circular issued by K-RERA secretary Latha Kumari. “Through this, the interest of buyers is protected. They can file objections to the alterations, if any,” the official told DH.   M S Shankar, convener of Fight for RERA forum, said that at present, many builders were not even taking permission of the competent authorities, forget buyers. “They either build unauthorised pent houses or add additional floors, selling the flats at inflated prices,” he observed. “We would like to suggest to local authorities that builders must first get the consent of buyers and then approach the government for modification of the plan. If buyers are not in agreement with the modifications, the builder need not even approach the government. This would save time and money,” Shankar said. K-RERA's guidelines in the interest of the customer follows another decision by the state Cabinet in June, where the government approved the model sales agreement, making the entire documentation process more transparent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/developers-must-seek-buyers-approval-to-alter-building-plan-856010.html
01-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two die of Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada||Two more fatalities due to Covid-19 were recorded in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday (June 30) late night, thus taking the tally to 16. A 31-year-old man from Bhatkal was brought to a private hospital in Mangaluru on Tuesday. However, he breathed his last when the ambulance reached near the hospital. The throat swab that was collected from him tested positive for Covid-19. The man was suffering from uncontrollable diabetes, said health department officials.  While a 72-year-old man suffering from high BP and age-related issues was admitted to a hospital in Deralakatte on Monday. He was tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to designated Covid Wenlock Hospital for treatment on Tuesday night, where he too breathed his last, said DHO Dr. Ramachandra Bayari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-die-of-covid-19-in-dakshina-kannada-855812.html
01-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No confusion in SSLC, PUC exams valuation: Karnataka Minister, S Suresh Kumar||Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Wednesday played down reports about confusion regarding valuation of Second Pre- University and the Secondary School Leaving Certificate exam papers. "Creating confusion has become a habit. There was confusion before the exam, during the exam and now confusion about the valuation of the exam papers," Kumar told reporters in Ramanagara when asked about the confusion over the valuation of answer sheets. He had gone there to inspect a few centres where the SSLC or the 10th standard exams are underway. The minister reminded people not to speak about the abilities of the students with contempt. "Our students have toiled hard and are enthusiastically appearing for the examination. They are eligible for the marks they will score. So we should not speak about our children with disrespect," Kumar said. The Education Minister said he had spoken to many leaders including former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy on conducting the examinations. "Kumaraswamy had insisted on postponing the examination. I personally spoke to him and apprised him about the steps taken by us. I told him that we will work with more sincerity to ensure the safety of the children," Kumar said. The SSLC exam was scheduled to take place from March 27 but due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, it was postponed. While the CBSE and a few other states either decided to give marks based on the students' performance in the previous examinations such as quarterly and half-yearly exams or gave general promotion to the students, Karnataka went ahead to hold the exam. According to Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board officials, around 8.5 lakh students have enrolled this year for the SSLC examination. The exams are being held at 2,879 exam centres across the state. Prior to the SSLC examination, the last exam of the Second PUC was also conducted on June 18, which was also put on hold due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-confusion-in-sslc-puc-exams-valuation-karnataka-minister-s-suresh-kumar-855845.html
01-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC restrains Karnataka police taking action against woman accused of cheating||The Supreme Court on Wednesday(July 1) restrained the Karnataka police from taking any coercive action against a woman accused of inducing people of over Rs 50 crore in the name of supplying gold on lower rates in Bengaluru. A vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and B R Gavai issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea made by Preethi Sunil, a resident of Rajarajeshwari Nagar. After conducting virtual hearing, the court protected the petitioner as an interim measure and sought a response from the state government within four weeks on her special leave petition filed against March 20, 2020 order by the High Court dismissing her plea for anticipatory bail. The petitioner, her husband Sunil Thakker and others were accused of duping a complainants of Rs 47 crore for supplying gold at cheap rates. Instead of repaying the money, they issued cheques and entered into some agreements which were not honoured. She faced another case related to cheating a different person of Rs 2.24 crore in a similar fashion. In her plea, she said she was ready to cooperate with the investigation. She also asserted that the failure to repay was due to business-related reasons and there was no intention to cheat the complainant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-restrains-karnataka-police-taking-action-against-woman-accused-of-cheating-855855.html
01-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC stays handing over of Puttenahalli Lake Bird Conservation Reserve to BBMP||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday (July 1) stayed the order of the State Government handing over Puttenahalli Lake Bird Conservation Reserve at Yelahanka to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The petition contended that the control of a conservation reserve, as declared under Section 36A of the Wild Life Act, cannot be handed over to the BBMP. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the order on the petition filed by Yelahanka Puttenahalli Lake and Bird Conservation Trust. The State Government on December 11, 2019 handed over the management of the lake to the BBMP. The High Court directed the government not to take any further action on the order. "The basic object of the conservation reserve is to protect the landscape, flora, fauna and their habitat. The state cannot entrust the responsibility to BBMP. We stay in the operation of the impugned order insofar as this lake conservation reserve. We direct the state to place on record the action taken to reconstitute the conservation reservation management committee on July 20,’’ the bench stated. The forest area comprising government land at the lake was declared as Puttenahalli Lake Birds Conservation Reserve through a notification on April 29, 2015, in the exercise of the powers under Section 36A of The Wild Life Act. However, the Government Order issued on December 11, 2019, transferred the conservation reserve to the BBMP. In the previous hearings, the High Court had observed that a conservation reserve should be managed by a Committee. "In fact, under Section 36B of the Wild Life Act, the State Government is under an obligation to constitute a Conservation Reserve Management Committee to advise the Chief WildLife Warden to conserve, manage and maintain the conservation reserve,’’ the bench had observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-stays-handing-over-of-puttenahalli-lake-bird-conservation-reserve-to-bbmp-855892.html
01-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 night curfew: Get home before 8 pm, says Karnataka Home Minister Bommai||Enforcement of the night curfew will be strict and office-goers should ensure they reach home before 8 pm, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Wednesday. “Going forward, the night curfew will be strict. Action will be taken against those who are out after 8 pm,” Bommai said after chairing a meeting with Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao, BBMP Commissioner BH Anil Kumar, quarantine in-charge P Manivannan and others. “There’ll be no problem for movement of people before 8 pm. But people should reach home in time before 8 pm. Everyone should adjust to this in terms of work timings,” Bommai said, adding that over 600 auto rickshaws will be used every night to create awareness among citizens.  It was also decided to rope in civil society and home guards to monitor home quarantine. “Every ward will have a team comprising BBMP, police, home guard and civil society. Those under home quarantine will be given all cooperation, including supply of essentials to them. They will be connected to members of the ward-level team,” Bommai explained. He said more than 60,000 citizens from various civil society groups had registered to help the government in Covid-19 enforcement. The minister clarified that Bengaluru will not be locked down. “Sealdown is not a lockdown,” he said. “We will keep denotifying areas under sealdown as per standard operating procedures,” he said, adding that it would be the “individual responsibility” of the jurisdictional DCPs to ensure sealdowns are implemented effectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-night-curfew-get-home-before-8-pm-says-karnataka-home-minister-bommai-855916.html
01-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||In June, Mumbai-Karnataka region added 1,267 Covid-19 cases||Covid-19 cases almost tripled in the seven districts of the Mumbai Karnataka region in one month, with Vijaypur being the worst affected district in the region followed by Dharwad. On June 1 the region had 541 positive cases, whereas by June end it reported 1,808 cases. The seven districts-- Vijayapura, Dharwad, Belagavi, Haveri, Bagalkot, Gadag and Uttara Kannada-- added 1,267 fresh cases in a span of 30-days with Dharwad alone contributing 298 cases, highest in the region. Dharwad also has the dubious record of adding eight deaths in a span of one month, while Vijaypur, which till June 1 had reported five Covid-19 related deaths added four more deaths taking its total deaths to nine. Uttara Karnataka is the only district in the Mumbai Karnataka region that has not reported any death so far. Bagalkot has reported five deaths so far, followed by Gadag with three deaths, while Belagavi and Haveri has reported two deaths each. As of June 30, the region had 1,808 positive cases (541 cases on June 1), 653 active cases (233 as on June 1) and 29 deaths (8 as on June 1). In terms of performance, Belagavi has controlled the spread of Covid-19 the best, as of the total 328 cases reported so far, more than 303 people have been discharged as on June 30. It had only 23 active cases. In June, Belagavi had added 168 positive cases. Vijaypur continues to be the worst-performing district in the region when it comes to the total number of positive cases. In 30-days the district reported 276 positive cases. On June 1, it had only 123 cases, whereas on June 30 it had 399 cases. So far 305 patients have been discharged, while 85 persons are in Covid-19 centre. Dharwad, which had reported only 47 cases till June 1, saw a spike of 298 cases in 30 days. As on June 30, it had reported 345 cases. The only solace for the district is that its discharge rate is higher than its active cases. As many as 180 people have been discharged so far, while another 157 active cases are being treated at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi. Haveri, which had reported only 15 cases at the beginning of June, saw a hike of 104 cases by the end of the month, including 49 turning positive on a single day. Its recovery rate is also poor as only 25 have been discharged so far as against 92 people being treated at the Covid-19 centre. Gadag also did not fair better as it increased its total positive case by 141 in 30 days. It leapfrogged from 35 cases to 176 positive cases in June. So far only 53 persons have been discharged, while 120 persons are recovering. Uttara Kannada district added 171 fresh cases to its tally of 82 in June. While 143 people have been discharged so far, the district has 110 active cases. 12% of Karnataka State In spite of the sudden spike in the total number of positive cases, the region contributed only 12% of the total cases reported in the State. In 30-days the State has added 11,837 cases. On June 1, the total number of active cases was 2,026. However, on the last day of June it had 7,074 active cases. Of the 15,242 cases reported in Karnataka 7,918 persons have recovered and discharged. Of the 246 Covid-19 related deaths reported in State, the MK region contributed only 29, which is 11.86% of the total deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-june-mumbai-karnataka-region-added-1267-covid-19-cases-855936.html
01-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt accelerates 2018 policy to push for PPP in infra||Karnataka is looking to revive public-private partnership in the infrastructure sector by operationalising a policy that has been dormant for two years. In March 2018, the government rejigged its PPP policy for infrastructure projects, increasing the single-window sanction limit to Rs 500 crore from Rs 50 crore. It also prescribes interventions to ensure better implementation of projects.   Under this policy, the government has now constituted a PPP committee in every district. In effect, these committees will iron out procedural hassles that PPP projects are likely to face at the local level.  “The 2018 policy hadn’t been operationalised. Also, the Atmanirbhar package of the Centre mostly envisages PPP. So, we wanted to give it a renewed push,” Infrastructure Development principal secretary Kapil Mohan told DH.  The district-level committees, headed by the deputy commissioner, will play a key role in facilitating PPP projects. “They will ease out hassles that PPP projects face at the district-level. For instance, we have impregnable, tough land laws that are prone to be misused. Also, projects will need coordination with other authorities over land, electricity, water supply and so on,” Mohan said.   “If you’re charging a toll, for example, you’ll need to liaise with the police and the local civic body. If you take up development of a park, you have to charge for tickets, which people can question. It’s these things that the district-level committees have to sort out,” he said.  Authorities admit that PPP had not seen much success in the state, of late, with many approved projects languishing. According to information made public by the government, only seven of the 71 PPP projects approved have seen completion since 2007.   According to sources, this is because there is some gap within the government on understanding how PPP projects work. But Mohan said the government was keen on making PPP work. “We’re going now into uncharted territories such as agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, housing, energy... we’re looking at PPP in the logistics space,” he said.  “We’re working on PPP for the development of the Belekeri port, the rolling stock of the suburban rail project and the development of areas around upcoming airports in Shivamogga, Vijayapura and Karwar,” he said, adding that the government was trying to attract investments for the region around the new Kalaburagi airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-accelerates-2018-policy-to-push-for-ppp-in-infra-855950.html
01-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records biggest single day spike of 1,272 Covid-19 cases, seven deaths||Karnataka recorded 1,272 cases on Wednesday. The state reported five cases more than its previous single-day highest spike record of 1,267 cases on Sunday. Bengaluru continues to be the single highest contributor yet again with 735 cases. On Wednesday, the state breached the 16,000-mark with 16,514 people testing positive so far. The state's death tally mounted to 257 with seven new Covid-19 deaths reported. Now the total number of active carriers of the virus is 8,194 with the state capital accounting for 4,649. Ballari and Dakshina Kannada districts are a distant second and third with 85 cases and 84 cases reported respectively on Wednesday. Curiously Bengaluru's discharges drew a blank yet again. All cases in Bengaluru were shown to be contacts under tracing but the state revealed the source of infection in other districts. They were a combination of ILI, international travel from Sharjah, contacts of previously diagnosed patients, returnees from Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, inter-district travelers from Bengaluru, Chikkabalapura, Belagavi and Mysuru, and SARI. 292 patients are in the ICU with 191 being in Bengaluru's ICUs alone. Dharwad and Belagavi have 16 and 13 ICU cases respectively as on Wednesday. Among the fatalities, two were from Bengaluru, two from Bidar, and one each from Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi and Hassan. They are all aged between 30 and 80 and comprises men and one woman. While one of them was asymptomatic, others presented with symptoms like cough, cold, fever, and breathlessness. Two of them did not have any co-morbidities while five of them had diabetes mellitus and three of them had hypertension. One had asthma. The deceased in Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada died on the same day of admission, while the others spent one day to 11 days in the hospital. On Wednesday, Bengaluru's cumulative test number reached 1,11,510, while the state has tested 6,37,417 samples so far. On Wednesday alone, the state tested 16,670 samples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-biggest-single-day-spike-of-1272-covid-19-cases-seven-deaths-855956.html
01-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Doctors' day no exception as Covid-19 hits them, other frontline warriors||The state is witnessing an increase in Covid-19 cases among the corona warriors, including the frontline health workers and policemen. Besides, Bengaluru Urban, where dozens of corona warriors have tested positive for novel coronavirus, Ballari, and Dakshina Kannada have been grappling with a steady rise in Covid-19 infection among doctors and health workers. Dakshina Kannada has seen as many as 15 doctors test positive for Covid-19 in the last one week. Five junior doctors (PG students), deputed on Covid-19 duty, had tested positive for virus a few days back. On Tuesday alone, 10 doctors- one from Wenlock district hospital and the remaining from various private hospitals in Mangaluru, contracted virus. Add to the list, several health workers including nurses of various hospitals in the district, including Govt Lady Goschen Hospital.  On Wednesday, a police officer of the rank of ACP, a 52-year-old cook serving in Puttur taluk hospital and a woman constable of Puttur police station, who was working at Gundya checkpost, have tested positive for coronavirus. The district reported 84 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile the virus-hit Ballari district saw a doctor and two health workers at district Covid hospital tested positive for coronavirus. A health worker from Hadagali was also among the 50 fresh Covid cases reported in the district on Wednesday. Ballari district’s Covid-19 tally has gone past 900 mark (930 cases). Of which, 492 are active cases while the death toll stands at 29. Mysuru district saw its biggest single-day case tally of 51, which includes 21 Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) personnel with travel history to Bengaluru.  Another virus hotspot in Kalyana Karnataka, Bidar, recorded eight fresh cases. This includes a DAR inspector. As many as 59 cops in various police stations of Bidar town, 25 in Bhalki taluk and 17 policemen in Chitaguppa taluk are placed under quarantined so far. A 32-year-old corona warrior from Munirabad was among the 13 new cases reported from Koppal district. Magadi MLA under self-quarantine Meanwhile. Magadi MLA A Manjunath has self-quarantined himself after his personal assistant tested positive for Covid-19. The legislator has subjected himself for Covid-19 test. A DAR inspector from Ramanagar has contracted the virus. The district recorded 47 fresh infections in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the state on Wednesday witnessed a whopping 1,272 cases with Bengaluru Urban leading the list with 735 cases. As many as 18 districts recorded fresh infections in double digits. The Health bulletin reports seven deaths, but fatalities reported in the last 24 hours are much more, going by the press release of respective district administrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/doctors-day-no-exception-as-covid-19-hits-them-other-frontline-warriors-855977.html
01-07-2020||West||Goa BJP MLA tests positive for coronavirus||A BJP MLA from Goa has tested positive for coronavirus, a senior state health official said on Wednesday. The legislator was admitted to Margao-based ESI Hospital, a specially designated facility for Covid-19 patients, after his test came out positive on Tuesday, the official said. "The MLA is asymptomatic. All those who came in contact with him will be tested," Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters. Last month, a former state health minister tested positive for coronavirus and has been undergoing treatment at the ESI Hospital.  Till Tuesday, Goa reported 1,315 Covid-19 cases and three deaths due to the disease, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-bjp-mla-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-855705.html
01-07-2020||West||'Chasing the virus': How India's largest slum Dharavi beat back a pandemic||But three months on, Mumbai's Dharavi offers a rare glimmer of hope with new infections shrinking, thanks to an aggressive strategy that focused on "chasing the virus, instead of waiting for disaster", according to city official Kiran Dighavkar. The sprawling slum has long been a byword for the financial capital's bitter income disparities -- with Dharavi's estimated one million people scraping a living as factory workers or maids and chauffeurs to Mumbai's well-heeled residents.  With a dozen people typically sleeping in a single room, and hundreds using the same public toilet, authorities realised early that standard practices would be of little use. "Social distancing was never a possibility, home isolation was never an option, and contact tracing was a huge problem with so many people using the same toilet," Dighavkar told AFP. An initial plan to conduct door-to-door screenings was abandoned after Mumbai's searing heat and humidity left medical workers feeling suffocated under layers of protective equipment as they combed the area's cramped alleys for cases. But, with infections rising fast and fewer than 50,000 people checked for symptoms, officials needed to move quickly and get creative. What they came up with was coined "Mission Dharavi". Each day, medical workers set up a "fever camp" in a different part of the slum, so residents could be screened for symptoms and tested for coronavirus if needed. Schools, wedding halls and sports complexes were repurposed as quarantine facilities that offered free meals, vitamins and "laughter yoga" sessions. Strict containment measures were deployed in virus hotspots that were home to 125,000 people, including the use of drones to monitor their movements and alert police, while a huge army of volunteers swung into action, distributing rations so they didn't go hungry. Bollywood stars and business tycoons paid for medical equipment as construction workers built a 200-bed field hospital at breakneck speed in a park inside Dharavi.  By late June, more than half the slum's population had been screened for symptoms and around 12,000 tested for coronavirus. So far Dharavi has reported just 82 deaths -- a fraction of Mumbai's more than 4,500 fatalities. "We are on the brink of victory, I feel very proud," said Abhay Taware, a doctor who saw around 100 patients daily in his tiny clinic at the height of the crisis. The 44-year-old father-of-two also had to fight his own battle against coronavirus when he contracted the disease in April, but told AFP he had "no doubts" about returning to work. "I thought I could show my patients that a positive diagnosis does not mean the end," he said. Although doctors like Taware worked to reassure worried residents, the stigma persists. After an isolating 25-day spell in hospital and a fortnight in quarantine, Sushil -- not his real name -- said he now feared discrimination if people found out about his diagnosis. The 24-year-old also struck a note of caution, warning of a potential resurgence in infections. "People need to take as many precautions as possible. The numbers might have come down but they can swiftly rise again", he told AFP. With Mumbai and Delhi struggling to accommodate coronavirus patients as India's cases surge past half a million officials are also wary of celebrating too soon. "It's a war. Everything is dynamic," said Dighavkar. "Right now, we feel like we are on top of the situation," he said. "The challenge will be when factories reopen," he added, referring to the billion-dollar leather and recycling industries run out of Dharavi's cramped tenements. And some in the slum fear their community might not be as lucky next time. On a blazing morning, as car salesman Vinod Kamble lined up to have his temperature taken, he recalled his terror when the virus landed in Mumbai. "I felt like Dharavi would be destroyed, and nothing would be left," he told AFP, describing the near impossibility of avoiding infection in the slum. "We need better infrastructure," the 32-year-old said. "Otherwise the next time a disease like this emerges, I don't think Dharavi will be able to escape."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chasing-the-virus-how-indias-largest-slum-dharavi-beat-back-a-pandemic-855709.html
01-07-2020||West||Fire at Hiranandani Garden building in Mumbai; no casualty||A fire broke out in a seven-storey commercial building at Hiranandani Garden in Powai area here on Wednesday morning, a fire brigade official said. No casualty was reported, he said. The blaze erupted on the fifth floor of the building around 6.15 am and spread to the electric wiring, installations and cables, false ceiling of an office and split AC unit in 3,000 square feet area. Smoke spread on the fifth and sixth floors of the building, the official said, adding that it was declared a level-2 fire around 7 am. Five fire engines, a foam tender and four jumbo tankers were rushed to the spot and efforts were on to douse the flames, he said. The cause of the fire was yet to be established, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-hiranandani-garden-building-in-mumbai-no-casualty-855714.html
01-07-2020||West||Mumbai's famous Lalbaugcha Raja to not hold grand Ganesh festivities this year||The Lalbaugcha Raja, one of the most famous Ganesh mandals of Mumbai, has decided to organise mammoth blood and plasma donation camps, instead of the traditional Ganesh puja. The decision to cancel the celebrations was taken at the AGM of Lalbaugcha Raja Sarvajanik Ganeshutsav Mandal. According to the mandal's general secretary Sudhir Salvi,  they will also donate Rs 25 lakh to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to fight the pandemic.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had last week asked Ganesh mandals to limit the height of Ganpati idols to four feet. Asked whether they would also install a four-feet idol, the mandal secretary replied in negative.  "People have tremendous faith in Lalbaug cha Raja.... people may come... we have to ensure physical distancing and follow the health and hygiene norms," he said. A blood donation camp, plasma donation camp will be set up at the same place. The mandal will also honour the families of martyrs who have sacrificed their lives at the LoC or LAC borders. "We will also honour the families of Covid warriors.This is the first time in the history of Lalbaughcha Raja that the Ganpati Idol will not be established,” he said. For the blood and plasma donation camps, they have tied up with King Edward Memorial Hospital at Parel in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-famous-lalbaugcha-raja-to-not-hold-grand-ganesh-festivities-this-year-855716.html
01-07-2020||West||CM Uddhav Thackeray performs 'mahapooja' at Lord Vitthal temple||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday performed the 'mahapooja' of Lord Vitthal and Goddess Rukmini at the temple town of Pandharpur in Solapur district on the occasion of 'Ashadhi Ekadashi'. His son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray was also present at the religious ceremony. 'Warkari' (devotee of Lord Vitthal) couple Vitthal Badhe and Anusuya Badhe got the opportunity to perform the rituals alongside the chief minister. In normal times, lakhs of warkaris from Maharashtra and other states used to throng the temple in Pandharpur on 'Ashadhi Ekadashi'. However, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government cancelled this year's annual wari pilgrimage, which is characterised by people walking from far with palanquins to Pandharpur. Curfew is in force in Pandharpur since Tuesday to prevent any gathering of people in the temple town, located around 350 km from Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-uddhav-thackeray-performs-mahapooja-at-lord-vitthal-temple-855738.html
01-07-2020||West||30 new coronavirus cases in Pondy, tally climbs to 739||Puducherry reported 30 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, pushing the tally of viral infections in the Union Territory to 739. A medical bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare said the total active cases were 426 spread over all the four regions of Puducherry (391 cases), Karaikal (25), Mahe (8 ) and Yanam (2). While 301 cases were treated and discharged, fatalities continued to remain 12 as no deaths were reported during the last 24 hours ending 10 am on Wednesday. With the transfer of five cases to Tamil Nadu account the cumulative number of cases here stood at 739. Of the total 426 active cases, Puducherry region accounted for 391 cases while Karaikal had 25 active cases. Yanam had two actives while Mahe had eight cases including five new cases, the bulletin said. The 30 new cases were identified at the end of testing of 634 samples, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/30-new-coronavirus-cases-in-pondy-tally-climbs-to-739-855749.html
01-07-2020||West||Covid-19 toll in Maharashtra Police force reaches 60||As many as 60 Maharashtra Police personnel, including three officers, have died of Covid-19 since the outbreak of the disease, an official said on Wednesday. Out of the 60 victims, 38 were from the Mumbai Police force, he said. So far, nearly 4,900 police personnel have been infected with coronavirus in the state, including over 2,600 from the Mumbai Police force, he said. In the last 24 hours, 82 police personnel in the state were discharged after recovering from the disease. With this, more than 3,700 personnel have till now recovered from the deadly viral infection, he said. As of now, there are 1,015 active cases in the state police force, he said. Since the enforcement of lockdown, police registered 1,39,702 cases for violation of prohibitory orders in the state and 29,425 people were arrested in these cases, he said. At least 290 incidents of assault on police were reported in which 86 personnel were injured, the official said, adding that 54 health professionals were also attacked.  Nearly 860 people were arrested for these assault cases, he said. The state police also collected Rs 9.95 crore as fine in various cases of violation, he said. The Maharashtra Police force comprises over two lakh personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-toll-in-maharashtra-police-force-reaches-60-855752.html
01-07-2020||West||Section 144 imposed in Mumbai to check rising Covid-19 cases||Mumbai police on Wednesday issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC in the city, restricting the movement of people in public places, and said the measure was taken to check rising Covid-19 cases. With 903 new patients reported on Tuesday, coronavirus case tally in Mumbai increased to 77,197 while the death toll rose to 4,554 with 93 more fatalities. The order says curbs on movement for non-essential work came into force from Wednesday and shall remain so till July 15, unless withdrawn earlier. The order prohibits "presence or movement of one or more persons in public places or gathering of any sort", a senior police official said. Police have prohibited gatherings of any sort, including at religious places subject to stipulations, he said. The order said movement of one or more persons in areas designated as containment zones by the municipal authorities is prohibited, except for essential activities, the supply of essential goods and medical emergency. Police have also prohibited the movement of one or more persons in the city between 9 pm to 5 am, except for medical emergencies, the official said, adding emergency services, government and semi-government agencies and their officials on duty are exempted. Establishments providing essential services like food, vegetables, milk supply, medical and grocery stores, hospitals, medicines, pharma, and related establishments are also exempted, the official said. Movement of one or more persons in the city for non- essential activities is prohibited between 5 am and 9 pm, with the exclusion of activities allowed by the state government and orders issued by competent authorities for the enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines, he said. Mumbai Police had issued similar prohibitory orders earlier also during the ongoing lockdown, the official said. The latest order was issued as there is a likelihood of the spread of Covid-19 through gatherings of persons in public or private areas and there is a grave danger to human life, health, and safety due to the same, the official said. Movement of persons for non-essential activities like a visit to shops, markets, barber shops, spas, saloons, beauty parlours, and outdoor physical activities will be permitted in the neighbourhood area, he said. Long-distance travel for non-essential purposes will not be permitted. The order says social distancing norms, of maintaining a minimum six feet distance, shall be followed at all time. In "emergent and special" cases, the zonal Deputy Commissioner of Police is empowered to grant exemption, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/section-144-imposed-in-mumbai-to-check-rising-covid-19-cases-855781.html
01-07-2020||West||Home Minister Anil Deshmukh reviews Taj hotels' security with DGP, Mumbai CP||The Maharashtra government reviewed the security preparations after two Taj group hotels received terror threats from Pakistan. Maharashtra's home minister Anil Deshmukh spoke to the director-general of police, Subodh Jaiswal, and Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and discussed security preparations in detail. An unidentified person who claimed to be Lashkar-e-Taiba operative threatened to attack in the two Taj group hotels - Taj Mahal Palace in Colaba and Taj Lands End in Bandra. "I have had detailed discussions on beefing up security arrangements with both DGP-Maharashtra and CP-MumbaiPolice," Deshmukh said. The number from which the call came is being investigated. The iconic Taj hotel in Colaba off the Gateway of India area was among the targets of LeT fidayeens during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack. The call in the wake of the attack on Karachi Stock Exchange is being  viewed seriously. “We are proud to be a part of the fabric of this nation and the safety of our guests and associates is of paramount importance to us. We immediately alerted the authorities on receiving these calls and are providing full support and cooperation to the investigating agencies," the IHCL, that owns the Taj properties said in  a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/home-minister-anil-deshmukh-reviews-taj-hotels-security-with-dgp-mumbai-cp-855789.html
01-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Goa CM Sawant retracts his statement on community transmission||Days after stating that community transmission of coronavirus might have set in in Goa, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday retracted his statement. Sawant said the "virus is not in the air" in Goa and that health authorities can identify trajectory of infection. "I might have said in the past that it's a community transmission in Goa. But I enquired and was told that it was not so..the virus is not in the air," the CM said. Initially a green zone, the number of cases in Goa rose steadily since the first week of May. As of now, the number of cases has crossed the 1,000-mark with four deaths. Sawant said the infection passed on from one person to another. "We need to be alert. I have been time and again asking people to keep a safe distance from each other, and wear mask. We should not violate these guidelines," the CM said. Responding to a query, the CM sought to allay concerns over a BJP MLA testing positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. The MLA had attended a meeting of BJP legislators called by the CM last week. "Proper social distancing was maintained during the meeting," he said. When asked about the fourth death due to Covid-19, Sawant said the patient might have contracted the infection at the isolation ward of the Goa Medical College and Hospital, where he was admitted. The deceased was a 64-year-old man from Taleigao village near Panaji. He died at the ESI hospital after being tested positive for the viral infection. "Though we sanitise the isolation ward regularly, there could be a possibility that he may got infection from there," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-cm-sawant-retracts-his-statement-on-community-transmission-855809.html
01-07-2020||West||In June alone, over one lakh coronavirus cases in Maharashtra||The first Covid-19 positive case in Maharashtra was reported on March 9 in Pune and the first death in Mumbai on March 17. While the progressive total on June 1st was 70,013 - the total number on June 30 was 1,74,761 cases, a climb of over one lakh over the course of a month. As far as Mumbai was concerned, on June 1,  the total number of cases were 41,099 and the number rose to 77,658 by June 30 - a jump of 36,559 cases. In the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), the total cases were 53,259 on June 1 and rose rising to 1,25,400 by June 30 - a jump of 72,141. In Pune, the number of cases jumped by 14,282 - rising from the June 1 figure of 8,045 to the June 30 tally of 22,327. "With the unlocking process, the spike was expected," officials of the Health Department stated. "July and August are the months when the Mumbai-MMR gets the maximum rainfall and water-borne and vector-borne diseases are rife. It is the duty of each person to be careful. We have to break the chain," said Dr Suhas Pingle,  chairman, action committee, IMA-Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-june-alone-over-one-lakh-coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-855810.html
01-07-2020||West||Fingers crossed as Goa opens for tourism on July 2||Goa's fingers are crossed as the state plans to restart regulated tourism from July 2, with strict norms for entry as well as lodging for tourists keen on visiting the coastal state.  According to state Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar, tourists would have to either furnish a Covid-19 negative certificate on entry or stay put in registered hotels -- which need to be pre-booked -- until they are tested and the results are declared.  "Goa cannot lag behind. Everything is opening up in Maharashtra and Hyderabad... We are not forcing anyone to come. Those who want to, can travel to Goa. We are only creating facilities for them," Ajgaonkar said. "Let us see how many bookings come. Let us see the response," Ajgaonkar said, adding that nearly 250 hotels registered with the state Tourism department would be allowed to open.  Ajgaonkar also said, that there would be a crackdown on hotels and guest houses which are not registered with the Department but are offering stay facilities via app-based room aggregators.  "Booking will only be allowed in hotels registered with the tourism department. Tourists who used to illegally stay in non registered hotels (booked through app aggregator services) or in guesthouses will not be allowed. It will be deemed illegal," Ajgaonkar said, adding that nearly 250 hotels registered with the state Tourism department for the resumption of hospitality services.  Commenting on the norms which have been finalised to allow entry to tourists, Ajgaonkar said: "We will have a checking mechanism for the examination of these certificates at entry points. If the tourist does not carry the certificate, tourists will be sent to the respective hotel which they have booked themselves into where they will be tested".  He also said that tourists will have to stay put in a hotel until they are tested and results are declared. "Only then will they be allowed to move out". Goa last year attracted more nearly eight million tourists. However, the state's leading beach and nightlife tourism destination have received a jolt on account of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, which has resulted in travel restrictions as well as the closure of hotels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fingers-crossed-as-goa-opens-for-tourism-on-july-2-855820.html
01-07-2020||West||Gujarat: 11 sadhus of Swaminarayan sect test coronavirus positive||Eleven sadhus belonging to one of the divisions of the Swaminarayan sect, which has its temple in Maninagar area here in Gujarat, have tested positive for coronavirus over the last one week, a health official said on Wednesday. They belonged to Maninagar 'panth' or denomination of the sect. While five sadhus were staying in the premises of the Maninanagr temple in Ahmedabad, six others stayed in other localities, said Deputy Health Officer, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), Dr Tejas Shah. All the 11 infected sadhus are currently undergoing treatment at different hospitals, said Dr Shah. He said five of the six sadhus were staying in New Ranip area of Ahmedabad while one in Bavla village near here. Swami Bhagvatpriyadas of the Maninagar temple said the premises have been sanitised after the cases were detected around a week back. "The temple is already closed for devotees. As a precautionary measure, we have sent many of our sadhus to towns such as Kadi and Viramgam. Only nine sadhus are currently staying in the temple premises," he said. As of June 30, the number of COVID-19 cases in Gujarat stood at 32,446 with 1,848 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-11-sadhus-of-swaminarayan-sect-test-coronavirus-positive-855861.html
01-07-2020||West||Visually impaired Covid-19 survivor donates plasma, a day after Maharashtra CM’s appeal||A day after Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray appealed to Covid-19 survivors to donate plasma for patients in critical condition, a 27-year-old visually impaired music teacher from Mankhurd volunteered to donate plasma at Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital, Mumbai. The lifesaving deed of Nitesh Sonawane may give a new lease of life to an 80-year-old-patient who has enlisted for plasma therapy at the hospital. The hospital approached several Covid-19 survivors for plasma donation but Sonawane was the first to willingly agree for the same. “It was my first day at work post-quarantine when I received the call. I immediately informed my superiors that I wish to donate plasma and they immediately agreed. Within an hour, I was at the hospital, being counselled about the process. It felt like I was fulfilling my responsibility,” said Sonawane. He travelled alone from The Happy Home & School for the Blind- his workplace in Worli to the hospital and back to his home in Mankhurd, just for the cause. “There was no reason to let my visual impairment deter my ability to donate plasma. Now after knowing that I can donate plasma after 15 days, I may return to do the same,” he added.  He was admitted to Nanavati Hospital with Covid-19 infection in May. While all possible precautions were taken to ensure he faces no discomfort, Sonawane proved he needed no additional support and ended up being a source of inspiration for the fellow patients and staff. Within a week, Sonawane tested negative for the Covid-19. “The hospital, its staff and doctors, all gave me very positive vibes. I liked the inclusivity and transparency. Thanks to the blessings of my family, friends and my wife, I recovered soon,” Sonawane said. Manpreet Sohal, Director & Chief Operating Officer, Nanavati Super Specialty Hospital thanked Sonawane on behalf of the entire hospital and staff for his contribution. “Such good samaritans encourage us to keep fighting this war against the pandemic. Covid-19 survivors like Sonawane, are living testament of our grit and determination to eliminate the virus. We promise unconditional support to the Maharashtra government in this war against Covid-19,” said Sohal. On Monday, the Chief Minister unveiled Project Platina, world's largest plasma therapy trial cum treatment, run by Maharashtra government. Over 500 coronavirus patients with severe symptoms will get a new lease of life through 13 centres, set up under the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/visually-impaired-covid-19-survivor-donates-plasma-a-day-after-maharashtra-cm-s-appeal-855872.html
01-07-2020||West||Two lion cubs drown after falling into open well in Gir||Two lion cubs died after falling into a well in the Gir forest in Gujarat's Junagadh district on Wednesday, an official said. The incident took place at Jujarpur village in Maliya wildlife range in the Gir West Forest Division, he said. The carcasses of two cubs, aged 6-7 months, were seen floating in a well in the farm of Vipul Bhikha on Wednesday afternoon, said Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), Junagadh, Dushyant Vasavada. Both the cubs were found to have died due to drowning, Vasavada said, adding that further investigation was underway. Falling into open wells is one of the common causes of unnatural deaths of Asiatic lions in Gir. In the past, the Gujarat government had assured the High Court that all the open wells in the areas surrounding the Gir forest will be covered to prevent such deaths. This the first report of unnatural deaths of lions in the state after the Gujarat forest department announced on June 10 that lions' population in Gir had risen 29 per cent to 674 as per a population estimation exercise carried out on June 5-6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-lion-cubs-drown-after-falling-into-open-well-in-gir-855889.html
01-07-2020||West||14 new coronavirus cases reported in Dharavi, tally at 2,282||Coronavirus cases in Dharavi area of Mumbai increased to 2,282 on Wednesday with 14 new patients coming to light, said a senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official. The civic body, however, did not disclose the number of Covid-19-related deaths in the area which is known as Asia's largest slum. The BMC had not given any information about deaths in Dharavi in the last few days too. As of Sunday, the area's death toll due to the pandemic was 82. The number of active coronavirus cases in the area is 535 as 1,618 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery, the BMC official said. Spread over 2.5 square kilometres, Dharavi has a population of around 6.5 lakh. In nearby Dadar and Mahim areas, which also fall in G-north ward, the same as Dharavi, 21 and 19 new coronavirus cases were found on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/14-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-dharavi-tally-at-2282-855920.html
01-07-2020||West||4,938 cops infected by coronavirus, 60 of them dead: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||As many as 4,938 police personnel in Maharashtra have tested positive for coronavirus so far and 60 of them have succumbed to the viral infection, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday. He said 38 of the 60 deceased were from the Mumbai Police force. As many as 3,813 of the 4,938 infected police personnel have recovered from COVID-19 disease while over 1,000 others are currently under treatment, the home minister said in a statement. The number of offences registered under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has risen to 1,39,702 since the lockdown came into force, it said. A total of 29,298 arrests were made for violation of the lockdown norms and 85,780 vehicles impounded. There have been 290 instances of assaults on policemen and 860 arrests were made, Deshmukh said. The police department has so far issued 5,36,324 passes for essential services during the lockdown period, the home minister said, adding that Rs 9,52,52,661 has been collected in fine from violators. Police helpline number 100 has received 1,05,269 calls related to COVID, the statement said. Altogether 6,16,899 people have been quarantined in the state while 756 of them have been found violating the quarantine norms. Deshmukh said the state government has been running 10 relief camps where migrant labourers have been provided shelter with food and other necessities. A total of 1,335 offences have been registered for illegal transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4938-cops-infected-by-coronavirus-60-of-them-dead-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-855923.html
01-07-2020||West||Maharashtra reports 5,537 new coronavirus cases, tally at 1,80,298||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,80,298 on Wednesday with the addition of 5,537 cases, the state health department said. The death toll due to the virus reached 8,053 with 198 more people succumbing to the infection, it said. As many as 2,243 patients were discharged post-recovery on Wednesday, which took the number of recovered persons to 93,154 in the state, it added. So far, 9,92,723 people have been tested across the state and the number of active cases is 79,091, the health department said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-5537-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-at-180298-855959.html
01-07-2020||West||Goa records 72 new coronavirus cases; 74 discharged, one dies||Goa on Wednesday reported 72 new Covid-19 cases, three of them policemen, taking the tally to 1,387, while one more patient succumbed to the infection, pushing up the toll to four, officials said. According to a state health department bulletin issued here, a 66-year-old Covid-19 patient, hailing from Taleigao village, died on Tuesday evening at ESI Hospital, a facility dedicated to treat coronavirus cases. Altogether, 72 more people tested positive, while 74 others were discharged following recovery from the deadly infection, it said. A senior health department official said the Ponda police station in North Goa had to be temporarily shut after an officer and two constables posted there tested positive for the infection. On Tuesday, two constables posted at the state police headquarters building in Panaji had also tested positive after which the home department took up a massive sanitisation drive in the premises. Areas in and around Vasco town remain the biggest source of Covid-19 patients in the coastal state. Vasco's Mangor Hill area, which has been declared a containment zone, has reported 253 cases till date, while another 194 cases were also linked to the locality. Areas like Sada, Baina, New Vaddem and Kharewada - all in Vasco - also have a sizeable number of patients. Slum areas like Zuarinagar near Vasco are also emerging as Covid-19 hotspots, said the bulletin. It said 48 people have so far tested Covid-19 positive in Zuarinagar, the states biggest slum colony. Goas Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 1,387, new cases: 72, deaths: 04, discharged: 670, active cases 713, people tested till date 67,822.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-records-72-new-coronavirus-cases-74-discharged-one-dies-855984.html
01-07-2020||West||Record 675 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, 21 deaths||Gujarat reported its highest single-day increase in the number of coronavirus patients at 675 on Wednesday, taking the number of cases in the state to 33,318, the health department said. The death toll in the state due to the pandemic rose to 1,869 with 21 Covid-19 patients succumbing, it added. With 368 patients discharged from hospitals, the number of recovered cases in Gujarat rose to 24,038. Ahmedabad district reported 215 new cases, followed by Surat at 201. Surat district reported more than 200 cases for the first time. The tally of coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad district now stands at 21,128 and that in Surat at 5,030. Concerned over the rising number of coronavirus cases in Surat city, state's Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi on Wednesday visited the city. She visited affected zones ofKatargam, Nandu Doshi's Wadi, Amaroli-Raghuveer Society and Varachha Sudama Chowk, tweeted Municipal Commissioner B N Pani. Vadodara district reported 57 new cases, taking its tally to 2,324. Ahmedabad's death toll rose to 1,449 with eight new fatalities reported on Wednesday. Surat reported five fatalities, raising the number of Covid-19 deaths in the district to 163. One death each was reported in the districts of Rajkot, Bharuch, Aravalli, Banaskantha, Kheda, Amreli, Dahod and Devbhoomi Dwarka. Other districts that reported high number of coronavirus cases on Wednesday are Navsari (24), Jamnagar (18), Bharuch (15), Rajkot (15), Valsad (15), Banaskantha (12), Surendranagar (12) and Mehsana (10). The state has 7,411 active cases with 63 patients on ventilator, the health department said in its daily release. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 33,318, new cases 675, deaths 1,869, discharged 24,038, active cases 7,411 and people tested so far 3,80,640.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/record-675-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-21-deaths-855988.html
01-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Palghar district's case count crosses 5,000-mark||The number of coronavirus positive patients in Palghar, a predominantly tribal district of Maharashtra, crossed the 5,000-mark on Wednesday with the addition of 257 cases, the administration said. The case count in the district now stands at 5,239, it said in a release. So far, 134 people have succumbed to the infection, of whom three died in the last 24 hours, the administration said. Areas under the Vasai Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC) alone accounted for 4,137 positive cases, while the rural parts of the district recorded 1,102 cases, it said. As far as rural parts of the district are concerned, Palghar taluka reported 309, Jawhar 114, Vasai rural 197, Vikramgad 103 and Wada 242 positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-palghar-districts-case-count-crosses-5000-mark-855994.html
01-07-2020||West||Maharashtra government not helping weaker sections in crisis: BJP||The Maha Vikas Aghadi government is not providing any financial aid to the weaker sections of society hit hard by the lockdown unlike the Centre which is helping the poor, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil alleged on Wednesday. Patil demanded the the Maharashtra government announce a financial package for 'bara balutedars' and other workers such as maids, owners of salons and barber shops, rickshaw drivers etc. 'Bara Balutedars' is a term used to describe various constituents of the traditional village economy, including artisans. "While PM Narendra Modi is helping the people with open hands, the state government is not announcing any aid for bara balutedars, domestic maids, vegetable vendors, rickshaw drivers, barbers and others in the current times," Patil said in an online press conference. The former revenue minister said the state should rope in social organisations to manage asymptomatic COVID-19 patients so that beds in hospitals remain available for critical patients. "Asymptomatic and moderately symptomatic patients should be treated at a non-hospitalfacility. Currently, even moderately symptomatic patients are occupying beds in big hospitals," Patil said. Patil said a facility in his constituency Kothrud can be turned into a para hospital if the Pune civic body grants permission. He said the facility can accommodate 350 beds where symptomatic and moderately symptomatic patients can be kept. Patil said that except medical supervision, other expenses can be taken care of at such facility. "I am not saying that outfits associated with the BJP should only getthe permission to set up such facilities. Let the ruling NCP or Shiv Sena do it," he said. Patil said they had procured one lakh small bottles of homoeopathic medicine for distribution in Kolhapur, his home district, and Pune. "We had procured the drug at the rate of Rs 2 per small bottle, however, the state government is procuring the same for Rs 23 (per small bottle). A tender has been submitted," he said, adding that the medicine can be purchased through Corporate Social Responsibility Fund (CSR). Patil said Kolhapur Zilla Parishad had purchased 1.25 lakh PPE kits at the rate of Rs 1,600 per unit as against the rate of Rs 400. "In COVID centres in Mumbai, the rent of a standing fan for a period of two months is Rs 2,000, but the same fan can be purchased at Rs 1,000," he added. Patil demanded that the state government release a white paper detailing the expenses incurred on management of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-not-helping-weaker-sections-in-crisis-bjp-856000.html
