02-07-2020||Comment||Business of medical research||Adding to the prevailing ambiguity over the efficacy and safety of HCQ in treating Covid-19 infection, these retractions have also cast doubts on the credibility of clinical research. At the centre of the ongoing academic storm is a little-known clinical data analytics company called Surgisphere Corporation. Formed in 2008, its business is to use patient interaction data to help hospitals become more efficient healthcare providers. However, for The Lancet study, it managed to get health records of more than 96,000 patients across 671 hospitals, working though complex medico-legal structures of six continents. The fact that a company with 11 employees managed to do it in less than four months should have got the investigators using the data curious. That the investigators also missed the uncanny similarity in the mean age, body mass index (BMI), and male/female ratio of the study populations across continents raises serious questions. However, it would be erroneous to assume that mishaps like these are a new or rare occurrence. ‘Research misconduct’ has been a cause of concern in the scientific community for a long time and the Surgisphere episode has brought much-needed public scrutiny on medical research. In the eagerness to achieve desired results and to be recognised and celebrated by their peers, researchers sometimes compromise on the rigour of medical research, a field of enquiry which has come to be dominated by the biomedical industry for the past several decades. With the rise of contract research organisations, site management organisations and data analytics companies like Surgisphere, the research landscape has become more complex and vulnerable to misconduct. The Surgisphere fiasco reaffirms that industry involvement needs to be looked at more carefully by scientists, reviewers, readers and policymakers. Leading journals have been grappling with dissipating rigour in clinical studies themselves. Richard Horton, Editor of The Lancet, wrote in 2015 that “much of the scientific literature, perhaps half, may simply be untrue.” He rued that, led by bad research behaviour and flagrant conflict of interest, science has taken a turn towards darkness. Former editor of NEJM, Dr Arnold Relman, had almost prophetically warned about the rise of the ‘medical-industrial complex’ and how it could erode a clinician’s credibility. Jonathan Quick, former director of the essential drugs and medicine policy of WHO, had also expressed similar concerns on the reliability of clinical trials. He wrote that they are under threat from investigators’ conflict of interest, inappropriate involvement of sponsor institutions in study design and management and bias in publishing and disseminating results. Systematic analysis of clinical trial publications have reported significant association between positive results of such trials and manufacturer funding. Studies have also reported that industry-sponsored research is eight times less likely to report unfavourable conclusions than those sponsored by non-profits. The point is, there is no dearth of review literature that demands caution while studying published clinical research. Not everything that is printed in a high impact journal is scientifically rigorous, especially if the research is industry-led. The Surgisphere-HCQ study should be a global wake-up call as hundreds of observational studies and clinical trials are ongoing to either find a cure or a treatment for Covid-19. In India, NITI Ayog is advocating faster approvals for such trials in the light of the current pandemic. That would lead to increased pressure on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Other than being government’s apex biomedical research institution, ICMR also formulates guidelines, maintains the clinical trials registry, and grants ethical clearance for clinical research in India. So, its role becomes crucial in maintaining the ethical and clinical standards of medical research. Unfortunately, the ICMR itself has a history of violations that does not evoke much confidence. In the 1980s, ICMR was testing contraceptives on women violating the ethical norms of the Helsinki Declaration. Women from underprivileged socio-economic backgrounds were recruited from family planning clinics and obstetric wards and administered injectable contraceptives without consent. In the trials of a sub-dermal contraceptive implant called Norplant, ICMR not only failed to obtain informed consent from the participants, but they were not even offered follow-up health services. Further, the adverse events were not recorded – a serious violation of general clinical trial norms. ICMR’s collaboration with pharma companies, global philanthropies and international non-profits have further compromised its credibility as a research institution and a regulator. One of the recent examples of its dereliction is the HPV vaccine trials conducted in collaboration with PATH in 2009. Two vaccines, manufactured by Merck and GSK were administered on 30,000 adolescent girls in Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, a majority of them tribal children. A series of ethical violations and research misconduct were reported from the study. Informed consent was not taken from the parents, follow-up care was not provided, and deaths following administration of the vaccine were not categorised as adverse events. A Parliamentary Committee that probed the violations condemned ICMR for unethical research behaviour and promoting the interests of the manufacturers of the HPV vaccine. The Covid-19 crisis has given ICMR an opportunity to make amends for its past violations. The repercussions of such violations, if continued, would be catastrophic in the case of Covid-19. It would be wise to not overlook the ethics and the rigour of medical research in the rush to find a cure. People readily accept and trust scientific research published in reputed journals, without acknowledging that scientific knowledge is not absolute and is contingent on several factors. With the lure of billions of dollars, contingencies are many in the Covid-19 studies. The need for critical vetting of the robustness of scientific evidence was never needed as much as it is now. We can choose to ignore it at our own peril.    (The writer is a doctoral student at the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, JNU)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/business-of-medical-research-856031.html
02-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Hubballi flyover work may begin only by year-end||Though having a flyover at busy Chennamma Circle in Hubballi, the epicentre of the city which hosts heavy vehicular traffic as at least seven roads including highways join there, the work to start the first phase of the over a decade-long dream of a flyover there may take nearly six months to get started, even after announcements, revised estimates and tender process. Different discussions were held, proposals were sent and committees visited to study the need for a flyover, in a period of over 10 years. But, the hope for the flyover raised suddenly when Union Road Transport & Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari announced funds for junction management nearly four years back. Now, tender is called for the construction of first phase of the flyover at Chennamma Circle, after several revisions of the detailed project report (DPR) and technical issues. The project has seen inordinate delay, and vehicle users and pedestrians always cursed non-development of this junction, which has the iconic statue of Kittur Chennamma. After Gadkari's announcement, a Mumbai-based consultancy prepared a DPR of Rs 1,242 crore to construct flyovers at Chennamma Circle in Hubballi and at Jubilee Circle in Dharwad. Cut in cost, size Later, Gadkari wanted reduced estimated cost. Rs 360 crore was already sanctioned. Authorities decided to construct the flyover in Hubballi in the first phase. Mumbai company reduced the DPR cost, and later, the National Highways division of the Public Works Department (DPR) submitted another revised DPR, and size of the flyover planned earlier was also cut short. "Rs 298 crore tender is called now, and bids are expected to be opened in the month of September. Union Ministry of Road Transport & Highways will finalise the bids, and actual works of construction may begin by this year end," says an official of NH division. The flyover work is expected to take three years for completion, and now, 50% cost sharing by the State Government is also sought for 3,370 square metre land to be acquired. The plan "As per the existing plan, beauty of the Chennamma Circle will not be disturbed, but will be enhanced. A 17 metre wide oval shape flyover would cover the circle, above minimum six metre of height. From there, a four-lane road would connect Lamington Road upto Shivakrupa Hospital before Dr B R Ambedkar Circle. From the circle, seven metre wide two-lane roads would move upto just after Hosur Circle, and a similar road would connect Vijayapur Road, near Desai Cross. A ramp from Bhagat Singh Circle near Hosur Circle will join the flyover near K H Patil statue," explained PWD (NH division) officer R K Mathad. However, the first phase of the flyover will not cover Old PB Road from Old Hubballi side and not a considerable portion of Karwar Road. But, there will be a stretch from Hosur Circle to Clarks Inn hotel on Gokul Road. The plan is to make a proposal for buses to enter the flyover from bus stand itself, in the second phase, officials noted. Due to all the processes, we have to wait for till this year end to see the commencement of this 3.6 km elevated corridor construction works. Minister confirms Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, who is also the MP of this area, told DH from New Delhi that land acquisition is generally the responsibility of the State Government, and we are trying our best in this regard. This flyover is exclusively a gift by Nitin Gadkari, as getting funds was very difficult. PWD NH division has prepared the DPR as per grants limitations and urgent need to de-congest the traffic at the circle. Some procedures were delayed due to the lockdown, and construction related works would definitely begin by this year end, Joshi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/hubballi-flyover-work-may-begin-only-by-year-end-856077.html
02-07-2020||In Perspective||Business friendly, environment unfriendly||On March 23, as the country faced a complete lockdown that left millions of migrant workers stranded without food and shelter, India’s environment ministry put out a draft proposal to amend the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA), with a 60-day deadline that has now been extended to August 11, for public comments. The Draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, seeks to replace the EIA notification of 2006 for all future projects. The EIA is the backbone of all environmental clearances and sets out a process that assesses the potential environmental impact of a proposed project and decides whether it may or may not proceed or need modification. It has been described by the ministry as a planning tool to integrate environmental concerns into the developmental process from the initial stage. As such, it is supposed to work as a strong and independent gatekeeper of the environment, but in the process, the EIA has also acquired the reputation of being a process that delays projects. The underlying principle at work here is preventing irreparable harm that can be caused to sensitive eco-systems by unrestrained business activity that uses technology to root out networks that have taken several human lifetimes to evolve and become a part of our wealth of natural resources. The EIA process works thus: following the environmental assessment by an Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC), a preliminary report is prepared, on the basis of which the public consultation process is put in place. At this stage, objections to the project, especially from those affected by it, are heard. After a further and final appraisal by the EAC, the project is sent to the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, which is the regulatory authority. All of this brings comfort to those who seek to protect the environment and demand strict enforcement of India’s green laws, but the entire process is seen as anti-business and a hindrance for faster growth. There have always been strong lobbies against the process of environmental clearance for projects and the changes now being suggested add to fears that this government has found a way to please business at the cost of India’s green wealth. This is not to argue that the EIA is always effective in protecting the environment, but as a framework, it has stood strong in terms of its intention and its processes. Consider that a compendium of gazette notifications, office memoranda under EIA notification, 2006, produced by the government runs into over 600 pages. This is a Hindi-English document, and even if you remove any supplicates, the compilation is long and tells us a lot about how the EIA has been changed, cut, corrected, explained and even twisted. The latest of these came on April 15, when an amendment was introduced to ramp up availability and production of bulk drugs within a short span of time in the light of the pandemic. Further, in March 2017, the environment ministry had issued a notification, providing a six-month window to get an environmental clearance “as a one-time opportunity” to units which had not obtained prior environmental clearances as was required. This was like an EIA amnesty scheme! The idea, the government announced, “is to take away the economic benefit (if any) derived by the company due to violation and pay for the remediation of damage caused due to violation.” It is as if damage to the environment can be paid off and sorted with a fine. With this backdrop, the worry is that the proposed new version of the EIA, under the guise of “streamlining” the process, seeks to clear the way for quite a different kind of unilateral goal – “ease of doing business”. While ease of doing business is a desirable goal, achieving this and degrading the environment in the process doesn’t say much either about the busines or about the cost to the nation. Further, this comes at a time when the minister of industry and the minister of environment are one and the same, a clear conflict of interest that strikes at the very root of a framework that for years has been used to fight for the protection of the environment. The new EIA is the work of a government in a hurry to show that it is business-friendly. Take the example under the exemptions from public hearings as stipulated under the EIA norms. The list of exemptions from this process is far longer in the 2020 draft, covering all projects falling under a dozen of the schedules located within Notified Industrial Estates. What are these schedules? They cover: secondary metallurgical industry, chlor-alkali industry or production of halogens, soda ash, chemical fertilisers and standalone ammonia plants, manufacturing of acids, pesticides, including insecticides, herbicides, weedicides, pest control, etc., and their specific intermediates (excluding formulations), man-made fibres manufacturing, petroleum products and petrochemical-based processing, synthetic organic chemicals, paints, varnishes, pigments, intermediates, common bio-medical waste treatment facilities, common effluent treatment plants. The essence is of easing what is seen as a hurdle in getting the required environmental clearances. On a more important note, the changes indicate that the BJP government at the Centre is unmindful of the concerned voices building into a huge lobby on issues regarding the environment. Young audiences across the country are fired by concerns on the environment and health. In Maharashtra, state minister Aditya Thackeray is seen as a young politician tuned into these concerns. It is critical that companies can see what the BJP government cannot -- the coming change in consumption patterns, in healthful choices and in the way more people are conscious about the ingredients that go into products. The Centre’s blind eye may come at a huge cost to India and its vast, irreplaceable treasure of natural resources. (The writer is Managing Editor, The Billion Press) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/business-friendly-environment-unfriendly-856030.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Endangered striped hyena knocked down by unidentified vehicle in Karnataka's Belagavi||A striped hyena, an endangered species, was killed after being knocked down by an unidentified vehicle near Yargatti in Savadatti taluk along the Belagavi-Bagalkot state highway on Wednesday. The endangered species was knocked down while crossing the road near Yargatti. Efforts are being made to identify the vehicle and its owner. Range Forest Officer Sunita Nimbargi told DH that the hyena had been spotted earlier but the striped hyena making the range its home has been confirmed after the fatal accident. The hyena was cremated in accordance with the guidelines for endangered species. The Forest Department has commenced investigations into the vehicle involved in the accident. Vehicles that have crossed the road section will be verified, she said. Nimbargi said that with rare and endangered species being sighted, camera traps will be installed to know how many such endangered species and other wild animals are moving abount the forests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/endangered-striped-hyena-knocked-down-by-unidentified-vehicle-in-karnatakas-belagavi-856087.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Return of Ballari, Yadgir incidents in Karnataka's Channagiri; another Covid-19 victim's body dumped in a pit||Despite heavy criticism from various sections of society and officials, after the Ballari incident in which the body of a Covid-19 victim was dumped in a pit like waste, it seems as if the state health department has not learnt a lesson. A similar incident was reported in Channagiri, a town in the Davanagere district. Video footage of the health department staff dumping the body of a 56-year old woman, who died of Covid-19, using an earth-mover in a pit in Veerashaiva burial ground on the outskirts of Channagiri town went viral on social media and drew severe criticism from various sections of the society. The woman, who complained of a respiratory disorder, was shifted to District McGann General hospital in Shivamogga on June 17 and died in the hospital on the same day. She tested positive for Covid-19. Her last rites were held in the cemetery in Channagiri. The body was taken to the cemetery for shraddhanjali, in a hearse provided by the district administration. Though three staff members of the health department wore personal protective equipment, they dumped the body in the pit without touching it. The manner in which the body of the Covid-19 victim was handled by local authorities has come under attack by netizens.   Police inspector R R Patil, tahasildar Puttaraju Gowda, taluk health officer Prabhu and many taluk-level officers of the health department were present on the spot. This is the third such incident reported in the state after Ballari, Yadgir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/return-of-ballari-yadgir-incidents-in-karnatakas-channagiri-another-covid-19-victims-body-dumped-in-a-pit-856200.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga records third Covid-19 death||Shivamogga recorded third Covid-19 death on Thursday.  A 58-year-old male, who was admitted to District Covid hospital after he was tested positive, died around 2:30 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-records-third-covid-19-death-856204.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Teachers rendered helpless, managements blame parents||Teachers and other staff of private educational institutions, especially unaided schools, are rendered helpless, with no immediate relief in sight. Parents cite Covid-19 crisis, to not pay the fees of their children, while the managements point at the parents, for not paying the salaries. Much is talked about the importance and role of education and teachers in moulding the future generations and the future of the nation. However, when it comes to the future of teachers and other staff of private institutions, mostly unorganised sector, not much is talked about. K G Mathew, principal of Excel Public School, said, “Our management is regular in paying the salaries of all staffers, including van drivers. In fact, our management has given increment to the teaching staff”. However, not many staffers of schools are as lucky as their counterparts of elite institutions such as Excel Public School. A head of a school, who wished to remain anonymous, said, it is true that some institutions are facing crisis as the parents are not paying the fees of their children, amid the Covid pandemic.  “However, some schools have not paid the salaries, since March itself. It has to be noted that the salaries of March and April are supported by the fee of the previous academic year. Besides, some reputed schools have collected the fee for the current academic year in advance, in either February or March,” he said. Even as the State government is in a dilemma, over reopening of schools, members of Karnataka Rajya Anudhanarahitha Shala-College Bodhaka Mathu Bhodaketharara Sangha (Karnataka State Association of Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff of Unaided Schools and Colleges) staged a protest in Mysuru seeking a compensation citing the problems faced by managements of schools and colleges and also their staff. They submitted a memorandum to the State government, urging for intervention to solve the problems. “Teachers usually command some respect, despite low incomes. All of a sudden, when there is no salary, it is difficult to lead a decent life. We cannot queue up for free ration and other things. It is also difficult to find an alternative job, as the whole economy is in bad shape,” said a teacher. Meanwhile, the Punjab and Haryana High Court ruled that all schools are entitled to collect the tuition fee, they offered online classes during Covid lockdown period or not, hearing the petition of Independent Schools' Association of Chandigarh. The Delhi and Bombay High Courts have also issued similar rulings. A principal of a school said, if the schools have earned name and fame, it cannot be without the efforts of the teachers and other staff. “The parents also look up to the schools and teachers for the education and development of their children. At this hour of crisis, the parents should also support the institutions and the institutions should support their staff,” he said. A trustee of a school said, some schools can pay the salaries to their staff, if the government releases the arrears towards the Right to Education (RTE) Act seats. However, a teacher said, the arrears towards the RTE seats is only for the last academic year and that would not be sufficient to pay the entire pending salaries. “The managements should convince the parents to pay the fees, we are always with the management, in all their good efforts,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/teachers-rendered-helpless-managements-blame-parents-856269.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka reports biggest single-day spike of 1,502 Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Thursday recorded 1,502 Covid-19 cases, its biggest single-day spike so far, with Bengaluru, the new epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak, accounting for 889 new infections.  Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru came a distant second and third, with the two districts recording 90 and 68 cases respectively. The state also saw 19 new deaths on Thursday, taking the death toll to 272. Karnataka now has 9,406 active cases, just 594 short of breaching the 10,000-mark. Health officials didn't provide details of the source of transmission for the cases reported in the state capital, which is seeing a huge spurt in cases. Bengaluru's overall positivity rate stands at 5.33%, but what is of concern is that the city recorded a positivity rate of 11.89% over the past 10 days. Now, the city has 5,505 active cases while the death toll stands at 101.  In the last 24 hours, 37% of the new Covid-19 infections reported came from Bengaluru's south zone.   With the total number of cases standing at 18,016, the state Covid-19 war room projection about the state having 20,000 to 25,000 cases by August 15 may come true.  The state tested 16,210 samples on Thursday, which it has done before in a single day, so the surge cannot be attributed to increased testing. The 19 who died hail from Bengaluru, Gadag, Ballari, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Koppal, Mysuru, Hassan, Tumkur, Kalaburagi, Belagavi and Uttara Kannada. They are aged between 31 and 75. All except nine had comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension.      As many as 161 are recuperating in the state's ICUs, with Bengaluru alone accounting for 113 cases. A total of 271 people were discharged on Thursday, bringing the total number of recoveries up to 8,334.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-1502-covid-19-cases-856308.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangalore North MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Mangalore North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty has tested positive for novel coronavirus on Thursday. The BJP MLA is the first legislator from the state to have contracted the virus. Sources told DH that BJP MLA got admitted after his samples tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday afternoon.  The MLA and former principal of Dental college took to Twitter saying: “I have been tested COVID19 positive. With all your blessings, I’m recovering & will be under treatment for few days.” Sources said the MLA was a primary contact of a person who had tested positive to Covid 19 a few days ago. The District Health Officer (DHO) and a pathologist serving in the laboratory of Covid Wenlock hospital were among the 90 others who tested positive for the virus in Dakshina Kannada on Thursday. Former Bhatkal MLA J D Naik and his family members have self-quarantined themselves after they attended a wedding of a man, who succumbed to the virus four days later, in the port town. Former minister Vinaykumar Sorake had also attended the wedding, he said.  Meanwhile, the virus hotspot Ballari reported 89 new Covid-19 infections and four fatalities in the last 24 hours. Thursday’s cases took Ballari past 1000-mark (1,019). The death toll in the district has shot up to 33.  Among the fresh infections are 32 people with influenza-like illness, a health worker from Siruguppa, three Jaipur returnees and two contacts of the infected JSW employees, Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul told reporters. Corona warriors catch an infection Scores of frontline warriors including, doctors, health workers and cops continued to contract virus. A policeman, a Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike staffer and a contract worker of zilla panchayat are among the 47 fresh cases reported in Dharwad district on Thursday. The cop attached with Town police station in Dharwad, is believed to have contracted the virus from the Traffic constable living in the same police quarters.  A doctor with a private nursing home in Ramanagara tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The CMC officials and DHO have urged the people who’d visited the nursing home in the last 14 days, to subject themselves for Covid-19 testing. A few employees of a factory in Bidadi industrial area are said to have contracted the virus. The factory management has been told to sanitise the plant before resuming the operations. Throat swab samples of two Asha workers at Arabilichi near Bhadravati, Shivamogga district, have returned positive for the virus on Thursday. In the last 24 hours, as many as 17 districts (excluding Bengaluru) have reported Covid-19 cases in two digits with three of them crossing 50-mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangalore-north-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-856314.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Covid-19 death toll increases to 4 in Belagavi district||Death toll in the district due to Covid-19 increased to 4 with a 45-year-old male succumbing to the pandemic on Wednesday. His swab sample report on Thursday confirmed that he was Covid-19 positive. Third consecutive death due to Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) has been recorded for the third consecutive day. The 45-year-old identified as patient P-16964 had been admitted in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital for treatment on June 30 (Tuesday), due to fever and breathlessness. He died on July 1 (Wednesday). Swab sample result on Thursday confirmed that he was Covid-19 positive. District recorded 7 more Covid-19 positive cases including deceased male on Thursday. As per the health bulletin of Health Department, Covid-19 positive cases in the district increased to 343 with 303 patients recovering, 36 active cases and 4 deaths being reported. Among those tested positive, P-16960 male 27 years has travel history of Kerala, P-16961 male 35 years and P-16963 have travel history of Maharashtra and P-16962 male 54 years has travel history of Gujarat. Contacts of P-17021 male 46 years and P-17022 female 8 years were being traced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-covid-19-death-toll-increases-to-4-in-belagavi-district-856320.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||17 test Covid-19 positive in Mysuru, one more death||Seventeen persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru on Thursday. One death of a Covid-19 positive person was reported at K R Hospital. With the fresh cases, the district reported a total of 338 cases, while 200 of them have been discharged. The district has a total of 134 active cases. Of 17 cases, eight are primary contacts, three inter-state travelers, one inter-district traveler, two police personnel, one pregnant woman, and two ILI cases. The Health department authorities have observed a total of 13,160 persons and collected 21,331 samples. Of them, 20,993 samples tested negative. While 3,003 persons are under home quarantine, 154 are under facility quarantine. The district reported the fourth death of a 60-year-old woman with SARI, undergoing treatment at K R Hospital, and was on a ventilator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/17-test-covid-19-positive-in-mysuru-one-more-death-856325.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 positive woman gives birth to baby girl||A Covid-19 positive pregnant woman gave birth to a baby girl, at Mandya Insitute of Medical Sciences (MIMS), on Tuesday night. Both of them are healthy. Despite facing all kinds of risks involved due to Covid-19, a caesarian section was performed. Dr. S Yogendrakumar, of MIMS hospital, along with his team of doctors and paramedics, decided to perform the surgery and has saved two lives. The woman, a resident of Malavalli taluk was admitted to the Covid-19 hospital five days ago. She had conceived after eight years of marriage and had two more weeks for delivery. As there were fluctuations in her health condition, the doctors, who found that the possibilities of saving the child were less, went ahead with the surgery. Though the family members of the woman could not be with her at the time, they had requested the doctor to save the lives. "I was overwhelmed by seeing the happiness on the face of the mother. The incident happening on the 'Doctor's Day' is very special," Dr. Yogendra Kumar said. Now, Dr Yogendra and his team are under quarantine and will undergo Covid-19 tests after five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-positive-woman-gives-birth-to-baby-girl-856328.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fifth Covid-19 death in Hassan; 34 positive cases in districts||Hassan district reported its fifth death on Thursday, with a 65-year-old man from Channarayapatna, succumbing to Covid-19. Hassan reported 15 and Mandya 19 positive cases. With 15 positive cases, the total number of positive patients has increased to 440 in the Hassan district. In all, 244 patients have been discharged and there are 191 active cases. The victim is a Channarayapatna resident, who was admitted to a private hospital for severe breathing problems on July 1, at 7.30 pm. As he turned critical, he was shifted to the Covid-19 hospital at the midnight but died on the wee hours of Thursday. His swab samples tested positive for Covid. The family members of the deceased had returned from Mumbai and his contact is under tracing. Out of 15 cases, 11 are male and 4 are female. While six of them have a contact history with other patients, three are Influenza-like illness (ILI), three patients contact is under tracing, two are Maharashtra returnees, one has a travel history within the district. Mandya reported 19 new cases on Thursday. This includes 12 males and seven females. While three of them have a travel history within the district, three are ILI patients. Thirteen are primary contacts with the other patients. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 440. While 352 have been discharged, there are 88 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fifth-covid-19-death-in-hassan-34-positive-cases-in-districts-856329.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Unscientific disposal of used masks poses threat||Unscientific disposal of face masks by the residents of the city, is posing a threat to the civic workers of contracting the virus. Despite repeated warnings and request, the people continue to violate guidelines and dispose the masks along with garbage. The civic workers, who collect garbage from houses, complained that masks are being disposed along with the waste. A worker, who collects waste at Vijayanagar area said she separates at least 10 masks a day. The residents do not hand over the mask separately, but dispose it along with the dry waste. “Our requests to dispose of masks in a separate cover is being neglected,” she said. Another civic worker said that she fears to segregate waste due to the masks. “We have no option, but to collect the garbage. We know the used masks are the source of transmission of coronavirus. But, we are helpless, as we have no other source of income,” she said.    A resident of Gokulam K A Ramya said majority of the residents are confused about disposal of the masks. It would be better to set-up dedicated mask disposal centres or collect it separately. The civic body must rope in locals and conduct an awareness drive, she suggested. There is also an urgent need to educate the public on disposing the soiled masks. The face masks are potential source of spreading coronavirus and educating them about appropriate disposal of used face masks is very much essential. “Proper and scientific disposal of masks is crucial not only for our own safety, but also for the safety of others,” said Brinda Kishore of Vijayanagar. An officer of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) said that the residents are careless. The people are yet to understand the adverse effect of Covid-19. It is a common sense to dispose the mask scientifically. Despite explaining simple techniques, still many are not cooperative. It is not a matter of imposing fine or taking legal action, but, the people must think about others. Even civic workers are human beings, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unscientific-disposal-of-used-masks-poses-threat-856330.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Offices of ACP, CPI sealed after cops test Covid-19 +ve||The office of the Circle Inspector of Police in HD Kote town and the office of the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) in the city were sealed down after police staff tested positive for Covid-19. HD Kote Circle Inspector of Police and a police constable attached to the office of the ACP tested positive for Covid. The Police Inspector developed health issues six days back and was admitted to a private hospital in Mysuru three days back. The doctors collected his samples. As he tested positive, he was shifted to Covid Hospital, according to HD Kote Taluk Health Officer Dr T Ravi Kumar. The Health department authorities sealed down the police station and disinfected. More than 60 persons were quarantined, as the inspector tested positive. The inspector had attended a taluk-level meeting at Mini Vidhana Soudha. Tahsildar R Manjunath, Executive Officer Ramalingaiah and other officials are under quarantine, informed the THO, adding, as many as 20 police personnel are subject to home quarantine. HD Kote MLA C Anil, who was supposed to attend the oath taking ceremony of D K Shivakumar as KPCC president, cancelled his programme mid-way. The MLA was heading towards Bengaluru to attend the programme. As the inspector tested positive, he cancelled the programme. The MLA was present in the taluk-level meeting, in which the inspector was present. The MLA said, “I was supposed to attend the programme. But, I cancelled it as the inspector tested positive. I am on self-quarantine at my home,” he said. Tahsildar Manjunath said, “All streets where the inspector had travelled are disinfected. Mini Vidhana Soudha, State Bank of India branch office and other offices are closed for sanitisation.” As a woman constable, attached to the office of ACP, tested positive, the office is sealed down. The police personnel of the office are quarantined. All staff, attached to the office, are quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/offices-of-acp-cpi-sealed-after-cops-test-covid-19-ve-856331.html
02-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||BJP MLA Bharath Y Shetty tests positive for coronavirus in Karnataka||Ruling BJP MLA Dr Bharath Y Shetty Thursday tested positive for coronavirus. The MLA, representing Mangaluru North, said he might have contracted the infection from another positive patient. Shetty, who had taken part in many programmes in the city in recent days, in a tweet said he had gone for a test voluntarily, and the result returned Covid-19 positive. "With all your blessings, I'm recovering & will be under treatment for a few days. Requesting everyone to please maintain social distancing, wear a mask while going out and wash hands frequently. Please take care of yourself & your near ones." The contacts of the MLA have been traced and asked to go under quarantine, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-mla-bharath-y-shetty-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-karnataka-856357.html
02-07-2020||Main Article||No country for girl child||Women and girls continue to be vulnerable to misogyny and violence worldwide. According to the UNFPA’s State of the World Population 2020 report, the number of girls ‘missing’ due to sex selection procedures, whether pre- or post-natal, has more than doubled over the past 50 years.  ‘Missing’ girls are those who would have been born into this world had they been allowed to, i.e., if they had not been intentionally eliminated simply because they are girls. Worryingly, India accounts for a significant proportion of the girls so eliminated -- a third of all ‘missing’ girls are from India, the report says. A part of the reason for the doubling of ‘missing’ girls is the availability of medical technologies in recent decades that detect the sex of a foetus. People are using ultra-sound technologies to find out the sex of their unborn child and then choose to abort it if it is female. But technology alone cannot be blamed for the malaise as girls are not spared after being born either. The number of post-natal ‘missing’ girls is no less alarming. With 13.5 deaths per 1,000 female births among girls below the age of five, which may be attributed to post-natal sex selection, India has the dubious distinction of having the highest rate of excess female deaths in the world. The UNFPA report provides distressing insights into the many kinds of violence that women and girls are suffering the world over. The practices of female genital mutilation and child marriage continue. An estimated 4.1 million girls will be subjected to female genital mutilation this year, the report estimates. The report lists at least 19 harmful practices, ranging from breast ironing to virginity testing, which although harmful physically and emotionally, persist with the full knowledge, consent and participation of families and communities. Girls and women will be even more vulnerable to violent elimination in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdowns. Reports have been drawing attention to rising domestic violence. Lockdowns are impoverishing people, and many will push their underage daughters into marriage or worse to escape the responsibility of providing for them. With services and programmes that would have normally supported girls shutting down on account of the Covid-19 crisis, an additional 13 million girls may be forced into marriage and two million more girls may be subjected to female genital mutilation between now and 2030, the UNFPA warns. Governments and civil society need to work together not only to prevent violence against women but to dismantle social institutions and beliefs that prejudice against women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/no-country-for-girl-child-856028.html
02-07-2020||National||251 fresh Covid-19 cases in Odisha; tally now 7,316||Odisha recorded 251 fresh Covid-19 cases, including that of 43 frontline health workers and an NDRF personnel, taking the state's tally to 7,316, a health department official said on Wednesday. One Covid-19 patient died in the Ganjam district, but the state government attributed the death to terminal lung cancer. "A 52-year-old male Covid-19 patient of Ganjam district passed away due to terminal cancer of the lungs with brain metastasis," the department said in a statement. In seven cases earlier, deaths were attributed to "non-Covidreasons", the official said. The state has so far confirmed 25 deaths due to coronavirus. Ganjam, the worst-hit district, accounts for 14 fatalities, followed by five in Khurda, four in Cuttack, and one each in Bargarh and Puri, he said. Of the total 251 fresh Covid-19 cases, 208 have been detected from quarantine centres, where people returning from different states are lodged for preliminary observation and care. Their contact tracing is underway, he said.  Ganjam district reported the highest of 102 new cases, followed by 32 in Cuttack, 26 in Khurda, 14 in Nayagarh, 12 each in Puri and Bargarh and 10 in Malkangiri. Twelve other districts reported single digit cases. Ganjam District Collector V A Kulange said that of the 102 positive cases reported on Wednesday, 43 were Covid Warriors -- health workers and those looking after coronavirus patients. With another National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel contracting the infection, the number of disaster response personnel testing positive for the deadly virus has risen to 294. The number of infections in the Border Security Force (BSF) is 53, the official said. On Wednesday, 164 patients recovered from the disease and discharged from hospitals. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 1,930. The state tested 5,247 samples in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 2,70,678. Meanwhile, the authorities issued directions to operate government offices with 50 per cent of the staff starting from the Lok Seva Bhavan, the highest administrative building in the state capital to the panchayat-level. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday sealed the Bhubaneswar Development Authority office building for two days after two of its employees tested positive for Covid-19. "We will sanitise the entire BDA building," BMC Commissioner PC Chaudhury said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/251-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-odisha-tally-now-7316-856022.html
02-07-2020||National||Keeping close watch on Hong Kong-China developments: India||India on Wednesday broke its silence on the situation in Hong Kong and tacitly called upon China to address the concerns the international community expressed over the new National Security Law, which President Xi Jinping’s government in Beijing imposed on the semi-autonomous territory. Amid India-China military stand-off in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi decided to speak up on Beijing’s move to substantially lower the degree of autonomy Hong Kong enjoyed ever since the United Kingdom transferred it to the communist country in 1997. “Given the large Indian community that makes the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China its home, India has been keeping a close watch on recent developments,” India’s envoy to United Nations offices in Geneva, Rajiv Kumar Chander, said. He was speaking at the 44th session of the UN Human Rights Council. “We have heard several statements expressing concern on the concern on these developments. We hope the relevant parties will take into account these views and address them properly, seriously and objectively,” said Chander. India earlier by and largely maintained silence on the issue of protests in Hong Kong, obviously to avoid hurting the sensitivities of China. “Obviously given that we have investments there (in Hong Kong) and we have a community there, we are watching it with great attention,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had said in response to a question in a press conference in September 2019||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keeping-close-watch-on-hong-kong-china-developments-india-856025.html
02-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 2||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 6.1 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 6,25,020 as of July 2 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 18,207 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 3,77,945  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-2-856044.html
02-07-2020||National||DH Toon | LPG, fuel price hike: 'Stop encroaching; I'm losing my Line of Actual Control'||Non-subsidised cooking gas LPG rates were increased by Re 1 to Rs 594 per 14.2-kg cylinder in the national capital on July 1. Prices were up by Rs 4 in other metros mostly because of different local sales tax or VAT rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-lpg-fuel-price-hike-stop-encroaching-im-losing-my-line-of-actual-control-856046.html
02-07-2020||National||Over 19,000 Covid-19 cases push India tally over 6 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally zoomed past six lakh on Thursday with a single-day increase of 19,148 cases, just five days after it crossed the five-lakh mark, while the death toll rose to 17,834, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  It took 110 days for coronavirus infections in the country to reach one lakh, while just 44 days more to go past the six-lakh mark.    The country's Covid-19 caseload increased to 6,04,641 on Thursday, while 434 persons have succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 3,59, 859 while one patient has migrated. There are 2,26,947 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country. "Thus, around 59.52 percent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases included foreigners.  This is the sixth consecutive day when coronavirus infections increased by more than 18,000. There has been a surge of 4,14,106 Covid-19 cases from June 1 till date.   According to the ICMR, the number of tests for detection of the disease crossed the nine million mark on Thursday. A cumulative total of 90,56,173 samples have been tested up to July 1 while 2,29,588 samples have been tested on Wednesday, the apex health research body said. Of the 434 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 198 are from Maharashtra, 63 from Tamil Nadu, 61 from Delhi, 21 each from Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, 15 from West Bengal, nine from Madhya Pradesh, eight from Rajasthan, seven each from Telangana and Karnataka, six from Andhra Pradesh, five from Punjab, four each from Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir, three from Bihar and one each from Chhattisgarh and Goa.  Of the total 17,834 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 8,053 fatalities followed by Delhi with 2,803 deaths, Gujarat with 1,867, Tamil Nadu with 1,264, Uttar Pradesh with 718, West Bengal with 683, Madhya Pradesh with 581, Rajasthan with 421 and Telangana with 267 deaths. The Covid-19 death toll reached 253 in Karnataka, 240 in Haryana, 193 in Andhra Pradesh, 149 in Punjab, 105 in Jammu and Kashmir, 70 in Bihar, 41 in Uttarakhand, 25 in Odisha and 24 in Kerala. Jharkhand has registered 15 deaths, Chhattisgarh 14, Assam and Puducherry 12 each, Himachal Pradesh 10, Chandigarh six, Goa four and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 percent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,80,298, followed by Tamil Nadu at 94,049, Delhi at 89,802, Gujarat at 33,232, Uttar Pradesh at 24,056, West Bengal at 19,170 and Rajasthan at 18,312 according to the ministry data. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 17,357 in Telangana, 16,514 in Karnataka, 15,252 in Andhra Pradesh, 14,941 in Haryana, and 13,861 in Madhya Pradesh. It has risen to 10,249 in Bihar, 8,582 in Assam, 7,695 in Jammu and Kashmir and 7,316 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 5,668 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 4,593 cases.  A total of 2,947 people have been infected by the virus in Uttarakhand, 2,940 in Chhattisgarh, 2,521 in Jharkhand, 1,396 in Tripura, 1,387 in Goa, 1,260 in Manipur, 990 in Ladakh and 979 in Himachal Pradesh. Puducherry has recorded 714 Covid-19 cases, Nagaland 459, Chandigarh 446 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 215 Covid-19 cases. Arunachal Pradesh reported 195 cases, Mizoram has 160 cases, Sikkim has 101, Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 100 infections so far, while Meghalaya has recorded 52 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 6,832 cases are being reassigned to states.   State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-19000-covid-19-cases-push-india-tally-over-6-lakh-856089.html
02-07-2020||National||‘Whose bullet killed my father?’ asks daughter of civilian killed in crossfire in Jammu and Kashmir's Sopore militant attack||The daughter of a civilian, who was killed during a militant attack on a CRPF party in north Kashmir’s Sopore town on Wednesday, asked the Kashmir police to come out with substantial evidence on who killed her father. “We respect the IGP, Kashmir. He has stated that family members of the slain (Bashir Ahmed Khan) were not there. The fact is we were not there, but the IGP too was not at the site of the incident,” said Iram Bashir Khan, slain man’s daughter. Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, on Wednesday refuted the statements by the family of the civilian killed in Sopore that he was shot dead by paramilitary CRPF. However, Iram demanded that if the police claimed her father was killed in the crossfire “Why was there not a single scratch on his vehicle?” “The vehicle would have been damaged as well if my father was caught in a crossfire. Instead, the vehicle was parked by the road and my father’s body was lying beside the vehicle, which indicates he was brought out of his vehicle,” she said.   “I can’t claim whose bullet killed my father. But I want to ask one question: When bullets are being fired, will a person run away in his vehicle or will he come out and face the bullets?” she asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whose-bullet-killed-my-father-asks-daughter-of-civilian-killed-in-crossfire-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-sopore-militant-attack-856132.html
02-07-2020||National||Ban on Chinese apps a 'digital strike', says Prasad||Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said that India conducted a “digital strike” by banning 59 Chinese apps including TikTok to ensure data security and privacy of Indians. Addressing a virtual rally for West Bengal, Prasad said that the apps were banned in the interest of national security, data security of Indians and public order. “We are very stern in our approach to activity seeking to compromise the data security, sending the data outside India and privacy of Indians. We will not make any compromise on the data security of our people. India knows how to conduct a digital strike,” said Prasad. He also said that although India always wants a peaceful relation with others, if provoked it is capable of giving a befitting reply. Referring to the clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Ladakh, the minister said that even as there were 20 fatalities on the Indian side, China has suffered double the loss. Prasad pointed out that China is yet to reveal the number of fatalities on their side adding that even the international community believes that China has suffered heavy losses. Lashing out at Congress and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for constantly questioning the Centre over the Ladakh issue, Prasad said that such comments by the opposition parties get highlighted outside India. “Such questions were raised during Balakot. When Rahul Gandhi asked for evidence Trinamool Congress didn’t say he was wrong. Same happened in Uri and same is happening now,” said Prasad. He took jibes at TMC saying that earlier, the ruling party in West Bengal had asked why the Centre was not banning these apps and now, they are asking why these apps have been banned. TMC MP Nusrat Jahan on Thursday termed the Centre’s decision to ban the apps as an “eyewash and impulsive”, adding that since the livelihood of many depends on these apps, the Centre should come up with their substitutes. Referring to the terror attack in Uri and Pulwama, Prasad said that after the attack, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the sacrifices of the soldiers will not go in vain and he kept his word as India responded with strong actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-on-chinese-apps-a-digital-strike-says-prasad-856143.html
02-07-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's visit to Leh rescheduled||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s visit to Leh has been rescheduled, news agency ANI said, quoting defence officials. The Defence Minister was scheduled to visit Leh on Friday to review the security situation in Eastern Ladakh, in view of the Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control. In his visit, Singh was expected to hold high-level meetings with senior military leadership. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singhs-visit-to-leh-rescheduled-856162.html
02-07-2020||National||Congress alleges Modi govt blinded by rage, vendetta against its leadership; says Priyanka will not be deterred||The Congress on Wednesday hit out at the Modi government for sending a house vacation notice to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, saying neither she nor the Congress leadership will be cowed down by such moves. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the entire country knows the "deep hatred and vendetta of Prime Minister Narendra Modi" towards the Congress leadership. He said the Congress does not fear from such notices and will continue to highlight the "wrong-doings of a failed Modi government". "The BJP government's deep hatred and sense of vendetta for Congress leadership is well known to all. They have now touched to new lows. The notice of vacation of Priyanka Gandhi's house signals the anxiety of PM Modi and UP CM Yogi Adityanath. We will not be cowed down by these petty decisions of a frustrated government," he said in a video message. The government on Wednesday asked Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to vacate her bungalow in Lutyens' Delhi within a month, saying she is not entitled to the facility following withdrawal of her SPG protection. It had in November last year replaced the Special Protection Group (SPG) cover of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her children Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, with Z-plus security by the CRPF. Surjewala said the entire country has seen how some time ago the SPG security of the family of former PM late Rajiv Gandhi was taken away. PM Modi has also taken away the security of two former prime ministers Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda, he said. "The Congress leadership and former PMs have been warning this failed government against its anti-people policies," he said, adding that they will continue to do so in future. "Priyanka Gandhi is Indira Gandhi's grand-daughter and neither she nor the Congress leadership will be cowed down by such notices. You will not be able to stop us from highlighting the wrong-doings of a failed government, even if takes many decisions like this notice," Surjewala said. "PM Narendra Modi and his Government are blinded by rage, hatred and revenge against the Congress leadership. Unnerved by political activism of Priyanka ji in UP, Modi Government has stooped even further by issuing house vacation notice. Such frustrated attempts will not deter us," he tweeted He said Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh or Deve Gowda have shown the mirror of truth to the Modi government. "Priyanka Gandhi has also been highlighting the failures of the UP government and she will not be deterred in championing people's voice by such fruitless and wasteful exercises that you are seeking to do blinded by revenge," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-alleges-modi-govt-blinded-by-rage-vendetta-against-its-leadership-says-priyanka-will-not-be-deterred-856175.html
02-07-2020||National||ICAI seeks time from SC to assess situation to hold CA exams||The ICAI on Thursday (July 2) told the Supreme Court that there may be difficulty in conducting examinations for the professional course of Chartered Accountants exams, as scheduled between July 29 and August 16, due to the current situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic. The top court asked the Institute of Chartered Accountants to take its final decision by next week. Senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan, appearing for the ICAI, submitted before a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar that there may be operational problems in conducting the exams due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases particularly in States of Maharashtra and others. The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, reminded the counsel that the court had previously said that the ground situation was dynamic and not static. The court asked the ICAI to consult the stakeholders to make an informed decision. About three lakh candidates were expected to appear in the examinations. It posted the matter for hearing on July 10. The court was hearing a PIL filed by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava on behalf of Anubha Shrivastava Sahai, who wanted to set up more exam centres and stay on 'opt-out scheme' and taking up more measures in view of Covid-19 pandemic. On June 29, the court asked the ICAI to give the candidates an option to choose centres in the middle of examinations and go for an opt-out scheme till the last moment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icai-seeks-time-from-sc-to-assess-situation-to-hold-ca-exams-856177.html
02-07-2020||National||India crosses nine million Covid-19 tests||India has crossed the nine-million mark in conducting Covid-19 tests, with 90,56,173 samples having been examined till July 1, officials said on Thursday. The officials of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) also said there are now 1,065 testing labs in the country -- 768 in the public sector and 297 in private. The daily testing capacity is also growing fast, they said, adding it was around 1.5 lakh per day on May 25 and is more than three lakh per day now. As many as 2,29,588 samples were tested on Wednesday, which took the cumulative number to 90,56,173, the country’s apex health research body said. Starting with just one laboratory, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, and having 100 in the beginning of the lockdown, the ICMR on June 23 validated 1000th testing lab, it said. The Union Health Ministry, meanwhile, said the total number of people being tested for Covid-19 in the country will soon touch one crore. "This has been (made) possible due to the removal of all bottlenecks by the government of India. Various steps taken by the Central government have paved the way for enhanced testing for Covid-19," the ministry said. Through a significant step announced by the Central government on Wednesday, Covid-19 testing can now be done on the prescription of any registered practitioner, and not exclusively of a government doctor. The Centre has strongly advised states and Union Territories to take immediate steps to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private ones, to prescribe COVID-19 test to any individual fulfilling the criteria for testing as per ICMR guidelines.  Reiterating that 'Test-Track-Treat' is the key strategy for early detection and containment of the outbreak, the Centre on Wednesday advised them to take all possible steps to ensure full capacity utilization of all Covid-19 testing laboratories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-crosses-nine-million-covid-19-tests-856192.html
02-07-2020||National||Ahmed Patel questioned again; Congress asks why not quiz Asthana||Senior Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel was on Thursday questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for the third time in a week in the bank fraud and money laundering case involving Sandesara brothers of Sterling Biotech. On the other side, leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury asked why senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana is not being quizzed despite his name cropping up. Patel's questioning at his 23-Mother Theresa Crescent Road residence  started at around 11 am. He was earlier questioned for around 17 hours on June 26 and 30. He had denied any involvement in the case and accused the government of targeting the Opposition, which raised questions about the handling of Covid-19 pandemic and other issues. Last year, the ED had questioned Patel's son Faisal and son-in-law Irfan Siddiqui in this case and recorded their statements based on a statement from Sandesara group employee Sunil Yadav who claimed he bore expenses of Rs 10 lakh for a party attended by Faisal, arranged his entry in a night club and once delivered Rs five lakh to his driver in Delhi. The Patels had denied the allegations. The initials 'AP' in a diary seized from Sterling Biotech in 2011, which indicated payments to politicians and officials, is claimed to be that of Patel. However, Chowdhury stepped up the attack on the government by tweeting, "Congress party's leader Ahmed Patel-ji has been grilled for three days by ED to unearth the nexus between Patel-ji and notorious Sandesara case. But Modi-ji's most trusted man Rakesh Asthana, IPS has been implicated as a recipient of bribe money which has been exposed in Sandersana diary,  I am flagging the attention of Narendra Modi-ji." Asthana, who is a Gujarat-cadre IPS officer, is considered close to Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah and it was alleged that the initials 'RA', which appeared in the Sandesara diary, was about him. The officer had denied this earlier and wrote to the then Cabinet Secretary in 2018 that 'RA' was not him. The contents of the diary also became a contentious point in his appointment as Special Director in CBI with the matter reaching the Supreme Court, which gave its stamp on his selection. The then CBI Director Alok Verma had also flagged the case when his name had come up for appointment in the CBI. During Verma's tenure as CBI Director, he opened an investigation into six cases against Asthana, including the one on Sandesara diary, leading to an intercine war within the agency. This led to Verma's ouster from the agency while Asthana, who was later cleared by the CBI, was moved out of agency and posted as head of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security. The money laundering case involving the Sandesara brothers is the offshoot of a CBI case and chargesheet filed in court against them in connection with the Rs 14,500 crore bank loan fraud. Patel was earlier asked to appear before the investigators on June 9 but he responded saying he is above 65 years and it would be risky for him to step out due to Covid-19, following which the agency decided to go to his residence for questioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahmed-patel-questioned-again-congress-asks-why-not-quiz-asthana-856213.html
02-07-2020||National||UNSC's Covid-19 resolution not applying to terrorists vindicates India's long-held position||The United Nations Security Council, the 15-member powerful organ of the global body, on Wednesday unanimously adopted the first Covid-19-related resolution that backed UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’ call for global ceasefires in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The resolution, drafted by France and Tunisia, “demands a general and immediate cessation of hostilities in all situations on its agenda and supports the efforts undertaken by the Secretary-General and his Special Representatives and Special Envoys”. Significantly, it “affirms that this general and immediate cessation of hostilities and this humanitarian pause do not apply to military operations against the ISIS, Al-Qaeda and Al-Nusra Front (ANF), and all other individuals, groups, undertakings and entities associated with al-Qaeda or ISIS, and other terrorist groups, which have been designated by the Security Council.” Sources told PTI that this particular paragraph of the resolution “vindicates” what India has been saying all along. The sources said that one can have a global ceasefire but “you cannot ignore the fact” that India is subject to cross-border terrorism. This is exactly why there cannot be a ceasefire against terrorism - the terrorists do not respect ceasefires, they said. For the resolution to affirm very clearly that the general and immediate cessation of hostilities do not apply to the terror groups is a clear reflection of the recognition of what India has been saying all along on this, they said. The sources said that this vindicates the position which India has always held that there cannot be a blanket ceasefire and a global ceasefire must be circumscribed by countries like India which are facing and fighting cross-border terrorism. India has consistently said that terrorism has emerged as the most serious scourge of the current times and endangers international peace, security and prosperity, and has condemned cross-border terrorism. In February during President Donald Trump’s state visit to India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Trump in a joint statement “denounced any use of terrorist proxies and strongly condemned cross-border terrorism in all its forms.” In the joint statement, the two leaders called on “Pakistan to ensure that no territory under its control is used to launch terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such attacks, including the 26/11 Mumbai and Pathankot attacks. They called for a concerted action against all terrorist groups, including al-Qaeda, ISIS, Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Hizbul Mujahideen, the Haqqani Network, Tehrik-e-Taliban, D-Company and all their affiliates.” Several of Pakistan-based terror groups, such as LeT and JeM, proscribed by the Security Council’s Al Qaeda Sanctions Committee, have carried out dastardly terror attacks in India and are associated with other terror outfits such as al-Qaeda. The UNSC resolution calls upon all the parties to armed conflicts to engage immediately in a durable humanitarian pause for at least 90 consecutive days in order to enable the safe, unhindered and sustained delivery of humanitarian assistance. It also calls for enabling provisions of related services by impartial humanitarian actors “in accordance with the humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence, and medical evacuations and in accordance with international law, including international humanitarian law and refugee law as applicable.” Guterres welcomed the adoption of the resolution on Covid-19 and the Council’s recognition of his efforts to respond to the crisis, in particular his appeal for a global ceasefire. The Secretary General’s appeal for a global ceasefire has been endorsed by nearly 180 countries, more than 20 armed groups, as well as religious leaders and millions of members of civil society. “The adoption of this resolution will send an important signal to conflict parties and may help change calculations on the ground,” a statement issued by his spokesperson said. The Secretary-General continues to urge individual member states to redouble their efforts for peace in the conflicts in which they have influence, it added. "He looks forward to working with all stakeholders to advance efforts towards concrete ceasefires and durable peace,” the statement added. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the contagion has infected over 10 million people and killed more than 516,000 across the world. The US is the worst affected country with over 2.6 million cases and more than 1,28,000 deaths. The Covid-19, which originated in China's Wuhan city in December last year, has also battered the world economy with the International Monetary Fund saying that the global economy is bound to suffer a "severe recession". Scientists are racing against time to find a vaccine or medicine for its treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unscs-covid-19-resolution-not-applying-to-terrorists-vindicates-indias-long-held-position-856219.html
02-07-2020||National||Bodies of suspected Covid-19 cases be handed over to kin without waiting for test result: Health minister||The Union Health Ministry has asked all states and UTs to hand over bodies of suspected Covid-19 cases to their relatives without waiting for laboratory confirmation of the infection but said the mortal remains should be disposed of as per government guidelines. A letter on the matter was sent to all states and UTs on Wednesday in the wake of issues raised regarding death of suspected Covid-19 patients and bodies not being handed over to relatives pending confirmation of test report by hospitals. “I would like to clarify that the dead bodies of such suspected Covid cases should be handed over to their relatives immediately and laboratory confirmation of Covid-19 should not be awaited,” the letter written by Director General of Health Services (DGHS), Health Ministry, Dr Rajiv Garg said. These bodies can as a matter of abundant precaution be disposed as per the 'Guidelines on Dead Body Management' available on the website of Union Health Ministry which directs that handlers in PPE accompany the body for final rites, the letter stated. “If such death cases test positive eventually, then the requisite action for contact listing, tracking etc. should be carried out subsequently. Further, necessary action may be taken as per the clarification given above," the letter said. India's Covid-19 tally zoomed past six lakh on Thursday, with a single-day increase of 19,148 cases while the death toll rose to 17,834 with 434 persons succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, according to Health Ministry data updated at 8 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bodies-of-suspected-covid-19-cases-be-handed-over-to-kin-without-waiting-for-test-result-health-minister-856223.html
02-07-2020||National||Govt approves purchase of fighter jets, missile systems, weapons worth Rs 38,900 crore from Russia||The Defence Ministry on Thursday approved purchase of around Rs 38,900 crore worth of weapons including new fighter aircraft, long-range cruise missiles with 1,000 km range and Astra beyond visual range missiles, packing more punch into the defence capabilities of the armed forces. The package includes buying an additional 21 MiG-29 fighter aircraft for the Indian Air Force and upgrading 59 similar aircraft being used by the IAF at a cost of Rs 7,418 crore. In addition, 12 more Su-30 MKI will be procured from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, Bengaluru at an estimated cost of Rs 10,730 crore. The Rs 38,900 crore package was approved by the Defence Acquisition Council headed by the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday amidst the ongoing tense face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. The deals approved by the DAC includes purchases worth Rs 31,130 crore from the domestic industry. Bulk of the remaining Rs 7,770 crore would be spent on the MiG-29 deal, leaving about Rs 352 crore for other foreign equipment. The 21 Russian origin MiG-29 combat jets were manufactured in the 1980s but were never used and were lying in a Russian hanger. With India experiencing a dip in its fighter squadron strength, a couple of years ago, Moscow had offered to sell those old aircraft after upgrading them to the current standard. An IAF team approved the sale after a thorough inspection. Among other things, the DAC approved final development of an indigenous Long Range Land Attack Missile (LRLAM) system with a firing range of 1,000 km. This will add to the existing arsenal of all the three services and bolster their attack capabilities. “It is an advanced version of the Nirbhay cruise missile,” an official of the Defence Research and Development Organisation said. Once ready it would be the world’s longest range non-Nuke cruise missile. Several critical technologies in the project such as aerodynamic configuration, vertical launch using solid booster, thrust vector control system, booster separation, in-flight wing deployment, in-flight engine start and long range way-point navigation system have been developed, demonstrated and matured. Seeker development and testing by DRDO laboratories too have been demonstrated and is at a high level of readiness. “It is now important to take up the proposed development of the fully indigenous long range land attack cruise missile that greatly enhances the operational capability of services,” said an official. The indigenous content in some of these projects is up to 80 per cent of the project cost. A large number of them were realised due to the transfer of technology by DRDO to the indigenous industry. These include Pinaka ammunition, BMP armament upgrades and software defined radios for the Indian Army, and Astra beyond visual range missiles for the Indian Navy and IAF. The cost of these design and development proposals is in the range of Rs 20,400 crore. The Astra mark-1 weapons system integrated with Su-30 Mk-I aircraft is being inducted into the IAF. It can be launched in autonomous and buddy mode of operation with features for Lock-On-Before Launch (LOBL) and Lock-On After Launch (LOAL). “Air to air missile Astra, Software Defined Radio, Pinaka munitions and Land Attack Cruise Missile are state of the art systems developed by DRDO. Armed forces and industry will be immensely benefited with the manufacturing of these indegenous systems,” said G Satheesh Reddy, chairman DRDO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-approves-purchase-of-fighter-jets-missile-systems-weapons-worth-rs-38900-crore-from-russia-856235.html
02-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: First-of-its-kind Plasma Bank in country starts functioning||The first-of-its-kind Plasma Bank in the country starts functioning today, four policemen arrested in the case relating to the custodial deaths in Tamil Nadu,59 banned Chinese apps down from Google Play Store and Apple App Store in India, ED questions Ahmed Patel for the third time in a week and Congress leader D K Shivakumar officially takes charge as president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-first-of-its-kind-plasma-bank-in-country-starts-functioning-856246.html
02-07-2020||National||Private train operations likely by April 2023: Indian Railways||Private train operations in the country will begin by April 2023, and the ticket fares in these trains will be competitive with airfares on similar routes, the Railways said Thursday. Addressing a press conference online, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said that private players in passenger train operations will mean a quantum jump in technology and coaches that run at higher speeds. The improvement in technology will also mean that the coaches that now require maintenance after running 4,000 km, will need maintenance after every 40,000-km, that is either once or twice a month, he said. His statement came a day after the Railways formally kickstarted its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network by inviting request for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pairs of routes through 151 modern trains. Allaying fears that the Railways network was being handed over to private parties, Yadav told the Thursday press conference that private participation in passenger train operations will only be five percent of the existing 2800 Mail/Express trains over IR. "Train sets have to be brought by private operators and maintained by them. Private train operations are likely to begin by April 2023, all coaches will be procured under Make in India policy. Fares in private trains will be competitive and prices on other modes of transport like airlines, buses will have to be kept in mind,” he said. He also said that the introduction of private players would also mean that trains will be available on demand and that passenger waitlist will decrease. Yadav said that the private operators will also pay fixed haulage charges for path, stations, access to railway infrastructure and charges for electricity consumed. It will also share revenue with Indian Rawailys through competitive bidding. The private entity has to ensure 95 percent punctuality and record not more than one failure per lakh kilometre of travel. "If any performance indicators are not met by private players in passenger train operations they will be penalised,” said Yadav. He also said that there will be a power meter in every locomotive and private operators will pay for the actual amount of energy consumed. This, Yadav said, will encourage them to keep their energy consumption low. "Through this the common man will get better trains, better technology and at low cost. The Indian Railways will continue to run 95 percent of the trains,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-train-operations-likely-by-april-2023-indian-railways-856247.html
02-07-2020||National||Govt snatching lifeline of poor: Rahul on Indian Railways inviting pvt players for train operations||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday hit out at the Centre over its move to invite private players in passenger train operations, alleging that the government is snatching the lifeline of the poor. He said the people of the country will give a befitting reply to this. "Railways is the only lifeline of the poor and the government is taking it away from them. Snatch whatever you wish to. But, do remember that the people of the country will give a befitting reply to this," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Railways on Wednesday formally kickstarted its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network by inviting request for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pairs of routes through 151 modern trains, the national transporter has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-snatching-lifeline-of-poor-rahul-on-indian-railways-inviting-pvt-players-for-train-operations-856250.html
02-07-2020||National||Eviction notice may expedite Priyanka Gandhi's shift to Lucknow||The eviction notice to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to vacate the Lodhi Estate bungalow in Delhi may 'expedite' her shift to the state capital of Lucknow to oversee the affairs of the party in Uttar Pradesh. According to the sources in the UP Congress party, Priyanka is likely to shift to the bungalow of late Sheila Kaul, who was the maternal aunt of former prime minister Indira Gandhi, at Gokhale Marg next month. Sources said that Priyanka, who was also the in-charge of the UP Congress, had plans to shift there early this year but the coronavirus outbreak delayed the plans. The Congress leader had stayed at the bungalow earlier for a few days. The bungalow, which was in a dilapidated state, had been renovated recently. The bungalow has a rich history. The huge banyan tree at the gate of the bungalow had been planted by Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi in 1936.  ''Now that Priyankaji will be vacating her Lodhi Estate bungalow this month, we may see her shifting to Lucknow and make it her permanent base as early as next month,'' said a senior UP Congress leader while speaking to DH on Thursday. For the state Congress leaders, the eviction notice, in fact, has come as a ''blessing in disguise''. ''We had been requesting Priyankaji to spend more time in the state....we will not have to travel to Delhi frequently to meet her and discuss issues related to the state every time if she stays here,'' the Congress leader said. Priyanka has been targeting the UP government through her social media accounts on a regular basis since last year's anti-CAA agitation in the state. She also took on the rival opposition parties, Samajwadi Party (SP) and BSP, and accused their chiefs of being ''undeclared spokesmen'' of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eviction-notice-may-expedite-priyanka-gandhis-shift-to-lucknow-856251.html
02-07-2020||National||Bribery case: Rana Kapoor gets interim protection till July 11||A special court here on Thursday granted interim protection from arrest till July 11 to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in a case registered against him by the CBI for allegedly obtaining illegal gratification from a realty firm. He was booked by the central investigating agency in March this year for allegedly obtaining Rs 307 crore bribe in the purchase of a Lutyen's zone bungalow in New Delhi from Avantha Group to go easy on around Rs 1,900 crore bank loans to the seller's group companies. Kapoor had moved an anticipatory bail application before a special CBI court here. He was granted interim protection from arrest till July 11 as the central probe agency was yet to file its reply in the matter, his lawyer said. The CBI is also probing Kapoor in connection with the alleged scam at the Yes Bank. Kapoor is currently lodged in jail after being arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a case related to Yes Bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bribery-case-rana-kapoor-gets-interim-protection-till-july-11-856256.html
02-07-2020||National||NHRC tells J&K, Ladakh to inform it about custodial, encounter deaths||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Ladakh to intimate it about any custodial death within 24 hours and encounter death within 48 hours as per its guidelines. NHRC Secretary General Jaideep Govind wrote to the Chief Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir and Commissioner Secretary of Ladakh in this regard on June 30. In his letter, Govind asked them to pass instructions to the concerned authorities for compliance of all instructions issued by the NHRC to send all requisite reports, including post-mortem, videography and magisterial enquiry report in all custodial deaths and encounter deaths. The erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was not under statutory obligation to follow the mandate of the NHRC in view of protection given in respect of subjects mentioned in List II of VII Schedule of the Constitution (State subjects) in the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993. "But after the amendment of Protection of Human Rights Act in 2019, there is no prohibition of exercising jurisdiction by the Commission like in all other States and UTs. Therefore, it is incumbent upon the UT of Jammu and Kashmir to follow the guidelines issued by the NHRC in case of custodial and encounter deaths, (which) happened within the territory of UT of J&K," he said. Ladakh was also issued a similar instruction. Jammu and Kashmir witnesses encounter killings due to terrorist activities, especially sponsored by Pakistan. The NHRC move also comes against the backdrop of revocation of special status under Article 370 to the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcating into two Union Territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-tells-jk-ladakh-to-inform-it-about-custodial-encounter-deaths-856276.html
02-07-2020||National||Indian Army brigadier succumbs to Covid-19 in Kolkata||An Indian Army brigadier, on Thursday, died due to Covid-19. He was posted at the Eastern Command.  According to sources the brigadier Vikas Samyal, posted in Kolkata, was admitted to a military hospital at Barrackpore in North 24 Paraganas district after he tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital is designated for treatment Covid-19 patients in the armed forces. They further revealed that as his condition began to deteriorate he was shifted to the Army’s Command Hospital in Kolkata. “Despite best efforts, he succumbed to acute respiratory problems resulting from Covid-19 infection and pneumonia,” sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-brigadier-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-kolkata-856277.html
02-07-2020||National||Narendra Modi, Vladimir Putin vow to strengthen India-Russia ties to address challenges of post-coronavirus world||With the military stand-off along India-China disputed boundary still continuing, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called up Russian President Vladimir Putin and reaffirmed the commitment of New Delhi and Moscow to further strengthen the “Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership” between the two nations. The two leaders agreed to maintain the momentum of bilateral contacts and consultations, leading to the annual bilateral summit to be held later this year in India. The Prime Minister conveyed his keenness to welcome the Russian President in India for the bilateral summit, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi. A statement issued by the Russian President’s office in Moscow said that Putin and Modi had agreed to continue close interaction, both in the bilateral format and within the framework of the international organisations. Modi’s call to Putin on Thursday was significant, as Moscow has been engaged in backchannel talks with both New Delhi and Beijing to help end the stand-off along the disputed India-China boundary, even as the violent face-off in Galwan Valley on June 15 escalated tension between the two neighbouring nations. However, the press-releases issued in New Delhi and Moscow after the talks between the two leaders had no reference to India-China stand-off. Modi’s call to Putin was also important as it came amid growing perception that China’s belligerence along its disputed boundary with India might push New Delhi closer to the United States. The Prime Minister congratulated the Russian President on the success of celebrations marking the 75th anniversary of the victory against Nazism in the World War 2. Modi recalled the participation of a contingent of the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force in the military parade held in Moscow on the occasion on June 24. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh attended the ceremony and had a meeting with Russian Defence Minister Sergey Shoygu. They discussed fast-tracking some contracts for supply of military hardware by Russia to India. Modi also congratulated Putin for successful completion of the vote on constitutional amendments in Russia. The leaders took note of the effective measures undertaken by the two countries to address the negative consequences of the Covid-19 global pandemic and agreed on the importance of closer India-Russia ties for jointly addressing the challenges of the post-coronavirus world, stated the MEA.  Modi spoke to Putin over the phone just before New Delhi announced its decision to procure 21 MiG-29 and 12 Sukhoi-30MKI fighter aircraft for the Indian Air Force (IAF) from Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-vladimir-putin-vow-to-strengthen-india-russia-ties-to-address-challenges-of-post-coronavirus-world-856283.html
02-07-2020||National||'Is Covid-19 weakening? When will vaccine for coronavirus come in India?', netizens ask Google||'Is coronavirus weakening?', 'When (will) vaccine for coronavirus (come) in India?' and 'Will the coronavirus ever end?' were among the top COVID-19 related questions on Google in India in the month of June, even as the overall search volume for coronavirus declined as compared to May, according to Google search trends. Netizens also sought answers to questions like 'Which mask is best for coronavirus?', 'How did New Zealand defeat coronavirus?', 'How many days symptoms of coronavirus?' and 'How many deaths from coronavirus in all world?', the data showed. Coronavirus-centric searches in June dropped 66 per cent from May, but volumes remained more than double that of February, it added. The top trending coronavirus searches were 'coronavirus news' and 'vaccine for coronavirus latest update'. "'Patanjali corona medicine', 'Global vaccine summit' and 'Dexamethasone' were all breakout vaccine-related searches in June," Google said. The state/union territory with the highest search interest for coronavirus in June was Goa, followed by Delhi and Chandigarh. The late actor Sushant Singh Rajput emerged as the top trending topic in the country in June. Interest for Rajput spiked sharply on June 14 to reach an all-time high nationally. Other overall trending topics included the solar eclipse and Father's Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-covid-19-weakening-when-will-vaccine-for-coronavirus-come-in-india-netizens-ask-google-856284.html
02-07-2020||National||Plea before Delhi court seeking FIR against Ramdev for falsely claiming to have found cure for Covid-19||An advocate has moved a Delhi Court seeking lodging of an FIR against yoga guru Baba Ramdev and others for allegedly cheating people by falsely claiming that his firm Patanjali has found a cure for Covid-19. The application, filed by advocate Tushar Anand, claimed that Ramdev and other persons “only had permission to make/produce an immunity booster and they are falsely representing/making a false claim in the media that they have found a cure for Covid-19.” “The accused persons are taking undue advantage of media and have made a false representation to the people who will buy the product since, the above said accused persons are claiming it to cure the said the deadly coronavirus. “By virtue of this the accused persons in a pre-planned hatched conspiracy with mala fide intentions to cause wrongful loss to the public at large by making such misrepresentations and with the intention to cause wrongful gain to themselves and also producing a product for which they never claimed/received a license by the concerned authorities,” the plea said. The application is likely to come up for hearing on Friday. It has sought lodging of the FIR under various sections including 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous), 420 (cheating) and 504 (intentionally insults with intent to provoke break of public peace).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-before-delhi-court-seeking-fir-against-ramdev-for-falsely-claiming-to-have-found-cure-for-covid-19-856287.html
02-07-2020||National||Private trains will bring no harm to existing train services, says Railways||Allaying fears that the Railways network was being handed over to private parties, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav on Tuesday said that proposed private passenger trains operations are less than 5% of existing passenger trains.  The railways at present operate over 2800 mail/express trains in its network and the same will continue to operate by national transporter and the number will be increased as per demand. Keeping in mind of poor, the railways itself will fix the tariffs for these trains, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told reporters here.  He was speaking to media a day after the Indian Railways formally kickstarted its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network by inviting requests for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pairs of routes through 151 modern trains. Private train operations in the country will begin by April 2023, and the ticket fares in these trains will be competitive with airfares on similar routes.  "The private operators are allowed to bring their own train sets and maintained by them. Private train operations are likely to begin by April 2023, all coaches will be procured under Make in India policy. Fares in private trains will be competitive and prices on other modes of transport like airlines, buses will have to be kept in mind," he said. Yadav said that the private operators will also pay fixed haulage charges for paths, stations, access to railway infrastructure, and charges for electricity consumed. It will also share revenue with Indian Rawailys through competitive bidding. The private entity has to ensure 95 % punctuality and record not more than one failure per lakh kilometer of travel. "If any performance indicators are not met by private players in passenger train operations they will be penalised," said Yadav. The introduction of private trains in addition to existing trains to cater the increasing demand with quality service. In 2019 total of 8.4 billion passengers traveled in trains while the number will be 30 billion by 2030. Keeping with demand, the railways will continue to introduce new trains.  The introduction of private players would also mean that trains will be available on-demand and that passenger waitlist will decrease. During the pre-lockdown period IRCTC, a catering, and ticketing arm of railways operated three trains-New Delhi-Lucknow, Mumbai -Ahmedabad, and Ujjain-Varanasi. Since all the three trains operated successfully with occupancy was more than 70%, the railways wanted to hand over more routes to private companies, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-trains-will-bring-no-harm-to-existing-train-services-says-railways-856288.html
02-07-2020||National||Advisory issued for Goa MLAs ahead of monsoon session||As Goa gears up to host its first state assembly session amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Speaker of the state legislative assembly Rajesh Patnekar on Thursday advised all MLAs to get themselves tested for Covid-19, even as lawmakers have also been advised to not conduct meetings or participate in public functions in enclosed spaces.  “Due to the prevailing situation in the country and Goa, it is advised to all members that it would be prudent not to have any meetings, briefings, and other activities which result in gatherings in an enclosed space. This is particularly in view of the assembly (monsoon) session that is scheduled to commence on July 27,” Goa’s Secretary Legislature Namrata Ulman said in an advisory to all legislators.  The advisory comes at a time when one ruling BJP MLA from South Goa district has already been diagnosed for Covid-19, along with three members of his family.  Speaking to reporters earlier on Thursday, Speaker Rajesh Patnekar said that it would be better if the state’s MLAs get themselves tested for Covid-19, because exigencies of their profession require them to interact with the public, especially in Covid-stricken areas.  "Definitely, it is better to have tests done. MLAs often have to rush to sites where Covid-19 cases are detected. People expect MLAs to help. By default they come in touch with some persons there when they reach the spot," Patnekar said.   "I request all MLAs to go for self-testing. It is my appeal to them," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/advisory-issued-for-goa-mlas-ahead-of-monsoon-session-856293.html
02-07-2020||National||Advocate moves SC for uniform school fee structure||An advocate has approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre and the States to waive off school fees and apply uniform structure for it during the period of lockdown. In a PIL, petitioner Reepak Kansal pointed out that the government and private schools and educational institutions have been demanding fees, including transport, building funds, maintenance charges, etc. from the parents, who are facing hard time due to Covid-19 situation. He said though there were no physical classes, schools were conducting online classes, which did not fall in the scope of schooling. Kansal maintained that the parents may be charged for the expenses for the said online classes proportionally from the students who have given prior consent and attended online classes. However, due to online classes, the students may suffer from various problems including week eye-sight, depression, anxiety, bi-polor, and disruptive behavior disorders. In his plea, he said there is a need for the court for interpretation and application of 'force majure' (unforseeable circumstances preventing fulfilling of contract) clause in the current circumstances and give a direction for uniform fee structure across the country. Earlier, a group of parents led by Sushil Sharma have approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre and States to ensure all the private and unaided schools do not charge any fees from the students since April 1 till commencement of physical classes, suspended due to the lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/advocate-moves-sc-for-uniform-school-fee-structure-856294.html
02-07-2020||National||NIA arrests one more accused in 2019 Pulwama fidayeen attack||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested one more person, allegedly involved in Pulwama suicide attack that killed 40 paramilitary CRPF personnel last February. The arrested person was identified as Mohammad Iqbal Rather (25) from Futlipura, Charar-e-Shareef, in central Kashmir’s Budgam district. “In the continuing investigation of Pulwama attack case in which 40 CRPF personnel were martyred, in an IED blast on 14.2.2019, today (i.e. on 02.07.2020) NIA arrested one more accused namely Iqbal Rather,” a spokesperson of the NIA said in a statement. He said Rather had facilitated the movement of Muhammad Umar Farooq, the JeM terrorist and a key conspirator in this case, after he infiltrated into the Indian territory in Jammu region in April, 2018, from the National Highway near International border to south Kashmir. “Farooq, along with others, had assembled the IED used in the attack,” the spokesperson said. According to the NIA, Rather had been undergoing judicial custody since September 2018 in another Jaish-e-Mohammed related case investigated by the probe agency. “As such, he was produced by the Jail authorities before the NIA Special Court, Jammu today i.e. 02.07.2020, and was taken into seven day’s NIA custody for his interrogation,” the spokesperson said. He said Initial examination has revealed that Rather was in constant touch with Pakistan-based leadership of the Jaish and was in communication with them over secure messaging applications. “Rather was part of the transportation module of the Jaish terrorist organization,” he said. With this arrest, the NIA has so far arrested six accused persons in this case. 40 CRPF personnel, travelling in a convoy on south Kashmir highway in Pulwama district, were killed on February 14, 2019 when suicide-bomber Adil Ahmad Dar rammed a car loaded with explosives into the paramilitary bus at around 3.15 pm at Lethpora. The impact of the blast reduced the bus to a mangled heap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-arrests-one-more-accused-in-2019-pulwama-fidayeen-attack-856312.html
02-07-2020||National||US non-committal on CAATSA waiver for India to buy fighter jets from Russia||The United States remained non-committal even as New Delhi has asked President Donald Trump’s administration for exemptions from sanctions to clear its way to procure from Russia 21 MiG-29 and 12 Sukhoi-30MKI fighter aircraft for the Indian Air Force (IAF). The ongoing military stand-off along the disputed India-China boundary prompted New Delhi to fast-track the procurement of the fighter aircraft from Russia. The procurement, however, may make India vulnerable to the US sanctions under Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). New Delhi already started a discussion with the US, arguing for exemption from the sanctions mandated by the CAATSA. Trump Administration, however, remained non-committal, underlining that the CAATSA itself had no provision for exemptions for India or any other particular country entering into a defence deal with Russia and the US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, would take calls on imposing sanctions mandated by the 2017 Act or granting exemptions on a case-to-case basis. The two sides are likely to continue talks on the issue. New Delhi’s envoy to Washington D.C., Taranjit Singh Sandhu, will meet US Deputy Secretary of State, Stephen Biegun, later on, Thursday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his US counterpart Mark Esper may speak to each other over the phone soon. The US Congress in July 2017 passed the CAATSA to impose sanctions on Russia, Iran, and North Korea. Trump signed it into law in August 2017 and its scope was further expanded in October 2017. Section 231 of the CAATSA mandated secondary sanctions to any nation entering into high-value deals to procure military hardware from Russia. The procurement of the 21 MiG 29 fighter jets from Russia and upgrading the 59 previously acquired fighter aircraft would cost India approximately Rs 7418 crore. The 12 Su-30 MKIs would be manufactured by the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) in India under license from Sukhoi Aviation JSC of Russia, involving an expenditure of Rs 10730 crore. “There is a growing strategic convergence between India and the US, particularly in the Indo-Pacific region,” a source in New Delhi told the DH, adding: “We hope the US will understand India’s need to expeditiously enhance its defence capabilities and will not take any action that could hinder efforts to boost our preparedness.” A spokesperson of the White House early on Thursday quoted the US President stating that China's aggression along its disputed boundary with India fit in with the larger pattern of the communist country’s belligerence in other parts of the world and such actions only confirmed the true nature of the Communist Party of China. India inked a Rs 39000 crore deal to buy S-400 Triumf long-range surface-to-air missile systems from Almaz-Antey Corporation of Russia in October 2018. The US, however, has not yet imposed the CAATSA sanctions on India for the deal with Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-non-committal-on-caatsa-waiver-for-india-to-buy-fighter-jets-from-russia-856333.html
02-07-2020||National||India committed towards strengthening ties with Nepal: MEA||India and Nepal have age-old civilizational ties of friendship and New Delhi remains committed towards strengthening them, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday, amid a strain in bilateral relations. India's assertion comes days after Nepalese Prime Minister K P Oli made critical remarks aimed at India, further straining bilateral relations already impacted over the map issue. Prime Minister Oli, 68, on Sunday claimed that there have been various kinds of activities in the "embassies and hotels" to remove him from power. He said some Nepalese leaders were also involved in the game. Asked about Oli's remarks and the strain in Indo-Nepal ties after Nepal amended its Constitution to update its new political map featuring areas which India maintains belong to it, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, "India and Nepal have age-old civilization ties of friendship, rooted as they are in deep cultural and societal linkages." "We remain committed towards continuously strengthening these ties," he said. India had termed Nepal' map move as "untenable" and asserted that artificial enlargement of territorial claims by Nepal is not based on historical facts or evidence. On trade issues, Srivastava said both sides have worked hard and diligently to ensure smooth flow of trade between the two countries. "Even during the times of most stringent COVID-19 lockdown measures in India, the movement of trade in goods and supplies have continued smoothly," he said. Asked about reports on problems in flood prevention-related works along the Indo-Nepal border, Srivastava said, "Repair and maintenance of embankments is being carried out regularly by the concerned state governments under the established mechanisms."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-towards-strengthening-ties-with-nepal-mea-856334.html
02-07-2020||National||India in talks with United States, Canada, European and Gulf countries on establishing air travel bubbles: AAI||India is in talks with the US and Canada and countries in the European and Gulf regions to establish individual bilateral bubbles which will allow airlines of each country in the pact to operate international flights, said the Airports Authority of India's chief on Thursday. The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MOCA) had on June 23 said India is considering establishing "individual bilateral bubbles" with the US, the UK, Germany and France. Airports Authority of India (AAI) Chairman Arvind Singh said, "This morning, I took a brief from the key point person (from the MOCA) who is negotiating with the countries, and he said that we are in constant touch. We are working on a consensus to restart the international flights. This is going to be through air bubbles." "Talks are mainly going on between India and the US, India and Canada, India and Europe and India and the Gulf countries to start flights in these bubbles," he said at a webinar called "Reposing the faith in flying" organised by the GMR group. Scheduled international passenger flights remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Singh said the MOCA official has informed him that the discussion with the countries is at a "very advanced" level and the effort is to restart international flights at the earliest. "I am sure there would be a positive outcome of the talks with the US, Canada and with the Gulf countries and the negotiations are going on," he noted. The EU has presently banned the flights from India as the number of coronavirus cases are rising in the country, Singh said. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had on June 20 said the government will start thinking on the resumption of scheduled international passenger flights in mid-July, when it expects the domestic air traffic to reach 50-55 per cent of the levels before the coronavirus. After nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak, the government resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights on May 25. However, it had then allowed the airlines to operate the maximum 33 per cent of their pre-COVID flights. The MOCA increased the limits on June 26 from 33 per cent to 45 per cent. The MOCA on June 23 had said, "As we contemplate further opening up in response to demands, we are looking at the prospect of establishing individual bilateral bubbles, India-US, India-France, India-Germany, India-UK. These are all destinations where demand for travel has not diminished. Final decisions pursuant to negotiations are expected to be taken soon." "We have received requests from authorities in several countries including the US, France, Germany among others requesting that their air carriers be allowed to participate in the transportation of passengers along the line being conducted by Air India under Vande Bharat Mission. These requests are being examined," it added. Air India started international chartered flights under the Vande Bharat Mission from May 6 to help people stranded due to the pandemic reach their destinations. The MOCA's June 23 statement had come after the US Department of Transport (DOT) said on June 22 that it appears that Air India may be using its passenger repatriation charter flights as a way of circumventing the government of India-imposed prohibition of all scheduled international services.   "We are taking this action (of allowing only those Air India flights from July 22 that have DOT's approval) because the Government of India has impaired the operating rights of the US carriers and has engaged in discriminatory and restrictive practices with respect to the US carrier services to and from India," the DOT had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-talks-with-united-states-canada-european-and-gulf-countries-on-establishing-air-travel-bubbles-aai-856346.html
02-07-2020||National||Italian Navy marines will not be prosecuted in India for killing Kerala fishermen; Rome to give compensation to New Delhi||The Italian Navy personnel, Massimilano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, will not be prosecuted or punished in India, although they had killed two fishermen from Kerala in the Arabian Sea eight years ago.   Rome, however, will have to pay compensation to New Delhi as firing by Latorre and Girone had resulted in the death of two citizens of India. An international arbitral tribunal ruled that the Italian Navy personnel had breached India’s freedom of navigation guaranteed under Articles 87(1) (a) and 90 of the United Nations Convention on Laws of Sea (UNCLOS) by firing upon and killing the fishermen on February 15, 2012. The fishermen, Ajesh and Valentine, had been sailing on a fishing boat “St Anthony”, when they had been fired upon by Latorre and Girone. The Italian Navy personnel had been deployed onboard the MV Enrica Lexie to guard the ship. They had mistaken Ajesh and Valentine to be pirates and shot them dead. A tribunal set up under the Annex VII of the UNCLOS and based at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague observed that India and Italy had concurrent jurisdiction over the incident and a valid legal basis to institute criminal proceedings against the Italian Navy personnel. It rejected Italy’s claim to compensation from India for detention of Latorre and Girone, who had been arrested by Kerala Police after the Indian Coast Guard had intercepted the ship and made it dock at the Kochi Port. It, however, found that the immunities enjoyed by Latorre and Girone as state officials operated “as an exception to the jurisdiction” of the courts in India and, hence, “preclude them to judge” the two Italian Navy marines, Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, stated on Thursday. He was briefing the media-persons on the award of the arbitral tribunal which was set up on June 26, 2015. The arbitral tribunal decided that India was entitled to payment of compensation in connection with loss of life, physical harm, material damage to property and moral harm suffered by the captain and other crew members of “St. Antony".  It held that New Delhi and Rome would “consult with each other with a view to reaching agreement on the amount of compensation Italy would pay to India. The tribunal also decided that it should retain jurisdiction, should India or Italy or both wish to apply for a ruling from it in respect of the quantum of compensation. It took note of the Italian Government’s commitment to resume its criminal investigation into the incident. The incident and the subsequent detention and trial of the Italian Navy personnel in India had emerged as a major irritant in relations between New Delhi and Rome. Italy finally moved the Permanent Court of Arbitration based in The Hague against India in June 2015. The arbitral tribunal had in May 2016 asked the two governments to approach the Supreme Court of India to allow Girone, who had already been on bail and had been staying in the Embassy of Italy in New Delhi, to go home. Latorre had already been in Italy since September 2014 after the Supreme Court had allowed him to go to his country for a surgery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/italian-navy-marines-will-not-be-prosecuted-in-india-for-killing-kerala-fishermen-rome-to-give-compensation-to-new-delhi-856354.html
02-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Trial of the first Indian vaccine will be in 12 hospitals including one in Karnataka||The clinical trial of the first Indian vaccine against Covid-19 will take place in about a dozen hospitals, including one in Karnataka and two AIIMS at Delhi and Patna, but ironically it is the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic that may delay the process a bit. Belgavi’s Jeevan Sakhi Multi-speciality hospital would be among the units where the multi-city clinical trial of the vaccine will be conducted. Two All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Hyderabad’s Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences would also be a part of the trial. Developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the first few batches of the vaccine named Covaxin have been sent to the Central Research Institute, Kasauli, for certification following which they would be dispatched to hospitals involved in the trial. In a parallel process, ethical committee approvals are being taken. “Even though the trial is slated to begin in July 2020, arranging the logistics of vaccine transportation in the middle of so many restrictions imposed by the government due to the Covid-19 pandemic has turned out to be a challenge. I can’t commit now on when the trial would start and when we would receive the results,” Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech told DH. The Drugs Controller General of India has granted permission to initiate Phase I and II human clinical trials after the company submitted results generated from pre-clinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response. The phase-1 trial is to check the vaccine’s safety in human beings while phase-II would look at the efficacy in a limited way. During the trial, medical researchers will examine the vaccine’s efficacy with a single dose as well as with a double dose on the 1st and 14th day. The vaccine was made from an ineffective strain of the Covid-19 virus isolated at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Inactivated vaccines have been around for decades. Several such vaccines are used to fight against seasonal influenza, polio, rabies, Pertussis and Japanese Encephalitis. Once the vaccine is injected into a human, it has no potential to infect or replicate, since it is a killed virus. It just serves the immune system as a dead virus and mounts an antibody response towards the virus. Bharat Biotech produced the first GMP-grade batch of the vaccine within 40 days of receiving the isolate from the NIV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-trial-of-the-first-indian-vaccine-will-be-in-12-hospitals-including-one-in-karnataka-856358.html
02-07-2020||National||Sincerely follow up on talks between military commanders, diplomats: India to China||India on Thursday asked China to sincerely implement the understanding reached during the three meetings between the senior military officials of the two nations to resolve the two-month-long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.  New Delhi expects Beijing to “sincerely follow up and ensure expeditious restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas as per bilateral agreements and protocols”, Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. He also said that Indian and Chinese diplomats as well as the military officials would continue to hold talks to end the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh.  Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, had yet another marathon meeting with his counterpart Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on Tuesday. It was the third meeting between them after transgressions by the Chinese PLA in multiple locations across the LAC in eastern Ladakh and build-ups, as well as the Indian Army’s countermeasures, escalated tension along India-China disputed boundary. They earlier had similar meetings on June 6 and June 22.  The meeting between the senior commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies on Tuesday saw both sides emphasizing “the need for expeditious, phased and step-wise de-escalation” and agreeing that it should be done as a priority, in keeping with the agreement reached between External Affairs Ministers S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during June 17 phone-call to handle the overall situation in a responsible manner, said the MEA spokesperson. Jaishankar and Wang had also agreed that the two sides would sincerely implement the disengagement understanding of June 6. “The discussions in the latest meeting of the Senior Commanders reflected the commitment of both sides to reduce the tensions along the LAC.”  The senior diplomats of India and China will also continue engagement within the framework of the “Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on Border Affairs”, said Srivastava.  New Delhi and Beijing instituted the WMCC in 2013 to open a channel of communication between the diplomats of the two nations to avert flashpoints along the disputed boundary. The first engagement under the WMCC on the current stand-off had taken place on June 24, when the diplomats of the two nations had a video-conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sincerely-follow-up-on-talks-between-military-commanders-diplomats-india-to-china-856363.html
02-07-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi demands revocation of H-1B visas' suspension by US||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday demanded that the suspension of H-1B visa by the United States be revoked as it would impact millions of Indians and US firms. "America has benefited enormously by embracing India's vast talent pool through its H-1B program. Its suspension will impact millions of Indians and US firms. It should be revoked," he said on Twitter. US President Donald Trump on June 23 issued a proclamation to suspend issuing of H-1B visa, which is popular among Indian IT professionals, along with other foreign work visas for the rest of the year, to protect American workers in a crucial election year. The proclamation that came into effect on June 24, is expected to impact a large number of Indian IT professionals and several American and Indian companies who were issued H-1B visas by the US government for the fiscal year 2021 beginning October 1. Democratic presidential candidate and former US Vice President Joe Biden has said that he will lift the temporary suspension on H-1B visas if he wins the November presidential elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-demands-revocation-of-h-1b-visas-suspension-by-us-856365.html
02-07-2020||National||2.13 cr migrants get free foodgrains during May-June under AtmaNirbhar Bharat Scheme||States have distributed free foodgrains to 2.13 crore migrants till June 30 as against their initial estimates to cover 2.8 crore people under the AtmaNirbhar Bharat Scheme, according to the Union food ministry. States have been asked to give final figures by July 15 and the provisional number of 2.13 crore migrants benefitted under this scheme could rise, it said. Under AtmaNirbhar Bharat package, the Centre had decided that 8 lakh tonne of foodgrains will be provided to about 8 crore migrant labourers, stranded and needy families, who are not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) or state scheme PDS (Public distribution system) cards. Five kgs of foodgrains per person were to be distributed free of cost for the months of May and June. One kg pulses per month per family were also to be supplied. In an official statement, the food ministry on Thursday said the Department of Food & Public Distribution (DoFPD) had allocated a total quantity of about 8 lakh tonne of foodgrains (7 lakh tonne rice and 1 lakh tonnes wheat) to all states/UTs under the AtmaNirbhar Bharat Scheme. This was aimed at mitigating the food-security plight of the migrant/stranded migrant workers/labourers and other needy persons who were not covered under the NFSA or under any other State PDS scheme, or not able to access their NFSA foodgrains, during the unprecedented Covid-19 situation. "Since no data on actual/estimated number of migrants/stranded migrants across the country were available with the DoFPD, a liberal figure of 8 crore migrant persons (10% of total 80 crore NFSA population) was estimated," the statement said. "The initial estimate of 8 crore persons was liberal and in response to the situation as projected in the media," it added. State Governments were given complete freedom in distribution and they were free to distribute this additional ration to anyone who did not possess any ration card, the ministry said. "It is a matter of satisfaction that all those who needed to be fed were fed and it is a matter of relief that this number turned out to be much less at 2.13 crore than the initially estimated number of 8 crore," the statement said. The ministry said "8 crore migrants should not be construed as the real target but an intended target to serve if it had existed." Moreover, it was always a dynamic number with the cross-movement, reverse migration to home States/UT and migration in transit. The ministry said large coverage of persons under NFSA/State ration cards has drastically altered the dynamics of the migrant population and, hence the coverage under the AtmaNirbhar Bharat scheme was much less than estimated. During the lockdown period, the ministry said, in addition to regular NFSA food-grains amounting to 127.64 lakh tonne, an additional 157.33 lakh tonne of foodgrains were lifted by states, NGOs etc under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana and other schemes. Many States/UTs have informed that a majority of targeted migrants have already moved back to their home States/UTs where they may have access to NFSA/State Scheme foodgrains, the statement said. Therefore, the ministry said the liberally allocated quantity of 8 lakh tonne of foodgrains under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme might not be utilised/distributed completely. "as per figures indicated initially by States/UTs during the course of identification, an approximate number of about 2.8 crore persons was projected to be covered against which as per provisional figures received up to June 30, 2.13 crore persons had reportedly been covered. "This is about 76 per cent of the original estimate of 2.8 crore," the statement said. In fact, states have lifted about 6.4 lakh tonne of food grains which is 80 per cent of the initial allocation of 8 lakh tonne. The ministry said States have been asked to submit their final figures of distribution by July 15, 2020, The final figure of coverage under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme could be substantially higher than the provisional figure of 2.13 crore reported as on June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/213-cr-migrants-get-free-foodgrains-during-may-june-under-atmanirbhar-bharat-scheme-856368.html
02-07-2020||National||Centre allows home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients||As Covid-19 cases surge, Centre on Thursday revised the guidelines to allow asymptomatic patients to recuperate in isolation in the safe confines of their homes. “In view of a large number of asymptomatic cases being detected, the current guidelines have been extended to asymptomatic positive cases also besides very mild and pre-symptomatic cases,” the revised guidelines said. The Centre had issued guidelines for home isolation of mild and pre-symptomatic cases on May 10 to ease the pressure on healthcare facilities. “The person should be clinically assigned as a very mild/pre-symptomatic/ asymptomatic case by the treating medical officer,” the guidelines said adding that such patients should have a requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining family contacts.  Elderly patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease, the cerebrovascular disease shall only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer, the guidelines said. However, patients suffering from the immune-compromised status as seen in HIV infected individuals, transplant recipients, or patients undergoing cancer therapy, will not be eligible for home isolation. The order also specifically adds that the home isolation has to be prescribed by the treating doctor after he or she has satisfied himself or herself that the patient doesn’t need hospital care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-home-isolation-for-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-856373.html
02-07-2020||National||India welcomes FDI in internet technology, but foreign entities will have to abide by law of land||Three days after banning the use of 59 Chinese apps in India, New Delhi on Thursday said that it would continue to welcome foreign investments in the area of internet technology, but foreign entities would have to abide by the laws of the land. “While we will continue to welcome foreign investments in India, including in the area of internet technologies, this will have to be in accordance with the rules and regulatory framework established by the Government,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. Beijing on Tuesday “firmly opposed” India’s move to ban the use of 59 apps linked to China, stating that New Delhi abused the “national security exception” to the rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO). New Delhi dismissed the allegation by Beijing. “India has one of the most open regimes in the world for attracting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). In the last few years, the Government has taken a host of measures for creating a more investor-friendly regime. Similarly in the area of digital technology and the internet, India has adopted a very open regime,” said the MEA spokesperson. He noted that India was today one of the world’s largest markets for digital and internet technologies with more than 680 million subscribers. “The world’s largest software and internet applications companies are present in India. Naturally while operating in India they have to abide by our rules and regulations issued by the relevant ministries and departments, including those pertaining to data security and privacy of individual data,” he added. The Embassy of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) in New Delhi expressed serious concerns over the ban imposed by the Government of India. It stated that the ban “selectively and discriminatorily” targeted the apps developed by the companies based in the communist country on “ambiguous and far-fetched grounds”. New Delhi’s move to ban the apps came amid continuing military stand-off along the disputed India-China boundary in eastern Ladakh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government stated that the apps had been used in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the state and public order”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-welcomes-fdi-in-internet-technology-but-foreign-entities-will-have-to-abide-by-law-of-land-856375.html
02-07-2020||National Politics||What will happen to TikTok stars who joined BJP? asks Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Thursday termed the ban on 59 Chinese apps by the Indian government as a "digital strike" and asked if these apps were a threat to the national security, how did they operate for so many years. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' sought to know when did the Centre realise these apps were a threat to the national security. There have been complaints earlier that users' data on Chinese apps was illegally sent out of the country, and apps like TikTok were "promoting vulgarity", it said. "Many TikTok stars had reportedly joined the BJP," the Sena claimed. "What will happen to them?" it asked. By banning the Chinese apps, Prime Minister Narendra Modi protected the interests of Indian internet users and his courage has be lauded, the Marathi publication said. India on Monday banned 59 apps with Chinese links, including TikTok, UC Browser, SHAREit and WeChat, saying they were prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. "If these apps were a threat to national security, how is it that these apps were functioning without any hurdles for so many years. If the opposition says the government neglected national security,then what will the Centre's stand be?" the Shiv Sena asked. It said questions should be raised on all the previous governments for "allowing national data to go out of the country". China has expressed displeasure over the Indian government's decision, the Marathi daily said, adding that Chinese soldiers are "still not ready to leave the Galwan Valley (in Ladakh)". The Sena said it took the sacrifices of 20 soldiers for the government to realise Indian data was being illegally taken out of the country. "The government took revenge by a digital strike," it stated. There is a need to break China economically, but that will not happen by banning its apps. The issue is about trade and investment between the two countries, it said. "The largest Chinese investment is in Gujarat. Chinese company Huawei has got the contract to set up 5G network in India. This company having keys to India's digital economy is akin to the Chinese Communist Party owning the Indian economy in future," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-will-happen-to-tiktok-stars-who-joined-bjp-asks-shiv-sena-856152.html
02-07-2020||National Politics||CPI(M), CPI, CITU oppose govt's move for private investment in Railways||CPI(M), CPI and CPI(M)-backed CITU on Thursday took umbrage at the Narendra Modi government's decision to initiate private investment in Railways, saying it will lead to "self subservience and not self reliance" and a move that will eat up jobs. While demanding recall of the decision, the three outfits also found fault with the timing of the decision that came "at a time when the country and the people are in the midst of a serious effort to combat the surging" Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry of Railways on Wednesday announced that it has invited Request for Qualifications (RFQ) of private participation for operation of passenger train services for over 109 Origin Destination(OD) pairs of routes through introduction of 151 modern trains in 12 clusters. The project would entail private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crore and is the "first initiative of private investment for running passenger trains over Indian Railways network". The CPI(M) Polit Bureau said it is the first time this is happening in independent India that trains are being run by private investors, who will utilise the network established overcenturies with all the required infrastructure to run passenger trains and make "super profits". "The livelihood of crores of our people are dependent on the railways. Such privatisation undermines the basis of India’s self-reliant economy. Contrary to the claim that this will boost job generation, past experience has shown that such privatisation results in a huge job loss creating insecurity for crores of employees of the Indian Railways," it said. The CPI(M) also said the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi "refuse to learn from international experience" of how such privatisation of public transporthas imposed unprecedented difficulties and burdens on the people. Asserting that Railways is a public service and not a profit generating enterprise, the CPI(M) said this character should not be undermined. CPI General Secretary D Raja said the BJP government is "determined" to hand over all the national assets and resources to the private corporates. "Any private entity investing Rs 30,000 crore will expect a huge profit from its investment resulting in huge increase in the railway ticket fare. Train, which is the common man’s transport, will go beyond his reach. Already three lakh posts in Railways are lying vacant. This decision will take away the dream of the Indian youth to get a Railway job," he said. Calling for a united struggle against the decision to "benefit the profit hungry corporates, domestic and foreign" entities, the CITU described the government move as "anti-national" and said it is "appalling" that the government chose the lockdown period to fast track this "anti national" policy. It said the BJP government has permitted 100% FDI in manufacturing and maintenance of rolling stock, signalling and electric workers and dedicated freight lines. In the name of redevelopment of railway stations, it has started handing over the railway stations along with the huge amounts of real estate to the private corporates. "The government claims of Rs 30,000 crore investment and employment generation has no meaning as the drainage due to loss of revenue to the Indian Railways in these revenue generating routes and high speed trains will more than neutralise the said hypothetical figure. The employment lost due to privatisation of our production units, the jewels of Indian Railways, in the railway workshops, in maintenance units, etc. will be many times more than the employment created by the private players. Most of the jobs that will be created will be precarious jobs, not permanent jobs with decent wages and social security," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-cpi-citu-oppose-govts-move-for-private-investment-in-railways-856201.html
02-07-2020||National Politics||Congress leaders slam Anupam Kher for quoting Sikh guru's words to 'describe' BJP's Sambit Patra||Punjab minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Thursday slammed actor Anupam Kher, accusing him of using “sacred words” of Sikh Guru Gobind Singh to “describe” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. Kher had tweeted “Sawa lakh se ek bhida dun” while tagging Patra. His tweet came after Patra was being trolled on social media for posting a picture of a three-year-old boy sitting on the body of his grandfather who was killed in Jammu and Kashmir's Sopore on Wednesday. In a statement here, Punjab cabinet minister Sukhjinder Randhawa accused Kher of using the holy 'shabad' of Guru Gobind Singh "merely to please his political master Sambit Patra”. He also charged Kher with hurting sentiments of the Sikh community “under a well thought conspiracy” and said Sikhs will never tolerate it. Randhawa also asked the Shiromani Akali Dal to make their stand clear on the Kher's tweet besides demanding the intervention of the Akal Takht Jathedar. “This tweet of @AnupamPKher is highly derogatory, most condemnable. Sikhs r deeply hurt @Akali_Dal_@officeofssbadal @HarsimratBadal_ @bsmajithia should make their stand clear I demand sacking of kher, his wife from BJP Request intervention of Jathedaar Sri Akal Takht sahib,” Randhawa tweeted. Taking strong exception to the Kher's tweet, Ludhiana Congress MP Bittu said in his tweet, “How dare @AnupamPKher use sacred words of Guru Gobind Singh ji to describe the spokesperson of BJP. It spoils the martial image of Sikhs.” Bittu further termed it a bid by the RSS to “dilute strong tenets of Sikhism”. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should tender an immediate apology and kick out Kher and his wife from the BJP. Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring also sought action against Kher. He asked who gave Kher the right to “distort Gurbani” while saying it was not a dialogue of his film. @PunjabPoliceInd & @MumbaiPolice this man is playing with religious sentiments of Sikh's. Kindly take immediate & appropriate action against him,” Warring tweeted. However, the actor, whose wife Kirron Kher is a BJP MP from Chandigarh, later sought an apology for his tweet. Activists of the Youth Congress here held a protest against Kher for allegedly hurting sentiments of Sikhs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-slam-anupam-kher-for-quoting-sikh-gurus-words-to-describe-bjps-sambit-patra-856372.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Bihar: Covid-19 death toll reaches 73; tally crosses 10,000-mark||With five fresh coronavirus casualties in the past 24 hours, the death toll due to the disease in Bihar increased to 73, while the total number of cases reached 10,204 after 217 people tested positive, a health department official said on Wednesday. Of the five deaths, two happened a few days ago but they were recorded on Wednesday, while three others succumbed on Tuesday, Health Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in a statement. These Covid-19 patients were suffering from other serious diseases too, he said. The state now has 2,320 active cases while 7,811 patients recovered from the disease and 73 died. The health secretary said the state’s recovery rate is at 77.52 per cent which is significantly higher than the national recovery rate of 59.43 per cent. A total of 7,799 samples have been collected for testing in the past 24 hours. Districts which have reported high incidence of positive cases include Patna (747), Bhagalpur (500), Madhubani (467), Siwan (419), Begusarai (452), Munger (365), Samastipur (362), Katihar (348), Rohtas (343), Muzaffarpur (313), Nawada (308) and Khagaria (304). Cases have been reported from all the 38 districts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-covid-19-death-toll-reaches-73-tally-crosses-10000-mark-856017.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Ex-HSSC chairman booked over irregularities in recruitment of training instructors||The Haryana Vigilance Bureau has booked the former chairman and the then members of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission over alleged irregularities in recruitment of 1,983 physical training instructors during the previous Congress regime in the state. In the FIR registered on June 30 by the vigilance bureau at Panchkula, the former chairman and members, who have been made co-accused in the case, were booked for allegedly misusing their positions and changing selection criteria to help certain candidates get selected, officials said here on Thursday. The case was registered based on a complaint by the vigilance bureau's DSP following a communication from Haryana's Advocate General B R Mahajan, who after going through the court verdict regarding selection of the instructors had asked for a vigilance probe. The FIR does not name any accused. The case was registered under various IPC provisions pertaining to criminal misconduct by a public servant, forgery for the purpose of cheating, false evidence, public servant disobeying law, and under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.  The single-judge bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, on September 11, 2012, had set aside the selection of the 1,983 instructors made by the Commission on April 10, 2010, in pursuance of the advertisement issued in 2006 on account of changes made in the selection process. In April this year, the Supreme Court had upheld the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing appointment of the 1,983 physical training instructors in schools of Haryana in 2010, and asked the state staff selection commission to conduct the recruitment process afresh. The apex court had upheld the verdicts passed by the single and division benches of the high court quashing the appointment process conducted during the then Congress government led by Bhupinder Singh Hooda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-hssc-chairman-booked-over-irregularities-in-recruitment-of-training-instructors-856091.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||2 more Covid-19 deaths in J&K; total fatalities at 107||Two Covid-19 positive patients died at SKIMS hospital during the night, the officials said. They said a 55-year-old man from Yaripora area of South Kashmir's Kulgam district died around midnight. He was admitted to the hospital on June 22 with "hypertension with T2 DM with multifocal encephalopathy," they said. A 65-year-old man from Sopore area of Baramulla district of north Kashmir passed away at around 3 am, the officials said. They said he was also admitted to the hospital on June 22 and was suffering from hypertension and community-acquired pneumonia. The cause of the death was sudden cardiopulmonary arrest, the officials added. With these deaths, the number of Covid-19 fatalities in Jammu and Kashmir has risen to 107. On Wednesday, Jammu and Kashmir had recorded 198 fresh Covid-19 cases, raising the tally in the union territory to 7,695, officials had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-more-covid-19-deaths-in-jk-total-fatalities-at-107-856093.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Bahraich MLA to give free face masks to those deleting Chinese apps from mobile phones||A BJP MLA here has started a campaign to provide free face masks to all those who delete Chinese applications from their mobile phones. "After banning of 59 Chinese apps in the country by the Centre, I have started a campaign of providing free face masks for deleting Chinese apps," said local BJP MLA Anupama Jaiswal. The campaign is being run with the help of the party's Mahila Morcha. Jaiswal was Minister of State for Basic Education but was removed last year by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath after allegations of corruption were made against her. India on June 29 banned 59 apps with Chinese links, including hugely popular TikTok and UC Browser, saying they were prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. The ban, which comes in the backdrop of the current stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh with Chinese troops, marked the largest sweep against Chinese technology companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bahraich-mla-to-give-free-face-masks-to-those-deleting-chinese-apps-from-mobile-phones-856113.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Lightning kills three people in Uttar Pradesh||Three people were killed and 12 injured in lightning strikes in Sikandarpur and Bhimpura areas of the district in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Thursday. They said 10 people working in a field were injured after being struck by lightning in Mahthapar village on Wednesday. They were rushed to a hospital, where two women identified as Savita and Sheela died during treatment. In a separate incident in Rampur Madai village in Bhimpura area, a farmer working in his field died after being struck by lightning. In another incident in Hajouth village in Khejuri area, four women were injured after being hit by lightning. They were rushed to a hospital, where their condition was stated to be stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lightning-kills-three-people-in-uttar-pradesh-856115.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh cabinet expanded, 28 ministers take oath||The Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh cabinet was expanded on Thursday with induction of 28 ministers, including a dozen loyalists of BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose exit from the Congress in March led to the fall of the Kamal Nath-led regime in the state. Governor Anandiben Patel administered the oath of office to the new ministers at a function in the Raj Bhawan. The event was organised by following Covid-19 protocols. Those inducted include 20 cabinet ministers and eight ministers of state. Prominent among the new ministers are BJP MLAs Yashodhara Raje Scindia and Gopal Bhargava. Chouhan took oath as chief minister for a record fourth term on March 23 this year, after Kamal Nath resigned from the post following rebellion by 22 MLAs of the Congress. The initial "mini" expansion of the Chouhan cabinet took place on April 21 with the induction of five ministers, including two former Congress MLAs close to Scindia -- Tulsi Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-expanded-28-ministers-take-oath-856128.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Babri trial: Uma Bharti appears before CBI court||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti on Thursday appeared in person before a special court here conducting trial in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case, accusing the then Congress-led central government of framing her due to political vendetta. Bharti alleged that the then central government got an FIR lodged against her and others in the demolition case in order to fulfil its political intentions, and on the basis of fabricated evidence they were falsely implicated under political pressure. Rebutting the evidence produced by the prosecuting agency, CBI, she said that the witnesses deposed against her due to political enmity. Bharti was deposing before special CBI judge SK Yadav under section 313 of the CrPC. Under these proceedings, the trial court enables the accused to plead for his or her innocence and rebut prosecution evidence. She said that she would produce her defense evidence. In this case, there are 32 accused. Calling herself a "Ram Bhakt", senior BJP leader Uma Bharti asserted that she took part in the (Ram Mandir) campaign with full faith and with a feeling of devotion towards Lord Ram. Bharti said, "As far as we are concerned, I am a Ram Bhakt (a devotee of Lord Ram). Everyone has faith in Lord Ram, and I too have faith in Him. I took part in the campaign with full devotion and with a feeling of devotion for Lord Ram. And, for this, I will always consider myself 'gauravshaali' (fortunate). I will always be proud that I took part in this campaign." Bharti added that she was a second-time MP when she took part in the temple campaign. She also asserted, "I will be satisfied and proud over the fact that my life is ready for Ganga, tiranaga (tricolour), gau (cow), gareeb (poor), naari (women) and Ram." The special CBI court is currently recording the statements of 32 accused under CrPC section 313 (court's power to examine the accused), a stage in the trial that follows the examination of prosecution witnesses. As the senior BJP leader came out of the court, she said, "I consider the law of India as Vedas, the court as the temple and the judge as a form of God. Whatever, I said before him, I cannot comment on it, because judgment on those things is yet to come. Hence, whatever case is going on inside (the court), on those statements, I have nothing to say anything." "But, I would definitely say that this battle continued for a long time -- 500 years. I doubt that there will be any such campaign in the entire world, which lasted for 5 centuries, and in those 5 centuries it only intensified. And eventually, the judgement of the Supreme Court came. The way in which the judgement was welcomed by the people of India, it brightened the country's image in the world. As far as India is concerned, it is assumed that religious divide prevails here. But, the unity, which was seen after the judgment of the apex court it established a tradition of pride for India," Uma Bharti said. "The grand culmination of Ayodhya case through the judgement of the Supreme Court, the 500-year-old campaign and acceptance of the judgement by the people is overwhelming, and a matter of pride for us," she added. The 61-year-old saffron clad BJP leader is the 19th accused to depose before the court in the over 27-year-old case.         Thirteen other accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani and senior BJP leaders MM Joshi and Kalyan Singh are yet to be examined at this stage.         Their lawyers have indicated to the CBI court that they prefer to appear through video conference. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished in December 1992 by ''kar sevaks'' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple had stood on the same site. The CBI court is conducting day-to-day hearings to complete the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-trial-uma-bharti-appears-before-cbi-court-856129.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Five more Covid-19 deaths, 115 fresh cases in Rajasthan||Rajasthan reported deaths of five coronavirus patients and 115 fresh cases of the disease on Thursday, taking the total number of fatalities and infections to 426 and 18,427 respectively, according to an official report here.  Two deaths each were reported from Jodhpur and Bikaner and one death was reported from Barmer, it said. Udaipur reported a maximum of 21 cases, while Bikaner reported 12 cases. Ten cases each were reported from Rajsamand and Dholpur, nine each from Jaipur and Jalore, eight from Nagaur, six from Bharatpur, five each from Karauli and Sirohi besides cases from other districts of the state, the report stated. Of the total patients, 14,340 people have been discharged following recovery and 3,358 are active cases in the state, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-more-covid-19-deaths-115-fresh-cases-in-rajasthan-856133.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: 17 Tablighi Jamaat members released on bail||Seventeen members of the Tablighi Jamaat from Indonesia and Thailand, who were arrested in March, have been released on bail, police said on Thursday. Chief Judicial Magistrate Navneet Kumar Bharti on Wednesday ordered their release on surety of Rs 25,000 each. The foreigners, 10 from Indonesia and seven from Thailand, were arrested in March under various sections, including the Passport Act, the Foreigners' Act and the Epidemic Act. They were in jail from April 11 after completing their quarantine period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-17-tablighi-jamaat-members-released-on-bail-856135.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army resorts to firing along LoC in two sectors in Jammu & Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistani troops resorted to firing in various forward areas in twin sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Thursday, prompting the Indian Army to give a befitting reply, officials said. "At around 0930 hours today, Pakistani Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms along the LoC in Kirni and Shahpur sectors of Poonch district," a defence spokesperson said. "The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly," he said. Firing and shelling between the two sides were continuing when the last report came in, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-resorts-to-firing-along-loc-in-two-sectors-in-jammu-kashmirs-poonch-856138.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||ED questions Congress leader Ahmed Patel for 3rd time in PMLA case||Enforcement Directorate (ED) investigators on Thursday began the third round of questioning of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel at his residence here in connection with the Sandesara brothers bank fraud and money laundering case probe, officials said. A three-member team of the central agency along with a few other officials reached Patel's 23, Mother Teresa Crescent home in the Lutyens' zone of central Delhi around 11 am. Agency sleuths have questioned Patel, 70, in two separate sessions clocking about 17 hours on June 27 and June 30. He was allowed questioning at home by the agency after the Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat refused to visit the ED office citing prevailing Covid-19 guidelines that discourage senior citizens from going out. Officials said Patel's statement is being recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) during the latest session. He is being questioned about his purported links with Vadodara-based Sterling Biotech pharmaceutical company promoters, the Sandesara brothers, and alleged dealings of his family members with them. The agency, last year, had questioned Patel's son Faisal Patel and son-in-law Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui in this case and recorded their statements. The two were questioned in the context of the statement of one Sunil Yadav, an employee of the Sandesara group, which was earlier recorded before the agency. In his statement to the ED, Yadav had said that he bore "expenses of Rs 10 lakh" for a party which was attended by Faisal, "arranged" entry in a night club for him and once delivered "Rs 5 lakh" to his driver in Khan Market on the instructions of Chetan Sandesara, one of the promoters of the pharma firm, sources had said. Yadav had told the ED that the cash was "meant for Faisal Patel", the sources said. The agency was also told by Yadav that Siddiqui "occupied" a house in Vasant Vihar area of Delhi that reportedly belonged to Chetan Sandesara. This money laundering case pertains to the alleged Rs 14,500 crore bank loan fraud that is said to have been perpetrated by Sterling Biotech and its main promoters and directors -- Nitin Jayantilal Sandesara, Chetankumar Jayantilal Sandesara and Deepti Sandesara -- all of whom are absconding. Nitin and Chetankumar are brothers. The agency has alleged that this is a bigger bank scam in volume than the PNB fraud involving diamantaires Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. The total fraud amount pegged in the PNB case is about Rs 13,400 crore. The Sandesaras are also facing separate probes by the CBI and the Income Tax Department for their alleged nexus with some high-profile politicians and charges of corruption and tax evasion, respectively. At present, they are stated to be based in Albania, from where India is trying to extradite them. The ED registered a criminal case in connection with the alleged bank loan fraud on the basis of an FIR and a charge sheet filed by the CBI. It is alleged that the company took loans of over Rs 5,383 crore from a domestic consortium led by the Andhra Bank, which later turned into non-performing assets. Patel, while speaking to reporters on Saturday, had said he replied to the questions that the "guests" of the government posed to him. "I am surprised that instead of fighting China... coronavirus and unemployment, the government is fighting the opposition," he had said. The law should be allowed to take its course and someone who has not done any wrong should not fear, Patel had said. He had accused the government of "using probe agencies every time it faced a crisis or when there was an election".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-questions-congress-leader-ahmed-patel-for-3rd-time-in-pmla-case-856144.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi's first plasma bank to treat Covid-19 operational||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal released numbers -- 1031 for calls and 8800007722 for WhatsApp -- for people to contact if they wish to register themselves to donate plasma. In his digital address, Kejriwal said only Covid-19 patients can donate plasma and that too only after 14 days of recovery. Recovered Covid-19 patients in the age group of 18 to 60 years and with weight above 50 kg can donate. Women who ever became pregnant, those who are diabetic and taking insulin, those with hypertension or blood pressure above 140, cancer survivors and those with chronic lung, heart, liver and kidney ailments are not allowed to donate plasma. "Once you leave out these people, the number of those eligible to donate plasma will be very less. Those who are eligible should come forward as this is an opportunity to save a life. We get very few opportunities to save lives," he said.  Those registering to donate plasma will be contacted by a doctor who assesses the donor. Following this, the government will approach the donor to arrange an appointment with the state government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in south Delhi's Vasant Kunj for plasma donation. The donor will be provided with a taxi or reimbursement for the conveyance. Kejriwal said no patient or their families can approach ILBS for plasma on their own. He said, "Individuals cannot approach the Plasma Bank directly. The doctors will have to prescribe and then the hospitals will have to make the call, not the patient or his family," he said.  Plasma therapy uses blood donated by recovered patients to introduce antibodies in Covid-19 patients who are under treatment. Delhi was among one of the first states to use plasma therapy, although it is not considered a definite line of treatment. Kejriwal, who announced the setting up of Plasma Bank on Monday, acknowledged that plasma therapy is not the panacea for Covid-19 and it will have to be used till a vaccine is developed for the deadly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-first-plasma-bank-to-treat-covid-19-operational-856145.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Use of mosques by ultras a new dimension in Kashmir militancy: CRPF||Stating that the use of mosques by militants has been a new dimension in Kashmir militancy, Special Director General of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Zulfikar Hassan on Thursday appealed to masjid committees to ensure that religious places aren’t “hijacked” by ultras. “In the anti-militancy operations, security forces conduct searches in villages, forests, houses but never touch masjids. Security forces respect religious places,” he told reporters on the sidelines of the wreath-laying ceremony of a CRPF man who was killed in the Sopore shootout on Wednesday in which a civilian was also killed. Hassan said even before the attack at Sopore, they conducted searches in nearby areas but didn’t search the mosque. “It is the second attempt after Khrew, Pampore in Pulwama district, where two militants took refuge in a mosque,” he said and urged the mosque heads and management bodies across Kashmir to ensure that militants aren’t able to enter mosques to hide and then target forces. “They (religious committees) have to play a role here,” the special DG said, termed use of mosques by the militants highly reprehensible. Asked how the civilian was killed in the Sopore shootout, Hassan said that they found two magazines in the mosque. “The elderly man got killed in the firing from the mosque. We are technically clear that the bullet was fired from the mosque that hit the civilian in his back. I have personally visited the spot, met people and checked the camera. It is beyond doubt that the civilian was killed by militant fire.” The Special DG said the minor boy accompanying his slain grandfather was extremely scared. “He was rescued by the CRPF man at the spot,” Hassan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/use-of-mosques-by-ultras-a-new-dimension-in-kashmir-militancy-crpf-856153.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||NGT directs panel to submit report on plea alleging pollution by power plant in Kanpur||The National Green Tribunal Thursday formed a committee and directed it to submit a report on a plea alleging air and water pollution by Panki Thermal Power Plant at Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked the committee to submit the report within two months. “Before proceeding further, we consider it necessary to require a factual report in the matter from a joint committee comprising the Regional Office of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Central Pollution Control Board, state pollution control board and the District Magistrate, Kanpur (Rural) within two months by e-mail,” the bench said. The state PCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and compliance, it said.  “A copy of this order be sent to the Regional Officer, MoEF, Lucknow, CPCB, State PCB and the District Magistrate, Kanpur (Rural) by e-mail for compliance,” the bench said. The applicant may furnish a set of papers to them and file an affidavit of service within one week, the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Kanpur resident Pawan Kumar Tiwari alleging that Panki thermal power plant was causing air and water pollution resulting in damage to public health and the environment. According to the petition, Panki Thermal Power Plant was set up at Kanpur in 1977 and approval for expansion was granted in 2017.  The matter is listed for next hearing on November 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-panel-to-submit-report-on-plea-alleging-pollution-by-power-plant-in-kanpur-856163.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Man commits suicide after his eatery shuts down due to lockdown||A 48-year-old dhaba owner allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a train near Mansurpur railway station in the district, police said on Thursday. The family of the deceased, Shyam Kumar, who identified his body said he was worried due to the shutting down of his dhaba during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. He allegedly jumped in front of a goods train on Wednesday, police said. In another incident, a body was found near Rajbaha canal near Pinna village under Kotwali police station in the district on Wednesday. Police said the body has not yet been identified and has been sent for postmortem examination. Further investigation is on, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-commits-suicide-after-his-eatery-shuts-down-due-to-lockdown-856164.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||PIL to e-register documents during Covid-19 pandemic: HC seeks Centre, AAP govt's stand||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre and AAP government on a PIL seeking e-registration of documents at all sub-registrar offices in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Finance Ministry and Delhi government seeking their stand on the plea by a lawyer. The court listed the matter for further hearing on July 23. The petitioner-lawyer, D C Tuteja, has contended that due to the pandemic "the entire process of registration of documents has come to a standstill and various rights of parties have been affected equally being unable to meet their obligations under the agreements or for creating any rights in favour of their loved ones".   Advocate Gaurav Bahl, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that physical presence of the parties can be done away with by equipping the sub-registrar offices, 22 in Delhi, with virtual portals which would allow the parties to be virtually present. This would help save time, money, energy and would also prevent the spread of Covid-19, he said.  After briefly hearing the petitioner's lawyer, the court said the issue raised was a policy decision and therefore, the other side has to be heard. The petition has said that the present Covid-19 situation has reflected various aspects of virtual being the new normal. "The traffic challans, the court hearings and also several offices have been working virtually with no or minimal contact and the same has proven to be very successful and has now shown the world that the benefit of technology is far-reaching than it had been anticipated prior to the lockdown being announced," it has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-to-e-register-documents-during-covid-19-pandemic-hc-seeks-centre-aap-govts-stand-856165.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat participants from foreign countries liable for punitive action, Centre tells SC||The Union government on Thursday told the Supreme Court that foreigners who participated in Tablighi Jamaat Markaz have jeopardised many lives amid the ongoing Covid-19 public health emergency and they are liable for legal action.  They violated their visa conditions and action against them are in no way violative of Articles 14, 21 and 22 of the Constitution, it said. The Centre informed the Supreme Court that visas of 2679 foreigners from 35 countries were cancelled for participating in Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in March. The decision was taken on a case to case basis for violating the visa rules as well as other laws. In an affidavit, the Ministry of Home Affairs said that it has so far blacklisted 2765 foreign Tablighis for participating in the event.  Since many are not traceable, 1,906 look out circulars have been issued. As many as 205 FIRs were lodged against them in 11 States under the Foreigners Act, National Disaster Management Act, Epedmic Diseases Act and the IPC.   It further told the court that the foreign Tablighis, who attended Jamat on the basis of tourist visa, will be prosecuted. It has asked the States to ensure that foreign nationals, found involved in Tablighi activities on tourist visa, should not be immediately deported to their countries after their quarantine period is over.  A total of 227 foreigners had already left the country before issuance of lookout circular and blacklisting. "No foreign Tablighi Jamaat members has been deported so far as criminal proceedings were going on against them," it said. On Thursday, a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna allowed Maulana Ala Hadrami and others, including a pregnant woman, who questioned the MHA's decision, to file their rejoinder. The court decided to take up the matter on July 10. It also allowed the petitioners to approach the authorities for deportation during the pendency of the matter. The Centre, for its part, asserted that no illegal immigrant can pray for a writ which directly or indirectly confer fundamental right in general and right to move freely or form association in particular. It also said the blacklisting of foreigners was a sovereign function and the court should not entertain their plea against it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-participants-from-foreign-countries-liable-for-punitive-action-centre-tells-sc-856166.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Plea in Delhi High Court against domicile reservation in National Law School of India University in Karnataka||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court challenging the constitutional validity of the Karnataka government''s decison to impose 25 per cent domicile reservation in the National Law School of India University in Bengaluru. The matter came up for hearing on Thursday before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan which recused from hearing it and directed that it be listed before another bench. When the matter came up for hearing, petitioner's lawyer said that another bench had recently stayed operation of such a reservation in the National Law University, Delhi (NLUD). The high court on June 29 had stayed the NLUD''s decision to reserve 50 per cent seats for students who have passed the qualifying examination from a recognised school, college or institute located within the National Capital Territory of Delhi (NCTD). The Karnataka state assembly passed the National Law School of India (amendment) Act of 2020 in March this year and it received the assent of the Governor in May. The amendment in the Act provides for a 25 per cent horizontal reservation for students of Karnataka in NLSIU. A student of Karnataka, as per the amendment, would be one who has studied in a recognised educational institution of the state for not less than 10 years before the qualifying exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-delhi-high-court-against-domicile-reservation-in-national-law-school-of-india-university-in-karnataka-856174.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Harsh Vardhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal launch 'Drug Discovery Hackathon' to develop anti-Covid drug||Centre on Thursday launched the drug discovery hackathon that is expected to bring together diverse talents to develop a medicine against Covid-19. The first initiative of its kind, the challenge before researchers, students, faculty members will focus on identifying potential drug molecules that will be tested for efficacy by laboratories affiliated to the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). “While we pursue clinical trials of few re-purposed drugs for Covid-19 … it is also important that we find other suitable re-purposed drugs and at the same time continue working on new drug discovery to develop specific drugs against Covid-19,” Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said while launching the Drug Discovery Hackathon 2020. The hackathon is a joint effort of the Innovation Cell of the HRD Ministry, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), CSIR, and supported by Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, MyGov, and private players.  “This initiative is open for researchers/faculty across the globe as we are keen on attracting international talent to join and support our efforts,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said. The hackathon consists of challenges that are posted as problem statements based on specific drug discovery topics that are open to participants to solve. It will be held in three phases of three months each and the lead compounds identified at the end of the third phase will be taken forward for the experimental level by the CSIR and other interested organisations. The hackathon will have three tracks with the first one dealing primarily with drug design for anti-Covid lead generation using tools such as molecular modeling, pharmacophore optimisation, molecular docking and lead optimisation. The second track will deal with designing new tools and algorithms that can help expedite the process of in-silico drug discovery. The third track would involve out of the box solutions or completely novel and innovative ideas that would be pursued under the ‘moon shot’ approach||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/harsh-vardhan-ramesh-pokhriyal-launch-drug-discovery-hackathon-to-develop-anti-covid-drug-856190.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Teenage girl raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by four men in the Aurai area here, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Jun 26 when the four men, who had gone to attend a marriage function in a village in the area, dragged the girl to a secluded place and raped her, they said. The accused were in an inebriated state at the time of the incident, police said. An FIR was registered against the four men on Jun 30 under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act as well as under relevant sections of the IPC, they said. The medical report of the girl has confirmed rape, police said. A police officer said all the four accused were arrested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenage-girl-raped-by-four-men-in-uttar-pradesh-856193.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||A month after 'unlock' begun, CP & Khan Market traders struggle to keep shutters open||Deserted streets, limited customers, no revenue generation, huge rentals and restricted operations have forced many outlets to put their shutters down permanently while many others are struggling to survive by retrenching staff and tightening their purse strings on several other expenses. According to Atul Bhargava, President, New Delhi Traders Association, business in the past month has been around 10 percent of what it used to be earlier. "There are hardly five customers in a day at any outlet. Though we are doing everything to instil confidence among customers and ensure their safety -- sanitisation, social distancing, all these measures are strictly being implemented but still, it is no where near a no-profit-no-loss situation," he told PTI. Popular restaurants Garam Dharam and Pebble Street in Connaught Place are among those who succumbed to the pressure of losses and closed down. At least twenty other restaurants have retrenched over half of their staff.  "It came down to the maths. The rentals are huge, we could not get any leverage form the landlord and it is not certain when people will actually start to dine out. Plus (there are) government restrictions on bars. It was like running operations from the pocket but how long could it have been afforded." a representative at Pebble Street said. A similar situation is being faced by traders at the posh Khan Market, which was frequented by the high and mighty of the city before the Covid-19 lockdown. Rent woes and no earnings from their Khan Market outlets forced Full Circle Bookstore and Cafe Turtle to shut shop, bringing down the curtains on a 20-year-old legacy. "We could no longer afford the rent. We tried to negotiate with our landlord but didn't get any relief at all. There was no earning for over three months. The losses ran too high. There was no other option" said Priyanka Malhotra, director, Full Circle Bookstore. According to Sanjeev Mehra, President of Khan Market Traders Association, dining out is no longer a hallmark of the city. "With reduced operating hours, no serving of alcohol and no waiver of the licence fee by civic authorities, operating restaurants is no longer a viable proposition for many. Without any support from landlords and state government, many would put their shutters down in Khan Market," Mehra said.  The Coffee Bean and Tea Leaves, Harry's Bar, Smoke House Deli, Side Wok, a European eatery, a cafe-cum-bar, and a burger and barbeque joint besides two retail outlets and a beauty salon are among those who have already closed down in Khan Market or have informed their landlords about closing down soon. After being closed for nearly two months due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, the markets in the national capital reopened on May 20, while restaurants were allowed to reopen two weeks later. However, bars have not been allowed to open yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-month-after-unlock-begun-cp-khan-market-traders-struggle-to-keep-shutters-open-856205.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Scindia rules in Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s expanded cabinet||Jyotiraditya Scindia extracted a substantial price for helping the BJP topple the Kamal Nath government as nine of his 22 loyalists, who had defected to the BJP in March this year , were inducted in Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's cabinet, which was expanded on Thursday from five to 33,  including 20 cabinet and eight state ministers. They had camped in Bengaluru till the BJP ensured the fall of the 15-month-old Congress government. Two Scindia supporters were already in the five-member cabinet that was formed in April. With the induction of three more Congress defectors in it, the BJP’s cabinet has around 40% former Congress MLAs. Senior Congress leaders Bisahulal Singh, who had gone back to Congress camp briefly after returning from Bengaluru before switching his loyalty again, and Aidal Singh Kansana and Hardip Singh Dang were not Scindia loyalists but joined the rebellion. While the Scindia faction walked away with a king's share, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan turned out to be a big loser as most of his trusted aides were denied berths in the cabinet despite hectic lobbying for past many days. In all, 14 of the 22 former Congress legislators who camped in Bengaluru to ensure the fall of the Congress government are now ministers — ten of them Cabinet and four ministers of state. Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, Imarti Devi, Pradhyman Singh Tomar and Mahendra Singh Sisodiya are four Scindia loyalists who were ministers in the Kamal Nath government too. Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Rajput, who were inducted on April 21, were also ministers in the Congress government. Gopal Bhargava, Bhupendra Singh, Vijay Shah, Jagdish Devda, Yashodhara Raje Scindia and Vishwas Sarang were the BJP leaders who made it to the Cabinet on Thursday. They were ministers in Chouhan’s previous governments. However, barring Bhupendra Singh and Vishwas Sarang, none of the old faces are considered the chief minister’s acolytes. Among the newcomers in the cabinet, most of them owe their induction to the BJP high command which had categorically told Chouhan to replace his trusted allies of the past cabinet with fresh faces. This includes  Arvind Bhadoriya, who played an active role in the rebellion against the Kamal Nath government, firebrand leader from Indore, Usha Thakur, and Mohan Yadav. The Shivraj Singh Chouhan Cabinet now has 34 ministers, leaving little scope for further expansion. The expansion seems to have been dictated by the crucial bye-elections for 24 seats that will decide the stability of the BJP government, which completed 100 days on July 1. Most of these seats fall in the Gwalior-Chambal region, where Scindia enjoys influence. Chouhan had taken oath alone on March 23, the night before the Prime Minister announced the nationwide lockdown. After working alone until April 21, he inducted five ministers, including two loyalists of Scindia. Over the last few days there were hectic parleys in New Delhi and Bhopal on who will make it to the Cabinet because the party walked on a tightrope to accomodate BJP leaders, including those who had been ministers in the past, as well as Scindia’s supporters, who will soon face by-elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-scindia-rules-in-shivraj-singh-chouhan-s-expanded-cabinet-856207.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||SHO who masturbated in front of female complainants terminated from service||A day after being arrested, the station house officer (SHO) who allegedly masturbated in front of a woman and her daughter when they went to the police station to lodge a complaint has been terminated from service by the Uttar Pradesh police, a senior official said on Thursday. "The Police Inspector who indulged in perverted behaviour in front of a female complainant inside a police station in Deoria has been terminated from service. There will be zero tolerance towards anyone violating the dignity of women. No one is above law," Additional Director General (ADG), Law and Order, Prashant Kumar said. An FIR was registered against Inspector Bhism Pal Singh and he was arrested on Wednesday, Deoria Superintendent of Police Shripati Mishra said. Inspector Singh was absconding since Tuesday and a reward of Rs 25,000 was declared for his arrest. Singh, who was Bhatni Police Station (Deoria) SHO, was caught masturbating in his office on June 22 when the woman and her daughter visited him with a complaint related to a land dispute, police said.  The SHO was already suspended for alleged dereliction of duty in another case related to his posting at Salempur and was attached to the police line. A video of the SHO's vulgar act, recorded by the woman's daughter, went viral on Tuesday, leading to demand of strong action against him. An FIR was registered against the police inspector at the same police station after the video surfaced. He has been booked under the charges of voyeurism, outraging the modesty of a woman, and public servant disobeying law, the Deoria SP had said. "Singh indulged in vulgar acts while talking about the land dispute. The woman's daughter made a video and showed it to other members of her family," the complaint filed against him said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sho-who-masturbated-in-front-of-female-complainants-terminated-from-service-856225.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand govt to send Ganga water to states as Kanwar yatra not being held||The Uttarakhand government will send the holy Ganga water in brass urns from Har ki Pauri in Haridwar to all states and Union territories for Shiva devotees as the annual Kanwar yatra is not being held this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief ministers of all states have expressed their inability to conduct Kanwar yatra in the traditional way owing to coronavirus. So it has been decided to dispatch brass urns filled with the holy Ganga water from Haridwar to these states, Uttarakhand Cabinet Minister and state government's spokesman Madan Kaushik told reporters. Large brass urns filled with the holy Ganga water at Har ki Pauri will be loaded into trucks and sent to the chief ministers, Lt governors and ministers of the states and Union territories for distribution among Shiva devotees, he said. "CMs of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have agreed that traditional Kanwar yatra is not possible this year. So we have decided to send Ganga water from Haridwar in large brass urns to these states in trucks for distribution among people through their respective governments," he said. Availability of the holy Ganga water for devotees who come as kanwariyas annually to Haridwar will be ensured at prominent temples closest to the place where they live, he said. Describing it as a symbolic gesture from the state government, Kaushik said it was meant to send a message that Kanwar yatra is not being held in Haridwar due to the COVID-19 pandemic and not because of any other reason such as "lack of faith or intention".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-govt-to-send-ganga-water-to-states-as-kanwar-yatra-not-being-held-856230.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||UP CM has turned a blind eye to ground realities by calling coronavirus weakest virus of the century: Priyanka Gandhi||Hitting out at the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday said mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis is being regularly reported from the state, but Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has turned a blind eye to ground realities while indulging in false propaganda. The Congress general secretary in-charge of UP East has repeatedly accused the Adityanath government of indulging in propaganda instead of dealing with the pandemic. "Just a few days ago, due to the lack of ambulance facility in Sambhal, a family had to take a dead body on a cart. A similar inhuman incident has now taken place in Hapur. According to the media reports, a family had to take the body of a deceased on an e-rickshaw," Priyanka Gandhi said in a Facebook post in Hindi. "During the coronavirus era, there have been several news reports about mismanagement in the health sector in UP, but the UP CM by calling coronavirus the weakest virus of the century and through false propaganda has turned a blind eye to ground realities," she said. According to media reports, on Wednesday itself, two cases of negligence were reported from Lucknow, in which one person died, Priyanka Gandhi said. "Journalists are saying that in order to show less number of cases, patients are not being admitted in NOIDA and in Meerut poor PPE kits and shields were given to healthcare workers," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-has-turned-a-blind-eye-to-ground-realities-by-calling-coronavirus-weakest-virus-of-the-century-priyanka-gandhi-856239.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Amit Shah meets CMs of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi; discusses Covid-19 situation||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday held a meeting with the chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the national capital and its adjoining areas, located in the two neighbouring states. Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) have seen a spike in the number of coronavirus cases, leading to the Home Minister stepping in to handle the situation and improve the health infrastructure. Shah reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Delhi-NCR with the three chief ministers, a home ministry official said. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan was also present in the meeting. The NCR comprises districts belonging to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The prominent ones being Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) and Ghaziabad (both Uttar Pradesh) and Gurgaon, Faridabad (both in Haryana). Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi -- Yogi Adityanath, Manohar Lal Khattar and Arvind Kejriwal respectively -- attended the meeting through video-conference. The novel coronavirus has infected 89,000 people in Delhi and killed 2,803 as on Wednesday. In Uttar Pradesh, the coronavirus tally has reached 24,056 cases and 718 deaths. In the NCR district of Gautam Buddh Nagar, 2,362 Covid-19 cases have been detected positive and 22 people have lost their lives so far. In Ghaziabad, so far 851 people have been infected by the coronavirus and 56 have died. A total of 14,941 COVID-19 cases were detected in Haryana and the virus so far has claimed 240 lives in the state. Gurgaon and Faridabad have reported 92 and 80 fatalities, respectively. The two districts put together account for over 9,300 infections. Restrictions imposed earlier on the free movement of people between Delhi and NCR became a major issue during the coronavirus lockdown. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister on Thursday had asked officials to stay alert on the movement of people in NCR districts to check the spread of Covid-19. "By remaining alert in NCR districts (of UP), the spread of Covid-19 can be checked. There should be alertness on movement in these districts," a statement quoted the CM as telling senior officials during a meeting with them. On June 18, at a meeting, the home minister had said a common strategy should be framed for Delhi and NCR to tackle the coronavirus pandemic and added that the suburbs like Gurgaon, Noida and Ghaziabad can't be separated from the national capital in this battle. The home minister swung into action to handle the coronavirus situation in the national capital since early last month after criticism in different quarters of the Delhi government's handling of the Covid-19 situation, with complaints of non-availability of beds in hospitals for patients and difficulty in getting the tests done in laboratories. The home minister has been leading from the front after taking charge of Delhi's fight against the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-meets-cms-of-uttar-pradesh-haryana-delhi-discusses-covid-19-situation-856242.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 tally rises to 24,825 with 817 fresh cases; death toll reaches 735||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh reached 735 on Thursday with 17 more fatalities, while the total number of coronavirus cases in the state mounted to 24,825 after 817 fresh infections were reported, an official said. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said there are 6,869 active cases in the state and so far, a total of 17,221 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease. The rate of recovery in the state is 69.36 percent while the national recovery rate stands at 59.43 percent, he said. On Wednesday, a total of 24,890 samples were tested for the virus in the state, Prasad said, adding that Covid-19 help desks have been set up in all the government hospitals and are proving to be helpful in the detection of cases. "The surveillance work is underway in the state," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradeshs-covid-19-tally-rises-to-24825-with-817-fresh-cases-death-toll-reaches-735-856245.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi set to shift to Lucknow, Sheila Kaul's home renovated for her: Uttar Pradesh Congress leaders||The government order asking Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to vacate a Delhi bungalow is set to speed up her shifting base to Lucknow, where party veteran Sheila Kaul’s house was renovated months back for her, according to politicians here. “Work has started in the house today. It has been almost six months since the renovation was done and it is being spruced up further to suit her,” party legislator Deepak Singh said here on Thursday. Uttar Pradesh Congress spokesperson Lalan Kumar indicated that the decision was made even before she got the notice to vacate the government bungalow in Delhi. “Priyanka Gandhi is in-charge of the state and it was decided six months ago that she had to shift her base to Lucknow,” the Congress media cell convenor said. “The Kaul house has been renovated as per her requirements and she had also stayed there for three days in the past,” he added. The Centre on Wednesday asked Priyanka Gandhi to vacate her bungalow in Lutyens' Delhi within a month, following the withdrawal of the Special Protection Group (SPG) cover for her. “Even if she had not been served notice, she would have shifted her base to Lucknow. She would be staying in Uttar Pradesh for 20 to 22 days a month. It was decided six months ago,” Lalan Kumar said. He said it was also decided that the Congress general secretary would undertake extensive tours of the state, making the state capital her base. Last year, during her Lucknow visit on October 2 to participate in the Gandhi Jayanti march, Priyanka Gandhi visited the house and spent some time there. The house is lying vacant at present with no one from the Kaul family using it. Sheila Kaul, who died in 2015, was the sister-in-law of India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. She had been a Union Minister and Delhi’s chief minister. Her house is located on Gokhle Marg in Lucknow, about three kilometres from the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters. When Priyanka Gandhi was appointed Congress general secretary in charge of eastern Uttar Pradesh ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the then party president Rahul Gandhi had said his sister has been given the responsibility as part of a long-term plan. "She hasn't been sent there for four months, she has been sent there with a larger plan. We will not only defeat the BJP in 2019 but also win the 2022 elections," he said, referring to the next assembly elections. The Centre in November replaced the SPG cover for Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her children Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra with Z-plus security by the CRPF. This arrangement does allow her to retain any government accommodation and she has to vacate the 35, Lodhi Estate bungalow, officials said. According to a notice issued by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, she has to vacate the bungalow by August 1, failing which “it will attract damage charges/penal rent as per rules”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-set-to-shift-to-lucknow-sheila-kauls-home-renovated-for-her-uttar-pradesh-congress-leaders-856249.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||NHRC notice to UP govt over child's death at hospital after docs 'refused' to attend to him||The NHRC on Thursday said it has sent a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government over reports that a one-year-old child with fever and swollen neck died after doctors allegedly refused to attend to him at Kannauj district hospital. The commission, in a statement said, this is not the first case of alleged negligence and denial of treatment to the patients by doctors in the recent past. "The National Human Rights Commission has taken suo motu cognisance of a media report that a one-year-old child, suffering from fever and swollen neck, died as he was not attended to by the doctors at the district hospital, Kannauj," the rights panel said in a statement. Looking into the gravity of the reported issue, the commission has issued a notice to the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh, seeking a detailed report within four weeks, including the action taken against the delinquent doctors, officials of the hospital concerned and status of any relief given to the family of the deceased child by the state government, it said. The NHRC said it has come across many such complaints and media reports where patients even in emergency conditions were not provided necessary life-saving treatment by doctors at various government-run and private hospitals in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-notice-to-up-govt-over-childs-death-at-hospital-after-docs-refused-to-attend-to-him-856255.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh police make children fish out dead body from canal||A day after an Uttar Pradesh police inspector was sacked for making an obscene gesture to women, three policemen were suspended after they allegedly made kids fish out a dead body from a canal in the state's Bulandshahar district, about 500 kilometres from here. The matter came to light, when a video showing the kids trying to push the dead body toward the bank of the canal with sticks and ropes, went viral on social media. According to sources, the cops had reached the Gang Nahar canal on getting information that a dead body was seen floating in the water. The cops roped in five children, who were playing nearby, and asked them to bring the dead body ashore. The kids were also promised some money for the work. In the video, the children were seen trying to fish out the body with sticks and ropes as the cops stood there watching. As the video went viral, senior district police officials swung into action and suspended three policemen, including a sub-inspector and ordered a probe into the matter. "It is a shameful act...it has shown the police in a bad light...it affects our image," a senior police official said in Bulandshahar on Thursday. The incident comes close on the heels of the dismissal of an SHO for making vulgar gestures before two women complainants inside Bhatni police station in UP's Deoria district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-police-make-children-fish-out-dead-body-from-canal-856261.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||NDA wants Bihar polls in one phase||Moving a step ahead in its poll preparedness, the Election Commission has asked the Bihar Chief Secretary to reshuffle the administrative set-up by transferring those officers who have completed three years in a particular district. The move comes close on the heels of Chief Electoral Officer in Bihar, HR Srinivas, holding confabulations with prominent political parties to get feedback on holding of Bihar Assembly elections in October-November this year. The ruling Janata Dal (United) and the BJP suggested that the ensuing Assembly election should be conducted in one phase, unlike a five-phase poll in 2010 and 2015, as “this will help cut poll expenses.” The JD (U) MP Lallan Singh, who attended the meet with the state poll panel, suggested that since Bihar will be a standalone election, there will be no dearth of paramilitary forces. “The staff at polling booths could be arranged by roping in bank and PSU employees,” he argued. The CPI leaders have, however, suggested three-phase polling. The main Opposition party, the RJD, in its feedback to the poll panel, opposed the idea of virtual rallies as it may allow financially strong parties to manipulate polls. Meanwhile, the Election Commission has issued a three-point suggestion to the Bihar Chief Secretary for the deployment of officials. The EC, in its letter, has said that no official engaged in the poll-related work would be posted in the home district. Secondly, the EC noted, those officials against whom the poll panel had recommended disciplinary action in the past or those charged with the lapse of work, should be kept away from election duty. Thirdly, such officers who are scheduled to retire in the next six months should not be entrusted with poll duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nda-wants-bihar-polls-in-one-phase-856274.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath government 'trampling' democracy: UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu||Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu on Thursday accused the BJP government of "trampling" democracy in the state by misusing the police and termed the arrest of the party's minority cell chairman Shahnawaj Alam as “illegal, undemocratic and condemnable”. "Congress workers are being harassed across the state by the Yogi Adityanath government and being implicated in false cases. The BJP government is oppressive and is trampling democracy by misusing police," the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee chief said. "The late night arrest of party's minority cell chairman Alam is illegal, undemocratic and condemnable," Lallu said. On Monday night, Alam was arrested from Hazratganj area after an FIR was registered in connection with the violent protest during an anti-CAA agitation on December 19 last year. The police said that Alam's location was found near the violence spot. Lallu said: “Congress leaders and workers are committed to raise their voice for the people's issues. The BJP government can abuse the police to silence the voice of other parties but not our party." “The name of Minority Cell chairman Shahnawaj Alam neither figured in the FIR nor in the chargesheet, but the police lifted him from his house late in the night,” he said. Lallu further informed that the state's BJP government is frustrated as the influence of the Congress in Uttar Pradesh is growing. "This government is scared but the soldiers of Rahul and Priyanka are not scared. The Yogi government is trying to frighten us but we are not scared. We will fight on the streets," he said. Lallu further claimed that hundreds of Congress workers have been slapped with false cases. "A false case was registered against our general secretary Manoj Yadav when he was in police custody in the Eco Garden. Even a case was registered against our social media in-charge Mohit Pandey when he was on his way to Lucknow from Delhi. How has all this been done and at whose behest?" Lallu asked. Alleging that at the instance of Yogi government, the Congress office is being spied upon, Lallu said those who acted as the informers for the Britishers are now spying on the Congress office through police and intelligence agencies. "For a month now, police has been deputed at the gate (of Congress office); what has the police got to do at the party office gate," he asked. Congress Legislature party leader Aradhana Mishra Mona said that the arrest of Alam was an act of cowardice. "The government is trying to suppress the voice of opposition. The frustration of the Yogi government over the increasing influence of the Congress is quite obvious now," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-government-trampling-democracy-up-congress-chief-ajay-kumar-lallu-856285.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Corruption prevailed during Congress' 15-month rule: Scindia||BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia alleged on Thursday that "atmosphere of corruption" prevailed in Madhya Pradesh during the Congress' 15-month rule. State Congress leaders who are trying to malign his image should know that "the tiger is still alive", he added. "The people of Madhya Pradesh are very much aware that during the 15-month rule of the Congress government, an atmosphere of corruption prevailed. Promises made to the people were not fulfilled," Scindia said after attending a state cabinet expansion here. "The BJP government is under the leadership of (chief minister) Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who has always adopted the path of service of people...(so) I am sure in the coming 24 Assembly by-polls, the BJP's flag will fly high in all the seats and people will give a befitting reply to the 15-month long government of corruption," he said. Scindia alongwith 22 MLAs supporting him quit the Congress and joined the BJP in March, triggering the fall of the Kamal Nath government. "It is everyone's religion to follow the path of justice and for that even if we have to fight a battle, Jyotiraditya Scindia will always be in the front," the Rajya Sabha MP added. Talking to a news channel earlier, asked about Congress leaders' claim that he and his supporters did not gain anything by joining the BJP, Scindia said, "I will certainly give a reply to the Congress and those who are trying to malign people's character, especially to former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh, that the tiger is still alive." To reported resentment among BJP workers about Chouhan's expanded cabinet not balancing caste and regional aspirations and overlooking claims of several leaders, Scindia said, "Minister's post is not a gift. It is a responsibility which the leadership gives to every servant of the people. "Therefore, those who have become ministers today should work more as a public servant and less as a minister," he said. Scindia on Thursday arrived here to attend the cabinet expansion in which 28 new ministers including 12 former Congress MLAs who were among the 22 who switched sides were sworn in. In all, 14 from the group of 22 former Congress MLAs are now in the ministry. These ministers will have to contest Assembly bypolls in the state which are likely to be held soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corruption-prevailed-during-congress-15-month-rule-scindia-856295.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh's coronavirus tally crosses 14,000-mark; death toll now 589||The Covid-19 case count in Madhya Pradesh went up to 14,106 on Thursday after 245 more people, including 57 in Morena district, tested positive for the infection, officials said. As the virus claimed eight more lives across the state, the death toll reached 589, they said. While four fatalities were reported from Indore, three others died in Bhopal and one in Morena, the officials said. A total of 160 people were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the number of the recovered cases to 10,815, they added. Of the 245 fresh cases, the highest count of 57 was reported from Morena district bordering Rajasthan's Dholpur, followed by 54 in Bhopal and 25 in Gwalior, officials said. The number of cases in Indore, the worst-hit district, rose by 19 to 4,753 and death toll to 236, the state health bulletin said. The number of patients in Bhopal stood at 2,884, of whom 104 have died. No new coronavirus case was reported from 22 districts since Wednesday evening. While Covid-19 cases have been reported from all 52 districts in the state so far, only three of them did not have any active cases on Thursday, the bulletin said. The state has 1,053 active containment zones. The coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases: 14,106, active cases: 2,702, new cases: 245, death toll: 589, recovered: 10,815, number of people tested: 3,80,655.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradeshs-coronavirus-tally-crosses-14000-mark-death-toll-now-589-856297.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Movable assets of anti-CAA protesters who damaged public property to be auctioned: Official||The district administration here will auction this month movable properties of two men accused of vandalism during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in last December, an official said on Thursday. Lucknow District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash said movable assets of Maahenoor Choudhary and Dharamveer Singh, who are accused of damaging properties during the anti-CAA protests, will be put up for auction on July 16. On Tuesday, a garment and a junk store in Hasanganj area were attached. Choudhary owned the junk store while Singh was the assistant manager in the garment store. The attachments were done under the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private property ordinance-2020 on orders passed by Additional District Magistrate (Tans Gomti) Vishwa Bhushan Mishra, a district administration official had said on Wednesday. The protests against the CAA and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) turned violent in the city on December 19, 2019. The district administration assessed loss of crores to public property in the arsoning and brick batting. The administration had sent recovery notices worth about Rs 1.55 crore to over 50 people for the damages allegedly done by them during the protests. In March, the district administration displayed on hoarding the photographs and addresses of protesters, including Congress leader Sadaf Jafar, retired IPS SR Darapuri and activist Mohammad Shoaib. After the spread of coronavirus and a suggestion from the Allahabad High Court, the Lucknow administration on March 20 had stopped all coercive actions such as the attachment of properties and arresting the protesters to recover the damages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/movable-assets-of-anti-caa-protesters-who-damaged-public-property-to-be-auctioned-official-856349.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||National Conference general secretary tests Covid-19 positive along with three family members||National Conference (NC) general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar, who was recently released from PSA detention, has tested positive for COVID-19 along with three of his family members, the family said here on Thursday. “It is requested to all my friends and well wishers to pray for my family as 4 of our family members tested positive for COVID'19 today including my father. Do remember in prayers & May allah keep all of us under his protection (Aameen),” Sagar's son, Salman Sagar, said in a tweet. It is requested to all my friends and well wishers to pray for my family as 4 of our family members tested positive for COVID'19 today including my father. Do remember in prayers & May allah keep all of us under his protection ( Aameen) The NC general secretary was released after 10 months in detention under the Public Safety (PSA) Act on June 17. He was taken into custody on the eve of the abrogation of Article 370 last year. A day after his release, NC president and Srinagar Lok Sabha member, Farooq Abdullah, and several party leaders had met Sagar at his residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-conference-general-secretary-tests-covid-19-positive-along-with-three-family-members-856351.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab: Pro-Khalistan outfit member Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, associates booked for sedition||The Punjab Police on Thursday registered two separate cases against Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of the banned pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) and his associates on charges of sedition and secessionism. The cases were registered at Amritsar and Kapurthala. Pannun was among nine people designated as terrorists under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the Centre on Wednesday. The Ministry of Home Affairs has designated Pannun a terrorist for actively running a secessionist campaign against India and motivating the Sikh youth from Punjab to join militant ranks. The Dalit Suraksha Sena (DSS) had filed a complaint against Pannun and his associates, and got a case registered against him at a police station in Amritsar for allegedly burning the Indian Constitution and the National Flag besides instigating others to do so too. In its complaint, the Dalit Suraksha Sena said Pannun, the self-styled legal advisor of the USA-based the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and his accomplices were seen dishonouring the Indian Constitution and the National Flag in a video. They were seen setting a copy of the Constitution and the flag on fire, while shouting slogans of Khalistan Zindabad, they said. Pannun was also seen inciting the entire Sikh community against the Indian Constitution and in favour of the Referendum 2020, said the complaint. The complaint said these abhorrent actions of the individuals in question had “brazenly dishonoured the ideals” on which the Indian state has been established and thereby had “hurt the sentiments” of the entire SC community. Immediate action was necessitated in pursuance to the reception of the above complaint as Pannun and his associates were found to be involved in the “commission of seditious acts” through their actions and words, both spoken and written, thus attempting to create a communal divide as well as instigating disaffection towards the government established by law in India, said a spokesperson of the police department. In addition, he and his associates have also committed unlawful activities, being members of a proscribed organisation and thus Pannun and his associates have committed offences punishable under relevant sections of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971; Indian Penal Code; UAPA and the SC/ST Act, the spokesperson said. The second FIR registered at Bhulath in Kapurthala is based on reliable inputs of entry of Joginder Singh Gujjar, alias Goga, in India in February 2020, a police spokesperson said, adding that Pannu and his associates had been charged with seditious and secessionist activities in the case. The spokesperson said it had been learnt that Joginder Singh is a prominent and active member of the banned SFJ. Joginder Singh, at the behest of Pannun, with whom he is in regular contact for promoting the activities of the SFJ, was reportedly providing financial assistance to the organization operatives/activists based in Punjab/India and abroad, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-pro-khalistan-outfit-member-gurpatwant-singh-pannun-associates-booked-for-sedition-856352.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Centre putting Priyanka Gandhi's life at risk: Congress||Congress on Thursday said the Centre, by asking Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to vacate her official residence, was accentuating the threat to her “by hook or crook” and putting her life at risk. In a statement here, AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal accused the BJP government of removing the Special Protection Group security cover of Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi in November last year with the “sole purpose of political vendetta.” “BJP's sole purpose behind this act is aimed at accentuating this threat by hook or by crook,” he said. Recalling that the government had removed the SPG security cover to the Gandhi family in November last year, Venugopal said asking Priyanka to her official residence was only in continuation of this “nefarious design to put their lives at risk.” “But such thoughtless actions from the government, aimed at unleashing political vengeance could endanger the lives of the family members including Priyanka Gandhi,” Venugopal said. The Rajya Sabha member said claimed that Priyanka’s “energetic” and “pro-poor political interventions” against the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh had prompted the “petty and dangerous decision” to ask her to vacate the house. “BJP cannot silence or intimidate Indira Gandhi's granddaughter Priyanka Gandhi and the Congress party by resorting to cheap and petty political actions,” Venugopal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-putting-priyanka-gandhis-life-at-risk-congress-856359.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi's coronavirus cases cross 92,000-mark||A plasma bank for treating Covid-19 was made operational on Thursday in Delhi which saw the total number of cases crossing 92,000 even as Union Home Minister Amit Shah suggested extensive use of Aarogya Setu and Itihaas apps to help mapping of coronavirus cases in the NCR region. The plasma bank came up at the Delhi government's Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). The capital recorded 2,373 fresh coronavirus cases taking the tally to 92,175. With 61 deaths, the fatalities now stand at 2,864, a bulletin issued by the Health Department said.   However, the silver lining is that 3,015 patients recovered on Thursday, taking the number of those recovered to 63,007. There are 26,304 active cases in the national capital.   Addressing an online media briefing, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the eligibility for being a plasma donor is "very strict", and hoped that with this bank the number of Covid-19 deaths will decrease in the national capital. Patients can donate their plasma 14 days after recovery, he said. After inaugurating the plasma bank, he urged those who have recovered from the disease to donate plasma to other patients. Home Minister Shah also chaired a high-level meeting which was attended by the chief ministers of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Shah has been steering the Covid-19 response strategy in Delhi-NCR. "HM Shri @AmitShah emphasised on, 1. Adoption of more testing using Rapid Antigen Test Kits to help reduce infection transmission rate. These kits can be provided by GoI to UP and Haryana. 2. Focus on early hospitalization to reduce mortality rates. 3. Extensive use of Aarogya Setu & Itihaas App to help mapping of COVID in NCR," a home ministry spokesperson tweeted. The National Capital Region is a densely populated urban belt comprising cities like Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad. It spreads across Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Among the cities, Delhi has highest number of cases in the country. "Today, we have started the plasma bank and some people have also donated. As we all know there is no vaccine for novel coronavirus yet, but plasma therapy seems to be quite helpful for COVID patients," Kejriwal said. It (plasma donation) was happening in a scattered way, so the idea was to bring it at one place in an organised manner, he said. Plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those into a coronavirus-infected patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight the infection. Explaining the procedure of donating plasma, an official said it is separated from the blood of donor using a plasmapheresis machine. ILBS has 10 of these machines at present, and two more are expected to arrive soon, a senior doctor at the institute said. On the first day, many who have recovered from Covid-19, including the ILBS staff, donated plasma. Sources said about 90 staff at ILBS have tested positive till date. For donors, there are some strict criteria and counselling and screening is done for them before the actual donation process begins, so, about two to two-and-a-half hours is the total time per donor, the doctor said. "Also, we do TTI (Transfusion Transmissible Infections) tests. So, the donor should not have HIV, hepatitis B or C, syphilis among other ailments. The donor also should not have any co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension or renal problems," she said. Each donor, a person who has recently recovered from Covid-19, develops antibodies, which are transferred to the recipient through plasma. "Each person can donate 250-500 ml of plasma. We give first dosage of 250 ml to the recipient, and if needed a second dosage of 250 ml after 24 hours," a senior doctor at LNJP hospital said. In a related development, the Delhi government constituted a 12-member expert panel to suggest measures for economic recovery from the impact of COVID-19 in the national capital, a statement said. The city government also announced a remote teaching-learning plan for all classes in its schools in wake of the closure due to Covid-19 pandemic. While the plan focuses on reducing academic loss of students, the government is focusing on addressing the issues of digital divide as not all students have access to internet or smartphones, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced. Schools in Delhi have been shut till July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-coronavirus-cases-cross-92000-mark-856360.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||2,373 fresh Covid-19 cases in Delhi take tally to over 92K; death toll mounts to 2,864||Delhi recorded 2,373 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the tally in the city to over 92,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 2,864, authorities said. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases, till date. Recently, Delhi had eclipsed Mumbai as the city worst-hit by the pandemic in the country. Sixty-one fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department bulletin said on Thursday. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 2,803 on Wednesday. The bulletin said the death toll from Covid-19 has risen to 2,864, and the total number of cases mounted to 92,175.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2373-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-take-tally-to-over-92k-death-toll-mounts-to-2864-856362.html
02-07-2020||North and Central||Canara Bank 'cheated' of Rs 174,89 Cr: CBI searches premises of Punjab Basmati Rice Ltd in Amritsar||The CBI carried out searches on Thursday at the premises of Punjab Basmati Rice Limited and its directors, booked for allegedly cheating the Canara Bank to the tune of Rs 174.89 crore, officials said. The searches took place at the premises of the company office and accused directors Kulwinder Singh Makhani, Jasmeet Kaur and Manjeet Singh Makhani in Punjab's Amritsar, they said. "It was alleged in the complaint that the accused had cheated the Canara Bank-led consortium comprising Andhra Bank, Union Bank of India, Oriental Bank of Commerce, IDBI Bank, UCO Bank to the tune of Rs 350.84 crore (including Rs 174.89 crore to the Canara Bank) by disposing off the stock and prime security without any prior intimation or approval from the consortium lender banks," CBI Spokesperson RK Gaur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/canara-bank-cheated-of-rs-17489-cr-cbi-searches-premises-of-punjab-basmati-rice-ltd-in-amritsar-856374.html
02-07-2020||Opinion||A grim picture of climate change in India||A report released by the Ministry of Earth Sciences last week presents a very grim picture of the nature of climate change and its impact on the country in the coming decades. It is the first-ever climate change assessment report prepared for India by experts in the country's research institutions. Reports of the UN’s IPCC and other agencies have looked at climate change in India as part of a global phenomenon and sometimes studied some ecologically important regions like the Himalayas. But it is the first time that a national assessment and projections have been made specifically for India, taking into consideration factors at regional and local levels. The report is based on a study of the changes in all climate-related phenomena in the past many years and is very comprehensive. Its observations and conclusions deserve serious consideration.  The report predicts that the average temperature in India by the end of this century will rise by about 4.4 degrees Celsius relative to the 1976-2005 average. The average rise during the 1901-2018 period was 0.7 degrees Celsius. The sea surface temperature in the Indian Ocean during the 1951-2015 period was one degree Celsius, which was more than the global average. The report concludes that there will be a decrease in monsoon rainfall and an increase in temperatures which will raise sea levels and cause more severe droughts and cyclones. There will be many other extreme weather events. The changes will lead to a decline in agricultural output and freshwater resources and damage to public infrastructure. Many of the changes cannot be correctly foreseen now, but they are bound to be drastic. They will disrupt and upset lives and will lead to major social, economic and political changes. The report says that there is compelling evidence to show that human activities have contributed to the changes in climate patterns, but it does not discuss the mitigation and adaptation measures. It should prompt the government to plan and implement steps to counter the threat and to reduce the impact of the changes. It has prepared and released the report and so has the responsibility to act on it. It is also necessary to undertake other studies in various sectors and regions, because in a big and diverse country like India the impact is likely to vary. Remedial actions need to be taken urgently as the disaster is fast approaching. The challenges of today, like the coronavirus, will go away sooner or later, but the damage done by climate change will be irreversible and may make the earth unliveable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-grim-picture-of-climate-change-in-india-856029.html
02-07-2020||Opinion||Expanding my experience||When I shifted from a PG to a rented apartment in Bengaluru--there was a very big Java J2EE training centre just after one block to ours. Every time I used to cross it, I used to get a very strong thought of training those students in Personality Development and GD/PI as I had decades of corporate experience. However, the thought of stepping out my comfort zone and of trying something new stopped me. We are hardwired to not explore anything in uncomfortable zones. However, mustering up some courage, I decided to venture into the uncomfortable zone and approached the owner who used to reside next to my apartment.  To my astonishment, he said, “why not! There is a new batch coming in and we can arrange a small workshop for them." Two days later, I conducted a “handwriting analysis” workshop for the students. The analysis report was ready and once again my concern about stepping outside my comfort zone stopped me from sharing it with the owner.  I had to reject my inner voice and proceed, and the result was amazing. The analysis report turned out to be an eye-opener for the owner. It helped him understand the loopholes in training.  Immediately, I was appointed as a soft skill trainer for a year. In a year, I trained more than 1000 students and gave guest lectures in various engineering colleges in Andhra Pradesh. Had I not decided to come out of my comfort zone, I would have remained dreaming about this move. After six years, I got a chance to conduct a training program for engineering students in Nagpur. I was asked to submit an experience letter.  Once more--against my doubts, I approached the owner– not did I get the experience letter, I also acquired a new business deal for my training centre! That day I realised one thing, by understanding our strengths and when we put our plans into action, success is always guaranteed. To create a comfort zone, one has to traverse through the path through the uncomfortable zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/expanding-my-experience-856032.html
02-07-2020||Opinion||A compelling call for a Universal Basic Income||No nation is free from the clutches of poverty, it is a global malady and no matter our efforts to prevent its vicious cycle, we always seem to fall short, either of political will or of consciousness. Poverty is simply the highest form of economic inequality. Income inequality in the world has been on the rise from the early 19th century, and since the 1980s, it has only risen faster and at an increasing rate. India alone faces a large part of this challenge, with an overflowing population of 1.3 billion, and the number of poor has steadily risen since Independence despite public efforts to eradicate poverty. The World Bank put this in more alarming numbers when it said, “One in five Indians are below the poverty line”. However, the common man is unbothered because only a fifth of that statistic is visible to him in the form of slums or beggars. The rest are tucked away and forgotten in rural areas. At the time of Independence, we took note that the backwardness of any section of society is not due to their inherent failure but rather due to systematic oppression and denial of access to opportunities. In our failed mission to establish equality, we have instead adopted capitalism and chosen to blindly ignore our responsibility to achieve collective prosperity. In the opening debate of the Constituent Assembly, Jawaharlal Nehru said, “The first task of this Assembly is to free India through a new constitution, to feed the starving people, and to clothe the naked masses, and to give every Indian the fullest opportunity to develop himself according to his capacity.” The idea was inserted into the Preamble and is a salient feature of the Indian Constitution: to establish a welfare state. And as a welfare state, India has launched several welfare schemes and programmes to remove her citizens from the grasp of poverty, but none have truly been successful. This is largely because our public programmes are in need of an overhaul, guided by thoughtful reform. The need for an alternative solution to remove poverty is long overdue, and we must move away from the tried and tested ways of the past. With Covid-19 in the backdrop, an individual’s right to a Universal Basic Income (UBI) makes an interesting case for itself. The outbreak has compelled us to take notice of the severe poverty in India and ignore it no longer. With a sharp decrease in levels of employment and labour participation, nearly 78% of Indians are unsalaried individuals today. The economic consequences of the virus will remain for several months ahead as businesses struggle to pay their employees, but the poor and employees of the unorganised sector will be the worst affected. History teaches us that during any economic recession, the vulnerable sections of society are the ones often cheated out of social welfare programmes and left worse off in poverty. An accepted definition of UBI is ‘a periodic cash payment unconditionally delivered to all on an individual basis, without a means-test or work requirement’. It attempts to restore equality partially by giving all citizens the same amount of money regardless of their rank in the social hierarchy. This will ensure that irrespective of each one’s earning potential, every citizen is guaranteed a minimum standard of living, sustenance and access to healthcare. India’s present social welfare schemes are based on means-testing, i.e., people must prove their need for financial aid. They are asked to jump through hoops to receive simple government assistance by fitting themselves into categories such as ration cardholders, below poverty line, physically/mentally disabled, backward class, unmarried, etc. Such tedious paperwork and bureaucratic procedures merely make the poor feel more dislodged in an already complex system. The UBI, on the other hand, can be claimed as a natural right, and will be free of bureaucracy. Moreover, as the UBI will be paid to each individual and not a household, it promotes freedom of choice and dignity. Unlike welfare schemes that hand out food coupons and service vouchers, a periodic cash payment will allow individuals to decide what they wish to spend it on and endorse agency. Opponents of the UBI may perhaps argue that monetary allocation to the rich is a wasted resource as the government has other missions besides poverty. They fear that giving a basic income to the rich dilutes and undermines the agenda of poverty reduction. One might fail to see sense in giving a UBI to Mukesh Ambani, however the larger principle is at play while giving the same amount of money to all. They may also fear that the UBI comes with a silent trade-off, such as a rise in taxes on the rich and the middle class. While there are several valid questions to be answered on who will bear the fiscal burden, the UBI must be seen as the government’s long-term investment in eradicating poverty. Finland introduced its version of the UBI in 2017 as a social-welfare experiment for the unemployed section of society. It provided the beneficiaries with roughly $600 every month as financial aid. Persons interviewed from this programme have repeatedly said that the money helps them achieve their dreams and provide care for their dependents. The Guardian reported that in several cases, this money has “removed the fear of utter destitution, freeing them to do work they find meaningful.”   Social welfare measures as we know them today in India are simply not effective enough to hit the nail on the head and alleviate poverty. Simply handing over money to the poor is the next best alternative. Ensuring financial security to all Indians will result in a more robust and thriving workforce and local economy in the long run. To quote Oscar Wilde, “There is one thing stronger than all the armies in the world, and that is an idea whose time has come.” (The writer is a lawyer at Samvad Partners)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-compelling-call-for-a-universal-basic-income-856033.html
02-07-2020||Opinion||Taiwan eyes opportunity to assert itself||The precarious peace and balance across the Taiwan straits have been challenged further since the January re-election of Tsai-Ing wen as the country’s President.  Even during Tsai’s first term, China had made it obvious that it was unhappy that her Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) (which is generally perceived to be pro-independence) had won the elections. Beijing’s approach was to reduce Taiwan’s diplomatic space. Thus, it was no surprise that by the end of Tsai’s first term, Taipei was left with only 15 diplomatic allies. Beijing used its deep financial clout to woo smaller countries away from Taiwan.  China considers Taiwan to be its own part and has always kept the option of military unification open. There was constant reiteration by the Chinese leadership that Beijing will achieve reunification as it is a part of the ‘Chinese Dream’. The Chinese Dream is about achieving 'national rejuvenation' which cannot be complete without reunification as the issue of Taiwan is a left over from the time when China was weak. However, the results of the 2020 elections proved to be a pushback against  China’s heavy-handed approach. Since her re-election Tsai has been increasingly vocal in her support for maintaining the status quo and has argued that Taiwan is a democratic entity and pushed for an independent Taiwanese identity.  The relationship has become further strained with the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. Effective handling of the Covid-19 pandemic by Taiwan has lent support to the argument that open, democratic systems can handle such situations as well or better than China. Moreover, Taiwan has blamed China for keeping it out of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and gravely affecting the lives of its 24 million inhabitants. Taiwan has also criticised China for delayed information to the WHO and done its part in proactively donating masks globally. To add to the already fragile situation, the year 2020 also marks the 15th anniversary of the Anti-Secession Law. The National People’s Congress (NPC) of China passed the Anti-Secession Law in 2005, which approved the use of force, if needed for reunification. One of the major issues of contention between China and Taiwan is also that Tsai has refused to recognise the ‘1992 consensus’, which says that both sides agree that there is only one China and also that Taiwan is a part of China. That is, the Chinese and Taiwanese interpretation of what constitutes this ‘one China’ differs. While speaking on the 15th anniversary at the Great Hall of the People recently, Chief of the Joint Staff Departments, Li Zuocheng, had said: “China will attack Taiwan if there is no other way to stop it from becoming independent”. In short, both Taiwan and China have been undertaking a major show of strength since the last six months. It was expected that Beijing would intensify its approach towards Taiwan. But the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic appears to have diverted Beijing’s focus for a while. Now it seems that Beijing is starting to focus on issues that help the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and Xi Jinping appear stronger and in control. Thus, we witnessed the passing of the National Security Law for Hong Kong, increasing assertiveness in the South China Sea and also military violence along the India-China Line of Actual Control (LAC). Taiwan’s moves to gain international recognition While the primary argument followed by China is that Taiwan is a part of China and that there is no space of any other view, Taipei has been undertaking steps to highlight its independence and uniqueness. For one thing Taiwan has been quite vocal in its support towards the protests in Hong Kong. The passing of the National Security Law has made the situation in Hong Kong quite volatile and it is an opportunity which Taiwan is not ready to miss. Taipei has been constantly arguing against Beijing’s ‘one country, two systems’ formula by citing the situation in Hong Kong.  To add to this Taiwan has also undertaken steps to attract people from Hong Kong. After the law was passed Taiwan opened an office especially to help people fleeing from Hong Kong. What is interesting is that this office begins work on July 1, which happens to be the anniversary of Hong Kong’s handover to China. This action has not gone down well with Beijing. China has been pretty vocal about the fact that this will only harm Taiwan. In an important statement China said: “Providing shelter for and taking onto the island the rioters and elements who bring chaos to Hong Kong will only continue to bring harm to Taiwan’s people”. There are also reports that Taiwan is following the United States and is planning to tighten the checks on investment coming from China. The prime reason behind this being safeguarding technologies and important data. As a result of all these moves, the last few weeks have witnessed a new show of strength by the Chinese air-force flying near Taiwan. The year 2020 has changed a lot of existing parameters and norms of the international order. However, the success of Taiwan in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic and the growing mistrust towards China has challenged the cross-strait relations. Taipei appears to be very keen and proactive in exploiting this situation in gaining prominent international recognition.  It is becoming increasingly apparent that China today is friendless in the global political space and Taiwan is too keen to exploit this new development. No surprise that when the Galwan Valley violence occurred between China and India, the Taiwanese media carried an image which showed Lord Rama fighting the Chinese dragon. This can also be a step to show that Taiwan is ‘not’ China. The Chinese dragon does not represent Taiwan. This imagery can also be read as Taiwanese push for an independent identity. (Dr Gunjan Singh is an assistant professor at the Jindal Global Law School. She has 10 years of experience in research pertaining to China Studies) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/taiwan-eyes-opportunity-to-assert-itself-856236.html
02-07-2020||Panorama||Towards trans-fat free bakery foods||Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) kill 61% of the population in India. The only way to address this is by adopting a healthy lifestyle and avoiding any food which contains industrially-produced trans-fats. Trans-fats are widely recognised as major contributors to NCDs. Eating TFA lowers the levels of the much needed high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and increases the levels of the dangerous low-density lipoprotein (LDL). It can also increase inflammation and weaken the immune system. Artificial trans-fats are used extensively in the food industry because it promises a longer shelf-life and is also present in Vanaspati, margarine and bakery shortenings. They are present in food produced in our local eateries and in popular brands of cakes, bakery products, cookies and ice creams. Due to the lack of mandatory trans-fat labelling on food items in India, it is difficult for anyone to know if a particular food product is trans-fat free. Reheating and repeated use of trans-fat oils is another concern. Such reckless practice is commonly seen in roadside food outlets, hotels, restaurants and even in our kitchens. The potential adverse effects that are associated with such practice are quite insidious as reheating oils to a high temperature while preparing food leads to a further increase in the consumption of trans-fats.  In tandem with all relevant stakeholders, attempts have been made in Kerala to adopt methods to produce trans-fat free products without compromising quality and taste. From a consumers perspective, factors such as lack of awareness about food safety, little information and education about trans-fats, non-availability and failure to recognise trans-fat free food products, and inadequate labelling on packaged food act as major hurdles.  Lack of demand from the consumers, finding a suitable healthy alternative to TFAs and fear of lesser shelf life of food products act as a hindrance for manufacturers. Today, regular sensitisation and training workshops by the State has begun to bear fruits and many bakeries within the State are coming forward to accept the change. They have begun to realise that their initial perception that producing trans-fat free food items are considerably more expensive than regular TFA containing food is just a misconception. In bakery products, one of the main requirements is that fat should have some structure and solidity. This can be achieved by using sunflower oil, coconut oil, thus allowing manufacturers to swap expensive bakery blends for commodity-based ingredients. However, there are few initial problems associated with the production of such bakery products. For instance, there arises a need to re-engineer cakes blend and overall cake formulation. Any carelessness while mixing and identifying the exact proportion would result in a weak structure and lesser shelf life. But that can be easily addressed with a bit of training. Manufacturers should be able to learn from each other and that’s where the role of Bakers Associations comes in. Bringing them together to share experiences with reformulation can prove to be useful. Currently, small and mid-size bakery manufacturers may be more challenged with implementation than larger manufacturers and may need more targeted technical assistance. Even when such manufacturing challenges are gradually addressed, the greatest challenge within the State is low consumer awareness and inadequate monitoring compliance. Comparatively, though food regulators in Kerala are ahead and have displayed noted improvement in food safety, most other food laboratories across the country still lack the capacity to measure industrially-produced trans-fats. Inadequate staff, shortage of finance and deficiencies in the laboratory infrastructure is a major challenge in the fast-changing landscape of the food processing industry. The market produces what consumers demand. Food producers play only a secondary role in the determination of consumer’s food choices. They just manufacture and sell foods with price, taste and health attributes that consumers find most desirable. The responsibility largely lies in raising consumer awareness and to generate market demand. Labelling requirements and public awareness campaigns, therefore, seem eminently reasonable. (The writer is the director, CUTS International and former member of Central Advisory Committee of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/towards-trans-fat-free-bakery-foods-856034.html
02-07-2020||South||Four Tamil Nadu cops arrested by CB-CID in custodial deaths case||Four policemen, including an Inspector of a police station in Thoothukudi district where a father and his son were allegedly tortured leading to their deaths, days later, were arrested by the Crime-Branch Crime Investigation Department (CB-CID) wing of the Tamil Nadu Police. The arrests came within 24 hours of the CB-CID taking over the probe into the deaths of P Jeyaraj (61), and Emmanuel Bennix (31), on the orders of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court.  Sridhar, the inspector who is accused of allegedly torturing several men in the police station, sub-inspector Balakrishnan and constable Murugan were picked up by the sleuths of the CB-CID wing on Thursday morning. Sub-inspector Raghu Ganesh was arrested on Wednesday night.   Ragu Ganesh is the sub-inspector who filed the FIR on June 19 night against P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix following a complaint by head constable S Murugan and constable Muthuraj that the duo assaulted them following an argument. However, footage recorded in a CCTV installed near Bennix’s mobile shop demolished all the “lies” in the FIR. Sources said the arrests were made after altering the FIR against the policemen to 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The altering of the FIR on Wednesday came a day after the High Court said the “anti-mortem” injuries found on the bodies of the duo and the statement by a woman head constable of the station was “prima facie enough” to charge the policemen involved in the incident for murder.  The policewoman had told the Judicial Magistrate probing the case that the father-son duo was beaten through the night after their arrest on June 19. On Wednesday, she was given police protection, but the head constable said her fears continue to remain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-tamil-nadu-cops-arrested-by-cb-cid-in-custodial-deaths-case-856078.html
02-07-2020||South||Crime Branch-CID arrests three more cops in father-son duo death case in Tamil Nadu||The Crime Branch CID sleuths on Thursday arrested three more police personnel including an inspector in a case of alleged torture by police leading to the deaths of a father-son duo at Sathankulam in southern Tamil Nadu. With this, four police personnel have been arrested in the case. Following preliminary investigations, inspector Sridhar, head constable Murugan, and sub-inspector Balakrishnan have been arrested, senior police officials said. The fresh arrests comes following the arrest of sub-inspector Raghu Ganesh last night. "All important police personnel involved in the incident have been arrested.... the investigation continues," a senior CB-CID official said. Inspector General of Police (South Zone), S Murugan confirmed the four arrests and asserted that "custodial deaths" must not be allowed to happen and all arrests should be carried out in accordance with law and as per the directions of the Supreme Court. Within hours of taking over the probe on the directions of the Madras High Court, the CB-CID on Wednesday altered the FIR to include offences that led to the death of the father-son duo following alleged police torture. The accused persons in the case include sub-inspector Raghu Ganesh. Law Minister C Ve Shanmugam has said the government would ensure "highest punishment" to those responsible for the deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son Bennicks, who were allegedly thrashed at the Sathankulam police station in Tuticorin district recently. The duo, arrested for "violating" lockdown norms over the business hours of their cell phone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23 while in judicial custody with the relatives alleging they were tortured at the Sathankulam police station by the personnel days earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/crime-branch-cid-arrests-three-more-cops-in-father-son-duo-death-case-in-tamil-nadu-856184.html
02-07-2020||South||Telangana High Court not satisfied with govt report on Covid-19; seeks more details||The court hearing a batch of PILs on Wednesday also sought to know why detailed information with regard to coronavirus cases being put out by the government was not being made available to the public. Expressing displeasure over details filed by the Telangana Public Health director, a division bench, comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, directed the state government to file a detailed report on the present Covid-19 situation in the state by July 17.  The bench also said it would summon the chief secretary and other senior officials concerned to appear before it personally if the report is not received. When contacted, Advocate-General BS Prasad said they will comply with the court's direction. The court was hearing a batch of Public Interest Litigations (PIL) filed by Professor P L Vishweshwar Rao and others on the number of coronavirus tests being conducted in the state, medical infrastructure and also a direction to the state government on a detailed Covid-19 health bulletin to the public. The court also directed the government to furnish the report on the finding of the central committee that has visited the state capital Hyderabad recently. Telangana had yesterday reported 1,018 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven fatalities, taking the tally in the state to 17,357 and death toll to 267.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-high-court-not-satisfied-with-govt-report-on-covid-19-seeks-more-details-856199.html
02-07-2020||South||HRD panel to review situation for conducting of NEET, JEE: Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'||Parents and students have raised concerns about conducting the exams in July. "Looking at the prevailing circumstances and requests received from students and parents appearing for JEE and NEEET examinations, a committee consisting of officials from the National Testing Agency (NTA) and other experts has been advised to review the situation and submit its recommendations latest by tomorrow," Nishank said. While medical entrance exam NEET is scheduled on July 26, engineering entrance exam JEE is scheduled to be held from July 18-23. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had last week cancelled pending board exams scheduled from July 1 to 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hrd-panel-to-review-situation-for-conducting-of-neet-jee-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank-856202.html
02-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt moves SC against HC's order on applying 50% quota for OBCs in medical courses||The Tamil Nadu government has moved the Supreme Court against the Madras High Court's order declining to issue an order to the Centre to implement 50% reservation for OBCs in all India quota seats in medical courses in the state. The high court had on June 22 allowed a plea by the Centre, the Medical Council of India (MCI) and others to keep the petition filed by the state in abeyance since a similar plea was coming up for consideration before the top court on July 8. The state government contended that the high court's decision was tantamount to denying relief as the time was running out for filling up the seats. It asked the top court to direct the Centre to provide 50% reservation for backward classes in admission to the seats shared by it in all India quota in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses in the academic year 2020-21, subject to the outcome of the matter. According to the Medical Council of India’s Regulations, 1997, 15% of seats in all undergraduate medical colleges and 50% in all postgraduate medical colleges are surrendered to the all India quota.  The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993, provided for 50% reservation for OBCs, besides 18% for SCs and 1% for STs.  On June 11, the top court had declined to consider a batch of petitions filed by DMK, AIADMK, CPI(M), the Tamil Nadu government and others for implementing 50% reservations for OBCs in medical courses in all India quota seats in colleges in the state. The petitioners had then preferred to approach the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-moves-sc-against-hcs-order-on-applying-50-quota-for-obcs-in-medical-courses-856266.html
02-07-2020||South||Left-front sends welcome message to Kerala Congress faction||The ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front in Kerala has sent a welcome message to the Kerala Congress faction led by KM Mani's son and Rajya Sabha MP Jose K Mani which was ousted from the Congress-led United Democratic Front. However, the Pala Assembly constituency would be a major hurdle. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said in a write up in party mouthpiece that the Kerala Congress was a party with a mass base and that the UDF would be quite weak without the Kerala Congress. Close on the heels of that CPM senior leader and LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan said that the bar bribery allegation raised against KM Mani earlier was not relevant now and the LDF would discuss the present issues in the UDF. However, Jose K Mani reacted that though he was happy at the CPM leaders' comments, so far no decision on joining the LDF was taken. The Pala constituency that was held by K M Mani for over 50 years, till his death last year, maybe a major issue in the chances of Jose K Mani faction joining the LDF. NCP, which is a coalition partner of the LDF, won the Pala seat in the by-poll held following Mani's death. NCP leader Mani C Kappan, who won the Pala seat in the by-poll, already made in clear that there won't be any compromise in Pala seat, even if it would welcome any decision of LDF to invite Jose K Mani faction. Since the next Assembly polls are hardly one year away, the left-front may not take any decision that might affect the unity of the front. Meanwhile, sources said that the BJP was also making efforts to woo BJP to the NDA. Kerala Congress's mass base was mainly the Christian vote banks of Kottayam and Idukki districts. Hence a healthy rapport with Kerala Congress might help the BJP. However, the Jose K Mani faction might make any moves in this regard very cautiously as a section in the party feels that it may lose its Christian vote base if it allies the BJP, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/left-front-sends-welcome-message-to-kerala-congress-faction-856275.html
02-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Recoveries outnumber fresh cases in Kerala||Even as 160 more persons were tested Covid-19 positive in Kerala on Thursday, the state could bring down the number of active cases as 202 persons recovered from Covid-19. Of the 4,753 persons tested Covid-19 positive in Kerala so far, 2088 were under treatment as on Thursday. While 2638 recovered, 25 persons died. Meanwhile, raising concerns, the number of fresh cases through local contacts was slightly increasing in the state, especially in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram cities. Over the last week over 100 fresh cases through local contact were reported in the state. While many of the cases were un-linked, health officials also strongly suspect that many were trying to hide Covid-19 symptoms. The state was carrying out random tests at areas were community spread was suspected. However, so far community spread was not reported. Out of the 160 fresh cases on Thursday, 160 were NRIs, and 40 were from other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-recoveries-outnumber-fresh-cases-in-kerala-856281.html
02-07-2020||South||Catheter breaks during angiogram procedure on woman in Kerala||In a shocking incident, a catheter broke while a woman was undergoing an angiogram procedure at a private hospital at Alappuzha district in Kerala, and the woman later died. While the relatives of the deceased lodged a police petition alleging of medical negligence, a panel of doctors was learned to have maintained that the cause of death was a heart attack. A police probe was on into the incident. Medical experts cite that it was in rarest of a rare case that medical equipment broke while undergoing procedures and the low quality of the equipment could be the reason Police sources said that Bindu, 55, of Kayamkulam in Alappuzha died on June 30. Her relatives alleged that she had undergone an angiogram at a private hospital at Mavelikara in the district on June 4. A portion of the catheter broke and got stuck in an artery. She was rushed to another private hospital and open surgery performed. Bindu was discharged after one week. On June 30 she suffered discomfort and was rushed to a nearby hospital, where doctors pronounced her dead. Based on a complaint of her relatives the Kareelakulangara police in Alappuzha registered a case of unnatural death. Kareelakulangara inspector S L Anilkumar told DH that a panel of doctors comprising the police surgeon gave a report that even as the woman suffered an injury on the heart it got healed. The cause of death was a fresh heart attack. Meanwhile, a doctor, who preferred not to be quoted, said that the catheter breaking incident cold have to enhance the stress level of the woman. That could be the reason for the fresh attack. Meanwhile, IMA Kerala chapter spokesperson Dr. N Sulphi said that it was a "very very very rare" case that catheter broke while performing angiogram. He said that the quality of the medical equipment being used needs to be looked into. Santhakumar, a relative of Bindu, said that a complaint was given to the police soon after the incident on June 4. Doctors who performed the open-heart surgery also said that she was not having any blocks in the heart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/catheter-breaks-during-angiogram-procedure-on-woman-in-kerala-856296.html
02-07-2020||South||Minor girl sexually assaulted, killed in Tamil Nadu||A missing seven-year-old girl was sexually assaulted and killed allegedly by a man in a village near here, following which he has been arrested, police said here on Thursday. The crime coming close on the heels of a killing of a 13 -year old girl in this district, has led to an outrage and Chief Minister K Palaniswami assured stern legal action against the accused involved in the ghastly crime. The child went missing on June 30 evening and after unsuccessful searches, her family lodged a police complaint the next day. During the investigation, police said they spotted the body of the child in a deserted location near her village and it was also found that the child was last seen with a neighbour. "A youth, living near the child's house had taken her to a temple and local people also had seen them together. Later, this man had taken her to a secluded place where he sexually assaulted and killed her," a police official told PTI. The 25-year-old man was arrested today and during questioning, he confessed to his crime of sexual assault and murder, the official said adding the body of the victim, which bore signs of assault and injuries was sent to a government hospital for post-mortem. Asked on the findings of the autopsy, he said: "the report corroborates the confession of the accused." A case of rape and murder under IPC sections, the POCSO Act for aggravated penetrative sexual assault and the SC/ST Act has been filed. The family of the victim has still not accepted her body protesting against the crime, the assailant, and seeking government intervention. The ghastly crime against the child has outraged people and several in the social media sought justice and condemned crimes against women and children. In May, a 13-year-old girl was killed by her father "to get prosperity," on the basis of "advise of a woman black magician." Four people including the victim's father, the black magician and her assistant were arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minor-girl-sexually-assaulted-killed-in-tamil-nadu-856303.html
02-07-2020||South||10 more Andhra Pradesh secretariat employees test positive for Covid-19||Ten more staffers in the Andhra Pradesh Secretariat tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total number of those affected there to 25 on Thursday. In the AP Legislature, situated on the same premises, two employees tested positive for the virus, officials said. Secretariat employees in departments like Animal Husbandry and Water Resources were found infected with coronavirus in the samples tested at the VRDL in Guntur. Following this, the Special Chief Secretaries and Secretaries of the departments concerned asked their staff to go home as a precautionary measure, the sources said. Most of the blocks in the Secretariat wore a deserted look as the Covid-19 scare hit once again. Previously, 15 staffers in the Secretariat and two in the assembly complex tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/10-more-andhra-pradesh-secretariat-employees-test-positive-for-covid-19-856313.html
02-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu sees new high of 4,300 plus cases in a single day, tally nears a lakh||Coronavirus cases crossed the 4,000 mark in a single day for the first time in Tamil Nadu on Thursday as the state's overall tally mounted to 98,392 and 57 more deaths pushed the toll to 1,321. Of the 4,343 new cases, Chennai's share alone was 2,027, taking its cumulative numbers to 62,598 while the remainder spread across the state. Seventythree of those tested positive on Thursday were from other states and abroad, a health department bulletin said. As many as 3,095 people were discharged, also the highest for a day so far, taking the cumulative recoveries to 56,021. The active cases stood at 41,047. Fiftyseven people died in 37 government and 20 private hospitals taking the toll to 1,321. A total of 33,488 samples were tested on Thursday and in total, 12,35,692 specimens have been examined in 91 labs -- 48 in government and 43 in the private sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-sees-new-high-of-4300-plus-cases-in-a-single-day-tally-nears-a-lakh-856341.html
02-07-2020||South||Eight deaths, 1,213 new cases of Covid-19 in Telangana||Telangana continued to witness a spike in Covid-19 cases with 1,213 people testing positive while eight deaths were reported on Thursday, taking the tally to 18,570 and the toll to 275. As many as 998 of the new cases were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) areas, followed by neighbouring Medchal district with 54 cases. A state government bulletin said 9,069 people have been discharged so far, while 9,226 were under treatment. According to the bulletin, 5,356 samples were tested on Thursday. Cumulatively, 98,153 samples have been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eight-deaths-1213-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-telangana-856353.html
02-07-2020||State||1640 screens in Mysuru to display D K Shivakumar's oath-taking ceremony||District and City Congress committees are all set for the oath-taking ceremony of Congress leader D K Shivakumar as KPCC president. As many as 1640 LED television screens are being put up across the district, including gram panchayats in rural Mysuru and at ward level in the city. The oath-taking ceremony will be held in Bengaluru and will be live telecast using the Zoom platform. Congress City unit president R Murthy said that 100 people can watch the programme on a screen at a time. The KPCC has appointed one person per screen to monitor social distance is maintained among viewers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/1640-screens-in-mysuru-to-display-d-k-shivakumars-oath-taking-ceremony-856084.html
02-07-2020||State||Police station in Mysuru sealed after police officer tests Covid-19 positive||A police station in Mysuru was sealed after a police officer tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-station-in-mysuru-sealed-after-police-officer-tests-covid-19-positive-856111.html
02-07-2020||State||Close resorts and homestays with immediate effect, demands MLA||With the number of Covid-19 cases rising in the district, Sakleshpur MLA H K Ramaswamy has urged Deputy Commissioner R Girish to issue orders to close the resorts and homestays with immediate effect. Speaking to reporters, Ramaswamy said, Sakleshpur was a green taluk so far, but reported one case recently. With the homestays and resorts opened, the vehicular movement has increased. The district administration should not cause further delay and issue orders in this regard, he said. The government's stand over tackling the coronavirus issue is not clear. Though positive cases are on the rise, it is not considering lockdown and has been informing about strict action, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/close-resorts-and-homestays-with-immediate-effect-demands-mla-856172.html
02-07-2020||State||Sand artist arrested over Someshwara temple idol theft, gets bail||Biligere Police, in Nanjangud taluk, arrested city-based sand artist M N Gowri, following a complaint by the Tahsildar, on Wednesday (July 1). She was granted bail later. Police said, “On June 30, the artist had taken a three feet tall sculpture of Veerabhadreshwara from a field in front of Someshwara temple in Hariharapura, near Biligere. The villagers have informed the issue to the Tahsildar. Following a complaint by the Tahsildar, we registered a case and are investigating”. The police team, lead by Sub-Inspector Akash, visited Jal Bagh, on KRS Road, on the outskirts of the city, and took the sculpture into custody. A case has been filed against Gowri under Section 378 of IPC, for theft. During the inquiry, she stated that she brought the idol to hand it over to the Archeology department and it was lying neglected in the field, the Police said. Local residents said, near the hillock between Hariharapura and Iggali, there is an ancient Someshwara temple. When the Cholas were ruling these parts Ganigas, or manufacturers of vegetable oils, were residing there and the idols and other sculptures belong to them. There are many more such ancient artworks there,  they said. Gowri, along with her sister M N Neelambika has set up a sand sculpture museum and has a collection of over 100 artworks. Meanwhile, Gowri met Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and has submitted a letter, stating that she found an ancient sculpture and wanted to hand it over to the government, as per the guidelines of the Treasure Trove Act, 1878, but due to some misunderstanding the police have filed a case against her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sand-artist-arrested-over-someshwara-temple-idol-theft-gets-bail-856226.html
02-07-2020||State||Not an inch of Indian land will be given to China, says Pralhad Joshi||Clarifying that there is no question of giving up even one inch of land of Indian territory to China and the Prime Minister giving free hand to Indian military to give befitting answer to China, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, "We will fight for our integrity and territory, and we will never compromise, come what may". "We have seen the behaviour of China since over half-a decade, but today it is in not 1972 and top leadership in India is very strong. Whether talks be fruitful or not, there would be no compromise. Top military officials and the government would discuss military action, if at all needed. 2013 incident ,when China occupied some part of India, would not be allowed to repeat this time. We are ready to face any situation," he said. Based on intelligence inputs, 59 Chinese mobile apps are banned in today's situation, to maintain some secrets of India and to keep the law of the land intact, Joshi said. 'Lockdown not permanent solution' Opining that lockdown is not a permanent solution to contain Covid-19 infection, Joshi made it clear that the Centre imposed more than two months of lockdown to create awareness, to make people psychologically ready to keep themselves away from infection, and to make medical preparations required like PPE kits and beds in hospital. That has happened to a considerable extent now, he observed. Experts predicted that Covid-19 cases in India would reach four crore in India, but it is controlled well, he said. Criticising Congress, Joshi stated that Congress has no work and therefore, they are levelling allegations against Union Government, though some Congressmen hail Prime Minister Narendra Modi inside the Parliament. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's words are like giving moral right to China, Joshi charged. Monsoon session Replying to suggestions being given to hold monsoon session of the Parliament, Joshi said, "the government will decide when, where and how it should be conducted. But, monsoon session will be held". Central Vista project is planned keeping completion of 75th years of India's independence, in 2022. Economy would definitely bounce back, and it is just a matter of time, he stated. "I pray that God him give the mentality of working as a constructive opposition party to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee ((KPCC) president D K Shivakumar," Joshi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/not-an-inch-of-indian-land-will-be-given-to-china-says-pralhad-joshi-856231.html
02-07-2020||State||D K Shivakumar officially takes charge as KPCC chief||D K Shivakumar on Thursday officially took charge as president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee after over three months since he was appointed to the post. Called "Pratijna Dina", the function to mark the official take-over of Shivakumar as president, along with Eshwar Khandre, Salim Ahmed and Satish Jarkiholi as working presidents of KPCC, is said to have been digitally witnessed by lakhs of people from over 15,000 places. Following the restrictions in place to control the spread of coronavirus, the ceremony was organised at the party's new office building in the presence of select invitees at the venue. Aimed at mobilising the party leaders and cadre, arrangements were made at panchayat and ward-level across the state to see to that they are part of the function through live telecast on TV channels, Zoom, YouTube and social media. The official take-over saw immediate past president Dinesh Gundu Rao handing over the Congress flag to Shivakumar, and this was followed by party workers across locations, who were digitally watching the function, taking oath and reading the preamble of the Constitution. The ceremony was held on Thursday after it was postponed thrice due to Covid-19 related restrictions in place. The Congress high command had on March 11 appointed Shivakumar, a six-time MLA, known to be the Congress's chief troubleshooter in crisis situations, replacing Dinesh Gundu Rao as the KPCC chief. Rao had quit the post in December after the party's dismal show of winning only two of the 15 seats in the bypolls. A written message by AICC president Sonia Gandhi was read out by party general secretary K C Venugopal in which she appreciated the judicious use of technology to mobilise the workers and leaders. Former Congress national president Rahul Gandhi telephoned Shivakumar and asked him to work for the party's success by taking everyone together. Venugopal, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge, former state Congress presidents, former and present party legislators and MPs, Congress leaders from neighbouring states were among others who attended the function here, virtually. Addressing the partymen, Shivakumar, vowing to convert Congress in Karnataka as a cadre-based party, said he was just a party worker and believes in collective leadership. "Joining together is the beginning, thinking together is progress, working together is success," he said, while recalling that he was being written off during his arrest in a money laundering case, but Sonia Gandhi picked him for the post and even came to prison and spent time with him. Stating that Congress should come to power again on its own in the state, Shivakumar spoke about implementing the Kerala model. "Theres the Kerala model. All big leaders there must represent their booth. We have to follow the Kerala model...," he said. It was not an easy path for the Vokkaliga strong man to become the KPCC president, as there was opposition from within. He continues to have a tough task ahead in taking together the faction-ridden party. There were reports of Siddarmaiah being in favour of one of his confidantes to be made state president. According to many party insiders, he is said to be the man behind the idea of three working presidents seen as a move loosen Shivakumar's grip on the party. Several other leaders had also opposed Shivakumar's name, citing his recent arrest by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. However, Shivakumar's loyalty, roles that he has played in the party's interest during troubled times, worked in his favour. Many feel his appointment would help in consolidating the party in southern parts of the state, where Vokkaligas are in large number. Considered as Congress's man Friday, Shivakumar had hosted party legislators from Gujarat here in 2017 to ensure the victory of AICC leader Ahmed Patel in the Rajya Sabha elections. He was a key link in the Congress-JDS coalition and had made hectic attempts to prevent the collapse of the H D Kumaraswamy-led government last year after a section of the then ruling MLAs revolted. Speaking at the take-over function, Siddaramaiah said, "Our aim is to remove BJP and bring Congress to power once again to save the country." He lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi accusing him of lying and betraying the people. He hit out at the government for its handling of Covid-19 crisis and economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/d-k-shivakumar-officially-takes-charge-as-kpcc-chief-856244.html
02-07-2020||State||MLA stops sand lorry, hands it over to police||Nagathan MLA Devanand Chavan on Thursday stopped a lorry that was illegally transporting sand on the outskirts of Vijayapura city and handed it over to the police. The JD(S) legislator stopped the Solapur-bound sand-laden lorry on the suspicious grounds. Upon checking the documents, he found out that the pass/licence (of sand transportation) was not renewed. The MLA handed over the lorry to the custody of Adarshanagar police.Speaking to the reporters, Chavan said, “Illegal sand extraction and transportation is going on unabated in Vijayapura district. The government should take necessary steps to stop it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-stops-sand-lorry-hands-it-over-to-police-856315.html
02-07-2020||State||Most migrant workers in misery, says pre-Covid-19 study||Three months before the Covid-19 outbreak, a State-wide sample survey of construction workers had clearly established that 77% owned no land or were small and marginal farmers. Irregular income from agriculture forced them to migrate to cities for work, a fact dramatically exposed by the crisis. The survey was part of a comprehensive study by Dr Y Narayana Chetty, retired Bangalore University professor and director, Alampally Chair on Labour Research. Covering 1,800 workers spread across 14 districts. the sample survey was completed in August 2019. The findings also revealed that 80% of the respondents were not part of any labour union, and 12.4% were even terrified of any union. They had to rely on contractors and make do with low wages that were often delayed. The pandemic and a hastily announced lockdown had triggered a massive, nationwide migrant crisis. The shutdown of interstate trains and buses had forced thousands to walk back, triggering deaths and misery. That the migrants were already in a precarious situation was brought out tellingly by the survey.  Although the survey data was analysed by December 2019, it could not be collated and printed in time due to the constraints imposed by the pandemic, Dr Chetty told DH. “We will soon be submitting the entire report to the Chief Minister.” Crisis amplified plight Even before the Covid crisis amplified their extreme challenges, the workers had no access to proper transportation, accommodation, safe food, water and toilets. This too came out strongly in the survey. Indicating the inherent insecurity in their workplaces, most respondents pointed to wage cuts when any issue cropped up between the builder and contractor. Their illiteracy, as Dr Chetty put it, prevented them from aptly articulating their issues before the government to seek justice. Incidentally, almost a third of the survey respondents were illiterate. Over a third of the workers surveyed had only elementary reading and writing skills. Long working hours, lack of medical help and dependence on usurious money lenders were all part of the workers’ everyday challenges, the survey showed. Among the districts covered by the study were Bengaluru urban and rural, Tumakuru, Chikkaballapur, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Belagavi and Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/most-migrant-workers-in-misery-says-pre-covid-19-study-856317.html
02-07-2020||State||Staff of govt medical colleges seek cashless treatment facility||Over 3,000 teaching and non-teaching employees working with teaching/medical college hospitals across Karnataka under the jurisdiction of the medical education department have demanded a cashless service scheme at private hospitals for their treatment during the Covid-19 crisis. According to the Karnataka Government Medical Education Department Institutions Employees Welfare Association, the staff working with these government medical college hospitals have no facilities like Jyoti Sanjeevini or any other cashless services during emergencies. The association submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday demanding inclusion of these employees in Jyoti Sanjeevini or other cashless medical services. Dr Thumallapalli A, Joint Secretary of the association, said, "Currently, we are also handling Covid-19 positive cases and many of us are a contracting virus. In case of non-availability of beds in government hospitals, we need to depend on private hospitals."  "We request the government to consider us for the services extended to other Covid-19 warriors working with other government institutions," he added. The director of medical education said, "the permanent staff are eligible for facilities like Jyoti Sanjeevini, for contract employees, it is a matter of concern and for 'D' group employees we have given ESI cards. The Rs 50 lakh insurance announced by the chief minister will be applicable for these employees also."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/staff-of-govt-medical-colleges-seek-cashless-treatment-facility-856323.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Govt orders supply of nutritious food to Covid-19 patients||Amidst protests and allegation of poor quality food provided to the Covid-19 patients at designated hospitals, the state government on Wednesday issued fresh orders directing the hospitals to provide quality and nutritious food to the patients based on the suggestion by the dietitians.  According to the circular issued by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) it is important to boost immunity power among the patients. “Aimed at improving the immunity of the patients, they shall be provided quality nutritious food on time,” the circular said. As per the new order, the breakfast will be served at 7:00 am followed by lunch at 1:00 pm and dinner at 7:00 pm.  Akhtar has also directed the hospitals to ensure that food expenses per patient do not exceed Rs 250 and the expenses are covered from funds available with ARS fund at Hospital or Disaster Relief Fund at the district level.   Patients will be served with Rava Idli on Monday, Pongal on Tuesday, Set-Dosa on Wednesday, Rice Idli on Thursday, Bisi-bele bath on Friday, Chow-Chow bath on Saturday, and Set-Dosa on Sunday. Hospitals have also been directed to provide fruits along with porridge or soup every day at 10:00 am.  Lunch on all days will include either Roti or Chapathi along with Rice, Dal, curds or egg. In the evening patients will be provided with banana, cookies, and a mango bar. For dinner, the same menu is repeated along with a vegetable salad. Flavored milk will also be provided at night, according to the fresh circular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-orders-supply-of-nutritious-food-to-covid-19-patients-856014.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HD Kumaraswamy slams Karnataka government for 'poor handling' of Covid-19||Former Karnataka Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday accused the BJP government in the state of 'failure' to protect the citizens from coronavirus as he referred to reports of deaths of a few patients after being allegedly turned away by hospitals. In a series of tweets, Kumaraswamy also hit out at Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and ministers alleging that they were wasting their time in issuing contradictory statements instead of taking 'lessons' from the Kerala government. "It is shocking to see Covid-19 patients being turned down by the hospitals due to lack of beds. The government has failed in its duty to protect the citizens," he said. He claimed that Karnataka was suffering due to lack of co-ordination in the cabinet and for the last three months Yediyurappa and his ministerial colleagues have only been talking even as the Covid-19 numbers were escalating. "If the government doesn't get its act together, the day is not far when Covid patients would be condemned to die on the streets. We are already seeing heart-wrenching stories of patients denied treatment." He appealed to the government to consider the suggestions he had made earlier and asked it to rise above party politics.  His statement came amid rising coronavirus cases in Bengaluru and reported deaths of patients after hospitals allegedly turned away some, citing non-availability of beds or ventilators. The state government has on Tuesday issued notice to nine private hospitals after a 52-year old patient with influenza-like illness symptoms died here on being allegedly denied admission by them citing "non-availability" of beds. Health Minister B Sriramulu on Wednesday said refusal to provide treatment was not only inhuman but also illegal as the government sought the response of the hospitals to the notices seeking to know why action should not be taken against them for 'violation' of provisions of Karnataka Private Medical Establishment (KPME) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hd-kumaraswamy-slams-karnataka-government-for-poor-handling-of-covid-19-856161.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||After PM, BSY calls Kamegowda; assures fund for lake development||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned the contribution of Malavalli farmer Dasanadoddi Kamegowda in his 66th  'Mann Ki Baat' radio show, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa called the farmer, on Thursday morning. The Chief Minister enquired about the well being of the 84-year-old farmer, who has been constructing ponds and check dams working tirelessly in conserving rainwater so that there is no shortage during the summer.Expressing happiness over his feat spending lakhs of rupees for conserving water, the Chief Minister asked the farmer about his needs. Kamegowda requested him more funds to develop the lakes and ponds, a house for his family, and a job for his son in the Forest department. Responding to this, the CM assured Rs 25 lakh fund for the development of lakes, the government would take the responsibility of constructing a house and a job for his son in the Forest department. It may be mentioned that Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekawat had called him to appreciate his works and had assured to speak about his needs to the Karnataka Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-pm-bsy-calls-kamegowda-assures-fund-for-lake-development-856215.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada comedian Mimicry Rajagopal dies at 69||Kannada film comedian Mimicry Rajagopal, who had acted in more than 650 movies, died here on Thursday, his family said. The 69-year-old actor was suffering from kidney and respiratory-related diseases and breathed his last at his residence in Kengeri in the city, they added. Some of his prominent movies are 'Sadhakaru', 'Goosi Gang,' 'Real Police', and 'Kaapi Katte.' Rajagopal's mimicry skills had earned him the sobriquet Mimicry Rajagopal. He shot to fame by copying film actress Kalpana. Though he acted mostly in Kannada films, he had tried his hands in Tamil movies as well, according to sources in the Karnataka Film Chambers and Commerce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-comedian-mimicry-rajagopal-dies-at-69-856278.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Justice Nagamohan Das Commission submits report on hike in reservation for SC, ST communities||Throwing open a possibility of hike in reservation for SC, ST communities in Karnataka, the Justice HN Nagamohan Das Commission, constituted by the state government to examine the issue, has submitted its final report to the Chief Minister on Thursday. The commission was constituted by the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government to look into the increase in reservation for the SC community from the existing 15 percent to 17 percent and for the ST community, from 3 percent to 7 percent. After the collapse of the coalition government, the incumbent BJP government asked the commission to continue its work in this direction, by giving time until the end of June to submit the report. While speculations are rife that the commission’s 227-page report is in favour of increase in reservation, there is no official confirmation for the same. However, highly placed sources confirmed that, “The Commission, which received about 850 written representations in the matter from various people, has taken cognisance of the fact that despite existing reservation, a significant section of these communities do not have access to even primary education, eventually leading to unemployment. The report has suggested to the government to break this vicious circle by emphasising on primary education and skill development.” The report has addressed all issues pertaining to internal reservation, creamy layer, reservation in promotion and that in private sector. Also, the commission has taken into account the social scenario of the newly recognised ST communities (Talavara, Parivara, Siddhi), while compiling the report.  Speaking to DH, Justice Nagamohan Das said, “We were given time till the end of June to submit the report and we have complied with it. The commission wanted it to be a people’s report and hence conducted about 42 expert consultations, while holding divisional-level public meetings in Kalburgi, Belagavi, Mysuru and Benglauru. The report stays true to our conscience and to the spirit of the constitution.” The report is likely to be discussed in the next cabinet meeting. The increase in reservation has been a political hot potato for successive governments. During the coalition regime, some Congress leaders feared that the SC, ST communities were deserting them. Leaders such as Satish Jarkiholi, E Tukaram and V S Ugrappa were among those who had pushed the government for this increase. BJP's B Sreeramulu too, has been building pressure on BS Yediyurappa for a hike in reservation for the Valmiki community (a sub category under the ST community).  At present, Karnataka provides 15 percent reservation for SCs, 3 percent for STs and 32 percent for the other backward classes (OBC), adding up to 50 percent. The reservation covers 101 scheduled castes, 50 scheduled tribes and 207 OBCs, including Muslims, Christians and Jains. If the state government were to increase the reservation now, it would exceed the ceiling limit of 50 percent reservation set by the Supreme Court. However, such a move will not be unprecedented as states like Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra already have exceed this cap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/justice-nagamohan-das-commission-submits-report-on-hike-in-reservation-for-sc-st-communities-856309.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Take everyone together, Rahul Gandhi tells DK Shivakumar||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday summed up the task before the new Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar: You have to carry everyone together.  In what was almost a 4-hour-long event, Shivakumar took formal charge as the state party chief, which the party claimed was viewed by 56 lakh people.  Gandhi’s message cut right at the heart of a problem Shivakumar faces as the new state party president - bringing various factions and their leaders together.  “In Karnataka, Congress has the strongest base. Your first priority should be to take everyone along together,” AICC general secretary KC Venugopal, who represented the high command at Shivakumar’s swearing-in, said. Referring to Shivakumar’s working presidents Satish Jarkiholi, Eshwar Khandre and Saleem Ahmed, Venugopal said it was a new team. “I think this team should emerge victoriously.” According to the party, Shivakumar’s coronation was watched live via Zoom at 16,743 locations and some 20 lakh people watched it on various social media platforms. Also, over 6.39 lakh missed calls were received by the party.  In a symbolic transfer of power, outgoing KPCC president Dinesh Gundu Rao handed Shivakumar the Congress’ flag during Pratijna Dina as the event was called. Some 150 leaders were present at the party’s headquarters in the city, while party workers participated from 7,831 locations.  Even Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi called up Shivakumar to wish him, whereas Congress president Sonia Gandhi despatched a written message for him, signifying how close Shivakumar is to the high command and the trust they have in him.  Shivakumar said his appointment should mark the beginning of a new chapter for the party. He vowed to make the Congress a cadre-based unit. “In Kerala, all big leaders represent their booth. We’ve to follow the Kerala model,” he said, adding that the Congress should come to power again||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/take-everyone-together-rahul-gandhi-tells-dk-shivakumar-856311.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Will decide on GP election dates by October, poll panel tells HC||The State Election Commission on Thursday submitted to the High Court that it will take a call on the dates for the elections to gram panchayats in the state by the first week of October 2020. The counsel representing the commission stated that the preparation of the electoral lists for the 5,800-gram panchayats was underway. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy heard the petition filed by Congress MLC K C Kondaiah and others. The petition had challenged the constitutional validity of the May 28, 2020, notification issued by the State Election Commission, temporarily postponing the elections to gram panchayats. The counsel appearing for the commission submitted that the reservation list will be notified by July 25. He further stated that the voter lists will be prepared by September and that the commission will announce the dates for the elections by the first week of October 2020. The bench posted the further hearing to July 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-decide-on-gp-election-dates-by-october-poll-panel-tells-hc-856316.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||4.16 lakh migrant workers sent home from Karnataka, HC told||The state government on Thursday submitted before the High Court that a total of 4.16 lakh migrant workers had been transported from the state till June 29. It also told the court that SMSes had been sent to 6.54 lakh migrant workers registered on Seva Sindhu portal, informing them to report immediately at the mustering centre – Tripura Vasini, Palace Grounds in Bengaluru - if they still intend to travel. Hearing PILs filed on various issues surrounding Covid-19, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay S Oka directed the government to ensure relief to the workers who chose to continue their stay in the state. The government submitted that around 50% of the workers registered on the Seva Sindhu portal had decided not to go back to their home states. "If the submission of the state is accepted, broadly it can be said that out of the migrant workers who registered with the portal to return to their home states, about half of them continued to stay in the state of Karnataka. The issue of providing relief to them under various welfare legislations which are applicable to them needs to be considered,’’ the bench said.  The government submitted that in addition to the trains till June 30, another Shramik Special train left Bengaluru for Bihar via Odisha and Jharkhand on July 1. Arrangements will be made for the transportation of the workers if they intend to go back to their states. "Based on the number of migrant workers who report at the designated places, trains would be arranged for the migrant workers. This is intended to be the last SMS which is to be sent to the migrant workers registered on Seva Sindhu,’’ the state submitted. The counsel for the petitioner stated that on July 2 also, there were around 1,000 migrant workers at the Tripura Vasini mustering centre intending to go back to their states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/416-lakh-migrant-workers-sent-home-from-karnataka-hc-told-856318.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Panel on SC/ST quota submits report to CM Yediyurappa||Throwing open the possibility of hiking the quantum of reservation for SC/ST communities in Karnataka, the Justice H N Nagamohan Das Commission submitted its final report to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday. The commission was constituted by the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government to look into demands from various quarters to hike the quota for the SC/ST communities. The commission looked into hiking the reservation for SCs from the present 15% to 17% and for STs from 3% to 7%. While speculations are rife that the commission’s 227-page report is in favour of increasing reservation, there was no official confirmation of the same. However, highly-placed sources confirmed thus: “The Commission, which received about 850 written representations in the matter from various people, has taken cognisance of the fact that despite existing reservation, a significant section of these communities does not have access to even primary education, eventually leading to unemployment. The report has suggested to the government to break this vicious circle by emphasising on primary education and skill development.” The report has addressed all issues pertaining to the internal reservation, creamy layer, reservation in promotion and that in the private sector. Also, the commission has taken into account the social scenario of the newly recognised ST communities (Talavara, Parivara, Siddhi) while compiling the report.  Speaking to DH, Justice Das said, “We were given time till the end of June to submit the report and we have complied with it. The commission wanted it to be a people’s report and hence conducted about 42 expert consultations, while holding divisional-level public meetings in Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Mysuru and Bengaluru. The report stays true to our conscience and to the spirit of the Constitution.” The increase in reservation has been a political hot potato for successive governments. During the coalition regime, some Congress leaders feared that the SC/ST communities were deserting them and pushed for the quota hike. BJP's B Sreeramulu, too, has been building pressure on Yediyurappa for a hike.  At present, Karnataka provides a 15% reservation for SCs, 3% for STs, and 32% for the other backward classes (OBC), adding up to 50%. The reservation covers 101 scheduled castes, 50 scheduled tribes, and 207 OBCs, including Muslims, Christians and Jains. If the state government were to increase the reservation now, it would exceed the ceiling of 50% reservation set by the Supreme Court. However, such a move will not be unprecedented as states like Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra already have exceeded this cap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panel-on-sc/st-quota-submits-report-to-cm-yediyurappa-856321.html
02-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kerala seeks rail line through tunnel in Bandipur||Despite strong opposition by environmentalists, the Kerala government has brought back to the table the controversial Thalassery-Mysuru line with an alternative proposal for a tunnel in the ecologically sensitive Bandipur and Nagarahole forests. Kerala hopes that the broad-gauge line between Thalassery and Mysore will boost the socio-economic development of Kannur and Wayanad and provide a direct rail link from central Malabar to Mysuru and Bangalore. First proposed more than 50 years ago, the project got a push in early 2010. Southern Railway completed a survey and gave a report for a 299 km railway line to connect the two states. However, as experts and activists red-flagged the enormous damage the project would cause to environment, it was put on the backburner. In a letter to the state government last month, Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta, a new alignment has been proposed. "The government of Karnataka may convey its in-principle approval for the new alignment between Thalassery and Kadakola, involving a tunnel below the non-forest area between Bandipur National Park and Nagarahole Tiger Reserve," the letter states. The letter goes on to seek "approval" to conduct helicopter-borne geophysical surveys of the proposed route and field surveys in all the areas "including entry to the forest for survey purpose". Karnataka has now been asked to pitch in for the project, regarded by activists as a death knell for the rich biodiversity of the protected areas. According to the proposal, the corporation will complete the work, including cost estimates, forecast passenger, and freight traffic. "Govt of Karnataka is also requested to convey its willingness for equity contribution in the SPV for the project," the letter states. Over the last three years, the Kerala government has begun pushing for the project with new energy. In 2017, Karnataka agreed to allow conducting a survey for the project If doesn't disturb the wildlife areas. The Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (K-Rail) has said the proposed 240 km line is estimated to cost Rs 5,000 crore according to the feasibility report by Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. K-Rail stated in its recent newsletter that a detailed study has been conducted for the project and "suggested a common gateway across the Western Ghats in the forest areas of Kerala and Karnataka, to meet the requirements of both Nilambur-Nanjangud and Thalassery–Mysuru broad gauge lines". State Wildlife Board member Sanjay Gubbi, himself a conservation biologist, said the proposal shows that Kerala was yet to learn from the recent floods. "There is no non-forest area in Bandipur and Nagarahole forests. Such proposals are a disaster for the protected area and cannot be allowed. To a question, Principal Secretary, Infrastructure Development Department, Kapil Mohan told DH that the proposal has been received but no decision has been taken yet. "They have proposed a new alignment with a tunnel. However, a decision will be taken only after taking into account forest and ecological impact," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kerala-seeks-rail-line-through-tunnel-in-bandipur-856364.html
02-07-2020||West||Maharashtra's Palghar district turns into a coronavirus hotspot||The Palghar district includes the township of Vasai-Virar, one of the fastest-growing urban conglomerates in India. This district that has a mix of urban and tribal areas is spread over 5,344 sq km, a large part of which falls in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). According to Maharashtra government's Public Health Department, the Palghar district has 6,064 progressive Covid-19 cases and 111 deaths. Of these, 4,914 cases and 96 deaths were reported in the jurisdiction of Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC), while the rural and tribal areas have reported 1,150 cases and 15 deaths. The active cases in the district stand at 3,299. With 6,000-plus positive cases, Palghar district is among the top five worst-affected districts in Maharashtra just after the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban, Thane and Pune. The Palghar district is divided into eight tehsils of Palghar, Dahanu, Talsari, Jawhar, Mokhada, Wada, Vikramgad and Vasai, the last one being a large urban settlement. In the Vasai tehsil, the worst-affected area is parts of slum settlements in Santosh Bhuwan area of Nalasopara East, which is now being referred to as the second Dharavi.The VVCMC has created massive temporary quarantine and isolation facilities in the Vasai-Virar belt.   "Safety and hygiene are key aspects of the fight against Covid-19," says Dr Rajaneesh Ghadi, a Vasai-based general practitioner. "Physical distancing, wearing masks and using sanitisers are key to preventing Covid-19, but people seem to be taking it quite easy. We have to be part of the fight and supplement the efforts of the government," says Ashraf Ali, a Vasai- based social activist. According to a VVCMC official, the lockdown-like restrictions that have been imposed in parts of the town, is to contain the spread and break the chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-palghar-district-turns-into-a-coronavirus-hotspot-856095.html
02-07-2020||West||Easing of lockdown curbs helps Nanded banana growers to export produce||With the easing of lockdown curbs, banana growers from Ardhapur tehsil in Maharashtra's Nanded district have started getting demands for export of the fruit to Gulf countries, helping them fetch a better price for their produce. The state agriculture department is also guiding farmers from the area to export bananas and other crops, an official from the department said. The Ardhapur tehsil and other parts of Nanded, located around 570 km from Mumbai, have been known for banana cultivation because of the availability of water in the area. Nearly 40 tonnes of bananas are now being exported every day from Ardhapur to Oman, Iran, Iraq and Dubai, local farmer Nilesh Deshmukh told PTI. "Export quality bananas are selected from various farms in Ardhapur and around 40 tonnes are exported every day. During the lockdown, we were getting Rs 500 per quintal, but the unlocking process has helped us fetch Rs 900 per quintal. Before the lockdown, the rate was Rs 1,400 per quintal," he said. Farmers have been cultivating different varieties of bananas in this agricultural belt since many years. Deshmukh said he and other farmers are now planning to expand the cultivation process by growing a specific variety of the crop for export purposes in at least 100 acres of area in Ardhapur. "This will help us to get the same quality of produce in the area next time. At present, we are selecting export quality bananas from the entire tehsil," he said. Deshmukh said farmers have also improvised the packaging method and are now vacuum sealing the fruits in boxes for export. With this, their losses have come down from 25 per cent to one per cent, he said. "Now, the losses are almost zero which has helped us in having financial gains, he added. Another local banana grower Vibhishan Dudhate said with the easing of restrictions, the situation is gradually getting back to normal and farmers have started getting good rates for their produce. "Now, our crop demand is increasing in foreign countries and this has led us to fetch a rate of around Rs 1,000 per quintal," he said. Earlier, farmers used to send their produce to markets. But, now companies are directly collecting it from the farms for export, he said. When contacted, Nanded's agriculture superintendent Ravishankar Chalwade said farmers from Ardhapur and nearby areas are producing export quality bananas. "Now, the department is also helping them to take up export-oriented crops. The area has ample water and farmers use drip irrigation method which can increase the cultivation area in future," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/easing-of-lockdown-curbs-helps-nanded-banana-growers-to-export-produce-856123.html
02-07-2020||West||In Maharashtra's MMR, it is coronavirus lockdown while unlocking||The new normal seems to be posing a new set of challenges to the administration and police with a spurt in cases and people lowering their guard. In Mumbai, section 144 CrPC has been imposed for a fortnight to reduce public presence. All the nine municipal corporations within the five MMR districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Raigad and Palghar, have other restrictions in place although movement by road for official work and transport of essential commodities is allowed and curtailed suburban railway services for people engaged in essential services will continue. While in India's financial capital, section 144 of the CrPC is enforced and the Mumbai police and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have launched a massive crackdown on people not following the driving norms and not wearing masks. Mumbai, however, is not in a state of full lockdown but prohibitory orders are in place. In all the six corporations of Thane district - Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC), Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC) and Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation, the civic administrations have separately announced lockdown. The Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) in Raigad district too will enforce a lockdown. In Palghar district's Vasai Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC), over a dozen areas have been under lockdown since last fortnight.The APMC market in Vashi in the satellite township of Navi Mumbai has been exempted from the lockdown to avoid disruption of supplies of essential commodities, vegetables and fruits. "The government has to take the measures in view of the growing cases," Thane's Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde stated. In MMR,  the total progressive cases stand at 1,29,088 while deaths are at 5,863 - making it the Covid-19 hotspot in India. Last month, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's 'Mission Begin Again' began - and it will continue slowly. According to Health Department officials, cases were bound to shoot up after the unlocking. The new measures will be in place till July 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-maharashtras-mmr-it-is-coronavirus-lockdown-while-unlocking-856146.html
02-07-2020||West||Other deaths spike in Ahmedabad ravaged by coronavirus||A large Indian city badly hit by the coronavirus has recorded a sharp rise in deaths not attributed to the outbreak, according to official data and burial records, highlighting how the pandemic has affected general healthcare. The spike in deaths in Ahmedabad is due to patients with serious illnesses either not able to go to hospitals or being afraid to visit them because of the virus, doctors said. The numbers contain "ominous signals" for the rest of the country, said Dr Rajib Dasgupta, a professor of community health at New Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University. India has the world's fourth-biggest outbreak of the Covid-19 disease caused by the virus, with over 600,000 confirmed cases and 17,800 deaths, and some of its largest cities are still reeling from rising infections. Authorities say over 1,400 people have died because of the coronavirus so far in Ahmedabad, one of India's worst-hit cities with more than 20,000 confirmed cases. But the indirect death toll maybe even higher. Twenty-four Hindu crematoriums and four of the largest Muslim graveyards in the city have reported 3,558 deaths in April and 7,150 deaths in May - a spike compared to 2,784 and 2,706 deaths reported by them in April and May last year, respectively. State government data for Ahmedabad district, which includes the city limits, shows 839 deaths because of Covid-19 during April and May this year. Jayanti Ravi, the health secretary of Gujarat state, however, said she wasn't aware of any significant rise in deaths in the city of more than 5.6 million people. "We have collected the data related to actual births and deaths registered across the state and it is not showing such a big deviation," she told Reuters when asked about the spike. India's federal health ministry and Ahmedabad's municipal commissioner did not respond to questions from Reuters. Dr Mona Desai, president of the Ahmedabad Medical Association that represents over 9,000 doctors, said some of those who died may have been Covid-19 positive. But more fatalities were likely to have occurred because patients did not seek timely treatment fearing they might become infected by the virus, she said. "Many patients went to hospital only when their condition deteriorated, but then it was too late to do anything," Desai said.  LOCKDOWN CLOSES PRIVATE CLINICS Doctors also said that a closure of some private health facilities during a weeks-long lockdown that began in late March made it difficult for many patients to seek treatment. Dasgupta, from Jawaharlal Nehru University, said: "Excess deaths during the Covid surge phase has been in evidence in other countries too on account of the inability to access medical care for other time-sensitive emergencies." There was growing evidence that routine healthcare had been disrupted in India also, he said, adding that mortality data from high-incidence areas would provide more details. Data from the Hindu crematoriums in Ahmedabad shows that the number of bodies cremated rose by 19% in April and 145% in May compared to the same months last year, with the first half of June also registering a marked increase. The data was provided by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation under a right to information application. Ahmedabad's Muslim graveyards have seen an even sharper rise - data from four of the largest graveyards shows that the number of bodies buried increased by 131% in April and 396% in May, compared to the same months last year. "People are scared of getting hospitalized because of the coronavirus outbreak," said Rizwan Kadri, chairman of Ahmedabad Sunni Muslim Wakf Committee, which oversees five burial grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/other-deaths-spike-in-ahmedabad-ravaged-by-coronavirus-856176.html
02-07-2020||West||No community transmission in Maharashtra: Rajesh Tope||There is no community spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra,  Public Health and Family Welfare minister Rajesh Tope said.  "Most of the cases that are being reported are people who are under quarantine,  either home or institutional,  or with people with some kind of a contact history.  So,  there is no community spread in the state as of now," Tope said.  According to him, nine out of 10 patients are getting treated because plasma therapy has emerged as a good treatment option. A total of over 93,000 have recovered after treatment,  he said.  Tope also asserted that medicines like Remdesivir and Favipiravir will be available in various districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-community-transmission-in-maharashtra-rajesh-tope-856179.html
02-07-2020||West||Maharashtra demands Centre Rs 10,000 cr to bail out MahaVitaran||The Maharashtra government has demanded a Rs 10,000 crore bailout package from the Centre for MahaVitaran, the state power supply company. "The Covid-19 pandemic has worsened financial health of the MahaVitaran which now needs financial breather worth Rs 10,000 crore or which it would slip into a coma, warns state energy minister Dr. Nitin Raut. In a letter sent today to Union Energy Minister R K Singh, Dr. Raut had informed that MahaVitaran had incurred huge financial losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic and was facing a precarious financial situation and demanded immediate assistance of Rs 10000 crore to bail out and to overcome the liquidity crunch. He has said due to Covid-19, MahaVitaran which was the largest distribution company of India, was grappling with acute fund shortage. The lockdown period continued for almost 3 months and it still continued in major parts of Maharashtra.  He has pointed out that during the lockdown period industrial and commercial consumption reached the bottom. The industrial and commercial consumption which amounted to 60 percent of the revenue could not get realised during the period which put MahaVitaran in a precarious financial condition. The industrial and commercial consumption was the main source of providing subsidized rates to domestic and agriculture consumers, drop in its sale added to the financial woes of the MahaVitaran as the domestic and agriculture consumption continued unabated. Rather domestic consumption showed a rising trend during the summer due to heat and work from home, he added. Almost all of the industrial and commercial consumption stopped during the lockdown period. All the consumers were given a time extension to pay their electricity bills. Thus, the realization of revenue almost halted in April and May; whereas, the power purchase costs (mainly fixed), staff salaries, tax liability were not reduced.  As a result, MahaVitaran was facing unprecedented Cash Crunch and it’s been extremely difficult to clear the payments of power generators, since April 2020, he informed and added that subsequently, it’s cascading effects would last for the next few months and may continue throughout the year.  The financial condition of the general public, small scale industries, and small shops had been deteriorated in the lockdown period and would take some time to recover.  With the lower realization of revenue, it would be difficult for MahaVitaran to make both ends meet.  Moreover, MahaVitaran had approached different banks, financial institutions for assistance but, they had not responded positively, he said. In the past few years, delayed tariff approvals by Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) and inadequacy of tariff adversely affected the liquidity position of MSEDCL.  Due to cash constraints, MSEDCL was compelled to defer several payment obligations including State Gencos, Transcos, and IPPs towards power purchase. This resulted in the accumulation of outstanding payments towards the procurement of power. From Sept-2018 to Mar-2020, MSEDCL raised a total debt of Rs.18600 Crores, in order to discharge the liabilities towards the procurement of power. Besides, MSEDCL had an outstanding loan of Rs.16,720 Crores availed for various infrastructure development projects. There was also an overdraft of Rs.3,500 Crores for working capital. As mentioned above, MSEDCL had a total outstanding debt burden of Rs 38,282 Crores at the end of March 2020, he said. Dr. Raut has informed that at present MSEDCL had to spend an average monthly Rs.900 Cr for loan repayment and interest thereon. The financial situation of MSEDCL might worsen if the debt burden of the additional loans taken due to Covid-19 crisis was shifted to MSEDCL. On the other hand, it was mandatory to pay the required maintenance and repair costs and pay the power generation companies on time for continuous power supply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-demands-centre-rs-10000-cr-to-bail-out-mahavitaran-856291.html
02-07-2020||West||Bombay HC asks jails to follow ICMR rules to contain Covid-19||Saying that prisoners retain basic human rights despite incarceration, the Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to follow the guidelines of ICMR and other agencies to safeguard them from coronavirus. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M S Karnik passed the direction while disposing of a bunch of Public Interest Litigations (PILs) seeking safeguards for prison inmates in the light of the pandemic. The government must conduct screenings, maintain hygiene and ensure social distancing in prisons and update the family members about health status of infected inmates, it said. The state's draft guidelines for prisons and correctional homes, submitted before the HC last month, mention these measures. The guidelines are based on the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the Centre and the state government itself. The draft guidelines also include some suggestions made during the hearing by senior counsel Mihir Desai and others representing the petitioners People's Union for Civil Liberties and others. In its judgment, the HC noted that the Supreme Court had observed that the issue of overcrowding in prisons was a matter of serious concern. Therefore the state must take all the measures for the safety and hygiene of inmates in its prisons, correctional homes and the 36 temporary prisons set up across 27 districts to decongest prisons in light of pandemic, the HC said. "It is well settled that the right to life enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution means something more than survival or animal existence. It includes the right to live with human dignity," the bench said. "It is now established that even when a person is convicted and imprisoned...he does not lose all fundamental rights," the judges said, directing the state to follow its draft guidelines. The government should follow ICMR guidelines on testing and hygiene, create special covid care centres and quarantine facilities at the 36 temporary prisons, maintain records of health status of all the inmates and update them on its website, test all the inmates who show symptoms of coronavirus, inform the relatives of inmates who test positive, quarantine high-risk prisoners, conduct daily thermal screening of all the inmates, make special arrangements for those above 60 years of age or who have comorbidities, the HC said. The authorities will allow all the inmates to get in touch with their lawyers through email and will provide video conferencing facility for talking to their relatives, the order said. The high court, however, refused to interfere with the state government's High Power Committee's (HPC) decision not to grant interim bail or parole to those arrested under acts such as the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. One of the petitions had sought that to decongest prisons, under trials booked under these acts too should be granted interim bail or parole. The high court, however, held that a prisoner can not claim a legal right to such relief. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-asks-jails-to-follow-icmr-rules-to-contain-covid-19-856304.html
02-07-2020||West||Maharashtra crosses 10 lakh-mark in Covid-19 testing||Amid the dark cloud of rising Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra has a silver lining - the state crossed two major marks on Friday.  The state crossed the 10 lakh-mark as far as tests are concerned. So far over one lakh patients have been discharged.  The state also recorded the biggest single-day jump with 6,330 new positive cases being recorded. The total positive cases now stand at 1,86,626 and deaths 8,178. So far, 1,01,172 patients have been discharged with 8,018 patients being discharged on Friday, the highest in 24 hours. Out of 10,20,368 laboratory samples, 1,86,626 have tested positive (18.29%) for Covid-19. There are 114 laboratories functional for testing – 64 government ones and 50 private ones. 7715 tests are being conducted per 10,00,000 population, the same at the national level is 6,334.  By July 1, 2020, 90,56,173 tests have been done across the country, 11.26% of which have been in Maharashtra.  Currently, 5,72,032 people are in-home quarantine and 41,741 people are in institutional quarantine. The recovery rate in the state is 54.21% On Friday, 125 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state; Out of these, 110 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours, and rest 15 are from the previous days. Covid-19 fatality rate in the state is 4.38%||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-crosses-10-lakh-mark-in-covid-19-testing-856327.html
02-07-2020||West||Gujarat reports highest one-day spike of 681 Covid-19 cases, tally nears 34,000||Gujarat on Thursday recorded its highest one-day increase of 681 coronavirus cases, taking the case count to 33,999, the state health department said. This is the sixth straight day when more than 600 new coronavirus patients have come to light in the state. Nineteen patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll due to the pandemic in the state to 1,888, the health department said in its statement. 563 COVID-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state, taking the total of recovered patients to 24,601. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 33,999, new cases 681, total deaths 1,888, discharged 24,601, active cases 7,510 and people tested so far 3,88,065.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-highest-one-day-spike-of-681-covid-19-cases-tally-nears-34000-856335.html
02-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Covid-19 case count in Mumbai's Dharavi grows by 19 to 2,301||The number of coronavirus patients in Dharavi, Mumbai's biggest slum sprawl, increased to 2,301 on Thursday with the addition of 19 cases, a senior official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. The civic body, however, has not been disclosing the number of deaths due to the infection from the slum since the last few days without specifying the reason. Till last week, Dharavi's Covid-19 death toll was 82. Dharavi now has only 551 active Covid-19 cases, as 1,664 patients have been discharged post recovery, the BMC official said. Dharavi is the largest slum in Asia spread over 2.5 square kilometres of area and has a population of around 6.5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-case-count-in-mumbais-dharavi-grows-by-19-to-2301-856347.html
02-07-2020||West||Maharashtra 'playing' with Covid-19 figures: Devendra Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday demanded increasing the number of coronavirus tests in Maharashtra and expressed concern over what he called delay in reporting of deaths caused by the infection. He alleged the state is conducting fewer tests to suppress coronavirus infection figures. The leader of opposition in the assembly, in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said, The state needs to increase the number of tests so that more and more people with coronavirus infection could be detected. "Several deaths are being reported very late, which is putting the lives of relatives of the deceased and medical staff treating them at the risk of contracting the infection." The states new directive of not conducting Covid-19 test on dead people is fraught with risk as it would expose the coronavirus warriors to the infection, Fadnavis said. "I have raised the issue frequently but I have been forced to write on the same issue again because it has not been addressed properly," the former chief minister added. "I am also worried about the current number of tests which are very low compared to the total capacity of carrying out tests," said the BJP leader. I have written a similar letter to the Union health secretary expressing my concerns over under-utilisation of testing capacity of Maharashtra, Fadnavis said. The number of tests in Mumbai on June 1 was 2,01,507 tests while the figure was 3,33,752 on June 30. It means 1,32,245 tests were conducted in the entire month, which brings the daily average to 4,408," he said. Out of 1,32,245 tests, 36,559 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the month of June, taking the infection percentage to 28, Fadnavis said. "Out of every 100 people tested by the authorities, 28 were found positive. The countrys percentage is 6.39, while the figure in Mumbai alone is 28 per cent," he said. He alleged the state is conducing less number of tests to suppress figures. For the first time, on June 25, Maharashtra did 24,000 tests of which 4,841 tested positive. The number was reduced to 19,983 tests the next day to show lesser count. "This playing with figures is going to increase the number of cases ultimately, the BJP leader said. Same is the case with fatality rate of the state and also Mumbai city. Every day, some 200 deaths are being reported of which around 120 deaths are shown as previously occurred deaths," Fadnavis said. This ultimately affects the government itself in terms of forming a strong policy to counter the infection, he said. In MMR alone, during the month of June the number of Covid-19 cases increased by 94 per cent in Mumbai, 166 per cent in Thane, 469 per cent in Kalyan Dombivali, 413 per cent in Mira Bhayander, 1,470 per cent in the Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation, 364 per cent in the Panvel Municipal Corporation and 190 per cent in Navi Mumbai. "It only underscores that the state should have taken preemptive measures much earlier, Fadnavis said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-playing-with-covid-19-figures-devendra-fadnavis-856356.html
02-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Five youths drown in Kal Mandavi waterfalls||In a shocking incident, five youths drowned in the popular Kal Mandavi waterfalls in the hills near the Jawhar in Palghar district, nearly 100 km from Mumbai. They were part of a group of dozen youngsters who decided to go for a picnic and some entered the waters to swim. While they were swimming strong currents built by the waterfall swept away the boys. The local fire brigade and SDRF teams searched the area for over four hours and finally recovered the bodies of the five victims. They are identified as Devendra Phaltankar, Nimish Patel, Prathmesh Chavan, Jai Bhoir and Devendra Wagh, aged between 18-22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-five-youths-drown-in-kal-mandavi-waterfalls-856366.html
