03-07-2020||First Edit||A discharge policy that misleads||The policy that guides the discharge of Covid-19 patients has been a key factor in determining the progress of the disease, assessing its spread, and implementing strategies to contain it. The policy is about when a person who has tested positive or is suspected to be infected can be discharged from a Covid-19 care facility, where the patient can be shifted to and, most importantly, when the patient can be declared as having recovered from the disease. The central government recently told state governments that mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic patients should be assured of proper facilities before being sent into home isolation. The policy has changed over the weeks on the basis of the experience of dealing with the disease and the availability of the facilities for treatment. With the steady increase in the number of patients, the facilities have become increasingly stretched, and the policy has got diluted.  In the beginning, all patients had to be declared negative before being discharged. The present position is that the patient should be diagnosed as pre-symptomatic or having mild symptoms and there should be facilities for self-isolation at home. With the implementation of the new discharge policy, the officially reported ‘recovery rate’ has improved but this may not mark a real recovery. The rate is above 54%, but it includes asymptomatic and positive patients who are not in hospitals and mild and very mild cases who have not tested negative. They may be positive or negative, and the problem is that this misrepresents the recovery rate and the state of incidence and spread of the disease. There are cases of death of such persons who have been discharged from hospitals with mild symptoms. There have also been sudden upsurges in cases because of poor isolation facilities or weak enforcement of quarantine when Covid-positive people have been allowed to stay at home. This has happened in Delhi.  A generous discharge policy poses a serious danger in a country with a large number of people in vulnerable groups like senior citizens and those with co-morbidities. The entire community may be at risk if asymptomatic persons are allowed to go out before they test negative. Kerala has done well to ensure that patients are not discharged before they test negative. Tamil Nadu, even with a high case load, does not declare the recovery of patients in home isolation before they test negative. The best discharge policy is one that declares every asymptomatic patient as ‘recovered’ only after the patient tests negative, either in hospital or at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-discharge-policy-that-misleads-856405.html
03-07-2020||First Edit||Chinese apps ban: More signal than substance||The government’s decision to ban 59 mobile applications which have their origins in or are linked to China may be taken more as an expression of intent than as a substantive action to hurt Chinese interests. It has significant value as a message, though it need not be exaggerated. The banned entities include the popular video sharing app TikTok, a mobile browser called UC Browser and a file sharing app called SHAREit. All these are widely used in India, and TikTok is especially a hit. A ban on them would cause some discomfort to those who are used to them, but no major harm. It might hurt China, but not to any great extent. The valuations of some companies might suffer because they are also based on the user base in India, but such losses also, like the value of the measure for India, need not be exaggerated.  The government has said that the action has been taken in the interest of data security and national sovereignty as there was confirmation that the apps are engaged in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. They had been reported for “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India”. These are major concerns, but questions might be raised about the timing of the decision. The government would certainly have been aware of these activities before the conflict on the border. Similar concerns also exist about apps not linked to China. That is why the decision may be considered as a signal to China in the present situation. It is also a signal to the people of this country of the government’s readiness to take some action in a situation where more substantive actions are difficult or can only be the last option.  While China has termed the ban discriminatory and called for its reversal, the government has stoutly defended it, asserting that there will not be any compromise on data security and safety. It has also been called a ‘digital strike’ on China. The ban should be seen along with other steps like last month’s curbs on foreign direct investments (FDI) from neighbouring countries, new GeM procurement rules and the restrictions on participation of Chinese firms in some infrastructure projects. While all this may amount to a pushback against China, the reality of significant Chinese presence in many areas of the economy and the difficulty in eliminating it cannot be wished away. There is even a view that the ban on some apps may only be temporary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/chinese-apps-ban-more-signal-than-substance-856784.html
03-07-2020||In Perspective||A State and its dereliction of duty||The curative and welfarist role of the Indian State is indispensable like never before during this pandemic. Bestowed with the responsibility of securing the life and livelihood of millions languishing in abject deprivation, the conduct of a democratic Indian State becomes more crucial. Even more so when India has a stable government led by a popular leader at the national level, aided by resilient institutional structures and relatively better economic prowess at its disposal than ever before. The crisis has revealed an uncanny State character emblematic of its ignorance, inaction, apathy and deceptive demeanour. The indictment against its performance is not to discount its commendable efforts to impose a prolonged lockdown, especially in a country of India’s size and complexity. Rather, it is an assessment of its failure to rise up to the occasion to minimise  the unimaginable human suffering due to the lockdown. The weakness of the Indian State in tackling this crisis is manifest in three significant dimensions -- the leadership’s proclivity towards symbolism over substance, its duty-demanding approach over rights-recognising  approach, and its strategy of invoking the past and the future to boost the nation’s morale over the requirements of the present. Political symbolism undeniably does have a crucial function in these times. It mobilises, inspires and, most importantly, tries to unify a nation to withstand a catastrophe. Tokenism deployed by the Indian leadership, epitomised by the Prime Minister, exhorted the people to clap and light candles and diyas as a tribute to health workers. However, the substantive policy prerequisites and required actions found limited mention in the government’s pronouncements. This came on the back of a substantial loss of preparation time since India’s first detected case of Covid-19 in January. A necessary but hurriedly declared national lockdown was announced from the last week of March. The unplanned political decision caught the people and the state governments unprepared to deal with a prolonged lockdown. While the onus of tackling the real policy challenges rested on the state governments, local self-governments and the various NGOs, the lack of commensurate financial capacity and equal decision-making power stood in the way of these agencies being able to adequately rise up to the occasion and channelise the resources. This is not to suggest that the administrative inefficiency and political opportunism of the state leaders did not make matters worse with time. Moreover, mobilisation of medical resources on a war footing continues to evade the fulcrum of the crisis communication amidst a humongous health challenge already ailing due to a fragile infrastructure This lack of substance and the inability to protect the most vulnerable sections has been coated with an insistence on people’s duty to serve the nation’s cause. In this tactical abdication of State responsibility, people have become both active participants and helpless subjects. Instead of securing the fundamental rights of the people and fulfilling its responsibility as a welfare state, it has rather looked away from the people, seen the sufferings of the people as fait accompli or a sacrifice for the larger cause. Prime Minister Modi’s overtures in apologising and appreciating the “sacrifice” of the hungry, insecure, harassed, neglected and dying migrant workers has been blended with repeated tokenistic tributes to the health fraternity.  The much-vaunted Rs 20 lakh crore economic relief package invoked inspiration as well as hope. It has two visible aspects of India’s proven resilience against disasters in the past and its aspirations in the future of attaining economic prominence to claim its rightful place in the world order. The pressing needs of the present are, however, absent. Largely, the package has enumerated long-term, often unfeasible, loan-based measures, along with repackaging of existing policies. A clear blueprint of addressing the economic plight and destitution of the poor was missing. This should have been ensured by adequate direct transfer of grants and universalised food security measures as well as steps to facilitate their safe and immediate return to their native places. Even worse, the uncompromising need for a speedy structural overhaul of the Indian health sector appeared as a secondary priority, receiving a paltry share of the government’s ostensible Covid-19 relief package. The worst victims of these three manifestations of State behaviour have been the millions of migrant workers losing their livelihoods in the urban conglomerations, unable to return to their native homes for weeks and months. The lack of substance over symbolism kept them staring at starvation and health insecurity. The onus on national duty, as required by the political leadership, further marginalised their already precarious existence of rights. The mantra of self –reliance and economic recovery normalised their struggle and transformed their agency as another cog in the web. The crisis communication of the national leadership reveals a blatant, substantial and systematic dereliction of duty to safeguard its most vulnerable. Despite doing decently well in implementing a disciplined nationwide lockdown, crucial questions regarding the evolving State behaviour continue to linger on. Has the State’s constitutional duty to protect the vulnerable been substituted with a mere play of semantics, evasion of responsibility and reluctance to address the crisis head on? Does a ‘strong’ and stable government not necessarily produce strength and stability for its populace? (Ghosh is Researcher, Observer Research Foundation, Kolkata; Das is Assistant Professor, St. Xavier's College, Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-state-and-its-dereliction-of-duty-856410.html
03-07-2020||In Perspective||The other pandemic: Special criminal laws||For decades, we have been told that the necessity of special criminal laws in India arises due to the inefficacy of the ordinary criminal justice legislation we have. We have been told, without elaboration, that the Indian Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the Indian Evidence Act, which broadly form the body of general laws that apply to crimes, are inadequate to deal with extraordinary crimes such as terrorism. And following this logic, we have been witness to the enactment of numerous special criminal laws. Often, such laws have been passed in the immediate aftermath of a terror attack, where public support for such measures is at its peak, and the government of the day can use that moment to push through a ‘tough’ law. The public accepts the rationale that a crime like terror needs an extraordinary law, and we seemingly also believe that this law will be used only against people who fit our conception of terrorists, a conception that has varied from the eighties to the present day. Terror laws are only one example of several in this context. As a result, what we can observe in the Indian criminal justice system today is a plethora of special criminal statutes. The question of how these laws are different from the general statute, the Indian Penal Code (IPC), should be considered here. The IPC also covers terrorist activities and punishes them with the highest penalty known to law. Conspiracy to wage war against the Government of India, or waging war against the Government of India, for example, are offences for which the IPC prescribes the maximum punishments of life term and death, respectively. Special laws like the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) do not substantively add to these punishments. The second question that can be asked is this: if the IPC does not cover any specific offence, why is the solution not to amend the IPC to include such offences? Why and where does the need to enact a special law come from? The answer to the above questions lies in the details of these statutes. Often the crucial difference between special laws and general criminal laws is the modification of procedural aspects of the latter. These relate to features such as the right to bail and the presumption of innocence to name a few. The UAPA effectively limits, if not neutralises, the right to bail of accused persons, based only on a preliminary view of police proceedings into an allegation of terror. Pre-trial custody under the UAPA is also extendable beyond what is permissible under general criminal law. What these provisions cumulatively result in is the subversion of the criminal trial. I call it subversion because laws such as the UAPA by their mere application are negations of the principles of criminal law, which are the presumption of innocence and following from it, a bar on punishment till guilt is conclusively proved. These laws effectively equate an allegation with guilt and result in punishing a person presumptively. To allow the State to administer laws which have procedural compromises built into them is to hand over precious constitutional liberties to violation. The denial of bail is not an ordinary inconvenience, but the deprivation of liberty. One need only look at the accused in the Bhima Koregaon case for a live example, where they continue to languish in prison for years on unproven allegations and untested evidence. It is debatable if such treatment could have been meted out to the accused if they were charged under the IPC, instead. One should ask the question whether this is desirable under any civilised criminal jurisprudence, that the accused languish in prison for years on end and bail be repeatedly denied to them despite the trial not even starting. It is also the case that these laws are usually reserved by the State for dissidents and activists and are unleashed upon them as desperate and ill-disguised attempts to secure their silence. The selective arrests of anti-CAA protesters in Delhi, occurring in the midst of a global pandemic, and the addition of charges under the UAPA, are ludicrous examples of how these laws are used. There exists a reason why these students and professors are being charged under the UAPA, and that is precisely because of what these laws allow for, which general laws do not. To be sure, we are encountering a two-fold problem in the criminal justice system as far as laws such as the UAPA are concerned. The first and foremost problem is that these laws are precisely designed and created to allow the State to violate citizens’ rights, which is not permissible under general criminal laws. This is achieved by using the rationale and excuse of national security and countering terrorism, which the public, and it must be added, the courts, buy into. As a result, we do not scrutinise what these laws actually provide for. The judgements of the Supreme Court in cases challenging the constitutionality of the TADA and POTA are reminders of how judicial scrutiny can be substituted by a created narrative of national security. Second, with the violations already built into the law, all that the government of the day needs to do is invoke the law against people it does not like, and let them suffer a process that is designed to be punishment in itself. As citizens, we need to reflect more closely on what these laws have done for us in all these years. The answer, in my view, is an unsettling realisation that we have been fooled into bartering our rights for a false notion of security, which has only strengthened government power. (The writer is Assistant Professor, National Law School of India University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-other-pandemic-special-criminal-laws-856788.html
03-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi's BIMS nurse tests positive for Covid-19||A nurse working in the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital's (BIMS) Covid-19 ward tested positive for the virus on Friday. District Surveillance Officer Dr B N Tukkar told DH that after the female nurse showed symptoms of Covid-19, her swab sample had been sent for test and the report received has confirmed that she was positive. The nurse was on duty when she began showing symptoms of Covid-19 and has been admitted for treatment, he said. This marks the district's first case of Covid-19 caregivers testing positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavis-bims-nurse-tests-positive-for-covid-19-856497.html
03-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: 2 youths drown while catching fish in Seetha River in Udupi district||Two youths who had been to catch fish in Seetha River drowned, at Haalekodi Seethanadi Kavali in Kacchooru in Udupi district. The deceased are Harsha (25) and Karthik (21), both hail from Chowlikere in Hosala. The youth had cast their net on Thursday night and had been to lift the net for fish catch on Friday morning. When they were pulling the net, both drowned and died. Owing to heavy rain, the water body was in spate. The fire service personnel and police retrieved the body. Harsha was working in a private finance company while Karthika was a final year BCom student. A case has been registered at Brahmavar Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-2-youths-drown-while-catching-fish-in-seetha-river-in-udupi-district-856582.html
03-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan DC issues closure of resorts and homestays||Deputy Commissioner R Girish has issued orders for the closure of all resorts and home stays in Sakleshpur, Belur and Alur taluk limits in Hassan district, from July 4, until further notice As the district has been reporting a spurt in Covid-19 cases, and five deaths so far, the district administration has decided to close all the resorts and home stays as a precautionary measure, to keep the tourists away. It may be mentioned that the elected representatives and the public had appealed to the district administration to close the resorts and home stays to prevent the pandemic from spreading from the tourists from across the state arriving at the district in large numbers and creating public nuisance at the home stays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-dc-issues-closure-of-resorts-and-homestays-856584.html
03-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 positive man escapes hospital in Karnataka's Hubballi after being arrested for theft||A Covid-19 patient, arrested on account of alleged theft, escaped from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Institute (KIMS) in Hubballi on Friday. CCTV footage showed him wandering outside the ward, while two policemen were on security duty outside the Covid-19 hospital, sources told DH. Suburban police had recently arrested him on charges of thieving valuables from a hardware shop. He was shifted to KIMS, a designated Covid-19 hospital in the district, after he tested positive for Covid-19. A police constable who came into contact with him also tested positive for the virus, sources added. His escape created a wave of panic among people. The police are still investigating and the search for him is still on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-positive-man-escapes-hospital-in-karnatakas-hubballi-after-being-arrested-for-theft-856599.html
03-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Upset over parents' scolding for playing video games, boy ends life||Upset over parents' scolding for playing games on his smartphone, a 15-year-old boy ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan at his residence in Brahmapur layout in the wee hours of Friday. The police said the deceased has been identified as Rahul Sharanappa Sollapur. He was to take admission to the tenth standard in the current academic year. The boy was addicted to video games for the past few months and was spending most of his day's time playing games. His parents had advised him to stay away from the video games. Unmindful of their advise, the boy continued playing games. The parents reprimanded him for being addicted to video games. Upset over it, he ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan at his home around 2 am. The incident came to light in the morning. A case of unnatural death has been registered at Raghavendra Nagar Police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/upset-over-parents-scolding-for-playing-video-games-boy-ends-life-856616.html
03-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||70 Covid positive cases in dists||There was a spurt in Covid positive cases from districts on Friday, with Hassan reporting 13 new cases, Mandya 33 and Chamarajanagar 24 cases. Hassan district reported 13 new Covid positive cases and a death of a 65-year-old woman from Sakleshpur, on Friday. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 453. The total deaths due to Covid has increased to six. There are 194 active cases and 253 have been discharged. A woman aged 65 years from Sakleshpur taluk died on Friday morning. She was suffering from pneumonia, severe breathing problems and blood pressure. She was being treated at the Intensive Care Unit of the Covid hospital, where she failed to respond to the treatment and died at 2.15 am, according to district surgeon Dr Krishnamurthy. Thirteen positve cases included a police constable belonging to District Armed Reserve (DAR). In all, there are 11 male and two female. While the contacts of 11 persons are under tracing, there is one ILI case and one person has a contact history with P-17026. The office of the Superintendent of Police has been sealed down and sanitised. Around 15 primary contacts are under quarantine. The office has been closed till Monday and the public are requested not to visit the office, said SP R Srinivas Gowda. Precautionary measures have been taken at the Deputy Commissioner's office also. The main entrance has been closed and only vehicles are allowed. Those entering the offices are subject to thermal screening. Deputy Commissioner R Girish has said the public are requested not to visit the DC's office or the government offices, unless it is very important. "I would also limit by meeting with the public," he said. Mandya reported 33 positive cases, including 21 male and 12 female. Out of 33, the contacts of 21 patients are under tracing, five are ILI cases and seven have a travel history of inter-state and inter-district. The total positive cases are 473. While 354 patients have been discharged, there are 119 active cases. Chamarajanagar has 24 positive cases, including 19 male and five female. Out of 24, the 11 persons contacts are under tracing, while nine have inter-district, state travel history, four are primary contacts of other patients. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 78. While one patient has been discharged, there are 77 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/70-covid-positive-cases-in-dists-856735.html
03-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kamegowda is role model for whole world: DC||Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh lauded farmer Dasanadoddi Kamegowda of Malavalli taluk, as a role model to the world, for his selfless work in constructing ponds and lakes for conserving water. Kamegowda, who was lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio show on Sunday, was felicitated by the district administration at a programme ‘Manada Maathu’, on Friday. Speaking at the programme, the DC said, Kamegowda has sacrificed his whole life for the conservation of environment. “By constructing 14 lakes around the hill, he has helped in saving water and also rejuvenating the soil. I had visited the lakes, after I became deputy commissioner of Mandya. He has grown rare plant species. I have great respect for him,” he said. Kamegowda has utilised the purse money of several awards for constructing lakes. His selfless work was identified by the Prime Minister’s Office, and PM Modi mentioned his name during his radio speech. The Karnataka government too has identified his service and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had called him over phone and assured funds to help him continue the works. Kamegowda, is a role model for the whole world and the youths of the country, the DC said. Deputy Conservator of Forest N Shivaraj, Deputy Director of Horticulture department M S Raju were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kamegowda-is-role-model-for-whole-world-dc-856737.html
03-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||This rehab centre gives a new lease of life for inmates||Ram, a 28-year-old youth from Chikkamagaluru, used to sleep on the roadside in Mysuru. After spending his day’s earnings on liquor, he is now working in a nursery of Ayurveda plants. He has now plans to meet his mother after a long time with some savings. The rehabilitation centre at Nanjaraja Bahadur Choultry, operated by Centre for Rural Education Development and Innovation Technology of India (CREDIT-I), on behalf of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), in the wake of lockdown has given a new lease of life for its inmates. Besides providing food and shelter to the homeless migrants, the centre has induced discipline and has engaged them in a vocation — making paper covers — to impart skill and to generate revenue. “After the demise of my father, I was shattered owing to my personal problems. I came to Mysuru and used to sell masala soda on a push-cart near Gandhi Square. I used to sleep at the Gaadi Stand. I turned alcoholic and spent my day’s earnings on liquor. After the lockdown was imposed, the MCC officials took me to the rehabilitation centre,” Ram recalled. “We were engaged in yoga, meditation, lectures and demonstrations by inspiring personalities every day. The activity of making paper covers kept us engaged. I prepared at least 60 kg covers and earned Rs 1,800, which gave me confidence, when I stepped out of the rehabilitation centre on May 16. Since April 8, when I joined the centre, I led a disciplined life. We heard a few de-addicted persons from Alcoholic Anonymous. Now, I do not feel like consuming alcohol. The volunteers of CREDIT-I helped me find a work. As I know a new vocation of making paper covers, I can survive somehow,” he said. “I have reinvented my life. I had played volley ball in state and national-levels. I have started playing volley ball again. I will re-connect with my family,” Ram said. Kiran Kumar, as executive of PayTM in Bengaluru, could not travel to his native Chikkaballapur due to lockdown and was admitted to the rehabilitation centre. “I used to work for PayTM in Mysuru and was stranded here as public transport was suspended. Instead of whiling away my time, I engaged myself in making paper covers. It is good that I learnt a new skill and earned some money,” he said. M P Varsha, managing trustee and CEO of CREDIT-I, said, “We wanted the rehabilitation centre to be a model. Our centre was self-sustained, even though it was established by the MCC and the premises was given by the district administration. We got support from the government officials to experiment. Fevord-K mobilised resources for providing food. We urged donors to meet the requirements of the inmates.” She said, “We wanted to keep the inmates engaged and train them in some skills, but both time and resources were limited. We initially bought raw materials, newspapers. Later, we sought donations of newspapers, reducing production cost.” When we concluded, we had made covers weighing 1,700 kg and earned Rs 51,000. We were still left with 900 kg of raw newspaper, which fetched us Rs 8,100. Many NGOs, individuals, government officials and businessman like Nasir Mohammed, promoter of A2Z Square and A2Z supermarket, helped in our endeavour. We could give some money, depending on their effort, to the inmates, when they left the centre,” Varsha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-rehab-centre-gives-a-new-lease-of-life-for-inmates-856741.html
03-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Four BJP members take oath as MLCs in Karnataka||Four newly-elected BJP members took oath as members of the Karnataka Legislative Council on Friday. The four-M T B Nagaraj, Pratap Simha Nayak, R Shankar and Sunil Vallyapur- were administered the oath of office by the Chairman of the council K Pratapchandra Shetty. With this, the BJP's strength in council is 22 whereas the Congress and JD(S) have a strength of 28 and 14 respectively. Nagaraj and Shankar were the former Congress MLAs who were among the 17 legislators who were disqualified in 2019. They had joined the BJP later. Nagaraj had unsuccessfully contested the assembly bypolls. Shankar was not given a ticket to contest the bypolls as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had assured him a ticket to the council and a ministerial berth later. Sunil Vallyapur, a former minister and Pratap Simha Nayak are grassroot level party workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/four-bjp-members-take-oath-as-mlcs-in-karnataka-856728.html
03-07-2020||Main Article||Across the Line of Control||In a continuing trend of the government’s Kashmir policy to focus on Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, Defence minister Rajnath Singh in a video-conference recently stated that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, J&K will touch great heights and “people from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) will wish they were part of India.” Sometime back, the State-owned broadcasters were asked to broadcast weather reports on Mirpur, Muzaffarabad and Gilgit in their prime-time news bulletins. The battle of air waves is an old one as Pakistani state broadcasters also broadcast the weather in Srinagar and Jammu. There is a 1994 Parliamentary resolution which declares that “Pakistan must vacate the areas of the Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir, which they have occupied through aggression.” In the context of repeated statements made by various members of the Modi government post-August 5, 2019, a granular understanding of the nuances related to areas across the LoC (not included in this piece is the area of Gilgit-Baltistan) will have to be factored in for any future strategy, including raising public expectations within India of wresting PoK one day. The 1947 “tribal attack” through Muzaffarabad alone does not explain the multi-layered history. It is true that many Kashmiri-speaking young men were trained across the LoC after 1989 and some remained there. But many interviewed across the LoC, including by this writer, have given detailed accounts of dislocation and frustration in a place where they don’t speak the local language. Linguistically, PoK is far closer to Pakistani Punjab and to Jammu region as compared to the Kashmir Valley as different versions of Pothwari language, which is considered a variant of Punjabi, are spoken in that area. In undivided Jammu and Kashmir, as per an estimate, the Kashmiri-speaking population is 38.5%, which is less than the population speaking Pothwari, Dogri and Gojri languages. The three languages are de facto close as a speaker of one can understand the other. Jats, Rajputs, Gujjars inhabit the southern part of PoK, which is similar to Gujrat and Sialkot areas of Pakistani Punjab. The central PoK, particularly the area of Rawalakot, inhabited by the influential community of Sudhans, has a high representation in elite Pakistani institutions. For instance, Lt Gen Shahid Aziz, who was involved in the Kargil war and colluded with General Pervez Musharraf’s overthrow of the civilian government in 1999, hails from this area. Similarly, the present president of PoK Sardar Masood Khan comes from this area. He was also Pakistan’s Ambassador to China and a Permanent Representative to the United Nations. The split of the princely state was largely framed in a political, linguistic, ethnic and religious context. A vast corpus of available reliable evidence in the public domain indicates that the then popular leadership of Kashmir Valley supported efforts to push back the Pathan intruders. Internally, the Valley remained free from Partition-related migration and violence. A different reality prevailed in the more populous and religiously heterogenous Jammu division, including a large part of the area across the Line of Control and the Jammu plains. Poonch jagir, which had a semi-autonomous existence till 1936 in the princely state of J&K, was one of the prime catchment areas for the British Indian army. Some of these ex-servicemen and active servicemen revolted against the last king Hari Singh. Poonch jagir, which is central PoK, forms a substantial part of the territory of PoK across the LoC. Hindus and Sikhs were the victims of the Partition violence in PoK and there was complete migration. The Muslim population were the victims in the Jammu plains, where they were the minority, resulting in mass-migration to neighbouring Sialkot district and other parts of Pakistani Punjab.  That is why, Jammu region has the bulk of the divided families. According to the 1948 West Punjab Refugees Census, the number of Muslims who migrated from J&K, most of them from Jammu, was 2,02,600, the highest outside East Punjab. These past events, along with the constant turbulence in J&K politics, are selectively interpreted by Punjab-based, Kashmir-centric terrorist outfits such as Lashkar-e-Taiba to recruit and fundraise. In his seminal book Pakistan: A Modern History, British historian Ian Talbot wrote, citing Pakistani academic Mohammad Waseem, that “the five million migrants [from the Indian side of the border] have both provided a major support for Islamist parties and shaped the Punjab province’s strong anti-India and pro-Kashmiri leanings.” Exchanges, courtesy initiatives such as the start of cross-LoC civilian movement on April 7, 2005, could have challenged one-sided societal narratives exploited by extremist groups in Pakistan. Significantly, a day before the start of the Srinagar-Muzaffarbad bus service, terrorists had attacked Srinagar’s Tourist Reception Centre. The background was that both countries accepted publicly that they cannot militarily change the status quo. There were statements from Gen. Musharraf that the sentiment in Kashmir Valley is not for accession with Pakistan, overturning a traditional stand of Pakistan. The lessons of the last decade from a more liberal exchange of civil society interactions between the two sides of the LoC are noteworthy in this respect. Civil society members from Mirpur area of PoK visited New Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar and Jammu’s Bakshi Nagar, the areas where a large number of senior citizens who came from Mirpur area of PoK in 1947 reside. This struck an emotional chord between the people speaking the same language in contrast to more formal encounters in the Valley. A greater societal dissemination of the political, ethnic and social realities across the LoC started taking place among the Valley’s younger generation. The slogan of unification of “two Kashmirs” was confronted with facts on the ground. The divided families came mostly to Jammu plains or its hilly Muslim majority districts of Rajouri and Poonch.  The 2008 Mumbai attack, followed by other developments, prevented using cross-LoC exchanges in a more creative and scaled-up manner. However, the movement of ordinary civilians and civil society members continues to be an effective complimentary strategy to address societal roots of violent extremism in Pakistani Punjab, which is exploited by a toxic mix of non-state as well as state actors. A greater internalisation of facts may incentivise varying influential domestic stakeholders in both countries to give up maximalist positions. (The writer is the author of ‘Across the LoC’, published by Columbia University Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/across-the-line-of-control-856411.html
03-07-2020||Main Article||The second coming of P V Narasimha Rao||Twenty-five Republic Days have come and gone since he left office and yet no Prime Minister has had the generosity of spirit and courage of conviction to name former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao for the nation’s highest honour, the Bharat Ratna. It is a pity that even Prime Minister Manmohan Singh shied away from naming his political mentor a Bharat Ratna. Now, all of a sudden, every political party wants PV conferred that honour. PV’s case is easily made and certainly his claim is far stronger than that of many like VV Giri, Zakir Hussain, Gulzarilal Nanda, MG Ramachandran, Nanaji Deshmukh and even a CNR Rao. Next to Jawaharlal Nehru, PV was India’s most consequential Prime Minister. The best way to measure a Prime Minister’s contribution to nation-building would be to compare the state of the nation on the eve of one’s assumption of office with what one leaves behind at the end of one’s tenure. By that yardstick, Nehru was a great Prime Minister, despite all his foibles and errors of judgement. Indira Gandhi, too, left India a stronger nation than what it was when she inherited office. This cannot be said of Rajiv Gandhi or of any of the revolving door PMs of the 1980s and the 1990s. PV’s tenure was unique in many ways. First, he was brought out of retirement, when he was on the verge of becoming a pujari in a temple, to become PM. He was not a natural leader of his party when he became PM, a situation similar to Indira’s in 1966. He had to stage the April 1992 session of the All-India Congress Committee, risking a split while fighting detractors, to acquire a semblance of control over his party. If Indira Gandhi alienated the ‘Syndicate’ to gain control of her government, PV had to earn the displeasure of Sonia Gandhi and her coterie. Second, PV had to wage these political battles even as he managed an unprecedented economic crisis and a sudden change in the global security environment, with the implosion of the Soviet Union. Few today understand the seriousness of the economic crisis that gripped the country between October 1990 and June 1991, with India on the precipice of external debt default for an entire two months, mortgaging gold to stay afloat. Few also understand the loss of national confidence when the Soviet Union suddenly disappeared and the United States, a country closer to China and Pakistan than to India at that time, became the sole superpower. Pulling the country back from the precipice, PV offered clever, if not bold, political leadership to fundamental changes in economic policy. Most of the ideas were all there in many academic studies and government reports but neither Indira nor Rajiv had the political courage to implement them. PV provided the political cover that enabled Manmohan Singh and P Chidambaram to pursue policy changes. More importantly, PV himself took the initiative as minister for industry, to end the infamous licence-permit-control Raj that the Nehru-Gandhi darbar presided over for over three decades. The policies PV put in place have since been continued by successive governments, though there has been some reversal on the trade front in recent months. Reconfiguring Indian foreign policy to meet the needs of a post-Cold War world, PV built stronger relations with the US and the European Union and launched a Look East Policy, beginning with Singapore, that has stood the test of time. PV was the architect of a new equation with East Asian nations, Japan and South Korea, with South and West Asian neighbours and with Israel. Each of these pivots created lasting good relations with a range of rising powers. The main charge against PV has been that he was complicit in the destruction of the Babri Masjid in 1992 and, earlier in 1984, had not stepped in as home minister to prevent the killing of Sikhs in Delhi after Indira Gandhi’s assassination. The facts do not merit either charge. In 1984, he was explicitly told by the Prime Minister’s office that the PMO would handle the Delhi situation. His inactivity at the time was an act of omission, not commission. There are other Congressmen who have to bear that cross. In 1992, the entire Union cabinet met and resolved that the Union government would allow the state government of Uttar Pradesh to deal with the ground situation in Ayodhya and that the Centre would not impose President’s rule pre-emptively.  To the extent that the government of the day ought to be held responsible for not upholding the rule of law, the Congress governments of 1984 and 1992 must carry the can, just as the BJP government in Gujarat has to for the events of 2002. However, these errors of judgement on PV’s part will have to be weighed against the immense weight of his contribution to post-Cold War economic development and foreign policy. Finally, there is the matter of India’s nuclear weapons status. Many PMs have played a role in India’s emergence as a nuclear power. The credit for giving the green signal for the Pokhran-II tests should, even in the words of Vajpayee, go to PV.   It has taken a quarter of a century and the arrival of PV’s centenary year for the Union government and the state government of Telangana to finally acknowledge the importance of his leadership. It cannot be anyone’s case that there were no flaws in PV’s character or faults in his leadership. That could be said for almost any politician in a democracy. It is, however, a travesty of justice that PV’s contribution remains ill-acknowledged and inadequately celebrated.  (The writer is an economist and author of “1991: How PV Narasimha Rao Made History”)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-second-coming-of-p-v-narasimha-rao-856787.html
03-07-2020||Mysuru||Second Ashada Friday celebrated in a simple manner due to Covid-19||Second Ashada Friday was celebrated in a simple manner at Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamundi Hill here. The festival was celebrated without devotees due to outbreak of Covid-19. The doors of the temple remain closed to devotees. The priests led by N Shashishekhar Dixit, performed special puja and other rituals. The rituals commenced at 3.30 am. Rudrabhishek, panchameutabhisjlheka and other rituals were performed. The priest said, special puja and manhalarathi will be offered to the devi at 7.30 pm. It has to be noted that thousands of people used to visit the temple on Ashada Fridays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/second-ashada-friday-celebrated-in-a-simple-manner-due-to-covid-19-856567.html
03-07-2020||National||Till now, over 34,000 Covid-19 patients needed ICU care, over 9,000 were put on ventilators: Report||Of the over 6 lakh Covid-19 cases reported in the country till Thursday, 34,540 patients needed ICU care, 37,505 required oxygen, and 9,272 were put on ventilators, health ministry sources said. They said of the 2,26,947 active cases, 2.53 per cent is in ICU (till 6 pm) compared to 2.63 per cent the day before, 0.45 per cent are on ventilator support as against 0.44 per cent as on Wednesday while 3.07 per cent are on oxygen as against 3.13 per cent as on Wednesday. Besides, the doubling time of coronavirus infection cases has improved to around 21.3 days in the last three days and 19.8 days in the last seven days, the sources said. India's Covid-19 tally rose to 6,04,641 on Thursday with a single-day increase of 19,148 cases, just five days after it crossed the five-lakh post while the death toll rose to 17,834 with 434 new fatalities, according to health ministry data updated at 8 am. The recovered cases have exceeded the active cases by 1,32,912 as of Thursday. "Timely clinical management of Covid-19 cases has resulted in more than 10,000 daily recoveries. During the last 24 hours, a total of 11,881 COVID-19 patients have been cured, taking the cumulative figure to 3,59,859. This further takes the recovery rate to 59.52 per cent," the health ministry said. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 90,56,173 samples have been tested up to July 1 with 2,29,588 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/till-now-over-34000-covid-19-patients-needed-icu-care-over-9000-were-put-on-ventilators-report-856380.html
03-07-2020||National||Bihar reports highest single-day spike of 479 Covid-19 cases; five deaths||Bihar reported its highest single-day spike of 479 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 10,683, while five people died due to the disease, raising the death toll to 78, the health department said. The state capital experienced mayhem following the explosion of more than 90 cases across the city, besides a fresh casualty in the district. One death each was also reported from Bhojpur, Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur, and Rohtas districts. Patna has been the worst affected so far, accounting for 10 fatalities. The city reported 63 cases in just three police station areas of Patna sub-division, prompting the district administration to set up 18 containment zones. In addition, more than 30 people were found infected in localities like Boring Road, Kankar Bagh, Gola Road, Danapur, Digha, Phulwari Sharif, Sipara.  The oldest patients happened to be both men and women in their 80s, an age group said to be most vulnerable to fatality in the face of the viral infection that has been declared a global pandemic. A handful of cases were also reported from rural areas of Patna district, which have been witness to sporadic spurts and account for a significant part of the districts tally that has been the highest in the state and now stands close to 900. Significant number of cases were also reported on the day from Gopalganj, Nalanda, Vaishali and Bhagalpur districts. All 38 districts in the state have reported Covid-19 cases and the worst affected ones, besides Patna, are Bhagalpur (515), Madhubani (479), Begusarai (459) and Siwan (438). However, the health department insisted that notwithstanding the galloping of the virus across the state, Bihar was doing well with a recovery rate that was significantly higher than the national average and a low death rate. The state boasts of a recovery rate of 76.92 per cent as against the national average of under 60 per cent. A total of 7,994 Covid-19 patients have recovered. The state has about 2,500 active cases now. Officials pointed out that the spurt could partly be attributed to a spruced up testing system. More than 7,000 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of tests conducted so far stood at 1.35 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-479-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-856385.html
03-07-2020||National||DH Toon: Digital strike or the perfect Bollywood flick?||Addressing a virtual rally for West Bengal, Prasad said that the apps were banned in the interest of national security, data security of Indians and public order. “We are very stern in our approach to actively seeking to compromise the data security, sending the data outside India and privacy of Indians. We will not make any compromise on the data security of our people. India knows how to conduct a digital strike,” said Prasad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-digital-strike-or-the-perfect-bollywood-flick-856413.html
03-07-2020||National||Eight Uttar Pradesh Police personnel killed, seven injured in encounter with criminals in Kanpur||Eight police personnel, including a DSP, were gunned down in a village near the city by a criminal’s henchmen who lost two of them in a firefight later, officials said on Friday. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack from a rooftop on a police team after it entered Bikru village past Thursday midnight to arrest Vikas Dubey, a history-sheeter who faces about 60 criminal cases. The attackers fled, snatching weapons from the dead and the wounded policemen. Police then sealed the entire area and began a combing operation, which led to another encounter with Dubey’s men in Nivada village. Police killed Prem Prakash and Atul Dubey, and recovered a snatched pistol. They were looking for the other members of the gang and the rest of the weapons. The snatched weapons included an AK-47 rifle, an INSAS rifle, a Glock pistol and two .9mm pistols, a police spokesman said. Inspector General (Special Task Force) Amitabh Yash claimed that the weapon used in the initial attack was a rifle seized from Dubey by the STF when they arrested him in Lucknow’s Krishna Nagar in 2017. The automatic rifle was released into the custody of someone else by the court. Police said they will investigate further into this. Hours after the attack, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath came under flak from the opposition – including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi – over the law and order situation in the state. The failed police raid at Bikru followed the registration of another case against Vikas Dubey, who allegedly killed a senior BJP leader in 2001. This time Rahul Tiwari of Jadepur Gharsa had lodged an FIR at Chaubeypur police station against Dubey and four other, accusing them of an attempt to murder. Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police H C Awasthi said the criminals might have got an inkling of the raid. Dubey’s henchmen put up roadblocks to stop policemen from reaching their hideout. As they got off from their vehicles at one hurdle, a hail of gunfire caught them by surprise. Policemen fired back but Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra, three sub-inspectors and four constables died, officials said. Additional Director General (Law and Order), Inspector General (Kanpur) and the Senior Superintendent of Police (Kanpur) rushed to the spot after learning about the attack. A forensic team also arrived there. Besides Deputy SP Devendra Mishra, who was posted as the circle officer in Bilhaur, others killed in the attack were sub inspectors Mahesh Chandra Yadav, Anup Kumar Singh and Nebu Lal, and constables Jitendra Pal, Sultan Singh, Bablu Kumar and Rahul Kumar. Two sub inspectors, three constables, a home guard and a civilian were injured, a spokesman said. Dubey already carries reward of Rs 25,000 for his arrest. Sources said Dubey had allegedly killed Santosh Shukla, a Minister of State-rank BJP leader, inside a police station in 2001. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited Kanpur to pay tributes to the slain policemen and offer condolences to their families. He directed the state police chief to take stringent action against the culprits. The Opposition parties too condoled the deaths and targeted Adityanath over crime in the state. “Another proof of 'goonda raj' in UP. When police are not safe how can the people be?” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said criminals have no fear in the state. “From the common man to policemen, no one is safe," she added. The Samajwadi Party called UP “Hatya Pradesh” (land of murders), where criminals “patronised by those in power” killed policemen. It said this “connection” must be exposed. Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati termed the incident "shameful and unfortunate".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-uttar-pradesh-police-personnel-killed-seven-injured-in-encounter-with-criminals-in-kanpur-856414.html
03-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 3||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 6.3 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on Jan. 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 6,35,768 as of July 3 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 18,354 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 3,92,403 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-3-856415.html
03-07-2020||National||DH Podcast | The Lead: Five years of RangiTaranga||In this episode, DH Journalist Vivek M V talks to Kannada film director Anup Bhandari on the five-year anniversary of the celebrated film, RangiTaranga.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-podcast-the-lead-five-years-of-rangitaranga-856424.html
03-07-2020||National||Potential Covid-19 vaccine by Zydus Cadila gets DCGI nod for human clinical trials||A potential Covid-19 vaccine indigenously developed by the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila Healthcare Ltd has got nod from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for human clinical trials, according to a government source. The approval process was fast-tracked following recommendation by the subject expert committee on Covid-19, considering the emergency and unmet medical need during the pandemic. "DCGI Dr V G Somani has given approval for the phase I and II clinical trials (on humans) of the potential novel coronavirus vaccine developed by Zydus Cadila Healthcare Ltd on Thursday after its animal studies were found to be successful," an official source in the know of the developments told PTI. The assent for human trials was given after the company submitted data of clinical trial on animals to the DCGI, in which the vaccine candidate was found to be successful with respect to safety and immunogenicity, the source said. The company is likely to start enrolment of subjects soon. "The phase I and II trials will take around three months to be completed," the source said. The country's 'first' indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology (NIV), had recently got nod for human clinical trials from the DCGI. India's Covid-19 tally rose to 6,04,641 on Thursday with a single-day increase of 19,148 cases, just five days after it crossed the five-lakh mark, while the death toll rose to 17,834 with 434 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/potential-covid-19-vaccine-by-zydus-cadila-gets-dcgi-nod-for-human-clinical-trials-856442.html
03-07-2020||National||India reports highest Covid-19 spike of 20,903 cases, tally climbs to 6,25,544||India's Covid-19 cases soared by over 20,000 in a day for the first time taking the country's total tally to 6,25,544 on Friday, while the death toll climbed to 18,213 with 379 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The country recorded 20,903 coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours till Friday 8 am, with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi,Telangana and Karnataka being the major contributors to the single day rise. The number of recoveries stands at 3,79,891 ,while one patient has migrated. There are 2,27,439 active cases of coronavirus infections presently in the country. "Thus, around 60.73 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners. There has been a surge of 4,35,009 Covid-19 cases from June 1 till date.   According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 92,97,749 samples have been tested up to July 2 with 2,41,576 samples being tested on Thursday. Of the 379 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 125 are from Maharashtra, 61 from Delhi, 57 from Tamil Nadu, 19 each from Gujarat and Karnataka, 17 from Uttar Pradesh, 16 from West Bengal, 11 from Haryana, 10 from Jammu and Kashmir, nine from Rajasthan, eight each from Telangana and Madhya Pradesh, seven from Bihar, five from Andhra Pradesh, three from Punjab, two from Puducherry and one each from Kerala and Uttarakhand. Of the total 18,213 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 8,178 fatalities followed by Delhi with 2,864 deaths, Gujarat with 1,886, Tamil Nadu with 1,321, Uttar Pradesh with 735, West Bengal with 699, Madhya Pradesh with 589, Rajasthan with 430 and Telangana with 275 deaths. The Covid-19 death toll reached 272 in Karnataka, 251 in Haryana, 198 in Andhra Pradesh, 152 in Punjab, 115 in Jammu and Kashmir, 77 in Bihar, 42 in Uttarakhand, 27 in Odisha and 25 in Kerala. Jharkhand has registered 15 deaths, Chhattisgarh 14, Assam and Puducherry 12 each, Himachal Pradesh 10, Chandigarh six, Goa four and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,86,626, followed by Tamil Nadu at 98,392, Delhi at 92,175, Gujarat at 33,913, Uttar Pradesh at 24,825, West Bengal at 19,819 and Rajasthan at 18,662 according to the ministry data. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 18,570 in Telangana, 18,016 in Karnataka, 16,097 in Andhra Pradesh, 15,509 in Haryana, and 14,106 in Madhya Pradesh. It has risen to 10,471 in Bihar, 9,013 in Assam, 7,849 in Jammu and Kashmir and 7,545 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 5,784 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 4,753 cases. A total of 3,013 have been infected by the virus  in Chhattisgarh, 2,984 in Uttarakhand, 2,584 in Jharkhand, 1,435 in Tripura, 1,482 in Goa, 1,279 in Manipur, 1,014 in Himachal Pradesh and 990 in Ladakh. Puducherry has recorded 802 Covid-19 cases, Nagaland 501, Chandigarh 450 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 230 Covid-19 cases. Arunachal Pradesh reported 195 cases, Mizoram has 162 cases, Andaman and Nicobar Islands has 109, Sikkim has registered 102 infections so far, while Meghalaya has recorded 56 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 6,031 cases are being reassigned to states.   State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-highest-covid-19-spike-of-20903-cases-tally-climbs-to-625544-856446.html
03-07-2020||National||India's child labour victims struggle to receive compensation||Rescued victims of child labour in India rarely receive state compensation, new data shows, as campaigners warned a government drive to boost support for slavery survivors was falling short. In 2016, the Indian government set a target of rescuing 18 million workers from bondage by 2030, increased the amount of cash aid for survivors more than tenfold, and laid out specific provisions for child victims - which include land and housing. Children who are found in exploitative jobs and recognised by officials as bonded labour victims - defined as those trapped in slavery by debt - receive 20,000 rupees ($265) post-rescue and up to 300,000 rupees if their traffickers are convicted. Yet an analysis by the Thomson Reuters Foundation based on different datasets from two states - Telangana and Uttar Pradesh - showed very few child workers rescued from sites such as factories and brick kilns were deemed to be victims of bondage. Charities expressed concern that officials were routinely misidentifying cases of child slavery - instead registering them as instances of labour exploitation - by applying 1976 bonded labour laws that did not capture the reality of the crime today. "Children work at all hours, have no understanding of working hours or wages, and are scared to speak up in front of authorities," said Nirmala Gorana, general secretary of the charity Bandhua Mukti Morcha (Bonded Labour Liberation Front). "All forms of child labour are bonded labour and all rescued children should be made eligible for (compensation)," he said. In northern Uttar Pradesh state, only 18 of 7,000 children rescued since 2016 - or 0.3% - were entitled to bonded labour compensation, while in southern Telangana the figure stood at 300 of 16,000 child victims - or 1.9% - discovered since 2015. Such data was not available for all 28 Indian states, but charities said the outlook was similar across the country. Several activists said state officials should adopt a wider interpretation of the 1976 laws, and consider not only debt but factors such as low pay and confinement when assessing whether a child worker has been enslaved and is entitled to compensation. India's top court has repeatedly ruled that the bondage laws do not only apply to victims who are working to clear debts, but also cover people forced to work through deception and coercion. The federal labour ministry did not answer questions about compensation for child victims. The ministry said 118 million rupees had been awarded to 11,300 bonded workers across India since June 2016, but did not specify how many were children. The Thomson Reuters Foundation revealed last year that no survivors of bonded labour had received the full amount of compensation to which they were entitled between 2016 and 2019.   PROOF OF SLAVERY About 175,000 children in India have been removed or rescued from work and given support since 2016, government data shows.  State authorities rarely classify rescued child workers as victims of slavery due to inconsistent testimonies and a lack of identity documents or proof of enslavement, campaigners said. The United States' annual Trafficking in Persons (TIP) report - published last week - said that the misidentification of bonded labour cases as child labour was an issue in India. "States deny the presence of bonded people ... it increases their work, and makes them (rescued workers) eligible to entitlements," said Suresh Kumar, executive director of child rights' charity Centre Direct. "(Most) children do not get aid." Bihar government's social welfare director, Raj Kumar, said it was tough for victims of child labour to prove they had been enslaved. The burden of proof should not lie on children and officials must instead focus on questioning employers, he added. Yet a senior labour official in Telangana said the state could not treat every case involving rescued child workers as slavery given many children worked part-time as domestic help or in shops, and were often encouraged to do so by their parents. "(In such cases) there is no restriction on movement or forced labour," said joint labour commissioner E. Gangadhar. The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has urged states to hand over the decision-making from police and bureaucrats to local child welfare committees. This would speed up the process and ensure fairer and more sensitive hearings for children, said chairman Priyank Kanoongo, who also called for compensation to not depend on convictions.   BACK TO BONDAGE? Amitosh Pareek of the Aasra Foundation - which gives legal assistance to rescued child workers - said the need to provide children who had been enslaved with due compensation had never been greater given the impact of COVID-19 on countless families. India has at least 600,000 cases and 17,830 deaths to date. "Without the support, the outcome is obvious - they will be back in the hands of traffickers," said Pareek, who is a lawyer. "It is a huge injustice to deny (compensation) to any children in this context (the coronavirus outbreak in India)." India has an estimated 10 million child workers, according to United Nations' International Labour Organization (ILO). One former child labourer, Santosh Kumar, was rescued last year after being trafficked to a bangle factory in Jaipur. Now home in Bihar, the teenager is awaiting compensation. "I was told I was entitled to aid (after rescue), but haven't got any money yet," the 15-year-old said by phone. "I do whatever work I get," Kumar said, adding that he had earned a little by digging mounds of mud. "There is not much work now because of the lockdown, but I have to keep looking."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-child-labour-victims-struggle-to-receive-compensation-856449.html
03-07-2020||National||India banning Chinese apps effective way to impose costs on China for its actions at border: Expert||India's decision to ban Chinese apps seems to be an effective way to impose costs on China for its actions at the border and inhibit its ability to exert influence and access information inside the country, a well-known American expert on South Asia has said. India on Monday banned 59 apps with Chinese links, including the hugely popular TikTok and UC Browser, for engaging in "activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, the security of the state and public order". The ban also comes in the backdrop of the current stand-off along the Line of Actual control in eastern Ladakh with Chinese troops. “I think the Indian government was looking for ways to respond to Chinese provocations at the LAC (Line of Actual Control) and they settled on hitting China in the technology sector, where there were already mounting concerns about Chinese espionage and national security threats,” Jeff Smith, South Asia Research Fellow at the prestigious Heritage Institute think-tank said. There are some reservations in the US that this could bleed into a broader economic nationalism that could be used to justify greater restrictions on trade and investment, or be wielded against US firms, he noted. “But if this is a targeted measure toward China based on national security considerations, it would seem to be an effective way to impose costs on China for its actions at the border,” Smith said. The move, he added, has already received an endorsement from US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo. He highlighted the long-term benefits China derives from these firms like getting access to users data in India. “In terms of impact, I think the debate has been excessively focused on the short-term implications for the Chinese firms' revenue, which are modest. But short-term revenue isn't the principal value China derives from these firms expanding their presence in India: they crave users, subscribers, and data,” Smith said. “This carries longer-term economic benefits, in terms of valuation, marketing, and research and development. But, more to the point, it creates a treasure trove of data on Indian citizens that, according to China's national security laws, can be accessed by Chinese security services upon request,” he said in response to a question. “Over the long term, depriving China of this valuable commodity will inhibit its ability to exert influence and access information inside India. And Beijing has little recourse to respond since it's already effectively blocked many Indian IT firms from establishing a major presence inside China,” Smith said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-banning-chinese-apps-effective-way-to-impose-costs-on-china-for-its-actions-at-border-expert-856452.html
03-07-2020||National||Indian Railways to freeze all recruitment other than in the safety category||The Railway Board, in its letter to general managers of zones, on Tuesday asked them to freeze new posts' creation except in the 'safety category'. "Reviewing of posts created in last two years and if recruitment has not been done against the posts, reviewing the same for surrendering," the letter said. The Board also asked the zones to surrender 50% of existing vacancies other than in the safety category. However, this freeze will not affect the ongoing recruitment for filling vacant posts of technical and non-technical posts announced in 2018 for which the Railways already completed the process of recruiting 64,317 assistant loco pilots and technicians and started dispatching appointment letters. For the recruitment of 35,208 non-technical posts, the Railways is planning to conduct examinations after normalisation of the situation following the Covid-19 crisis. The Railways board has already instructed zonal railways to take steps to cut down any excess and wasteful expenditure in the organisation including reducing ticket booking counters and reducing the cost on organisation. Earlier, the Railway Finance Commissioner Manjula Rangarajan, in a letter to General Managers of Zones, suggested a number of measures to reduce expenditure including cutting down of passenger reservation system (PRS) counters and redeployment of Enquiry-Cum-Reservation Clerks due to the decrease in the over-the-counter reservation. The Railways also suggested zonal offices to ensure annual General Manager inspection, a “silent and low key affair with minimum number of staff required.” Following the nationwide lockdown, the Railways suspended its passenger trains services from March 24 and only freight trains transporting essential commodities operated. At present, besides freight trains, the Railways is operating 100 pairs of regular passenger trains and 15 pairs of special Rajdhani trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-freeze-all-recruitment-other-than-in-the-safety-category-856481.html
03-07-2020||National||ICMR aims to launch indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by August 15||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked 12 hospitals chosen to carry out clinical trials of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Bharat Biotech to accord “highest priority” to the project and fast track approvals to enable launch of the vaccine by August 15. The apex health research body has asked the medical institutions and principal investigators to ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7. According to the Clinical Trials Registry-India, the Phase-I and Phase-II clinical trials of the Covaxin will be carried out on 1,125 participants across 12 hospitals that include AIIMS in Delhi and Patna, and Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad. The letter to the hospitals, sent by ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava, asked them to enroll volunteers for the trials “no later than” July 7 and warned them that any non-compliance will be viewed very seriously. “It is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by 15th August 2020 after completion of all clinical trials,” Bhargava said in the letter dated July 2. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech is developing the vaccine based on the strain of the SARS-Cov-2 virus isolated by ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune. ICMR and Bharat Biotech are jointly working for the pre-clinical as well as clinical development of the vaccine. “In view of the public health emergency due to Covid-19 pandemic and urgency to launch the vaccine, you are strictly advised to fast track all approvals related to initiation of the clinical trial and ensure that the subject enrollment is initiated no later than 7th July 2020,” the letter added. Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella, however, was non committal on any launch date for the vaccine. “I cannot commit now on when the trial would start and when we would receive the results,” Ella told DH. “For a vaccine for which pre-clinical development is still ongoing, as per the letter itself, how can clinical trial recruitment be starting on 07th July? And that the vaccine will be launched on 15th August? A vaccine trial completed in little over a month, efficacy pre-decided,” Anant Bhan, former President of the International Association of Bioethics said. According to the submission to the CTRI, the study is designed to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity, tolerability, and immunogenicity of three groups of 125 healthy volunteers each who receive two doses of the vaccine formulations in Phase-I.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-aims-to-launch-indigenous-covid-19-vaccine-by-august-15-856492.html
03-07-2020||National||NCW received 2043 complaints of crimes against women in June, highest in 8 months||The NCW received 2,043 complaints of crimes committed against women in June, the highest in the last eight months. According to the NCW data, 452 complaints were received of domestic violence in June alone. Out of the 2043 complaints, the highest number were received under the 'Right to live with dignity' at 603. The 'Right to live with dignity' takes into account the emotional abuse of women. The number of complaints received in June have been highest since September last year when 2,379 complaints were received, the data showed. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma attributed the rise in complaints to the increased activity of the commission on social media platforms. "The complaints have increased because we are very active on social media now and we are registering cases from Twitter and other social media platforms too. We have a WhatsApp number for reporting cases which was not in place earlier. People know that we are helping and that's why they have more faith in us," Sharma told PTI. The second-highest number of complaints were received under the 'Protection of Women against Domestic Violence' at 452, the data showed. Sharma similarly attributed the increase in domestic violence complaints due to the active presence of NCW on social media. "Same is with the cases of domestic violence. We advertised on Doordarshan at prime time to make women aware of the ways in which they could reach us and also started our emergency WhatsApp helpline number which is an easy way for women to reach out to us. This is the reason why numbers have increased," she said. There were 252 complaints under harassment of married women and dowry harassment followed by 194 complaints of outraging modesty of women and molestation, the data showed. The NCW data showed that 113 complaints of police apathy towards women and 100 complaints of cybercrime have been received. As many as 78 complaints of rape and attempt to rape were received while 38 complaints of sexual harassment were received in June, the data showed. Sharma encouraged women to reach out to the NCW whenever they wanted. "The NCW is working for the wellbeing and empowerment of women so they can reach us anytime, any day," she added. In May, 1,500 complaints were received by the NCW while in April 800 complaints were received and in March 1,347 complaints were received. In February, 1,424 complaints were received while in January 1,462 complaints were received, the data showed. In December, 1,402 complaints were received while in November 1,642 and in October 1,885 complaints were received, the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-received-2043-complaints-of-crimes-against-women-in-june-highest-in-8-months-856493.html
03-07-2020||National||Rajasthan sees 435 Covid-19 deaths; 123 fresh cases||With five more fatalities, the death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 435 in Rajasthan on Friday, while 123 fresh cases of the infection were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally of coronavirus patients to 18,785, according to an official report. Of the latest fatalities due to the disease, two were reported from Dholpur and one each was recorded in Dungarpur, Ajmer and Sirohi, the report said.  Of the fresh cases, Sikar reported 23, Jaipur 21, Kota 20, Dausa 17, Udaipur nine, Bikaner eight, Hanumangarh and Rajsamand six each, Ajmer four, Barmer and Jhunjhunu two each, while Alwar, Nagaur, Bhilwara, Sawai Madhopur and Tonk recorded a case each, the report stated. The state currently has 3,307 active coronavirus cases, while 14,730 people have recovered from the disease, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-sees-435-covid-19-deaths-123-fresh-cases-856494.html
03-07-2020||National||Securities Appellate Tribunal to remain closed till July 17 amid coronavirus pandemic||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has said it will remain closed till July 17 in view of the lockdown extended in the containment zones in Mumbai to tackle coronavirus pandemic. Earlier, the tribunal had said it would remain closed till June 30. In view of the extension of the lockdown order issued by the state government of Maharashtra on June 29, the lockdown in containment zones in Mumbai has been extended till July 31. Considering the current situation, the judicial work of the tribunal shall remain suspended till July 17, SAT said in a notification. Besides, the tribunal will function from July 20 between 11:30 am and 4:30 pm and urgent cases will be heard between July 20-24. Also, the office of the registry remains open between 11:00 am to 3:30 pm, with limited staff for the purpose of administrative work, it added. In case of extreme urgent matters, parties may file cases by adopting standard operating procedures introduced by the tribunal earlier, SAT said. In addition, the matters fixed for hearing from July 1-3 will now stand adjourned till August 19, 20, 24, respectively. Meanwhile, matters fixed for hearing from July 6-10 will now stand adjourned till August 25, 26, 27, 31 and September 1, respectively, the tribunal noted. The matters fixed for hearing on July 13-17 will now be heard on September 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/securities-appellate-tribunal-to-remain-closed-till-july-17-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-856501.html
03-07-2020||National||Arunachal Pradesh reports highest spike of 37 Covid-19 cases; tally 232||Arunachal Pradesh reported its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Friday after 37 more people, including an NDRF staffer, tested positive for the disease, taking the state's tally of coronavirus patients to 232, a senior health official said. Of the fresh cases, 34 were reported from the state capital here, two from Changlang and one from Namsai district, Surveillance Officer Dr L Jampa said. "All the cases were detected in quarantine centres and they were asymptomatic," he said. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) staffer does not have any travel history but was in a quarantine centre in the state capital as he came in contact with three other personnel of the force, who had earlier tested positive for the disease, Jampa said. "Of the new patients, 36 had come to the state from Assam, Bihar, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Kerala, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka," he said. All the infected people were shifted to Covid care centres, Jampa added. Arunachal Pradesh now has 160 active coronavirus cases, while 71 people have recovered from the disease and a person has died of it. Five persons, four from Changlang and one from Tirap district, were discharged from Covid care centres on Thursday and advised to stay in home quarantine for 14 days, Jampa said. The state capital is the worst-affected with 75 coronavirus cases, followed by Changlang (49), West Kameng (14) and Namsai (10). A total of 25,440 samples have been sent for the Covid-19 test in the state, of which the results of 1,594 are awaited, Jampa added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arunachal-pradesh-reports-highest-spike-of-37-covid-19-cases-tally-232-856498.html
03-07-2020||National||Short timeline for India Covid-19 vaccine test raises doubts among health experts||The chief of India's top clinical research agency said in a leaked letter circulated on Friday it envisaged launching a novel coronavirus vaccine by Aug. 15, prompting derision from some health experts who questioned the timeline. Dozens of vaccine candidates are at various stages of development around the world to control the coronavirus pandemic. One candidate, from India's Bharat Biotech, which is being developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research, was this week approved for Phase I and Phase II clinical trials. Phase I and Phase II trials typically test the safety of a drug before it enters Phase III trials that test its efficacy. Each phase can last months, if not years, but regulators globally have been fast-tracking trials on medicines and vaccines aimed at tackling the cornavirus, which has infected more than 10.89 million people globally and killed more than 520,066​, according to a Reuters tally. The Indian vaccine project was being monitored "at the topmost level of the government", Bhargava said in the letter, which was widely circulated on social media. A Bharat Biotech spokesman declined to comment but an ICMR official, who asked not to be identified, said the letter was a private communication and was being misinterpreted. Anant Bhan, a doctor and public health researcher, questioned the speed of the trial suggested in the letter and asked if its efficacy was being decided in advance. "To my knowledge, such an accelerated development pathway has not been done EVER for any kind of vaccine, even for the ones being tried out in other countries," Bhan said on Twitter. "Even with accelerated timelines, this seems really rushed, and hence with potential risks, inadequate attention to process." Several other health experts also questioned the proposed launch date of the vaccine. The ICMR official said the aim was to complete all trials on the vaccine candidate by Aug. 15. He did not say exactly when he thought the vaccine might be launched for public use. "The letter is something and interpretation is something (else)," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/short-timeline-for-india-covid-19-vaccine-test-raises-doubts-among-health-experts-856511.html
03-07-2020||National||India not to import power equipment from China: R K Singh||Amidst border standoff with China, Union Power Minister R K Singh on Friday said that the Centre will not allow import of power equipment from China and asked states not to place orders with neighbouring country companies. The Minister,  who chaired a virtual conference with state energy ministers, said that  equipment import from China and Pakistan would not be permitted, especially on the basis of inspection. The Minister also asked the states electricity distribution companies and other power utilities not to give orders for supply of equipment to Chinese companies. The meeting's one of main agenda was to discuss how to reduce imports in power sector and encourage domestic companies to produce equipment. Some (power) distribution companies are using equipment made in other countries, mainly in China, whereas those equipment are made here. Whatever is manufactured here should get priority in procurement. We need to encourage our companies so that we can create employment in our country, the Minister said. "We manufacture everything here. India imported Rs 71,000 crore worth power equipment including Rs 21,000 crore from China. "This (huge import of power equipment) is something we cannot tolerate when a country transgresses into our territory....we will not take anything from China and Pakistan, " he said. "We will not give permission for import from Prior Reference countries. There could be malware or trojan horse in those (imports from China) which they can activate remotely (to cripple our power systems)," the Minister said. Earlier, the Minister said to curb import from China in power sector, the Centre is planning number of measures including custom duty on solar modules, solar cells, malware checking on products imported from China, increase domestic production of electricity equipment. Banning of import from China will be a big blow to the neighbouring country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-not-to-import-power-equipment-from-china-r-k-singh-856513.html
03-07-2020||National||Over 2 crore N95 masks, 1.18 crore PPE kits, 11,000 ventilators supplied to states, UTs since Apr 1: Govt||Since April 1, the Centre has distributed more than 2.02 crore N95 masks and over 1.18 crore PPE kits among the states, Union territories and central institutions for free, the Union health ministry said on Friday. In addition, 11,300 "Make in India" ventilators have so far been dispatched to various states, Union territories and central institutions, of which 6,154 have already been delivered to various hospitals, it said. "The central government is also ensuring their installation/commissioning. This will help to bridge the massive gap in availability of ventilators in Covid ICU facilities," the ministry said in a statement. The health ministry is also supplying 1.02 lakh oxygen cylinders to the states and Union territories, of which 72,293 have been delivered to strengthen the oxygen-beds there. Also, more than 6.12 crore HCQ tablets have been given to the states and Union territories. The Union government, along with the states and Union territories, has been relentlessly working for the prevention, containment and management of Covid-19, the statement said. The central role of the government has been in strengthening the health infrastructure to fight the pandemic, it added. "Along with augmenting Covid-19 facilities, Centre has been providing medical supplies free of cost to the state and UT governments to supplement their efforts," the ministry said. The statement underlined that most of the products supplied by the Centre were not being manufactured in the country in the beginning and there was a global demand due to the pandemic, resulting in a "scarce availability in the foreign markets". However, with the combined efforts of the ministries of health, textiles, pharmaceuticals, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and others, the domestic industry has been encouraged to manufacture and supply essential medical equipment such as personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N95 masks, ventilators during this period.  "With the result, resolve for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and 'Make in India' has been strengthened and most of the supplies made by GOI are domestically manufactured," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2-crore-n95-masks-118-crore-ppe-kits-11000-ventilators-supplied-to-states-uts-since-apr-1-govt-856528.html
03-07-2020||National||PM's visit to Ladakh to boost morale of 'valorous soldiers': Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday lauded the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Ladakh and said the tour will boost the morale of "our valorous soldiers". Modi's visit to Ladakh came amidst the ongoing stand-off between the Indian Army and China's PLA (People's Liberation Army) in the forward areas of the high altitude region. Tensions had escalated between the two countries after 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh last month. "Leading from the front. Prime Minister Shri @NarendraModi Ji with our brave and courageous personnel of Army, Air Force & ITBP at a forward location in Ladakh. "This visit of honourable PM will surely boost the morale of our valorous soldiers," he tweeted along with multiple pictures of Modi with the soldiers. Leading from the front. Shah also used the hashtag '#ModiInLeh' in his Twitter post. The prime minister on Friday reached Leh where he interacted with personnel of the Army, Air Force and ITBP. Modi, accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, reached Leh around 9.30 am and then proceeded to Nimu post, sources said. Modi was also briefed by senior Army officers, they said. Located at 11,000 feet, Nimu is among the toughest terrains on the banks of river Indus and is surrounded by the Zanskar range.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-visit-to-ladakh-to-boost-morale-of-valorous-soldiers-amit-shah-856536.html
03-07-2020||National||First China, now Pakistan: How India is battling on two fronts||By Sudhi Ranjan SenThe Indian military has been talking about a two-front war with neighbors Pakistan and China for decades to keep politicians focused on defense spending. Now that scenario is looking ever more realistic, with conflicts flaring on both its disputed borders. Talks earlier this week between top Chinese and Indian army commanders in the Ladakh region ended without a major breakthrough, the second such attempt to cool things down since 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese troops were killed on June 15 in their worst clash in four decades. Around the same time, weapons and explosives were recovered and two suspected terrorists were killed after a 15-hour gun battle some 660 kilometers (410 miles) away in south Kashmir, officials said. India has fought four wars with China and Pakistan since it gained freedom from British rule in 1947, but it has never had to defend both borders at the same time. Indian military officials are growing concerned that China and Pakistan might gang up on New Delhi at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is faced with surging coronavirus infections. Modi made a surprise visit to Indian Army headquarters in Leh on Friday, where he was briefed on the nine-week long face-off with China. “New Delhi is clearly under great pressure, whether from Covid-19, along the Line of Control in Kashmir, or from China,” said Ian Hall, professor of international relations at Griffith University in Queensland, Australia, and author of ‘Modi and the Reinvention of Indian Foreign Policy.’ “We have seen relations with both Islamabad and Beijing worsen over the past few years, and the result is that both have decided to escalate things during the pandemic, when the Modi government is stretched and distracted.” The Indian military is huge and contingencies are always kept in mind, said a senior security official who wasn’t authorized to speak to the press. But despite the planning, the need to commit resources to two fronts at the same time would stretch the armed forces. It’s an eventuality India’s army chief has warned of, urging the government -- including its diplomatic corps -- to be prepared to step in to avoid it. Stretched Resources “As far as two front war is concerned it is a possibility,” General Manoj Mukund Naravane, India’s Chief of Army Staff, said in May. “A country does not go to war with its armed forces alone. It has other pillars like diplomatic corp and other organs of government which will come into play to make sure that we are not forced into a corner where we will have to deal with two adversaries at the same time and in full strength.” Indian and Chinese troops remain deployed eyeball-to-eyeball along the country’s northern boundary, the unmarked and contested Line of Actual Control, which saw tensions rise in early May. Both sides have amassed thousands of troops, artillery guns and tanks at multiple locations. The army said Wednesday more diplomatic and military talks were planned “to ensure peace and tranquility” after military level negotiations ended without a clear outcome. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters in a regular briefing in Beijing on Friday politicians in India had “continuously made irresponsible remarks that damage Sino-Indian relations.” Referring to New Delhi’s recent moves that seek to restrict Chinese imports and ownership of Indian companies, Zhao said, “Setting up obstacles for the cooperation between the two countries violates the relevant WTO rules and will also harm India’s own interests. China will take necessary measures to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese enterprises in India.” At the same time, India’s 742-kilometer (460 miles) Line of Control with Pakistan has become equally active and tense. Indian troops have faced regular cross-border firing and engaged in counter-terror operations in the hinterland. India’s army said it killed 127 “terrorists” in the first six months of the year, about 30% higher from a year ago, according to a senior security official who asked not to be identified, citing rules for speaking with reporters. The incidents of cross-border firing recorded by the Indian military also doubled in 2020 compared to 2019, the official said. Pakistan’s foreign ministry in a statement Wednesday blamed India for more than 1,500 “cease-fire violations” including deaths and injuries of civilians on their side of the Kashmir frontier this year. Some military formations which normally move to Jammu & Kashmir to bolster the counter-insurgency operations along the Pakistan border in the summer months have now moved to the India-China border. “The Indian Army is a well-led professional force organized, equipped, trained, experienced and motivated to take on any commitments that it may be called for, be it internal or external,” Indian Army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said in response to questions. Under Pressure Collusion between Pakistan and China to keep India’s western and northern borders on simmer at the same time is difficult to prove but cannot be ruled out, said Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at MIT and author of ‘Nuclear Strategy in the Modern Era: Regional Powers and International Conflict.’ “But my general sense is that Pakistan may feel like it needs to show resolve at home and to India in Jammu & Kashmir” after India changed the province’s constitutional status in August last year, Narang said. Islamabad may “also be opportunistically taking advantage of India’s distraction and focus on the LAC.” The clash with “China is obviously a major embarrassment for India. What are India’s choices? It can’t attack China and throw them out and they know it,” said Mahmud Durrani, a retired lieutenant general and national security adviser in Pakistan. “The fallout of that can be that to prove their strength and muscles, they are going to do something with Pakistan -- the smaller partner of China. They will do something to prove to its people that ‘we are still strong’.” Durrani said a “connection between the strategic movements between China and Pakistan” could also “be a possibility.” Whichever way it plays out, “it could be a very tense and bloody summer for India on both of its disputed borders,” Narang said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-china-now-pakistan-how-india-is-battling-on-two-fronts-856542.html
03-07-2020||National||Scheduled international flights suspended till July 31, some on selected routes may be allowed: DGCA||India on Friday extended the ban on scheduled international commercial passenger flights till July 31 as the Covid-19 pandemic showed no signs of abating. However, the civil aviation regulator DGCA kept the option of allowing international scheduled flights on select routes on approval by the competent authority on a case by case basis. This caveat is significant as India is in talks with civil aviation authorities of the US, Canada, Britain, France, Germany and some Gulf countries to make bilateral arrangements for allowing international travel through “air bubbles”. Travel as demand on these routes continue to remain high even after the evacuation of stranded passengers. India had suspended all scheduled commercial passenger flights on both the domestic and international routes in March as the country went into lockdown in March to arrest the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government opened up the domestic aviation sector on May 25 with Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri announcing that he would wait for operations to reach 50-55 per cent of the pre-Covid-19 levels before thinking of re-starting scheduled international operations. On June 26, the DGCA had extended the ban on international scheduled commercial flights till July 15. However, the restrictions will not apply to international cargo operations and flights, specifically approved by the DGCA such as repatriation charters and air ambulances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scheduled-international-flights-suspended-till-july-31-some-on-selected-routes-may-be-allowed-dgca-856547.html
03-07-2020||National||ED sleuths failed to answer my question on benefits given to Sandesara group: Ahmed Patel||Facing an ED probe in a money-laundering case, Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Friday said the investigation agency has failed to answer his question on who in the Gujarat government had bestowed benefits, privileges and honours to the Sandesara group, for which he is being quizzed. Patel said he has answered 128 questions posed to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and thanked the agency for visiting him thrice in connection with the Sandesara money-laundering case. "Thank you, officials of ED, for coming to my house thrice. "I answered each of their 128 questions but they failed to answer my one fundamental question - Who in the Gujarat state government was responsible for bestowing multiple benefits, privileges and honours on the Sandesara group," Patel wrote on Twitter. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra came out in Patel's support and alleged that sending the ED to harass the senior party leader in the middle of the COVID-19 pandemic shows the "perversion" of this government's priorities. "Thousands are dying, our health workers are desperate for supportive measures, the economy is facing an unprecedented crisis, the Chinese are entering our territory, our soldiers are being killed, and this is what the Government is busy spending time on," she said in a tweet. "They say crisis unveils the true nature of people, it appears the saying applies to governments as well," Priyanka Gandhi said. The ED investigators questioned Patel at his residence for about 10 hours on Thursday during the third round of his grilling in connection with the probe into the Sandesara brothers' bank fraud and money-laundering case. "This is political vendetta and harassment against me and my family and I do not know under whose pressure they (investigators) are working," Patel had said after his questioning. The agency had earlier questioned the 70-year-old Congress leader in two separate sessions, clocking about 17 hours in total, on June 27 and 30. He was allowed to be quizzed at home by the agency after the Congress's Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat refused to visit the ED office, citing the prevailing COVID-19 guidelines that discourage senior citizens from going out. Officials said Patel's statement is being recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). He is being questioned on his alleged links with the Sandesara brothers, the promoters of the Vadodara-based Sterling Biotech pharmaceutical company, and dealings of his family members with them. The agency, last year, had questioned Patel's son Faisal and son-in-law Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui in connection with the case and recorded their statements. The Sandesaras are also facing separate probes by the CBI and the Income Tax department for their alleged nexus with some high-profile politicians and charges of corruption and tax evasion respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-sleuths-failed-to-answer-my-question-on-benefits-given-to-sandesara-group-ahmed-patel-856553.html
03-07-2020||National||Bravery shown by you has sent message about India's strength: PM Narendra Modi to soldiers in Ladakh||Paying tributes to the 20 Army men killed in a violent face off with Chinese troops in east Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the bravery shown by the soldiers has sent a message about the strength of India. Addressing Army, Air Force and ITBP personnel during his surprise visit to Ladakh, he said India's resolve for 'atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) becomes stronger because of you and your strong resolve. He told the personnel that their will power is as strong and firm as the Himalayas and the whole country is proud of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bravery-shown-by-you-has-sent-message-about-indias-strength-pm-narendra-modi-to-soldiers-in-ladakh-856554.html
03-07-2020||National||WB govt to provide land deeds to residents of 119 refugee colonies by August||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has decided to provide unconditional land deeds to the occupants of 119 refugee colonies in the state by August. Although Banerjee made the announcement before the coronavirus lockdown, sources in the state administration revealed that work related to land measurements slowed down due to the lockdown restrictions. Now with the restrictions being eased the state government has decided to fast forward the process upon completion of which more than 1 lakh refugees in the state will get unconditional land deeds. The Chief Minister announced from a public rally at Kaliaganj in Uttar Dinajpur district that her government will provide unconditional land deeds to residents of 119 refugee colonies. Soon after the Law Department and Land and Land Reforms and Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation Department set up teams for the task. According to sources the measurement works have restarted with Unlock I and the government is keen on completing it by August. “Upon completion the residents of 213  refugee colonies in the state will get a government recognized address and all citizenship rights,” said a senior official of the Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation Department. These refugee colonies are located mostly on land belonging to several Central government organizations. The same will be done for 24 other refugee colonies. However, it will take some time as in some cases there are legal complications. Sources said that the government aims to provide unconditional land deeds to about 3 lakh refugee families in Kolkata, the districts of South and North 24 Paraganas, North and South Dinajpur, Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri. Earlier unconditional land deeds were provided to residents of 94 refugee colonies located on state government’s land. The development comes at a time when BJP after a hiatus has again started to raise the issue of Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Recently Union Home Minister Amit Shah accused the Chief Minister of obstructing the process of refugees being granted citizenship under the CAA. Despite the pandemic the state BJP has resumed political activities with eye on the 2021 Assembly elections in Bengal where CAA is expected to become a major poll plank for the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wb-govt-to-provide-land-deeds-to-residents-of-119-refugee-colonies-by-august-856562.html
03-07-2020||National||Indian video-sharing apps surge in popularity on TikTok ban||Indian tech and entertainment firms are looking to capitalise on sudden opportunities arising from a government ban on Chinese owned apps, including the wildly popular TikTok, with one rival video app saying it had added 22 million users in 48 hours. India this week outlawed 59 Chinese-owned apps including TikTok and Tencent's WeChat, in what was described as a "digital strike" against China by the country's technology minister. The move followed a confrontation between India and China at a disputed Himalayan border site, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead. With 200 million Indians users, TikTok, which features a simple user interface, background music options and various special effects, was a burgeoning force in the nation's social media scene and the ban left its fans scrambling for options. Roposo, an Indian video-sharing social media app similar to TikTok that been around since 2014, saw its user base jump by 22 million in the two days after India banned the Chinese apps, the company's founder Mayank Bhangadia told Reuters. "In the last few days I've slept for a total of five hours, and its the same for our entire team," Bhangadia said. "The load is so much and we're just ensuring that the experience is as smooth as possible." Roposo's downloads on Google's Android now total over 80 million, and Bhangadia expects that to reach 100 million in just a few days. Before the ban, Roposo had roughly 50 million installs on Android devices, which account for a bulk of India's nearly 500 million smartphones. Based in the southern Indian tech hub of Bengaluru, the company has just 200 staff now but is planning to hire as many as 10,000 people over the next two years and may take the app global, Bhangadia said. Other home-grown TikTok alternatives such as Chingari and Mitron are also finding favour with users, with many taking to social media to echo Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for "atma-nirbhar" or self-reliant India. MyGov, the federal government's citizen engagement website, last month created its account on Roposo. "We have to create our own ecosystem, every country has done this, this is our atma-nirbhar programme," said a government minister. New players are also jumping into the fray. Mumbai-based Zee Entertainment Enterprises is set to launch an ad-supported, short-video platform, named HiPi, in the next two months, Rajneel Kumar, the product head for its digital unit Zee5 said. He hoped that former TikTok users would "find a home within Hipi to be able to continue to enjoy the content they enjoyed."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-video-sharing-apps-surge-in-popularity-on-tiktok-ban-856566.html
03-07-2020||National||NCLAT closed till July 10 after staff member tests Covid-19 positive||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has suspended work till July 10 due to the sealing of its premises after finding one of its staff Covid-19 positive. The tribunal in a notice dated July 2 said all court works, including the virtual hearing of cases and filing, would remain suspended as some members of the staff have come in direct contact with the affected person. "A staff member was reported to have tested positive for Covid-19 on June 26, 2020, which mandated further sanitisation and sealing of the premises of this Appellate Tribunal and suspension of work till July 3, 2020," the notice by the registrar said. It further said that some staff members have come in direct contact with the affected person, warranting following of the mandatory norms in terms of the guidelines issued by the government for ensuring the personal safety of all concerned and to prevent any peril or hazard to human life. The notice said that tt has been decided to extend the suspension of court work to enable all concerned to observe home quarantine.  The tribunal said after one of its staff members was tested positive on June 26, its "acting chairperson, members, officers of the registry and the staff of this appellate tribunal coming in contact with the affected official, directly or otherwise, were subjected to Covid-19 test". After collection of their nasal swabs by a team of doctors from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on June 29 and 30, 2020, one of them tested positive. "It is accordingly notified that the court work (virtual hearing) and filing etc, in the NCLAT will remain suspended till July 10, 2020," it said. Like other judicial/quasi-judicial bodies, the NCLAT was conducting virtual hearing of urgent matters through video conferencing, which was started during the lockdown. In May, the NCLAT had announced to cancel its summer vacation this year to cover the shortfall in working days due to closure during the lockdown. The NCLAT is presently headed by Justice Bansi Lal Bhat, who was appointed as the officiating chairperson of the appellate tribunal in March this year. The NCLAT was constituted under Section 410 of the Companies Act, 2013 for hearing appeals against the orders of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). It is also the appellate tribunal for hearing appeals against orders passed by NCLT under the IBC and Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India. It is also the appellate tribunal to hear and dispose of appeals against any order passed by the Competition Commission of India (CCI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nclat-closed-till-july-10-after-staff-member-tests-covid-19-positive-856569.html
03-07-2020||National||India to operate 9 more flights to evacuate stranded citizens from UAE||India will operate nine more flights on Friday to evacuate its citizens stranded in the UAE due to the travel restrictions imposed in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Air India Express will operate these flights as part of the Vande Bharat Mission to south Indian cities from Sharjah, according to the Indian Consulate in Dubai. “All Indian nationals are advised to take note of direct sale of Air India Express flights from Sharjah. Following flights will be opened for sale effective 4 pm UAE Time on July 3. Make sure to book your tickets once the sale is live,” the mission announced on Twitter. The flights scheduled to operate from July 9 to 14 are flying to Madurai, Coimbatore, Thiruvananthapuram, Tiruchirappalli, Kochi and Hyderabad, the Gulf News reported. “Indian nationals registered with the Embassy of India, Abu Dhabi or the Consulate-General of India in Dubai, fulfilling the required entry conditions can book through Air India Express booking offices or online on www.airindiaexpress.in or through authorised travel agents in the UAE,” the statement with the flight details posted on Twitter said. “Mentioning of correct passport number and contact number is important. Otherwise tickets can be cancelled or boarding pass may be denied,” the Indian Consulate said. While 75 per cent of tickets are open for sale, 25 per cent are reserved for those with emergency cases handled by the missions, the report said. "Over 1,25,000 Indians have already been safely repatriated home from #UAE since 7th May. We will continue the #VandeBharatMission till all those who want to go back are covered. Thank you all our partners," Indian Embassy in the UAE said in a tweet on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-operate-9-more-flights-to-evacuate-stranded-citizens-from-uae-856597.html
03-07-2020||National||PIL against capping Covid-19 treatment charges declined||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to entertain a PIL seeking review of the AAP government''s decision to cap the price of Covid-19 treatment and directed that it be treated as a representation. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan directed the Delhi government to take a decision on the representation "in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case as expeditiously as possible and practicable". With the direction, the bench disposed of the plea moved by SKM Foundation, through it trustee Sudhir Mishra, which has contended that the June 20 order of the Delhi government to cap Covid-19 treatment costs has given rise to "operational errors" and therefore, "defeats the purpose of ensuring equitable quality treatment to all". The foundation, represented by advocate Shivam Singh, told the court that the order has ignored that "the disparity in severity of the disease would extend beyond the physical provisions, like bedding of the hospitals".  It had contended in its plea that patients admitted to a hospital for Covid-19 treatment are "not homogenous in terms of bodily capabilities" to deal with the disease and the amount and kind of medicine to be administered to each would vary widely from person to person. "A straight jacket formula cannot be applied for patients with vast arrays of bodily deficiencies," the foundation had stated in its plea. According to Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, who appeared for the Health Department, in private hospitals certified by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) the cost of treatment varies between Rs 10,000 to Rs 18,000 per day based on the ward. In isolation ward, the cost is Rs 10,000 per day, in ICU without ventilator it is Rs 15,000 and in ICU with ventilator it is Rs 18,000. In private hospitals without NABH certification, the rates are Rs 8,000, Rs 13,000 and Rs 15,000 per day, respectively. Ghose said the prices in Delhi were higher than in other states as here the price of advanced medicines and PPE kits have also been factored in and these have to be provided to the patient if required. The bench said no hospital has come forward claiming difficulty in providing treatment as per the rates fixed by the government and the petitioner cannot assume the amounts fixed were unreasonable. It asked the petitioner to first see if the system put in place is working, before approaching the court. The bench also said that as and when some individual prefers to challenge the Delhi government order, it will be decided by the appropriate forum in accordance with the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-against-capping-covid-19-treatment-charges-declined-856614.html
03-07-2020||National||Power producers seek more time to install emission controlling FDG technology||An association of power producers has sought more time to install emission controlling equipment at their plants, saying various issues, including Covid-19 followed by supply disruptions from China, have posed challenges in meeting the December 2022 deadline. In a letter to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the Association of Power Producers (APP) has sought another three years to complete the process.       As per a government order, all thermal power plants in India have to install the flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) technology that reduces sulphur oxides emissions on the burning of coal, in a phased manner by December 2022.         In the letter, the APP has apprised the top office that under the current circumstances meeting the deadline would be a challenge as the Covid-19 outbreak has led to supply disruptions of equipment from China. Only about 20-30 per cent of the emission-reducing components, it said, are manufactured in India and for a major share of 70-80 per cent, the country is dependent on imports from China, it said. The risk of default has also increased due to impact of the disruptions caused by the pandemic and a growing clamour for the boycott of Chinese goods in the aftermath of the recent clash between Indian and Chinese troops, said the letter, a copy of which has also been sent to the Ministry of Power. This is in addition to regulatory hurdles and reluctance of banks to take on additional exposure to the power sector in the face of uncertainty of cash ﬂows arising out of the existing and new investments to install FGD, even while many of thermal power plants are awaiting large sums from discoms for period prior to August 2019, compounded now due to unprecedented pandemic...," the body said in the letter. Coal-fired plants with capacities totalling over 166.5 GW have to comply with the regulation by December 2022, in a phased manner, it added. For 14,000 MW capacity in NCR (national capital region) the deadline was December 2019, which due to various reasons the players have already missed, it said.          Another 26,330-MW power capacities are required to set up FGD units in 2020, 64,268 MW in 2021 and 64,055 MW in 2022, the letter said adding that 77 per cent of the plants have not even yet awarded the contracts to install FGDs and ESPs (electrostatic precipitators).        Given the challenges and the situation in front of the players, APP said it requests "the government to push ahead the timeline by at least two-three years."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-producers-seek-more-time-to-install-emission-controlling-fdg-technology-856620.html
03-07-2020||National||Allow Bhushan Steel ex-CFO two video conferences with lawyers: HC to Tihar Jail officials||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed the officials of Tihar Jail here to provide Bhushan Steel ex-CFO Nittin Johari, arrested by the SFIO for alleged fraudulent activities, two video conferences with his lawyers to consult them in relation to his special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court. Johari, in his plea, has said that he has moved a SLP against a Delhi High Court order of January 27 denying him bail and the matter is likely to be listed for hearing in the apex court on July 6. Justice Vibhu Bakhru, as an interim measure, directed the Tihar Jail officials to provide him with two video conferences before July 6 and listed the matter for hearing on July 10. Johari, in his petition, has sought two weekly meetings of half an hour each with his lawyers and family via video conference from Central Jail No.8 in Tihar. He has contended that under the Delhi Prison Rules two interviews per week with family/ relatives/ friends/ legal advisors ordinarily for not more than half an hour each is allowed. However, due to Covid-19, the in-person interviews have been suspended for more than three months and he has been unable to meet his wife and two children or his lawyers during this period. Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, appearing for Tihar Jail, told the court that the issue of allowing prisoners to meet family and lawyers via video conferencing was already pending before another bench of the high court. Mehra also told the court that Johari will be provided one video conference to consult his lawyers in connection with the SLP.   The high court, however, directed that he be provided two video conferences. In his plea, Johari has also claimed that he had made a request on June 30 to the jail officials to permit him a meeting via video conference with his lawyers and his wife, but no written reply was received and he was orally informed that his request has been rejected. Johari was arrested by SFIO on May 2, 2019 for alleged fraudulent activities, including filing false documents with various banks. SFIO had said Johari was managing the affairs of Bhushan Steel and was looking after raising of funds from banks and financial institutions and was also one of the signatories to the financial statements of the company till fiscal year 2016-17. SFIO had said that during the probe it found there were several alleged fraudulent practices at the company, including manipulations of accounts and financial statements during the term of Johari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allow-bhushan-steel-ex-cfo-two-video-conferences-with-lawyers-hc-to-tihar-jail-officials-856631.html
03-07-2020||National||Era of expansionism is over, says PM Narendra Modi from Ladakh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday made a surprise visit to Ladakh — the icy heights where Indo-China border tensions are playing out — and told a gathering of Army and ITBP soldiers that the "era of expansionism is over" without naming China even once in his speech.  The PM's sudden trip comes after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's visit to Leh on Friday was cancelled at the eleventh hour. "The age of expansionism is over. This is the age of development. History is witness that expansionist forces have either lost or were forced to turn back. India’s commitment to peace should not be seen as India’s weakness," the Prime Minister said interacting with soldiers at the Line of Actual Control. Accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen M M Naravane, Modi reached Leh early morning and was subsequently flown to Nimu, which is situated at an altitude of 11,000 ft on the banks of the Indus, by a chopper. He was given a briefing on the LAC situation by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, Commander of the 14 Corps, inside a camouflage tent. Remembering the sacrifices made by soldiers killed in the Galwan clash, Modi said, “Be it Leh-Ladakh, Kargil or the Siachen Glacier, be it the high mountains or the icy cold water that flows in the rivers, these are testimony to the gallantry of India’s armed forces. The enemies of India have seen the fire and fury of our forces.” Incidentally, Leh-based 14 Corps of the Indian Army that guards the LAC is also known as the Fire and Fury Corps. Modi said the country believed in its soldiers to keep it "strong and safe". "Every single Indian across the world, especially in India, has the belief that you all can deliver and keep the nation strong and safe," said the Prime Minister. "Your courage is higher than the heights where you are stationed. Your arms are as strong as the mountains that surround you. Your confidence, determination and belief are as atal (immovable) as the peaks here." "The weak can never accomplish peace, the brave do," Modi asserted. For more than two months, Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a tense face-off at multiple locations in eastern Ladakh.  The two sides discussed disengagement plans three times but troop presence in east Ladakh has not thinned so far. On the contrary, both nations have increased their men, firepower and wherewithal on either side of the LAC. Remembering the sacrifices made by the soldiers killed in the brutal Galwan clash, Modi said, “Be it Leh-Ladakh, Kargil or the Siachen Glacier, be it the high mountains or the icy cold water that flows in the rivers, these are testimony to the gallantry of India’s armed forces. The enemies of India have seen the fire and fury of our forces.”  Incidentally, Leh-based 14 Corps of the Indian Army that guards the LAC is also known as the Fire and Fury Corps. "Every single Indian across the world, especially in India, has the belief that you all can deliver and keep the nation strong and safe. Your courage is higher than the heights where you are stationed. Your arms are as strong as the mountains that surround you. Your confidence, determination and belief are as atal (immovable) as the peaks here."  "The weak can never accomplish peace, the brave do," Modi asserted.  The Prime Minister’s visit not only serves as a powerful statement against Chinese aggression at the LAC since April but also firmly establishes India’s territorial claims on the Galwan valley – an undisputed piece of land since the 1962 war - which was suddenly claimed by China weeks ago. Modi also visited the Military Hospital at Leh where he interacted with some of the soldiers injured in the Galwan clash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/era-of-expansionism-is-over-says-pm-narendra-modi-from-ladakh-856635.html
03-07-2020||National||Earthquake of magnitude 4.7 hits Alwar in Rajasthan; tremors felt in north India, Delhi-NCR||A medium-intensity earthquake of magnitude 4.7 jolted Alwar district in Rajasthan on Friday, tremors of which were felt in parts of north India including Delhi-NCR, the National Centre for Seismology said. According to the NCS, the quake occurred at 7 p.m. at a depth of 35 kilometres. The tremors of the quake were also felt in Delhi-NCR, triggering panic among people. There were no immediate reports of loss of life or property.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/earthquake-of-magnitude-47-hits-alwar-in-rajasthan-tremors-felt-in-north-india-delhi-ncr-856644.html
03-07-2020||National||Govt likely to hike liquidity package for discoms to Rs 1.25 lakh cr||The government is likely to enhance the liquidity package for distribution utilities to Rs 1.25 lakh crore from Rs 90,000 crore announced in May, according to a source. The liquidity package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of more than Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus for Covid-19-hit economy, would be extended for payment of outstanding dues by two months till May 2020. Initially, the package was for granting loans by Power Finance Corporation and REC Ltd to discoms for payment of their dues till March 2020. "Ministry of Power has firmed up a proposal to hike the Rs 90,000 crore liquidity package for discoms to Rs 1.25 lakh crore," a source privy to the development said. Earlier in the day, Power Minister R K Singh in a virtual conference with state energy ministers said that the period of outstanding dues would be extended till May 2020 as against March 2020 under the liquidity package. He said that the states have requested for a hike in the liquidity package and extension of period outstanding dues by few more months due to the impact of COVID-19 induced lockdown. He also told that states have asked for Rs 93,000 crore loans under the package and Rs 20,000 crore has been sanctioned so far. At the time of announcing the package in May, Sitharaman had told that state discoms dues were Rs 94,000 crore. Bearing the brunt of lockdown, the discoms outstanding has swollen further. According to the latest update on the PRAAPTI portal, the discoms outstanding dues were Rs 1,25,958 crore as of May 2020, which includes the overdue amount of Rs 1,14,013 crore. The outstanding dues become overdue after non-payment for over 60 days. Gencos charge penal interest on this amount. The PRAAPTI (Payment Ratification And Analysis in Power procurement for bringing Transparency in Invoicing of generators) portal was launched in May 2018 to bring in transparency in power purchase transactions between the generators and discoms. Singh during the state energy ministers' conference, said, "We are planning to launch a new variant on KUSUM Scheme in which the feeder to the agriculture sector will be solarised. It will eliminate the burden of subsidy on state governments which they give in irrigation in the next 3-4 years." During a press briefing on the state ministers conference, he clarified that the government has already extended the deadline for installing emissions control (FGD) equipment. There were concerns that after tightening imports norms for Prior Reference countries mainly China, the power gencos would not be able to install the emission equipment required to meet environment norms soon. The state ministers also put up their viewpoints on Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 during the conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-likely-to-hike-liquidity-package-for-discoms-to-rs-125-lakh-cr-856646.html
03-07-2020||National||Pained by tragic demise of Sikh pilgrims in Pakistan: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was pained by the tragic demise of Sikh pilgrims in a road accident in Pakistan on Friday. At least 29 people, mostly Pakistani Sikh pilgrims, were killed when a mini-bus carrying them back from Nankana Sahib shrine rammed into a train at an unmanned crossing in Pakistan's Punjab province. "Pained by the tragic demise of Sikh pilgrims in Pakistan. My thoughts are with their families and friends in this hour of grief," the prime minister tweeted. "I pray that those pilgrims injured recover at the earliest," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pained-by-tragic-demise-of-sikh-pilgrims-in-pakistan-pm-modi-856647.html
03-07-2020||National||WHO endorses Truenat tests by ICMR, 2 others for TB diagnosis, rifampicin resistance detection||The World Health Organization (WHO) has endorsed rapid molecular Truenat assays by three research bodies, including ICMR, for initial diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB) and subsequent detection of rifampicin resistance in adults and children. Rifampicin is a standardized drug that is used to treat Tuberculosis. In a joint statement, the Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND), Molbio Diagnostics and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said the WHO has now endorsed three of their rapid molecular Truenat TM assays for initial diagnosis of TB and subsequent detection of rifampicin resistance in adults and children. "Both Truenat MTB and Truenat MTB Plus detect Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria for TB diagnosis, while Truenat MTB-RIF Dx identifies resistance to rifampicin, the most commonly used first-line treatment." "All three tests are run on the portable, battery-operated Truenat device and provide results in less than an hour," they said in a statement. Noting that TB remains the leading cause of death from an infectious disease worldwide, with around 10 million cases and 1.5 million deaths in 2018, they said drug-resistant TB poses a particular challenge, with growing resistance to rifampicin and other drugs that treat the disease. "In 2018, around half-a-million new cases of rifampicin resistant TB were diagnosed. Urgent action is needed to close the gap in TB diagnosis and treatment, particularly in low-resource settings, to reach the WHO target of ending TB by 2030," the statement said. To that end, bringing sensitive TB diagnosis and drug susceptibility testing closer to patients is a key priority for global TB control, but requires robust point-of-care diagnostic tests that are easily implementable at lower levels of the healthcare system, it said. "This is a matter of pride for ICMR, Department of Health Research (DHR), New Delhi. It was a long journey to advance indigenous diagnostic technologies for diagnosis of TB and MDR/XDR-TB. Truenatis already accepted for use under the NTEP in India. "Endorsement of Truenat by WHO will enable other low-and middle-income countries to procure Truenat for diagnosis of TB and rifampicin resistance, thus supporting TB elimination in developing countries," the statement quoting Balram Bhargava, Secretary DHR and Director General - ICMR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-endorses-truenat-tests-by-icmr-2-others-for-tb-diagnosis-rifampicin-resistance-detection-856652.html
03-07-2020||National||Covid-19: 47 CISF personnel volunteer to donate blood plasma in Delhi, Mumbai||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Friday said 47 of its personnel, who were cured of Covid-19, were ready to donate their blood plasma to patients suffering from the disease in Delhi and Mumbai. A spokesperson for the paramilitary force said CISF Director General (DG) Rajesh Ranjan has also made an appeal to the recovered troops to come forward for the noble cause that may help save many lives. "Forty-seven CISF personnel, including an officer, who has recovered from Covid-19 have volunteered to donate blood plasma to save precious lives of critically ill patients suffering from coronavirus and are in need of plasma therapy. "Services of this CISF personnel are available for the noble cause at Delhi and Mumbai," the spokesperson said.  He said constables Shrikant Dabral and R Narendra Kumar, posted with the unit that guards Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport, donated their blood plasma recently. The 1.62 lakh personnel force is the national civil aviation security force and it also protects vital installations in the nuclear and aerospace domain. The force, as per the latest data, has recorded over 960 Covid-19 cases till now out of which more than 430 personnel are under treatment while over 530 have been cured. Eight CISF personnel have succumbed to the disease. Plasma therapy is a minor medical procedure where the blood of a person who has recovered from the disease is taken as they develop antibodies against the virus and it is donated to the patient to better fight Covid-19 by developing enhanced levels of immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-47-cisf-personnel-volunteer-to-donate-blood-plasma-in-delhi-mumbai-856653.html
03-07-2020||National||Covid-19: NEET,JEE Main examinations postponed to September 13, says HRD Minister||Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nihank' on Friday announced the decision to postpone the JEE Main and NEET 2020 examinations to September. The JEE examination will be held between September 1 to 6, JEE advanced exam will be held on September 27 and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) examination will be held on September 13, Pokhriyal 'Nihank' said. A panel constituted by the HRD minister has recommended to postpone the medical entrance examination and engineering entrance examination in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the JEE Main and NEET exams were scheduled to be held on July 18-23 and July 26, respectively. The JEE Advanced exam was scheduled to be held on August 23. According to HRD Ministry officials, the committee felt that delaying the exams was inevitable since many test centres were located in containment zones and safety of the students was top priority of the government. The medical entrance exam National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) was scheduled for July 26, while the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Mains for admission to engineering colleges was to be held from July 18-23. The delay, however, is likely to impact the academic calendar. According to sources, the counselling for the two crucial exams will begin in October and freshers may begin classes by November end or December first week. However, a definite plan has not been drawn yet.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-neetjee-main-examinations-postponed-to-september-13-says-hrd-minister-856654.html
03-07-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi asks PM to ensure OBC quotas in state medical colleges||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure reservation for students from other backward classes (OBC) in state medical and dental colleges under the all India quota of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). “In the interest of equity and social justice, I strongly urge the Union Government to extend reservation for OBC candidates in All India Quota of medical and dental seats, even in the State/UT Medical education institutions,” Gandhi said in a letter to the Prime Minister. She said OBC students have lost 11,000 seats since 2017 due to the denial of reservation. “I would like to bring to your attention, denial of reservation for OBC candidates under All-India Quota being filled through National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), in State/UT Medical education institutions,” the Congress President said. Gandhi’s letter to the Prime Minister came after the Centre told the Madras High Court last month that it was unlikely to admit OBC students under the all India quota medical seats in all government institutions unless the Supreme Court settled the issue comprehensively. “Under the All India Quota, 15 per cent, 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent seats are reserved for SC, ST and Economically Weaker Section candidates respectively, in both Central and State/UT Medical education institutions. However, reservation for OBC candidates under All India Quota is restricted to Central Institutions,” she added. Gandhi said the denial of reservation to OBC students in state medical institutions is a barrier to access of medical education for deserving candidates. The Congress President noted that the 93rd Constitutional Amendment envisaged special provisions for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in admission to educational institutions, including private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the State, other than the minority educational institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-asks-pm-to-ensure-obc-quotas-in-state-medical-colleges-856658.html
03-07-2020||National||Environmentalists in Wayanad also express concerns over tunnel rail line||While Kerala government's fresh proposal for Thalasserry-Mysuru rail line with tunnels through Bandipur and Nagarhole forest areas have not gone down well with environmentalists of Wayanad, the state government is of the view that it was one of the best option with least ecological impact. Kerala Transport Principal Secretary K R Jyothilal said that survey on Kerala's part was already over and a positive response from Karnataka for conducting the survey was expected. It is the fourth project proposal in this regard beginning with the decades-old Nilambur-Nanjangud, followed by one through Bandipur and another through Kodagu. All these faced stiff resistance from environmentalists who raised concerns over felling trees and disturbing wildlife ecology. Hence Kerala now mooted the tunnel lines. Wayanad Nature Protection Group president N Badusha told DH that apart from affecting the ecology of the forest areas, the proposed line may also pose threat to the Kottiyoor-Periya elephant corridor. Even the requirement of such a rail line by disturbing the forest ecology was doubtful, he said. Jyothilal said that the proposed tunnels would be at least 30 metres below the ground and hence it would not cause any disturbance to the forest ecology. Moreover, the area identified was not protected forest. He also cited the Kolkata metro's tunnel under River Hoogly and stated that there were adequate technology to construct the tunnel line without disturbing the ecology. Once Karnataka government's nod for conducting the survey was received, the Kerala Rail Development Corporation would initiate further steps like preparation of detailed project report, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/environmentalists-in-wayanad-also-express-concerns-over-tunnel-rail-line-856668.html
03-07-2020||National||J&K govt employee arrested for 'seditious', 'provocative' social media posts||An employee of the education department has been arrested for allegedly spreading "false propaganda" on social media against the Jammu and Kashmir government, police said on Friday.  "Taking serious note of misuse of social media platforms, Sopore Police has registered a case against various such social media users who defied the government orders by spreading false propaganda against the government, " a police spokesperson said. He said the Cyber Police identified a social media user --  Tahir Nazir Shalla, working with the state education department --  for misusing social media through "seditious and provocative" posts which are highly prejudicial to the maintenance of law and order.  "Besides, he was also running an anti-national campaign on social media and tried to create a false and fake narrative by spreading rumours with regard to the current security scenario of the Kashmir valley," the spokesperson added.  Shalla has been arrested and shifted to Police Station Sopore where he remains in custody. "Correct representation of facts pertaining to the incidents is our shared responsibility. The general public are requested to cross-check the facts before putting them in the public domain and need not to pay heed to rumours spread by miscreants," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-govt-employee-arrested-for-seditious-provocative-social-media-posts-856677.html
03-07-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Rajya Sabha mulling limited virtual participation of MPs during Monsoon Session||The Rajya Sabha is mulling limited virtual participation of MPs during the yet-to-be-announced Monsoon Session of Parliament, as only 127 lawmakers could be accommodated inside Upper House’s Chamber and galleries while adhering to Covid-19 physical distancing norms. The issue was discussed during a meeting held by Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday with senior officials of the Upper House’s Secretariat, including secretary-general Desh Deepak Verma. Sources said limited virtual participation is being considered in view of the capacity constraints of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) at present to enable such virtual participation of all MPs. Naidu asked officials to take steps to upscale capacities for larger virtual Parliament in due course. One of the proposals that got traction is to enable seating of MPs in the Rajya Sabha chamber and the galleries, barring the one allotted to media, in conformity with physical distancing norms and allow virtual participation of other MPs from either the Central Hall or Balayogi Auditorium in Parliament House premises. Rajya Sabha officials told Naidu that the Chamber and the galleries can accommodate 127 of the 245 MPs when physical distancing norms are put in place. To enable participation of MPs from outside the chamber of the House through virtual participation, sources said, it was felt that screens need to be arranged both within the chamber of the House and outside. In the meeting, Naidu asked officials to draw up appropriate plans for seating based on the strength of various parties in the House or any other effective criteria like preparing a list of the participants in the proceedings of the House for the day who would be accommodated accordingly. Sources said issues relating to taking up Question Hour, voting in the House if required, administering the oath of office to the newly elected MPs, detailed planning for transportation of members and effective measures for physical distancing and sanitisation were also discussed. For media persons, seating in the media gallery would also be in conformity with the physical distancing norm for which guidelines would be evolved. Naidu directed the officials to submit a detailed action plan for further consideration by early next week. Sources said the review meeting was aimed at enabling the Rajya Sabha Secretariat to be in a position to execute the best possible option of holding the proceedings by preparing for the same and take necessary actions whenever the Government decides to hold the monsoon session of Parliament as per the Constitutional provisions. The Budget Session was adjourned on March 23 and the government has time till the third week of September to call a Session, as the Constitution mandates that the gap between two Sessions should not be more than six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-rajya-sabha-mulling-limited-virtual-participation-of-mps-during-monsoon-session-856678.html
03-07-2020||National||Odisha fixes Rs 2,200 for Covid-19 test in private labs||The Odisha government on Friday fixed Rs 2,200 as the price for conducting the RT-PCR test to detect Covid-19 in private labs in the state, as per notification. The state government also named four private laboratories, approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research, where the tests can be conducted. "...the (state) government has fixed the maximum price for RT-PCR Covid-19 test by private laboratories at the rate of Rs 2,200 inclusive of GST and all other incidental charges for private individuals desirous of testing," a notification issued by the Home Department said. The tests can be conducted at Apollo Hospital, IMS & SUM Hospital, InDNA Life Science at KIIT Technology Business Incubator (KIIT-TBI), and GenX Diagnostics. All these labs are located in Bhubaneswar. The tests will be conducted by private laboratories under the supervision of Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar following ICMR guidelines regarding the testing protocols for RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) Covid-19 tests, it said. The state government's decision came a day after the central government clarified that the state authorities must not restrict an individual from getting tested for Covid-19 at the ICMR-approved laboratories. So far, the state has conducted 2,81,523 tests for Covid-19 and of them, 8,106 people have been found to be positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-fixes-rs-2200-for-covid-19-test-in-private-labs-856679.html
03-07-2020||National||From the newsroom: Modi's surprise visit to Ladakh, Saroj Khan's demise||In today's episode, Modi's surprise visit to Ladakh, DGCA says scheduled international flights suspended till July 31 and veteran Bollywood choreographer Saroj Khan no more.   Deccan Herald's podcasts are now available on your favorite podcast platforms including Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, and many more. Do subscribe to our Podcast there! Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-modis-surprise-visit-to-ladakh-saroj-khans-demise-856682.html
03-07-2020||National||Maharashtra: 23 test positive, Amravati's Covid-19 count now 640||The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra's Amravati reached 640 on Friday after 23 people tested positive for novel coronavirus, an official said. The number of active cases is 186 as 429 people have recovered and 25 have lost their lives to the infection, he added. "Of the 23 new cases, five were from Ashoknagar. Two were from hotpsot Badnera which now has 84 cases in all. The tribal area of Dharni reported its first Covid-19 cases as well. In all, there are 77 cases in the district's rural belt," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-23-test-positive-amravatis-covid-19-count-now-640-856685.html
03-07-2020||National||Centre asks SC to close matter related to Italian marines in wake of international award||The Union government has informed the Supreme Court that it has taken a decision to accept and abide by the International Tribunal's award in killings of two fishermen off the Kerala coast in 2012 by Italian marines. The Tribunal set up under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) had on May 21, 2020, ruled that the criminal investigation into the matter involving two marines would take place in Italy due to sovereign immunity enjoyed by them, and India would be entitled for grant of compensation.  In a plea filed in the SC on Thursday, the Centre asked the top court to close the matter pending before it. On August 26, 2015, the top court had stayed the proceedings before it against the NIA probe, in view of the pendency of the issue before International Tribunal on Law of the Sea (ITLOS). On March 6, 2017, the court directed the parties to place on record the award passed by the Tribunal and list the matter to thereafter. In an application, the Union government asked the court to dispose of the matter.  Marines Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, who were aboard the Italian-flagged commercial oil tanker 'Enrica Lexie', were accused of killing two Indian fishermen off Kerala coast on February 15, 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-sc-to-close-matter-related-to-italian-marines-in-wake-of-international-award-856686.html
03-07-2020||National||CLAT in vernacular languages: BCI constitutes committee to study issue||Bar Council of India has constituted a committee to consider the feasibility of conducting the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) for law school admissions in vernacular languages. The BCI said being the regulator of legal education and profession, it is of the "prima facie" view that no deserving candidate should be deprived from giving the CLAT on account of his/her inability to be proficient in English. "As the knowledge or lack of English language does not determine ones intelligence, ability, acumen, dedication, IQ etc., therefore, prima-facie the exam should be conducted in vernacular languages too. Infact the Bar Council of India conducts All India Bar Examination in 11 languages including Englis," the BCI said in a statement. The apex bar body said that another aspect that needs be considered is, as to in how many vernacular languages are semester exams being conducted in Law Universities across the Country, as on date.  "It is but obvious, that after clearing CLAT, the next request could be to hold semester exams in regional languages too in National Law Universities. Presently many Universities conduct exams in English and in one i.e. regional language of the State. "However, National Law Universities depict a national character, and it cannot be compared to other State Universities, or Private Universities, and therefore, this issue has to be given a deep and thoughtful consideration," the BCI said. It said that in order to study this issue and in order take a view of the National Law Universities, and other interested parties, stake holders, a Seven Member Committee has been constituted to take stock of the situation and do the needful. This committee consists of former and sitting Vice-Chancellors of National Law Universities, other academicians and two members of Bar Council of India, BCI said adding that the committee will be headed by former chief justice of a high court. The BCI's statement was issued after the Delhi High Court directed it to consider as a representation a plea seeking holding of the Common Law Admission Test of 2020, and those in future, in all local languages. The petitioners had contended that excluding students who studied in Tamil, Oriya, Bengali, Telugu,.etc languages and giving primacy to English was "unjust, unfair, improper" and "in the teeth of Article 343 of the Constitution of India which says that Hindi is the national language of India".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clat-in-vernacular-languages-bci-constitutes-committee-to-study-issue-856694.html
03-07-2020||National||HM Amit Shah reviews preparedness for floods, directs officials to plan to reduce damage, casualties||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday reviewed the preparedness for the monsoon and floods in the country, and directed officials to develop a well-planned scheme to reduce damage and casualties. The Ministry of Home Affairs said, in a statement, that Shah also sought action on priority to provide permanent solutions to the perennial flood problems in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and the northeastern states. The home minister emphasised on better coordination between different agencies to have a permanent system for forecasting floods and rise in water levels in major catchment zones and areas of the country. Shah held a high-level meeting to review preparedness of measures to deal with monsoon and flood situation in major flood-prone river basins in the country, the statement said. He directed the officials to develop a well-planned scheme to reduce flooding and minimise the loss to property and lives. The home minister also directed the Ministry of Jal Shakti and Central Water Commission (CWC) to review and assess data on real storage capacity of major dams with a view to ensure timely release of water and prevention of floods. The secretary in the Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation informed about the major floods that had occurred in the country. He apprised about the structural measures, including management of dams, reservoirs, ongoing projects in Nepal, flood protection measures and non-structural measures i.e. flood plain zoning, flood forecasting and way forward to mitigate effect of floods in Ganga and Brahmaputra Basins. A total of 40-million-hectares area in India is prone to flood in which Ganga and Brahmaputra are main flood basins and Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal are most flood-prone states, the statement said. The decisions taken in the meeting will go a long way to mitigate the sufferings of the lakhs of people in the country who have to face the fury of floods in terms of damage to their crops, property, livelihood and precious lives, it said. Senior officials of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) also gave presentations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hm-amit-shah-reviews-preparedness-for-floods-directs-officials-to-plan-to-reduce-damage-casualties-856712.html
03-07-2020||National||Kamal Haasan's party moves HC for police complaints committee||Actor turned politician Kamal Hassan's Makkal Neethi Maiam has approached the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to form an independent police complaints panel to look into allegations of police brutality and torture. Admitting the plea by AG Maurya, a former IPS officer and general secretary of the party, a division bench of Justices R Subbiah and Krishnan Ramaswamy directed the state government to file its response in two weeks. The petition has been filed in the backdrop of the death of a father-son duo in Tuticorin district after allegedly being tortured and beaten up in a police station, which triggered a nation-wide outrage. The PIL sought to declare provisions of the Tamil Nadu Police (Reforms) Act, under which the present police complaints authority is established, as "unconstitutional" and "illegal". Referring to a Supreme Court judgement, the petitioner said it had directed the states to introduce appropriate legislations for police reforms, including the constitution of an independent complaints committee. The top court had made it clear that such committee shall comprise independent panel members nominated by the Chief Justice of the high court concerned and other members selected from amongst retired government officials and members from civil society. However, the government has failed in this mandate and instead created a paper authority, without a single independent member, and comprising only those who can be appointed by the state government at its discretion, including police officials, the petitioner alleged. Therefore, the provisions under which the present panel is established is liable to be struck down in so far as they lie in derogation of the principles of fair trial which are also enshrined as part of the fundamental rights in the Constitution, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-haasans-party-moves-hc-for-police-complaints-committee-856725.html
03-07-2020||National||'Early detection, timely management push recovery rate of Covid-19 patients over 60% in India'||Early detection and a timely clinical management of Covid-19 cases have resulted in increasing daily recoveries, with the recovery rate of coronavirus patients crossing 60 per cent in the country on Friday, the Union health ministry said. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients stands at 60.73 per cent, the ministry said as the number of India's coronavirus cases soared by over 20,000 in a day for the first time, taking the country's tally to 6,25,544, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 18,213 with 379 new fatalities. "Early detection and timely clinical management of Covid-19 cases have resulted in increasing daily recoveries. During the last 24 hours, a sharp rise of recoveries was observed with 20,033 Covid-19 patients having been cured, taking the cumulative figure to 3,79,891," the ministry said in a statement. Presently, there are 2,27,439 active coronavirus cases in the country and all are under medical supervision, it added. The number of recovered cases exceeded that of the active cases by 1,52,452 as of Friday. A high-level review meeting on Covid-19 preparedness was held by the cabinet secretary with the states and Union territories on Friday, the ministry said. "Coordinated efforts at all levels of government for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19 are showing good results with a consistently increasing gap between recoveries and active cases," the ministry said. In accordance with the "test, trace, treat" strategy and with various measures taken recently to remove all impediments to Covid-19 testing and facilitate widespread testing by the states and Union territories, there has been a steady rise in the number of samples tested for the disease every day, with close to 93 lakh tested till date, the ministry said. Follow:  According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 92,97,749 samples were tested for Covid-19 up to July 2, with 2,41,576 of those tested on Thursday. This has also been possible due to the ever-expanding network of testing laboratories in the country, the ministry underlined. The country currently has 1,074 laboratories for Covid-19 testing -- 775 government-run and 299 private -- it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/early-detection-timely-management-push-recovery-rate-of-covid-19-patients-over-60-in-india-856729.html
03-07-2020||National||India must implement laws on anti-torture before enacting new ones: Ex-SC Judge||India needed proper implementation of existing laws to curb custodial torture before enacting another in consonance with international covenants, former Supreme Court judge, Justice Deepak Gupta, said on Friday. Justice Gupta, who was speaking in a webinar on the topic of 'Custodial Deaths: Need For An-Anti-Torture Law', said ”there can be no doubt that we require an anti-torture law. But, it must be done by Parliament." "The court only decides what is legal and not legal,” he added. The former judge said the investigations and the prosecutions are not fair, which must be rectified first and spoke about the recent incident of death of father and son due to torture in police custody in Tamil Nadu. He said "there were rules that were violated". “Even during COVID times, we see cases of police brutality and the police being helpful. But, the former is more and it's against the poor. In the Tamil Nadu case, they had kept the shop open for 15 extra minutes? Was it that serious an offence? “Police does not attack the privileged. Let's first implement the law as we have it. The investigations, the prosecutions are not fair; these must be rectified first,” Justice Gupta said and added that the change in mindset is also required before bringing in an anti-torture law. “If the police are trained in a better manner, then even our existing police can do better,” he said at the webinar in which former union law minister and Congress leader Ashwani Kumar also participated and stressed that human dignity, which is the core value, cannot co-exist with torture. Kumar said that India is yet to enact a law which is a prerequisite for us to become a responsible member of the international legal regime against torture.  “If human dignity is the core value, how can torture co-exist... The happenings in Tamil Nadu have once again shocked the conscience of the nation. How can we not have a law on anti-torture,” he asked. Kumar had filed a PIL before the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre to frame a law on custodial torture and inhuman treatment as India was a signatory to the United Nations' convention on torture. The apex court later disposed of the PIL after the Attorney General submitted that the plea against torture was discussed by the Law Commission and its has made certain recommendations and the same were being "seriously considered" by the central government.  Journalist Sunetra Choudhury said that the cases of police torture were always there but for a long time, people thought that those who were in custody deserved to be there. “It's a problem of mindset which has been perpetuated by society, by the government, by our policy-makers. Until and unless this is tackled, there's no point in bringing an anti-torture law,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-must-implement-laws-on-anti-torture-before-enacting-new-ones-ex-sc-judge-856730.html
03-07-2020||National||Pakistan continues to flout truce along LoC in J&K||There have been over 2,400 instances of ceasefire violation by Pakistan in the first six months of the year, killing 14 Indians.  The continuous breaches along the Line of Control (LoC) by the soldiers of the neighbouring country come at a time when India is engaged in a military stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh.  Pakistan army personnel and border guards have flouted ceasefire along the LoC and the undisputed stretch of border between the two nations 2,432 times so far this year, a source in New Delhi said. India has lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over unprovoked violation of the 2003 ceasefire agreement. New Delhi also conveyed to Islamabad “strong concerns” over its continued support to terrorists for cross-border infiltration.  India’s Director General of Military Operations Lt. Gen. Paramjit Singh conveyed to his counterpart in Pakistan Army the concerns of New Delhi. The source, however, said that the Pakistan Army had not yet stopped flouting ceasefire and facilitating terrorists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-continues-to-flout-truce-along-loc-in-jk-856736.html
03-07-2020||National||Govt to simplify permit regime for tourist vehicles||To encourage seemless movement of tourist passenger vehicles move seamlessly across the country, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways proposes new scheme in which tourist vehicle operator may apply online for an all-India tourist permit. After the successful implementation of national permit regime for goods vehicle, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has issued a notification for the amendment to the national permit regime under the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 for introduce a similar scheme to passenger tourist vehicles. This motive has culminated into a new set of rules, which henceforth will be known as, 'All India Tourist Vehicles Authorization and Permit Rules, 2020', it added. The ministry has invited comments from public and other stakeholders on it. As per the proposal, any tourist vehicle operator can apply for an all-India tourist authorization permit through online mode. "All such authorisations shall be issued after all relevant documents submitted as stipulated in the rules and due nationwide fees deposited towards such permit, within 30 days of submission of such applications,"  the statement from the Ministry said. The scheme also proposes on granting all India permit from the period of 3 months to a maximum of 3 years. "This scheme will render consolidation of a central database and fees of all such authorisation/permits, which might give a sense of tourist movements, scope of improvement, promotion of tourism and help increase revenues generated through such registrations," it said. However the Ministry also said that all existing permits shall continue to be in force during their validity. Earlier passengers tourists vehicle associations urged the government to introduce nationwide permit to them one the line of goods carrier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-simplify-permit-regime-for-tourist-vehicles-856750.html
03-07-2020||National||Heavy rains lash Mumbai, more in store on Saturday, says IMD||Heavy rains lashed Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra on Friday, with the IMD predicting intermittent moderate to heavy rain and "possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places" in the metropolis and surrounding areas on Saturday. According to India Meteorological Department's Mumbai centre, the Colaba weather bureau reported 161.4 mm rainfall between 8:30 am and 8:30 pm on Friday. During this period, the Santacruz weather station in the city recorded 102.7 mm rainfall. The IMD had, on Thursday, predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in Mumbai and adjoining coastal districts, and issued an orange alert for Friday and Saturday. "Mumbai & around rainfall in last 12 hrs at 8.30 pm, show all pink spots(>40 mm). Most of them towards city & western sub side r more than 100 mm. Widespread heavy & very heavy rains occurred; A much-awaited Mumbai Monsoon. More tonight!" KS Hosalikar, Deputy Director-General of IMD, Mumbai tweeted. The IMD said Harnai weather bureau in coastal Ratnagiri district recorded 30.2 mm rainfall from 8:30 am to 5:30 pm, while Ratnagiri weather station recorded 11.8 mm rainfall during this period. The Nanded weather bureau, in Marathwada, recorded 20 mm rainfall during the span. Meanwhile, the IMD has predicted that intermittent moderate to heavy rain/showers was very likely in Mumbai over the next 24 hours, with "the possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rain at isolated places".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-rains-lash-mumbai-more-in-store-on-saturday-says-imd-856757.html
03-07-2020||National||Rajasthan reports 10 more Covid-19 deaths, 390 new cases||Rajasthan reported 10 more Covid-19 deaths on Friday, taking their number to 440 as 390 new cases of the infection pushed the tally in the state to 19,052. Three deaths were reported in Dholpur, two in Sirohi and one death each from Bharatpur, Bikaner, Dungarpur and Ajmer. One person from outside the state also died of the disease, officials said. Of the fresh cases, 57 were reported in Jodhpur, 51 in Jaipur, 34 in Bharatpur, 32 each in Pratapgarh and Kota, 28 in Bikaner, 24 in Sirohi, 21 in Ajmer, 20 in Dausa, 17 in Udaipur and 13 in Nagaur, besides cases from other districts, an official report stated. As many as 14,952 patients have been discharged and 3,331 cases are active in the state, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-reports-10-more-covid-19-deaths-390-new-cases-856759.html
03-07-2020||National||India bringing modern technologies from around world for armed forces, says PM Modi||On a surprise visit to Ladakh in the midst of heightened tension between India and China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday told soldiers that modernisation of the armed forces is a priority and that the spending on border infrastructure has almost tripled. In an address to troops, Modi said India is manufacturing critical weapons and bringing modern technology from around the world for the armed forces as the government is paying lot of attention for their requirement. "If India is enhancing its powers on land, air and water, then it is for the welfare of mankind," he said. "India is manufacturing modern weapons today. We are bringing modern technology from around the world for the armed forces. The spirit behind it is the same. If India is building modern infrastructure at a fast pace, then the message behind it is the same," he added. Modi said the government is paying a lot of attention to bring modern weapons for the armed forces. "Now the spending on border infrastructure in the country has almost tripled. This has also led to speedy development of border areas including construction of bridges and laying of roads," he said. "One of the biggest advantages of this is that now the goods reach you in a short time. The country is strengthening its armed forces at every level today," he added. The prime minister also heaped praise on soldiers for their bravery and courage and said they are serving the country under challenging circumstances. "Your courage is higher than the heights where you are serving today. When the safety of the country is in your hands, then there is a belief. Not only me, but the entire nation believes in you. We all are proud of you," he said. In the midst of the border standoff with China, the defence ministry on Thursday approved procurement of 33 frontline fighter jets, a number of missile systems and other military hardware at a cost of Rs 38,900 crore. The government has also approved procurement of 248 ASTRA beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missile systems and a significant number of long range land attack cruise missile systems. The prime minister also mentioned about efforts to strengthen the national security apparatus. He highlighted recent initiatives of the government such as creation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff, construction of a grand national war memorial, implementation of the one rank one pension scheme and steps to ensure the well-being of the families of the armed forces personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bringing-modern-technologies-from-around-world-for-armed-forces-says-pm-modi-856764.html
03-07-2020||National||ISRO's MOM captures image of the biggest moon of Mars||The Mars Colour Camera (MCC) onboard ISRO's Mars Orbiter Mission has captured the image of Phobos, the closest and biggest moon of Mars. The image was taken on July 1 when MOM was about 7,200 km from Mars and 4,200 km from Phobos. "Spatial resolution of the image is 210 m. This is a composite image generated from 6 MCC frames and has been colour corrected," ISRO said in an update along with the image. Phobos is largely believed to be made up of carbonaceous chondrites. According to ISRO, "The violent phase that Phobos has encountered is seen in the large section gouged out from a past collision (Stickney crater) and bouncing ejecta." "Stickney, the largest crater on Phobos along with the other craters (Shklovsky, Roche & Grildrig) are also seen in this image," it said. The mission also known as Mangalyaan was initially meant to last six months, but subsequently, ISRO had said it had enough fuel for it to last "many years." The country had on September 24, 2014, successfully placed the Mars Orbiter Mission spacecraft in orbit around the red planet, in its very first attempt, thus breaking into an elite club. ISRO had launched the spacecraft on its nine-month-long odyssey on a homegrown PSLV rocket from Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh on November 5, 2013. It had escaped the earth's gravitational field on December 1, 2013. The Rs 450-crore MOM mission aims at studying the Martian surface and mineral composition as well as scan its atmosphere for methane (an indicator of life on Mars). The Mars Orbiter has five scientific instruments - Lyman Alpha Photometer (LAP), Methane Sensor for Mars (MSM), Mars Exospheric Neutral Composition Analyser (MENCA), Mars Colour Camera (MCC) and Thermal Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (TIS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isros-mom-captures-image-of-the-biggest-moon-of-mars-856765.html
03-07-2020||National||PM Modi quotes from 'Tirukkural' again, now for soldiers in Ladakh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday quoted from Tamil classic 'Tirukkural' to reinforce that Indian armed forces have always followed the time honoured traditions of valour and honour. Addressing troops during a surprise visit to Ladakh, Modi quoted saint poet Tiruvalluvar's couplet "Maramanam manda vazhichelavu thetram yena nangey yemam padaikku." "That is, the tradition and credibility of valour, honour, dignified behavior, these four qualities are the reflection of the army of any country. Indian forces have always followed this path," the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister has quoted from the 'Tirukkural', which offers guidance to people from all walks of life, on earlier occasions too. The verses quoted by him today are from the 766th couplet under the chapter 'Padadi Matchi' which means the dignity and honour of the armed forces. Tirukkural is a revered classic work in Tamil and the ancient treatise deals with several subjects. In his independence day address last year, while speaking on 'Jal-Jeevan' Mission, he had quoted another couplet "Neer indri Amayadhu" to underscore the importance of water. Modi, explaining this verse had said, "...if water starts disappearing, then nature's processes get disrupted and eventually come to an end. This initiates the process of total destruction." Also, during his visit to Thailand last year, he cited the "Talatri tanda" couplet on the importance of helping people using wealth and said India and Indians took inspiration from it. He had released the Thai version of the 'Tirukkural' also during his visit. Years ago, the Prime Minister had also launched the Gujarati translation of the treatise. Addressing the United Nations General Assembly last year, he quoted Tamil poet Kaniyan Poongundranar's famous phrase, "Yaadhum Oore Yaavarum Kelir." "Three thousand years ago, a great poet of India, KaniyanPoongundranar wrote in Tamil, the most ancient language of the world "Yaadhum Oore..." It meant 'we belong to all places, and to everyone', Modi hadsaid, adding this sense of belonging beyond borders was unique to India. Last year, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had quotedanother Tamil classic "Purananooru," to assert that the government was for judicious taxation to see to it that it does not hurt any section of the tax payers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-quotes-from-tirukkural-again-now-for-soldiers-in-ladakh-856773.html
03-07-2020||National||CICSE announces up to 25% reduction in syllabus for 2021 board exams||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Friday announced a reduction of up to 25 per cent in syllabus for classes 10 and 12 board exams in 2021 taking into account the learning disruption due to closure of schools during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. "...Schools across the country have been shut for the past three months due to the lockdown. While a number of CISCE-affiliated schools have tried to adapt to this changed scenario and have tried to keep alive the teaching learning process through online classes, there has been a significant shortening of the academic year and loss of the instructional hours," CICSE Chief Executive and Secretary Gerry Arathoon said. "To make up for the loss in instructional hours during the current session, the CISCE has worked with its subject experts, to reduce the syllabus for all major subjects at the ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) levels. Syllabus reduction has been done, keeping in mind the linear progression across classes while ensuring that the core concepts related to the subject are retained," he added. Arathoon said at present the syllabi has been reduced by up to 25 per cent, but that is subject to further review of the prevailing conditions and the council may have to reduce it further in case the prevailing conditions don't turn conducive. "Given the academic loss till July, which is around 45 days we have reduced the syllabus for the students appearing for Class 10 and 12 Boards up to 25 pc. However, that is subject to further review as from July first week our schools are only able to resume online classes. This could have further adverse effects. We may even have to reduce the syllabi further and may even have to go up to 50 pc reduction," he said. The board has directed its schools to ensure that the subject teachers concerned at the ICSE and ISC levels transact the syllabus strictly according to the sequence of topics given in the syllabus, so as to facilitate further reduction in syllabus, if required, depending on the situation of the pandemic in the country. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is also in the process of reducing the syllabus and has sought suggestions from various stakeholders. However, the final syllabus has not been notified yet. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the central government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. While the government has eased several restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cicse-announces-up-to-25-reduction-in-syllabus-for-2021-board-exams-856780.html
03-07-2020||National||Govt revises dosage of anti-viral drug Remdesivir to be administered to coronavirus patients||The Union health ministry on Friday revised the dosage of anti-viral drug remdesivir to be administered to coronavirus patients in the moderate stage of illness from the earlier six days to five days as it issued an updated 'Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19'. The drug, administered in the form of injection, should be given at a dose of 200 mg on day one followed by 100 mg daily for four days (total five days), the new treatment protocols stated. The Health Ministry on June 13 had allowed the use of remdesivir for restricted emergency use in moderate cases under "investigational therapies". "Under emergency use authorisation, remdesivir may be considered for patients in a moderate stage requiring oxygen support," the document stated.  It is not recommended for those with severe renal impairment and high level of liver enzymes, pregnant and lactating women, and those below 12 years, it said. The ministry also okayed off-label application of tocilizumab, a drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning, and convalescent plasma for treating COVID-19 patients in the moderate stage of illness as "investigational therapies". It also recommended hydroxychloroquine for patients during the early course of the disease and not for critically-ill patients. On June 27, the ministry had included an inexpensive, widely used steroid dexamethasone in treatment protocols for Covid-19 patients in the moderate to severe stages of their illness among other therapeutic measures. The ministry advised use of dexamethasone, which is already used in a wide range of conditions for its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects, as an alternative choice to methylprednisolone for managing moderate to severe cases of coronavirus infection. India's Covid-19 cases soared by over 20,000 in a day for the first time taking the country's total tally to 6,25,544 on Friday while the death toll climbed to 18,213 with 379 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-revises-dosage-of-anti-viral-drug-remdesivir-to-be-administered-to-coronavirus-patients-856789.html
03-07-2020||National||China counters Modi's expansionist jibe, warns India against strategic 'miscalculation'||Beijing on Friday not only warned India against any “strategic miscalculation” with China, but also sought to dismiss Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tacit jibe at the communist country for its expansionism as “groundless”. “India should avoid a strategic miscalculation with regard to China,” Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. His comment came on a day India sent a strong message to China with a “surprise visit” by the Prime Minister to Ladakh – closer to the scene of the stand-off between Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).    Modi’s visit and his address to the soldiers of Indian Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police did rile China. “Neither side should make any move that may complicate the border situation,” Zhao said in his regular news-conference in Beijing, responding to a query on Indian Prime Minister’s visit nearer to scene of the stand-off.   He noted that China and India are “in communication with each other through military and diplomatic channels” to defuse tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations in western sector. The Prime Minister took a subtle dig at China while addressing the Indian Army and the ITBP soldiers during his visit to Ladakh. He said that the era of expansionism is over and the history had witnessed that expansionist forces had always been defeated. Though he did not directly refer to China’s aggression along the disputed boundary with India, the embassy of the communist country in New Delhi reacted sharply. “China has demarcated the boundary with 12 of its 14 neighboring countries through peaceful negotiations, turning land borders into bonds of friendly cooperation. It's groundless to view China as ‘expansionist’, exaggerate & (and) fabricate its disputes with neighbours,” Ji Rong, the spokesperson of the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in New Delhi, tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-counters-modis-expansionist-jibe-warns-india-against-strategic-miscalculation-856790.html
03-07-2020||National||China says India's politicians making 'irresponsible remarks'||China on Friday alleged that some politicians in India were recently making “irresponsible remarks”. Beijing also hinted that it might move the World Trade Organization (WTO) to complain and take appropriate measures to retaliate to New Delhi’s moves to limit the scope of China’s companies from doing businesses in India. Two days after Union Minister Nitin Gadkari announced that no company from China would be allowed to participate in road construction projects in India; Beijing said that New Delhi would violate the rules of the World Trade Organization if it creates such “artificial barriers” for bilateral cooperation. “In recent days some politicians in India have kept issuing irresponsible remarks that are detrimental to China-India relations,” Zhao Lijian, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. He was replying to a query on Beijing’s position on New Delhi’s decision to bar the communist country’s companies to participate in highway construction projects in India. New Delhi's decision came in response to China’s belligerence along its disputed boundary with India. The two-month-long stand-off took New Delhi’s relations with Beijing to a new low, particularly after the violent clash between the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the violent face-off. “It calls for concerted efforts on both sides to maintain China-India relations. India should work with China for the same goal and uphold the overall interests of our bilateral relations,” said the spokesperson of the Chinese Government. “China-India practical cooperation is mutually beneficial and win-win in nature. Artificially setting up barriers for such cooperation not only violates WTO rules, but also hurts India's interests. China will take all necessary measures to safeguard the legitimate rights of Chinese businesses.” Beijing earlier “firmly opposed” India’s move to ban the use of 59 apps linked to China, stating that New Delhi abused the “national security exception” to the rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO). “We need to see that China and India, both major developing countries, bear the historic mission of accelerating national development and rejuvenation,” Zhao said in Beijing on Friday. “Hence,” he said, “acts of mutual respect and mutual support represent the right track and also conform to the long-term interests of both countries, whereas those of mutual distrust and friction belong to an evil path and go against the fundamental aspirations of the two peoples. China and India should follow the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and uphold overall bilateral relations.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-says-indias-politicians-making-irresponsible-remarks-856805.html
03-07-2020||National Politics||Despite noteban, 370 move, no change in Jammu and Kashmir situation: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday said the 2016 demonetisation exercise, scrapping of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir have done nothing to improve the security situation in the terror-affected Union Territory. The former BJP ally wondered why there is no peace in the newly-carved out Union Territory when there is a "strong" government at the Centre. "Its status quo despite scrapping of Article 370 (that gave special status to J&K) and bifurcation of the erstwhile state. "There is blood on the streets every day and there is loss of innocent lives. Despite demonetisation, there is no respite from terror activities and circulation of fake notes," said an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'. Referring to a recent encounter in Sopore in which a CRPF jawan was martyred and a senior citizen lost his life in firing by terrorists, it said the picture of the civilian's three-year-old grandson sitting on the body of his grandfather was heart-wrenching. "The little boy did not run away but was trying to wake up his grandfather. Some central ministers tweeted the picture on their Twitter handle. "These ministers should understand that this picture can prove to be the central government's failure. Onus of this situation in the valley lies on the government . "A child who doesn't know his grandfather is dead is trying to wake him up. Such pictures have come to the fore only in countries like Syria, Egypt, Somalia and Afghanistan," the Marathi daily said. The picture has hurt the image of the country and also of the government at the Centre, it said. Jawans saved the child, but what is his future?, the editorial asked and wondered if the government had any answer. The Sena publication said despite the Centre scrapping Article 370 in J&K in August last year, soldiers continue to be martyred in terror violence and there is no "gharwapsi" (home coming) for displaced Kashmiri pandits. "Last month, a Kashmiri pandit sarpanch was killed by terrorists," it said. The editorial expressed concern over the rising tension on the borders with Pakistan and China. "In the last six months, terror activities in Kashmir are on the rise. Even though our jawans have eliminated several terrorists, the number of martyred soldiers is also not less," the Sena said. The editorial demanded that the government act against secessionists in Kashmir and Chinese in Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/despite-noteban-370-move-no-change-in-jammu-and-kashmir-situation-shiv-sena-856488.html
03-07-2020||National Politics||Digvijaya roars back at Scindia: 'One tiger lives in a forest'||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday hit back at former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia over his Tiger abhi zinda hai remark and said "only one tiger lives in a forest". The Congress Rajya Sabha MP also recalled how he used to hunt tigers, when it was not banned, with Jyotiraditya Scindia's father Madhavrao Scindia. Singh's attack on Scindia came a day after the expansion of Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's cabinet which saw a lion's share of berths going to the supporters of the former Guna MP who joined the BJP in March. "You know the character of a tiger, in a forest only one tiger lives," Singh tweeted in Hindi after Scindias 'tiger' comments directed at him and senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Thursday. Talking to reporters after the expansion of the Chouhan cabinet, Scindia, asked about Congress leaders tarnishing his image and that of his loyalists, said, I will certainly respond to the Congress party, but I would like to remind both Nath and Singh that Tiger abhi zinda hai ((Tiger is still alive). Scindia repeated the 'tiger' remark at a party function on Thursday evening. After the BJP lost power in MP in 2018, it was Chouhan who had made the Tiger abhi zinda hai remark to assert he still remains a powerful figure in state politics and will stage a comeback soon. The cabinet expansion saw induction of 28 ministers, nearly a dozen of them Scindia supporters, who quit the Congress in March. The Nath-led Congress government collapsed more than three months ago when 22 of its MLAs, most of them Scindia supporters, resigned from the assembly. The war of words between Scindia and Singh comes ahead of the bypolls on 24 Assembly seats. Singh also responded to Scindias remark in another tweet, Samay bada balwan. BJP ka bhavishya!! Na jane is mantimandal gathan ne kitne bhjapa ke tiger zinda kar diye. Dekhte jaiye. (Time is very powerful. You never know how many BJP tigers got alive with this expansion of cabinet. Just watch). Taking further dig on Scindias remark, Singh, in another tweet, said When hunting was not banned, at that time I and Shrimant Madhavrao Scindia used to go for tiger hunting. After Indira Gandhi introduced the Wildlife Conservation Act, I now capture tigers only in my camera. According to Congress sources, the former chief minister is fond of wildlife photography.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/digvijaya-roars-back-at-scindia-one-tiger-lives-in-a-forest-856524.html
03-07-2020||National Politics||Modi's Ladakh visit will pep up troops but PM should clarify if China took our land: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Calling China a "modern day devil", Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Ladakh visit will "invigorate" the armed forces but demanded that the government acknowledge Chinese intrusion into Indian territory. The Bengal Congress leader said the Modi government should not be in "denial" over the incursion by the Chinese military into Indian territory. Sending a strong message to China, Modi on Friday said the era of expansionism is over and that India's enemies have seen the "fire and fury" of its armed forces. His assertion came during his surprise visit to Ladakh region amid the tense border standoff between the militaries of the two countries in the frozen heights of the cold desert. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in armed combat in the Galwan Valley during the violent face-off last month on the normally peaceful border. There were military casualties on the Chinese side as well. "Sh@narendramodi Ji your surprise visit to Leh will certainly invigorate our army-men in Ladakh, now you will also appreciate the largescale Chinese intrusions in our side of LOAC unlike all-party meeting's statement," Chowdhury said in a tweet. "Chinese are the modern devils; they should be evicted lock stock and barrel from the strategic/tactical heights occupied after the transgression. No amount of homilies /'Probachan' by you will inspire them to dismount from those heights," he wrote on Twitter. "Just kick them out, till then India will not take rest@narendramodi," he said in a series of tweets. Later, while speaking to reporters in Kolkata, the five-time Congress MP from Murshidabad district, said the prime minister should accept that there has been large-scale intrusion by the Chinese army into Indian territory. "Every day we are seeing satellite images of Chinese army occupying our territory. I think the prime minister should accept that there has been large-scale intrusion by the Chinese army," he told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modis-ladakh-visit-will-pep-up-troops-but-pm-should-clarify-if-china-took-our-land-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-856715.html
03-07-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi steps in to counter Congress campaign over Covid-19, China||Modi, in a reminiscence of Indira Gandhi’s 1971 visit to Leh, visited the region. He took a briefing from the Army on the ground situation of the standoff and later met injured soldiers in the hospital. The Congress upped the ante over the Chinese incursion, claiming that ever since June 15, Indians have been kept in the dark about the ground realities on the borders and the time for silence is over, the time for answers is now. The party insisted that the Chinese must be evicted from Indian land, and sought a special session of the Parliament to discuss the issue, asking why the prime minister did not take China’s name. The BJP, however, sought to project Modi’s Leh visit as “true leadership in action” and “leading from the front”. Modi's visit served two purposes: being seen as a morale-booster for the forces, and reinforcing the party's stand of "not allowing China to capture even an inch of Indian territory".  He also said that those who are weak cannot initiate a peace process. All this, amid the Centre saying that the Army has been given a free hand and signing an arms deal with Russia. The party believes that PM's calculated steps have served well to manage the perception of the party and the PM among people. But the challenge still remains, as China has indicated that they are not going to withdraw from the Indian territory occupied so far. Modi’s strong remarks of “expansionism” drew a sharp reaction from China. On the Covid-19 front, despite five lockdowns, there has been a rapid increase in the number of cases, though the government argues that India’s track record is better than many countries with regard to deaths. On Saturday Modi will hold a video conference with all BJP state unit chiefs on the relief works carried out by the party. The party units of the states have been asked to make a presentation before Modi on the welfare works carried out by them during the over three-month lock-down period. Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari and party chief J P Nadda will be present during the video conference. The BJP claims to have reached out to nearly 17 crore people, besides having fed 22 crore during the lockdown. The BJP is pulling all stops to counter the migrant campaign of opposition parties by announcing the extension of its free foodgrain scheme, besides moves like setting up migrant commissions and Bihar and MP lining up plans to provide them jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-steps-in-to-counter-congress-campaign-over-covid-19-china-856774.html
03-07-2020||National Politics||Postal ballots for elderly unconstitutional: Congress||Congress on Friday moved the Election Commission (EC) against the amendment to the election rules that now allow voters over the age of 65 and those infected with Covid-19 to exercise their franchise through postal ballots. In a memorandum to the EC, Congress leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kapil Sibal, Ahmed Patel termed the decision to allow postal ballots for those over 65 and Covid-19 patients as “unconstitutional and illegal” and demanded its immediate withdrawal. “The manner in which this decision has been taken demonstrates a complete non-application of mind and a shocking circumvention of any consultation process with the key stakeholders (i.e. any other political parties other than the ruling regime). Even upon a cursory examination, the numerous legal deficiencies in this decision become apparent,” the Congress said in the memorandum to the poll body. The Congress leaders argued that allowing those aged 65 and above to vote by postal ballot would violate secrecy in voting as a large segment of the population was uneducated and might seek assistance from others at numerous stages, thus disclosing their preferred candidate. The decision also “exposes a high percentage of voters to organized administrative influence or influence by the Government or the ruling party or their agents or any number of individuals who shall be able to identify these individuals in advance (with ease) and influence how they vote without the protection of the secret ballot.” The Congress leaders suggested setting up separate voting booths for senior citizens to ensure minimal risk of infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/postal-ballots-for-elderly-unconstitutional-congress-856800.html
03-07-2020||National Politics||Why chary in naming China, Congress asks PM Narendra Modi||The Congress on Friday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not calling China out “openly and publicly” over the communist country’s violent transgressions in eastern Ladakh. While Rahul Gandhi accused Modi of lying about the situation in Ladakh, senior leaders wondered why the prime minister did not name China in his remarks about the Galwan Valley clashes. “Ladakhis say: China took our land. PM says: Nobody took our land. Obviously, someone is lying,” tweeted Rahul, tagging a short video clip of people from the region alleging that China has come into Indian territory. Ladakhis say:China took our land. PM says:Nobody took our land. Former Union minister P Chidambaram said: “For the third time in a week, PM did not name China as the aggressor, why? What is the purpose of talking about an unnamed ‘enemy’ to the people of India and the jawans in Ladakh.”  PM has still not answered our questions about where the violent clashes took place on June 15-16 between Chinese and Indian troops and if the Chinese have intruded into Indian territory at several points. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari said: “If there is no aggressor then why are we holding repeated Corps Commander level talks with China? If China is the aggressor why is the PM chary of naming it.” If there is no aggressor then why are we holding repeated Core Commander level talks with China? However, Praveen Davar, who was long-associated with the AICC Ex-servicemen Department, cautioned the senior leaders against targeting Modi. “It may be better not to react each time,” Davar said, contending that Modi’s “well-prepared and rehearsed” speeches do have an impact on the people who were not in politics. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala also said that the prime minister did not name China in his "MannKiBaat", his address to the nation and even in his address to soldiers in Leh on Friday. "Why is the Prime Minister of a strong India so weak? Why is he hesitating to name China? When will he talk to China looking into their eyes?" Surjewala asked in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress also questioned the prime minister's silence on its official Twitter handle, asking "Living in denial doesn't help anyone, least of all our soldiers. Can the PM clarify on new incursions by the Chinese." 28 जून 2020 -“मन की बात” में चीन का नाम नहीं। 30 जून 2020 -“राष्ट्र के नाम” संदेश में चीन का नाम नहीं। 3 जुलाई 2020 -“सैनिकों से बात” में चीन का नाम नहीं। मज़बूत भारत के प्रधानमंत्री इतने कमजोर क्यों?चीन का नाम तक लेने से गुरेज़ क्यों?चीन से आँख में आँख डाल कब बात होगी? Demanding answers from the prime minister, the Congress also asked why is the prime minister keeping his friend above the nation. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi instead of being loyal to the nation, has displayed his friendship with China by not even naming it. Why is PM Modi so kind to Xi Jinping," it asked. Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary wondered whether the Prime Minister, after his visit to Ladakh, would admit to Chinese intrusions into Indian territory. “Chinese are the modern devils, they should be evicted lock stock and barrel from the strategic/tactical heights occupied after transgression. No amount of homilies/'Probachan' by you will inspire them to dismount from those heights, kick them out.. till then India will not take rest,” Chowdhary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-chary-in-naming-china-congress-asks-pm-narendra-modi-856809.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Will it help Congress if Priyanka Gandhi moves to Uttar Pradesh?||After Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was asked to vacate her bungalow in the national capital, Congress has gone the whole hog to condemn her "harassment" and the buzz is that she would now relocate to Lucknow ahead of 2022 assembly polls. Congress, which has been trying to pitchfork her as the main Opposition face in Uttar Pradesh ahead of next state polls, sees an opportunity in this action but the political dynamics of the state politics could end up benefiting the BJP. Congress was quick to react with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot saying the that everything was “pre-planned with the sole purpose of harassing her” as first the govt withdrew SPG cover of  Priyanka Gandhi and gave her  Z+ security and now they say, this security cover doesn’t have provision for allotment of Govt accommodation. In 2017 state polls when Congress was initially planning to contest one, poll strategist Prashant Kishore wanted Congress to declare Priyanka as CM candidate but the party did not oblige. Congress instead named former Delhi Sheila Dikshit as CM's face before finally tying with Samajwadi Party, an experiment that bombed. Before the 2022 polls, Priyanka has gradually emerged as Congress face for UP at least and many believe she could even be a CM face. Congress, which had a very low base vote, has got a lot of traction after Priyanka Gandhi took the charge of the state and put up a sustained campaign against the Yogi Adityanath government of the state on issues of law order, Corona deaths and the migrant mess and sort of taking centre stage of Opposition politics at the cost of the two main opposition parties in the state Samajwadi Party and the BSP. But the challenge is bigger. Congress vote percentage in UP 2019 Lok Sabha was a mere 6.36 percent while BJP was nearly 50 percent. BSP got more than 19 percent and SP 18 percent. Congress’ vote-share was 6.2 percent in 2017 assembly polls when it fought in alliance with Samajwadi Party, which had got 22 percent votes. BSP, which fought alone, had got a little more than 22 percent votes. While the abysmally lower vote base makes it look like an insurmountable challenge for the Congress to pose any challenge to the BJP on its own, the party leaders cite the aggression in approach, which has nevertheless been visible in last one year since Priyanka took over the party affairs-- both on social media as well on the ground in the state, as a sign of revival of the party. However, as Congress tries to get a strong foothold in UP, it could warm BJP’s hearts owing to the past experience of 2019 Lok Sabha polls, where a division in minority votes in at least 10 Lok Sabha seats, damaged the prospects of SP and BSP, whose core voters did not vote together for each other as well. Sensing it, both SP and BSP have begun training guns on Congress, dismissing her politics as "drama" and Priyanka wondering why some Opposition leaders have become "undeclared spokespersons of BJP". The division is set to deepen in the coming days. The only successful alliance formulae in UP had been the Kairana model, where a Muslim candidate Tabassum Hasan fielded by Ajit Singh’s RLD and backed by BSP, SP and Congress, defeated the BJP candidate Mriganka Singh, daughter Hindutva hardliner late Hukum Singh in 2018 Lok Sabha by-poll. Unlike the direct fight of Kairana, the political scenario unfolding now suggests that the state is headed for a four-cornered contest in 2022 and this will clearly give the BJP an advantage.  Congress, being out of power in UP now for nearly 31 years, not only grapples with a lower vote base challenge but also a lack of strong local leaders at the grassroots, something which will matter more when people go to vote for MLAs. Besides, many old guards in the state are peeved at being sidelined. Actually too many fronts for the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-it-help-congress-if-priyanka-gandhi-moves-to-uttar-pradesh-856379.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Militant who shot CRPF jawan, minor in Anantnag last week killed in Srinagar encounter||A CRPF personnel and a militant affiliated with Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) outfit were killed in an ongoing overnight encounter in the Malbagh area on the outskirts of Srinagar on Friday. Police said the slain militant was involved in the killing of a CRPF man and a six-year-old boy in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district last week. “ #Killer of JKP & CRPF personnel at #Bijbehara #Anantnag and one 6 years old boy, #terrorist Zahid Daas killed in yesterday’s #encounter at #Srinagar. Big success for JKP & CRPF: IGP Kashmir @JmuKmrPolice (sic),” the Kashmir police tweeted.     A CRPF spokesperson said the body of the slain militant was recovered along with one AK rifle. “Head constable Kuldeep Urwan (38) of CRPF  was injured, he was evacuated to Army’s 92 Base hospital for further treatment and later succumbed to injuries,” he said. IGP CRPF, Pramod Kumar Pandey said the firing has stopped while the search has been launched in the area. The gunbattle erupted after the Police and the CRPF launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) late in the evening at Malbagh following ‘specific inputs’ on the presence of militants in the area. “As joint team cordoned the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them. The fire was retaliated by the forces, triggering off an encounter. One more militant is believed to be hiding in the area as police had input about the presence of two militants,” sources said. This is the third encounter in Srinagar in the last 45 days. On May 19, Hizb-ul-Mujahideen top commander Junaid Sehrai, son of hardline Threek-e-Hurriyat chief Ashraf Sehrai, was killed along with his associate in the old Srinagar city. On June 22, three militants were killed in a similar gunfight at Gil Kadal near Soura on the outskirts of the city. On May 20, two paramilitary BSF jawans were killed by the militants on the outskirts of Srinagar city. These encounters and killings come as a reminder from the militants that its presence has increased in the city, which was not long ago considered as a zero-militancy zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-who-shot-crpf-jawan-minor-in-anantnag-last-week-killed-in-srinagar-encounter-856402.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||ED questions Ahmed Patel for 10 hours on third day in PMLA case||Enforcement Directorate (ED) investigators on Thursday questioned senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel at his residence for about 10 hours during the third round of his grilling in connection with the Sandesara brothers bank fraud and money laundering case probe, officials said. A three-member team of the central agency along with a few other officials reached Patel's 23, Mother Teresa Crescent home in the Lutyens' zone of central Delhi around 11:30 am and left after 10 pm. Patel, while speaking to reporters outside his house, said the investigators put 128 questions to him. "This is a political vendetta and harassment against me and my family and I do not know under whose pressure they (investigators) are working," he said.  They (ED) told me that my questioning has completed but I say that you can question me for as many days as you want, he said. He claimed that the agency is working on hearsay and that they have no solid evidence and that there was no money trail. Agency sleuths have earlier questioned Patel, 70, in two separate sessions clocking about 17 hours in total on June 27 and June 30. He was allowed questioning at home by the agency after the Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat refused to visit the ED office citing prevailing Covid-19 guidelines that discourage senior citizens from going out. Officials said Patel's statement is being recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) during the latest session. He is being questioned about his purported links with Vadodara-based Sterling Biotech pharmaceutical company promoters, the Sandesara brothers, and alleged dealings of his family members with them. The agency, last year, had questioned Patel's son Faisal Patel and son-in-law Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui in this case and recorded their statements. The two were questioned in the context of the statement of one Sunil Yadav, an employee of the Sandesara group, which was earlier recorded before the agency. In his statement to the ED, Yadav had said that he bore "expenses of Rs 10 lakh" for a party which was attended by Faisal, "arranged" entry in a night club for him and once delivered "Rs 5 lakh" to his driver in Khan Market on the instructions of Chetan Sandesara, one of the promoters of the pharma firm, sources had said. Yadav had told the ED that the cash was "meant for Faisal Patel", the sources said. The agency was also told by Yadav that Siddiqui "occupied" a house in Vasant Vihar area of Delhi that reportedly belonged to Chetan Sandesara. This money laundering case pertains to the alleged Rs 14,500 crore bank loan fraud that is said to have been perpetrated by Sterling Biotech and its main promoters and directors -- Nitin Jayantilal Sandesara, Chetankumar Jayantilal Sandesara and Deepti Sandesara -- all of whom are absconding. Nitin and Chetankumar are brothers. The agency has alleged that this is a bigger bank scam in volume than the PNB fraud involving diamantaires Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. The total fraud amount pegged in the PNB case is about Rs 13,400 crore. The Sandesaras are also facing separate probes by the CBI and the Income Tax Department for their alleged nexus with some high-profile politicians and charges of corruption and tax evasion, respectively. At present, they are stated to be based in Albania, from where India is trying to extradite them. The ED registered a criminal case in connection with the alleged bank loan fraud on the basis of an FIR and a charge sheet filed by the CBI. It is alleged that the company took loans of over Rs 5,383 crore from a domestic consortium led by the Andhra Bank, which later turned into non-performing assets. Patel, while speaking to reporters on Saturday, had said he replied to the questions that the "guests" of the government posed to him. "I am surprised that instead of fighting China...coronavirus and unemployment, the government is fighting the opposition," he had said. The law should be allowed to take its course and someone who has not done any wrong should not fear, Patel had said. He had accused the government of "using probe agencies every time it faced a crisis or when there was an election".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-questions-ahmed-patel-for-10-hours-on-third-day-in-pmla-case-856429.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi in Ladakh on surprise visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi landed in Ladakh on Friday where he was briefed on the tense Sino-Indian stand-off by top officials of the Indian Army. The Prime Minister also met soldiers injured in the June 15 Galwan Valley crash and paid tributes to them. Reacting to the PM's visit to Ladakh, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said "India & China are in communication and negotiations on lowering the temperatures through military & diplomatic channels. No party should engage in any action that may escalate the situation at this point"   BREAKING: This was the first visit by the Prime Minister to the areas close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since the beginning of the standoff in April. Early on Friday morning, he reached one of the forward locations in Nimu and interacted with the personnel of the Army, Air Force and ITBP. Lt Gen Harendra Singh, GOC of the 14 Corps who led the Indian team for the three rounds of talks with commanders of the People's Liberation Army, China, briefed the Prime Minister. Located at 11,000 feet, Nimu is among the tough terrains, surrounded by the Zanskar range and on the banks of the Indus. For nearly two months, the troops from India and China have been locked in a tense face-off at multiple locations in eastern Ladakh including Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso and Depsang Bulge.  The face-off led to a violent clash on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers including their commanding officer and a significant number of Chinese troops were killed. The two sides discussed a peaceful de-escalation plan thrice but the troop presence in eastern Ladakh has not thinned so far. Both nations have increased their men, firepower and wherewithal on either side of the LAC. Earlier it was decided that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would visit Leh on Friday. But his visit was cancelled at the eleventh hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-in-ladakh-on-surprise-visit-856456.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Kanpur encounter: Opposition in UP slam Adityanath govt over law and order situation||The Yogi Adityanath government in UP faced opposition onslaught on Friday over the killing of policemen in an encounter in Kanpur, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying it was another proof of "hooliganism", while the Samajwadi Party said the state has become "Hatya Pradesh". Eight Uttar Pradesh Police personnel, including a deputy superintendent of police, were killed and seven others injured in an encounter with criminals in Kanpur, officials said on Friday. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the UP government over the incident "Another proof of 'goondaraj' (hooliganism) in UP. When police is not safe how can people be?. My condolences are with family of martyrs and I wish speedy recovery of injured," he said in a tweet. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also condole the deaths. "Eight policemen were martyred while they went to nab criminals. I pay my condolence to the family of the martyrs. In UP, law and order has become very bad and criminals have no fear. From common man to policemen, no one is safe," she said on Twitter. "The responsibility of law and order is with the chief minister. He should initiate strict action and there should be no laxity in it," she added. Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav said, "The BJP government in UP is doing 'natak' (drama) of small encounters in fear that it stands exposed. This will affect morale of the force and their anger will increase." "Government should immediately announce compensation and secure family members (of martyrs)," he said. Earlier the Samajwadi Party said Uttar Pradesh has become "hatya pradesh" (murder state). "In 'rogi sarkar' 'jungleraj', UP has become 'hatya pradesh', wherein Kanpur criminals patronised by those in power attacked policemen killing eight of them," the Samajwadi Party said in a tweet. While condoling the deaths, the SP has demanded an "immediate announcement of Rs 1 crore each for the martyred policemen's family". It also demanded that the alleged "connection (of criminals) with those in power should be exposed". BSP Supremo Mayawati termed the incident as "shameful and unfortunate", and added that "it is clear that the UP government needs to be more alert on law and order issue." "Those involved should not be spared by the government at any cost even if a special campaign is needed for that. The family of those who died should be given financial help and job should be given to one member of their family. This is demand of the BSP," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-encounter-opposition-in-up-slam-adityanath-govt-over-law-and-order-situation-856462.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Another proof of hooliganism in UP: Rahul Gandhi on killing of policemen in Kanpur||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hit out at the UP government over the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur, saying if the police is not safe, how can the people be. His swipe at the UP administration came after at least eight Uttar Pradesh Police personnel, including a deputy superintendent of police, were killed and seven others injured in an encounter with criminals in Kanpur. Gandhi also expressed his condolence to the family of those dead and wished speedy recovery of the injured. "Another proof of 'Gundaraj' in UP. When the police are not safe, how will the public be? My heartfelt condolences are with the families of the slain martyrs and I wish the injured a speedy recovery," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra highlighted another killing of four members of a family in Prayagraj and alleged that it is unusual for criminals to rule the roost in such a way in Uttar Pradesh. She also demanded that accountability be fixed keeping in view the 'jungle raj' in UP. "Soon after the dreadful incident in Kanpur, four persons of a family were killed in Prayagraj. A father-daughter was murdered in Ghaziabad. In UP, it is unusual in Uttar Pradesh for criminals to rule the roost like this. In the light of such anarchy, accountability must be fixed," she said in a tweet in Hindi. The encounter took place when a police team was approaching to arrest Vikas Dubey, a history-sheeter facing 60 criminal cases, in Dikru village under the Chaubeypur police station on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, police said. As the police team was about to reach the hideout of the dreaded criminal, a hail of bullets was showered on them from a building rooftop, leaving Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra, three sub-inspectors and four constables dead, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-proof-of-hooliganism-in-up-rahul-gandhi-on-killing-of-policemen-in-kanpur-856509.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Highway robber killed in encounter in Aligarh: UP STF||A criminal involved in a dozen highway robberies was killed near Yamuna Expressway in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh in an encounter with the Special Task Force (STF) and the local police early on Friday, officials said. The incident took place around midnight when officials of the STF's Noida unit and Aligarh's Tappal police station reached the spot on a tip-off, the officials said. The deceased has been identified as Babloo alias Ganjaa, Additional Superintendent of Police, STF, Raj Kumar Mishra said. "A credible input was received by the STF about some criminals, part of the 'Axle Gang' that targets vehicles on the highways, planning robberies on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The STF team and the local police team reached the spot – a service road on the Yamuna Expressway – in Tappal area around 11.45 pm and surrounded the place," Mishra said. "Soon the gang members arrived there and opened fire on the police and STF officials while trying to flee. One of them, Babloo, was injured in retaliatory firing and was apprehended but the others managed to escape," he said. Babloo was taken to a nearby community health centre for treatment but was later referred to the Aligarh district hospital, where he succumbed to injuries and died, the officer said. "The deceased was a native of Ballabhgarh in Haryana. There were at least 12 criminal cases registered against him at police stations of Delhi, Haryana and UP's Aligarh and Bulandshahr. Most of the charges were related to dacoity and the Arms Act," he added. According to the STF, Babloo's criminal history dates back to 2014 when his gang broke into a jeweller's showroom in Aligarh and fled with jewellery and cash. Similar incidents were repeated over the years, it said. He and his associates often waylaid vehicles on the highway after throwing 'axles' on their windshield and hence the gang earned the moniker 'Axle Gang'. They would also use twisted nails to deflate tyres of cars and then loot passengers on highways, the agency said. Earlier in January this year, the gang was involved in a similar robbery in which it targeted a car in Haryana's Palwal area and thrashed the passengers. The gang had tied the hands and legs of the passengers and also raped a 14-year-old girl, the STF said, adding the state police had announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on the arrest of criminals involved in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/highway-robber-killed-in-encounter-in-aligarh-up-stf-856510.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||India conveys protest to Pakistan over unprovoked ceasefire violations along LoC, IB||India has lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces along the Line of Control and the International Border with an aim to push terrorists into Jammu and Kashmir, official sources said on Friday. They said 14 Indians have been killed and 88 sustained injuries in more than 2,432 incidents of unprovoked ceasefire violations carried out by Pakistani forces till June this year. The unprovoked ceasefire violations are in contravention of the 2003 ceasefire understanding between the two countries, the sources said. They said India has also conveyed its "strong concerns" at the continued support being extended by the Pakistani forces to cross border infiltration of terrorists, including by providing covering fire. "We have registered our strong protest at the continued unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistan forces along the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Boundary," said a source. Despite these concerns having been shared, including through the channel of Director Generals Military Operations, the Pakistani forces have not stopped such activities, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-conveys-protest-to-pakistan-over-unprovoked-ceasefire-violations-along-loc-ib-856525.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal hands over Rs 1 cr cheque to family of LNJP doctor who died battling Covid-19||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday met the family members of doctor Aseem Gupta who died fighting Covid-19 and handed over a cheque of Rs 1 crore as an ex-gratia to them. The chief minister termed late Gupta as a "people's doctor' and said it was a duty of the government to support the families of those people who sacrificed their lives for others. "Met with the family of Late Dr Aseem Gupta ji who lost his life to Corona. We cannot do anything to bring back the "People's Doctor", but it is our duty to support families of those who lay down their lives for us. An ex-gratia of ₹1 crore was given to the family today," Kejriwal tweeted. The ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore is being given by the Delhi government to all its employees who succumb to coronavirus while discharging their duties as frontline warriors in the fight against the pandemic. Gupta, a consultant anaesthesiologist at the state-run LNJP hospital, had contracted Covid-19 while on duty. He tested positive on June 6 when he had mild symptoms and was shifted to a quarantine facility.  His symptoms aggravated on June 7 and he was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the LNJP hospital. Later he succumbed to the virus at Max Smart Hospital in Saket in south Delhi. The 52-year-old doctor was remembered for going out of his way to serve his patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-hands-over-rs-1-cr-cheque-to-family-of-lnjp-doctor-who-died-battling-covid-19-856529.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court junks PIL seeking mandatory plasma donation from recovered Covid-19 patients||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to entertain a PIL seeking directions to the Centre and the AAP government to make it mandatory to obtain plasma from patients who recovered from Covid-19 either at home or at a hospital and directed that it be treated as a representation. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said people cannot be forced to give an undertaking to donate plasma before receiving treatment for Covid-19 and it has to be voluntary. The court asked the respondents -- Centre, Delhi government, National Disaster Management Authority and various civic bodies -- to treat as a representation the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which had sought framing of guidelines and constitution of a statutory body to regulate the smooth availability of plasma. The petition had claimed that the Centre and Delhi government were not taking effective steps for ensuring sufficient availability plasma for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The plea had also sought to make it obligatory on the part of every recovered patient to donate plasma at first instance.  However, the bench was of the view that people cannot be forced to donate plasma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-junks-pil-seeking-mandatory-plasma-donation-from-recovered-covid-19-patients-856531.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||MeT department predicts heavy rainfall for Bhopal, Indore in next 24 hours||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall for Bhopal and Indore in the next 24 hours, an official said on Friday. Showers were witnessed in several parts of Madhya Pradesh since Thursday evening. Heavy rains are likely to lash Bhopal and Indore in the next 24 hours, said senior meteorologist G D Mishra of the IMD in Bhopal. Bicchhiya area in Mandla district and Indore have received 77.4 mm and 51.2 mm rainfall, respectively, in the last 24 hours, the official said. Meanwhile, showers in large parts of Madhya Pradesh, barring Chambal and Gwalior divisions, have brought respite from the humid conditions. As per the IMD's forecast, heavy rainfall and thunderstorm with lightning are very likely to occur in isolated parts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/met-department-predicts-heavy-rainfall-for-bhopal-indore-in-next-24-hours-856532.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Nine of those killed in Delhi riots were forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', police tells court||Some of the rioters used a WhatsApp group to coordinate with each other during north-east Delhi riots in February and killed nine Muslims after they refused to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', Delhi police has alleged in its charge sheets filed in a court here. The accused were part of a WhatsApp group -- Kattar Hindut Ekta -- that was created on February 25 to take “revenge” on Muslims, the charge sheets said, adding that they used it to coordinate with each other and provide, men, arms and ammunition to each other. The creator of the WhatsApp group is still absconding, police said in the charge sheets. “'Kattar Hindut Ekta' group was created on February 25 at 12.49 Hrs. Initially, there were 125 members in this group, out of these 125; total 47 had exited the group by March 8,” it said. The charge sheets were filed before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vinod Kumar Gautam on June 29 for the alleged bludgeoning of nine people -- Hamza, Aamin, Bhure Ali, Mursalin, Aas Mohd, Musharraf, Akil Ahmed, and Hashim Ali and his elder brother Aamir Khan -- to death. “During the investigation, it has been established that a group of Hindus comprising of accused persons - Jatin Sharma, Rishabh Chaudhary, Vivek Panchal, Lokesh Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Prince, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chaudhary and Himanshu Thakur, along with other identified and unidentified rioters - became active in Ganga Vihar/ Bhagirathi Vihar area since the morning of February 25 to 26 midnight and bludgeoned nine Muslim persons to death and injured several persons in Bhagirathi Vihar and another area,” police said in the charge sheet. The final report further said, “It shows that they were actively involved in rioting and attacking other community people belonging to different religion i.e. Muslim and during riots, they killed many people by attacking them.” “Their modus operandi was, they used to catch the people and ascertain their religion by asking name, address and by their document i.e. Identity Card and they were forcing them to call 'Jai Shri Ram' many times.  “The person who was not calling 'Jai Shri Ram' and carrying the identity of Muslim identity, they were bluntly attacked and thrown into the Main Ganda Nala (dirty drain), Bhagirathi Vihar, Delhi,” it said.  The court has put up the matter for consideration on July 13. According to the police report , one of the accused, Lokesh Solanki, on February 25, messaged in the WhatsApp group: “Brother Lokesh Solanki this side from Ganga Vihar area if any Hindu need any back up then do contact. We have men, arms and ammunitions. I have just killed two Muslims in Bhagirathi Vihar area and thrown them in the drain with the help of my team.” In the first case, on February 26, one Hamza was killed by the rioters while he was coming from Mustafabad to Bhagirathi Vihar about 9.15 PM, police said. He was then thrown in sewage near E Block Bhagirathi Vihar. An FIR was lodged in this regard at Gokalpuri police station,  in North East Delhi on March 3, it said. In the second case, one Aamin was killed and thrown into sewage on February 25 by the rioters near  C Block Bhagirathi Vihar. In the third case, one Bhure Ali was killed near C block Bhagirathi Vihar on February 26.  On February 25, between 4-4.30 PM, one Mursalin was killed and thrown in Bhagirathi Vihar Nala (drain) in Johripuri puliya (bridge) and his scooter was set on fire. Police said on February 25, at about 7 to 7.30 PM, deceased Aas Mohd was killed by the rioters and thrown in a drain in Bhagirathi Vihar/Johripur pulia (bridge). On the same day at about 8 PM, police said rioters cut the electricity and in the dark, they attacked the house of Musharraf, grabbed him and dragged him out into the street and they beat him to death and threw him in the open drain. Later on February 26, at about 9.30 PM, one Akil Ahmed was killed by the rioters, police said and added that on the same day, at about 9.40 PM, one Hashim Ali and his elder brother Aamir Khan was killed by the rioters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nine-of-those-killed-in-delhi-riots-were-forced-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-police-tells-court-856550.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Ex-SP MLA Ashraf, brother of former MP Atique Ahmed, arrested in UP||Former Samajwadi Party MLA Khalid Azeem alias Ashraf, absconding for the last three years, was arrested on Friday from Kaushambi district, said police. The brother of jailed former SP MP Atique Ahmed, Ashraf was wanted for his alleged involvement in over two dozen criminal cases registered in various police stations of the district and police arrested him early Friday from his hideout, city Superintendent of Police Dinesh Kumar Singh told PTI. The former SP MLA, who carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his arrest, has been detained in Cantt police station and is being interrogated, he said. Kaushambi police had earlier raided houses of Ashraf’s several relatives and had interrogated several of them, including some of their in-laws, to track him down. Singh said Ashraf’s brother Atique Ahmed is already in jail for the last three years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-sp-mla-ashraf-brother-of-former-mp-atique-ahmed-arrested-in-up-856559.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||12-member panel to chalk out Delhi's economy reboot plan||With Covid-19 and national lockdown sending the economy into a tailspin, Delhi government has set up a 12-member committee to explore best practices adopted around the globe and suggest reform measures that improve ease of doing business in the national capital and revenue mobilisation. Delhi Dialogue Council Vice Chairperson Jasmine Shah will head the committee, which will also have Delhi Labour, Industries and South Delhi Municipal Corporation Commissioners and industry bodies' office bearers. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit Delhi's economy hard with the state finances nose-diving. The GST and VAT collection in the first quarter of 2020-21 was just Rs 2,500 crore as against over Rs 7,200 crore during the corresponding period. Officials said the 12-member panel is tasked with exploring reform measures that help both the businesses and the government recover from the impact of the pandemic. The panel will do a comprehensive analysis of the measures to be taken by various agencies, departments and businesses during Covid-19 pandemic. According to the Terms of Reference, the panel will explore reform measures that improve ease of doing business in Delhi and shorten the process of economic recovery from the impact of Covid-19. It will also look into international best practices that mega-cities and countries around the world are taking to enable economic recovery during this period. One of the aspects the panel will be looking into will be the penalties and fines imposed on public or business due to the pandemic and which one of them could be waived off to remove undue financial hardship. It will explore the possibility of renewal or automatic extension of existing licenses issued by the various department and local bodies (Labour license, shops and establishment registration, contractor license, nursing home registration etc) without penalty or interest. The exception will be in categories such as excise, pollution control, fire, where safety or revenue-related issues are involved. While doing so, the interests of labour should be protected. Another task before the panel will be to look at the requirement of new licenses or NOCs issued by the various departments to identify the licenses which can be abolished or replaced with only prior intimation. Similarly, the logical periodicity of renewal of licenses will be examined and the panel would make recommendations on whether annual renewals need to be amended or abolished. "This committee will also explore provisions of online license issuing systems or doorstep delivery of licensing systems. The key focus of the committee will be exploring economic reform measures that have the potential for revenue mobilisation for the Delhi government," the Terms of Reference said. Shah said the pandemic has caused a devastating economic impact nationally and in Delhi. "By supporting the early opening up of the economy and creating a robust health care strategy centred around five key measures -- widespread testing and isolation, increasing the number of beds, stocking pulse oximeters and oxygen concentrators, plasma therapy and survey and screening -- Delhi government has set the ground for economic recovery," he said. "Through this Committee, we look forward to collaborating with key industry representatives and identifying specific additional measures that government agencies can take to shorten the process of economic recovery," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-member-panel-to-chalk-out-delhis-economy-reboot-plan-856563.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||UP govt provides security to Mulayam’s daughter-in-law, triggers speculation||The security cover ordered by the Yogi Adityanath government to Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav’s daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav has triggered murmurs over her proximity to the ruling BJP, a suggestion she denies. Aparna Bisht Yadav, wife of Mulayam Singh Yadav’s younger son Prateek Yadav, was last month provided “Y” category security by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. It triggered speculation that the she may be preparing to switch sides ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. Her brother-in-law and former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav saw a Bharatiya Janata Party plot in the development. "Providing her security is 500 per cent BJP’s trick," he said in a newspaper interview, which he shared over social media. When asked if she is still with the SP, Aparna Yadav told PTI, "Yes, I joined the party in 2016 on the directions of “netaji” (Mulayam Singh Yadav) and am very much a primary member of the party." But she also criticised her own party. “There is lack of discipline in the SP. Party workers should know the party constitution, SP's ideology and about socialism.’Netaji' always talked about discipline in the party. What is the place of women in the party now?" she said. "The old guard has changed in the party and the new one should take care of it. He must be working on it," she said, referring to the power shift in the family from Mulayam Singh Yadav to son Akhilesh Yadav. The woman rights activist also defended her praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his handling of the coronavirus crisis. "I am a citizen of the country and say whatever I feel is correct," she said. "Not just me, the entire world is praising him for announcing the lockdown. The opposition should say what else could have been done. Criticising anyone is easy but there should be appreciation of the good work too," she added. She also appreciated Adityanath’s work during the pandemic. "How many opposition leaders have visited community kitchens? Who is stopping them? They should also come out of their homes and do the same," she said. She dismissed the speculation triggered by her getting the “Y” category security. “I am in public service and do my work in a transparent manner. I got the security, which is provided only after a threat assessment by the state security headquarters," she said. Asked about the security given to the SP patriarch daughter-in-law, a BJP leader said, "It’s a government decision. There is no politics in it. There is a procedure for giving or withdrawing security." The Yadav ‘bahu’ had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 assembly elections for the Lucknow Cantonment seat. Asked if she will fight again in 2022 as an SP candidate, she said, "The seat has a very special place in my heart. I am doing my work and if the party gives me the chance, I will certainly fight from there." But she was non-committal when asked if she would consider contesting on behalf of the BJP or any other party if the SP does not field her. It will happen when it does, she replied. "Samay aayega to ho jayega." But, she added, this is not her current focus. "Our priority at present is the health of 'netaji', so that we can have his blessings," she said. On the rift in the Yadav clan, she said, "We all want that the family remains one. I think all will be well in the days to come." "Both 'chachaji' (Shivpal Yadav) and 'bhaiya' (Akhilesh Yadav) have to decide the future course of action as both of them are seasoned enough,” she said. “Bhaiya' still loves and respects him," she said, when asked about Akhilesh Yadav’s announcement on leaving the Jaswant Nagar seat in Etawah for uncle Shivpal Yadav in the 2022 polls. She said she will do whatever she can to unite the family. "Chhotey hain, daant bhi diye jaatey hain" (Being the youngest, at times I get scolded also)," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-provides-security-to-mulayam-s-daughter-in-law-triggers-speculation-856571.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Srinagar city is not militancy free: J&K police||Acknowledging that militants were moving in Srinagar to receive funds and medical treatment, Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday declared that the city was not militancy free. “Srinagar can never be free of militants till militancy is there. They (militants) keep on coming to the city for several purposes. At times they come for medical treatment, meeting with each other and sometimes to receive funds,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told reporters on the sidelines of a wreath-laying ceremony of a CRPF man who was killed in an encounter on city outskirts yesterday. He said that if there is no encounter in any district, that doesn’t mean the area or the district is militancy free. “Let me clarify, there have been no militant attacks in Srinagar. All the three (encounters in last 45-days) were the outcome of proactive action of police and the CRPF where leads were developed and militants hiding in the city were tracked down and killed,” Kumar said. “Yesterday, also a lead was developed and when the suspected spot was zeroed in, the militants fired indiscriminately in which one CRPF was hit who later succumbed,” the IGP added. The Kashmir police chief said that one Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) commander for Anantnag district Zahid Das, who along with four other militants were involved in series of attacks on police and CRPF including the one at Bijbehera, recently, was killed in Malbagh encounter yesterday “He was a big criminal for us. His killing is a big success,” he said. “Zahid’s two other associates were recently killed in Bijbehara and two more militants of his group are on the run and they will be killed soon.” Asked about the 12 top commanders of Hizbul Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba, who are on police radar the IGP said, “We have already announced their names and they are being tracked down.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-city-is-not-militancy-free-jk-police-856585.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Elderly woman rescued after being confined in her home for over one year||A 65-year-old woman was rescued on Friday after allegedly being confined for over one year in her home by a neighbour who wanted to grab her property, police said. Kamla Devi was confined to her house in Sadar Bazar locality by her neighbour Bhagwan Das, ASP Sanjay Kumar told PTI. He said Das allegedly wanted to grab the woman's property. The woman was rescued and the accused arrested after one Shivam informed Superintendent of Police Yash Anand about the matter. Kumar said the woman used to live alone in the house after the death of her husband.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elderly-woman-rescued-after-being-confined-in-her-home-for-over-one-year-856590.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Which tiger, paper or circus: Kamal Nath mocks Jyotiraditya Scindia||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath on Friday took a veiled swipe at Jyotiraditya Scindia, his one-time rival in the party and now a BJP MP, over his statement that `Tiger is still alive'. Speaking after the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government's expansion on Thursday, Scindia, whose exit from the Congress with 22 MLAs toppled the Nath government in March, said he wanted to tell Congress leaders that "Tiger abhi zinda hai." Speaking at a function in Ratlam district, Nath referred to the remark, and asked, "Which tiger is alive, paper tiger or a circus one? Nath also took digs at Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "I am neither a maharaja nor a `Mama'," he said. Scindia, who belongs to a former royal family, is sometimes called `Maharaja' in state politics, while Chouhan's popular nickname is `Mama' (uncle). "I have not even sold tea, I am just Kamal Nath," he said, in a jibe at the prime minister. "Some people say they are tigers. I am not even a tiger, but I am also not a paper tiger. Now the people of the state will decide who is who," the Congress veteran added. "Wherever Chouhan goes, he makes tall announcements... He will say we have given this much money to labourers, but during the lockdown, all of us have seen that they are just wandering here and there. None of them have got any money," Nath said. Earlier, commenting on reports of resentment within the BJP over the expansion of Chouhan ministry on Thursday during which many former Congress MLAs were inducted, Nath said it was the BJP's internal matter. But the Chouhan government was a "government of bargain and the ministry of bargaining", he said, speaking to reporters. "Out of 33 ministers, 14 are not MLAs. Is it bargaining or not? They are bringing disrespect to Madhya Pradesh and its people in the entire country....We are feeling ashamed of the kind of politics that is going on in Madhya Pradesh," he said. "This kind of politics never took place in the state before," the former chief minister added. Nath visited Ratlam on Friday to unveil a statue of late social worker Prabhudayal Gehlot. "He always worked for protecting values. His work is still an example for all," Nath said during the function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/which-tiger-paper-or-circus-kamal-nath-mocks-jyotiraditya-scindia-856625.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Court refuses to allow Delhi Police to conduct probe into Babul Supriyo's complaint||In a setback to Union Minister Babul Supriyo, a court here has refused to allow the Delhi Police to conduct investigation into the complaint lodged by him accusing the editor of a Facebook page of defaming him by allegedly circulating fake news. The trial court in its order on Thursday said that neither the requisite sanction was obtained as required under law, nor the complaint was filed before the court of magistrate by the politician himself. It also termed the application as “premature”.   “At the very outset, it is relevant to mention Section 199 (4) of the Cr.PC as per which the complaint in case of defamation against a sitting Minister needs to be filed by the Public Prosecutor after taking due sanction from the appropriate government. “In case the aggrieved person wants to litigate in his individual capacity then as per Section 199 CrPC the complaint case under section 200 CrPC has to be filed before the Court of Magistrate and after conducting inquiry u/s 200 CrPC if the Magistrate finds it proper he may order the investigation u/s 202 Cr.PC,” Metropolitan Magistrate Ashwani Panwar said. The judge further added, “Admittedly, in the present case neither the sanction is obtained nor any complaint u/s 200 CrPC has been preferred by the aggrieved Minister/person. Accordingly, application is premature and thereby disposed off.” According to the police application, a complaint was made by Supriyo, in Cyber Crime Unit of Special Cell, Delhi, in which he alleged that one Anindo Choudhari, editor of Facebook page namely "Nirbhik Uttor" was spreading fake information to tarnish his image and image of other prominent politicians of various political parties regularly. “He further alleged that in May 2020, the editor deliberately uploaded various baseless videos targeted him and other politicians, by spreading fake incidents/news to defame him and other politicians,” police told the court. The probe agency said that the matter required investigation to unearth the real facts. “Therefore, it is requested that kindly allow to investigate the above said non cognizable offence in the interest of justice please,” the police urged the court which declined to allow it to conduct the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-refuses-to-allow-delhi-police-to-conduct-probe-into-babul-supriyos-complaint-856627.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Patient beaten to death by pvt hospital staff in Aligarh for not paying Rs 4,000 'entry fee', says victim's family||A 44-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by some staff of a private hospital here for “not paying Rs 4,000 entry fee”, his family alleged on Friday. Police said they have received CCTV footage of the alleged attack and registered an FIR. The incident took place on Thursday when Sultan Khan was taken to the hospital at Dhorra bypass Road under Kuwarsi area with acute abdominal pain, the family said. Sultan's relative Chaman Khan said the hospital advised them to get an ultrasound done. “At the time of admission, we inquired about the cost of the ultrasound examination. We were told that it would be Rs 4,500. We could not afford it, so we decided not to get our patient admitted," he said. In the meanwhile, the hospital gave Sultan some medicines, he said. "Accordingly, we paid for the medicines but objected to a charge of Rs 4,000 which the clerk at the counter said was entry fees,” he alleged. A copy of the bill shows they were charged just above Rs 3,700 for medicines. “As the family was moving out of the hospital premises without getting the ultrasound done, some hospital staff attacked us with wooden sticks. Sultan received a blow on his head and died shortly," Chaman claimed. Superintendent of Police (city) Abhishek said since the family could not bear the expenses quoted by the hospital, it decided not to get the patient admitted.   “There was some dispute between the family and the hospital staff over some payments. His families have alleged that the patient died in the scuffle that ensued. The body has been sent for post-mortem," he said. "Further action will be taken after post-mortem report is received," he said. But the family said they took him to the private hospital as his urinary passage was blocked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-patient-beaten-to-death-by-pvt-hospital-staff-in-aligarh-for-not-paying-rs-4000-entry-fee-says-victims-family-856630.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: 17-year-old boy rapes, kills 14-year-old girl||A 14-year-old girl was raped and killed allegedly by a boy who later dumped the body in a well in Balrampur district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Friday. The incident took place on June 24 in a village under Shankargarh police station limits, an official said. "The girl's family was busy in her elder sister's wedding preparations. The girl went out of the house with a friend and then was not to be seen. Family members mounted a search and found her body in a well in a paddy field on June 27," said Prakash Rathore, Station House Officer, Shankargarh police station. "Her post mortem report revealed she had been hit with a blunt object on the head, which caused her death. After her friends were questioned, we zeroed in on a 17-year-old boy and apprehended him on Thursday. He tried to mislead us at first but then confessed to raping and killing her," informed the official. The accused told police he hit her with a stone on the head when she refused to given in, and then sexually assaulted her after she fell to the ground injured, Rathore said. "After the girl died, he dumped the body and stone in the well. He was booked under IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for murder, rape and causing disappearance of evidence. He was sent to a juvenile home by a court here," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-17-year-old-boy-rapes-kills-14-year-old-girl-856637.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Militants keep coming to Srinagar but we ensure they don't set up base there: IG Police||Srinagar is not militancy-free as the ultras keep coming to the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir to seek medical treatment, funds and meetings for the future course of action but security forces have ensured that they are not able to set up base here, a senior police officer said on Friday. "Srinagar is such a city where militants keep coming repeatedly. Some come for medical treatment, some for getting funds and some for further meetings. So it would not be correct to say that Srinagar is militancy free. Militants will keep coming here, we will keep getting information and do encounters (sic)," Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told reporters after the wreath-laying ceremony for a CRPF jawan. The jawan was killed in an encounter with militants in Malbagh area of the city late on Thursday night. One militant was also killed in the operation. Replying to a question on the increase in the number of encounters in the city over the past couple of months, Kumar said these were preventive actions carried out by the security forces. "There were no attacks in Srinagar, these are encounters... It was preventive action by security forces based on pinpoint information," he said. Kumar said if there are no encounters in a district, it does not mean that there are no militants there. "Militants hide everywhere, they have shelters and hideouts which they keep changing. They are on the run ... we get information and launch operations to neutralise them," he added. Kumar said Srinagar police had got information about the presence of a militant in the Malbagh area last night. "Security forces conducted cordon and search operation. The militants opened firing in which one of our jawans was injured. The jawan kept pressing forward and killed the militant," the officer said. He said the slain militant, identified as Zahid Dass, was from ISJK (a branch of the militant Islamist group Islamic State). "There were five militants in this group. Three have now been killed while two are at large. They were involved in several killings," he said. The IGP said the slain ultra was involved in at least four killings since November 2019 including the June 26 attack at Bijbehara in which one CRPF jawan and a six-year-old child were killed. "We had named him the same day in the FIR and circulated it on social media as well as in newspapers. His killing is a big victory for the security forces," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-keep-coming-to-srinagar-but-we-ensure-they-dont-set-up-base-there-ig-police-856638.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Centre moves Supreme Court, seeks closure of case against Italian marines||The Centre has moved the Supreme Court seeking closure of judicial proceedings here against two Italian marines’ accused of killing two Indian fishermen off the Kerala coast, saying it has accepted the recent ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at the Hague which held that India is entitled to get compensation in the case but can't prosecute the marines due to official immunity enjoyed by them. In February 2012, India had accused two Italian marines, Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre, on board the MV Enrica Lexie -- an Italian flagged oil tanker-- of killing two Indian fishermen who were on a fishing. In its application filed in the pending case, the Centre told the top court, “The applicant states and submits that the Republic of India has taken a decision to accept and abide by the Award passed by the said Tribunal which would have the bearing on the continuance of present proceedings before this Court”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-moves-supreme-court-seeks-closure-of-case-against-italian-marines-856640.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Jyotiraditya Scindia praises PM over lockdown, slams Congress on Emergency||BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for enforcing nationwide lockdown, and hit out at his former party, the Congress, for imposing Emergency in 1975. The former Union minister claimed that even when he was in the Congress he took a stand against the Emergency. By announcing lockdown to contain coronavirus in time, Modi saved lakhs of lives, said Scindia, whose supporters bagged the lion's share in the cabinet expansion of the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. "Prime minister Narendra Modi has the courage to take the right decision with far-sightedness and resolve. When the world trembled during the (coronavirus) outbreak, prime minister Narendra Modi in his address requested for a lockdown from March 25 and crores of countrymen followed it," he said. Scindia, who alongwith his supporters quit the Congress and joined the BJP in March this year, was speaking at a virtual rally to mark the completion of 100 days of Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. "Some people are asking what good has the lockdown done. Had our prime minister not announced the lockdown, the country would have witnessed a heavy load of body bags like other countries. By imposing lockdown, he has saved lakhs of lives," Scindia said. The Congress in 1975 imposed Emergency to cling to power, while Modi appealed for a lockdown to save lives and people obeyed the "pradhan sevak's" appeal wholeheartedly, he said. "While in the Congress, I always sided with the truth and always opposed Emergency because what is wrong is wrong and what is right is right," he said. On the India-China stand-off in Ladakh, Scindia said it was due to the sensitivity and courage of Modi that Indian soldiers made Chinese troops bite the dust. "Today our prime minister is not sitting in office but is in Leh, boosting the morale of our troops," he said. There should be no politics over the coronavirus outbreak or the stand-off with China, the former Union minister said. Heaping praise on the chief minister, Scindia said, "Chouhan has worked for 20 hours a day to contain the virus outbreak." Madhya Pradesh can now conduct 60,000 coronavirus tests a day and 70 lakh masks have been distributed free, he said. The previous Congress regime in Madhya Pradesh and its leader (Kamal Nath) were only looking to cling on to power, Scindia alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-jyotiraditya-scindia-praises-pm-over-lockdown-slams-congress-on-emergency-856656.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Bihar: Why Nitish Kumar and Chirag Paswan are at loggerheads||It’s not only the Grand Alliance which is grappling with the summer of discontent. The NDA in Bihar is also facing a similar rebellion with the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) mounting pressure on another ally JD(U) by constantly targeting Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The ties between the two allies got so soured, of late, that the BJP had to depute its national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav to douse the fire. However, despite separate rounds of meeting between Yadav and Chirag and then with Nitish, it can’t be conclusively said that truce between the two has been eventually reached. The ‘bitterness’ between the two regional satraps was all the more apparent when Chirag, who is the national president of the LJP after Ram Vilas Paswan passed on the baton to his son last year, asked his partymen to “be prepared to contest on all the 243 Assembly seats in Bihar.” This was followed by a drastic action on July 1 against an LJP office-bearer Ram Chandra Bharti who was shown the door for giving a press statement that “NDA was intact in Bihar.” “Chirag is, of late, getting too big for his boots. Nitish Kumar's acceptance as an undisputed leader in Bihar has been reiterated by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. But even then, if someone has an axe to grind, he should meet Nitish ji personally and resolve the issue,” said a senior ruling party leader, considered close to Nitish. But this, the LJP sources say, is exactly where the problem lies. “Nitish Kumar hardly responds to Chirag’s call. And it is this indifferent attitude of the JD (U) strongman which has widened the chasm between the two leaders,” the LJP source averred. A ruling party source told DH on Friday that Chirag has been actually driving a hard bargain for the Assembly elections and wants a larger pie in the 243 constituencies in the state. “Besides, he wants his two members to be accommodated out of 12 MLCs to be nominated under Governor’s quota,” the source said, hoping the rift within the NDA won’t widen further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-why-nitish-kumar-and-chirag-paswan-are-at-loggerheads-856657.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||J&K's Covid-19 tally crosses 8,000-mark; death toll reaches 119||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir crossed the 8,000-mark on Friday with 170 fresh infections, while the death toll in the Union Territory reached 119 following the demise of four patients, officials said. The four fatalities were reported from Kashmir, they said. This has taken the death toll due to Covid-19 to 119 in the UT. Of these, 14 belonged to Jammu province and 105 were from Kashmir division. Meanwhile, 170 new cases were detected in Jammu and Kashmir during the past 24 hours. Forty-two of these new cases were from Jammu region and 128 people were from the valley, the officials said. At present, there are 2,825 active cases in the Union Territory, while 5,075 patients have recovered from the infection. The cases detected on Friday included 57 people who had returned to the UT recently, the officials said. They said Srinagar district in central Kashmir recorded a maximum of 41 new cases, followed by 24 in Kupwara district. Three districts -- Pulwama, Poonch and Reasi -- did not have any fresh cases detected in the past 24 hours. With 170 fresh cases, the total number of infected persons in Jammu and Kashmir rose to 8,019. "Of these, 6,327 are in Kashmir, while 1,692 are in the Jammu region," the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jks-covid-19-tally-crosses-8000-mark-death-toll-reaches-119-856690.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand: Panel formed to provide inputs for containing Covid-19 spread||The Uttarakhand government on Friday constituted a committee to provide technical inputs for containing the spread of Covid-19 in the state. The panel will provide inputs to the government on a range of areas, including risk factors associated with Covid-19 transmission, causal analysis of Covid-19 deaths, in-depth data analyses on socio-demographic profile, testing patterns, co-morbidities and risk factors, an official release here said. In addition to this, the committee will also analyse the best practices adopted in other states and in the world besides looking at published studies and suggesting actionable points. The committee will be headed by Devrat Roy who is Head of the Department of community medicine at Govt Doon Medical College. It will have five members, including Sadhna Awasthi of Govt Medical College, Haldwani, Amit Singh of Govt Medical College, Almora, Ajit Kumar of Govt Medical College, Shrinagar and WHO representative Vikas Sharma. The chief operation officer of the state's Covid-19 control room shall be responsible for providing all the available data to committee members by Friday every week. The panel can also take data from the chief medical officer of every district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-panel-formed-to-provide-inputs-for-containing-covid-19-spread-856693.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Fire in Oil Fire at IOL''s Assam well: NGT modifies its order imposing Rs 25 cr fine||The National Green Tribunal has modified its order imposing an interim penalty of Rs 25 crore on PSU major Oil India over its failure to stop fire in Assam's Baghjan oil well resulting in damage to the environment. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel deferred its June 24 direction to deposit Rs. 25 crore till the actual amount and its disbursement plan are worked out by the committee formed by it. "We do not find any ground for recall of the impugned order but are inclined to modify it with regard to immediate deposit of Rs.25 crore... Even though the order was passed ex-parte, the basis of the order remains even after considering the present interim applications and after hearing senior counsel. Incident and damage remain largely undisputed," the bench said. The tribunal said that other enquiries are not a substitute for the information sought to be gathered by it for exercise of its jurisdiction. Well number 5 at Baghjan in Tinsukia district, had been spewing gas uncontrollably and it caught fire on June 9, killing two of OIL''s firefighters at the site. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for IOL, told the NGT that order passed by tribunal did not take into account the fact that on the same issue proceedings have been taken before the Gauhati High Court. He also said that the tribunal did not take into the fact that the company itself has taken several measures for rehabilitation of the displaced families by setting up relief camps and providing food and other facilities. The NGT was apprised that OIL has also deposited a sum of Rs. 4.83 crore with the Tinsukia District Magistrate as an interim relief for the affected families. "The OIL has also set apart a budget of more than Rs. 130 crores towards operation cost in controlling the blow-out at Baghjan. It has also hired international experts for remediation for the damage caused on account of the blow-out and is undertaking requisite remediation and rehabilitation works," Rohatgi said. He also submitted the direction to deposit the amount of Rs.25 crore with the District Magistrate and committee formed by the tribunal is unnecessary. Rohatgi said that OIL is public sector undertaking committed to compensate the victims and restitute the environment and it will pay whatever amount required on its liability being ascertained, apart from voluntary steps already taken. The NGT on June 24 had constituted a committee headed by former high court judge B P Katakey to look into the matter and submit a report in 30 days. "In view of the prima facie case made out against Oil India Ltd on the extent of damage caused to the environment and biodiversity, damage to both human and wildlife, public health and, having regard to the financial worth of the Company and the extent of damage, we direct the OIL to deposit an initial amount of 25 crore with Tinsukia District Magistrate," the bench had said. The committee also comprises Member Secretary of Central Pollution Control Board, senior expert from Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Dr. Sarbeswar Kalita of Guwahati University, former forest Biodiversity Board member Abhay Kumar Johari, Ajit Hazarika, ex-chairman Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited among others. The order came on a plea filed by activist Bonani Kakkar and others alleging failure of the authorities in preventing the blowout of Baghjan oil well. The petition contended that oil has spilled into the Dibru river causing a film of oil in the river that passes through the Maguri-Motapung wetlands, an important bird and biodiversity area, and along the Dibru Saikhowa National Park. The plea said that the blow-out (uncontrolled release of crude oil or natural gas) has left behind huge volumes of residue as gas condensate which is a mixture of chemical compounds that are toxic for land and vegetation. The blowout is not only hazardous to the health of the people but has also affected their livelihood, the plea said. The Baghjan oil field has a total of 22 producing wells -- 18 crude and four gas. The oil field has been in operation since 2003. Following the accident, the PCBA (Pollution Control Board of Assam) sent a show-cause notice to the energy major on June 10 seeking details of its operations in Baghjan in the last 15 years, within one week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-in-oil-fire-at-iols-assam-well-ngt-modifies-its-order-imposing-rs-25-cr-fine-856727.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Women with history of pregnancy not eligible to donate plasma in Delhi, doctors tell why||Women who have either conceived or delivered babies in the past are not eligible to donate plasma as per the norms issued by authorities here as a certain type of antibody, which may have developed during the pregnancy, might harm the recipient in rare cases, doctors have said. India's first plasma bank was inaugurated by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal at the state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) on Thursday. However, strict guidelines have been issued as to who are eligible to donate plasma and who aren't, at present. So, people aged 18-60, who have fully recovered from Covid-19 and showed no symptoms for 14 days can go for donation, subject to strict guidelines for eligible donors. Someone weighing less than 50 kg, women who have a history of pregnancy, cancer survivors, and those with kidney, heart, lung or liver diseases are not eligible to donate plasma. Asked why women with history of pregnancy are not eligible for it, a senior doctor at ILBS, who is part of the plasma bank team, said, when women are exposed to their baby's blood during pregnancy and delivery, they may develop Human Leukocyte Antigens (HLA) antibodies, which are directed against antigens on the white blood cells (surfaces). "This happens as the embryo has genetic component from the father as well, so in response to this foreign element the mother's immune system generates antibodies," the doctor said. The presence of HLA antibodies in a healthy individual's blood do not cause health problems, according to experts. However, when HLA antibody-containing plasma is transfused, in rare cases, it may cause TRALI reaction in a transfusion recipient.  TRALI (transfusion-related acute lung injury)  is an acute complication following transfusion that is characterized by severe shortness of breath, often associated with fever and low blood pressure. Although rare, it is one of the most common causes of transfusion-related death, say experts. TRALI can occur rapidly after a blood transfusion and is often associated with the receipt of plasma or platelet products, they said. "So, either woman with pregnancy history are not eligible to donate (if not tested), or we need to test the plasma for HLA antibodies to determine if they are present," the doctor said, adding, if found present, the plasma should not be used. While the guidelines issued by Delhi government on plasma donation clearly says women who have ever been pregnant are not eligible to donate, there is no mention of doing prior screening in case of such women. However, as per the Recommendations for Investigational Covid-19 Convalescent Plasma published on the website of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the US government, "female donors who have not been pregnant, or female donors who have been tested since their most recent pregnancy and results interpreted as negative for HLA antibodies" are eligible to donate. A person who has recently recovered from Covid-19, usually develops antibodies against SARS CoV 2 virus and then this is collected and transferred to a sick patient through plasma. Each person can donate 250-500 ml of plasma. The first dosage of 250 ml is given to the recipient, and if needed second dosage of 250 ml after 24 hours can be given.  On first day of the starting of the 'plasma bank' in Delhi, ten people had donated plasma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-with-history-of-pregnancy-not-eligible-to-donate-plasma-in-delhi-doctors-tell-why-856751.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||No job cuts but profiles may change: Railways||The Railways on Friday said certain job profiles of its employees might change in the coming days but asserted that there will be no job losses, a day after the national transporter issued a letter, asking its general managers to slash 50 per cent vacancies and freeze creation of new posts. In an online briefing, Director General (HR) Railway Board, Anand S Khati said the Railways will be "rightsizing and not downsizing". He said due to technological interventions in the national transporter, certain job profiles might change, wherein the personnel will be re-skilled, but there will be no job losses. "We will be rightsizing and not downsizing. Let there be no doubt that the Indian Railways will remain the largest employer in the country. We will move from unskilled to more skilled jobs," he said. He said the order (sent on Thursday) was to surrender non-functional, non-safety vacant posts which would help in creating additional safety posts for new railway infrastructure projects already underway. He asserted that all ongoing recruitment drives for various categories of posts will continue as usual, adding that those posts which have been notified or advertised will not be impacted in any way. The Railways currently has 12,18,335 employees and spends 65 per cent of its income on payment of salaries and pension. Since 2018, the Railways has notified 72,274 vacancies in safety category and 68,366 in non-safety category, taking the total number of vacancies notified to 1,40,640. The letter to the general managers, approved by the Financial Commissioner, Railways said the freezing of new posts, review of posts created in last two years and surrendering of 50 per cent of existing vacancies was part of "an action plan for economic measure and rationalisation of expenditure." The letter led to speculations that the Railways was geared up to downsize its staff. While Khati maintained that there would be no job losses in the national transporter, in a letter dated June 19, the financial commissioner of the Railways had told the general managers of all the zones that the traffic earnings of the national transporter dropped by 58 per cent at the end of May, as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year and that there was a "need to explore new areas of expenditure control and enhancement of earnings". The financial commissioner had also proposed a slew of austerity measures -- freeze in the creation of new posts, rationalisation of manpower at workshops, shifting outsourced work to CSR, moving ceremonial functions to digital platforms and cutting down on use of stationary by 50 per cent. In the letter, the financial commissioner had also advised the zones to control expenditure by reducing staff cost, rationalising staff and also by making them perform multiple tasks. It had also asked the zones to review contracts, reduce energy consumption and cut cost in administrative and other areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-job-cuts-but-profiles-may-change-railways-856762.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Chandigarh's Covid-19 tally reaches 454||Four more people tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh on Friday, taking the tally in the city to 454. The new patients are two members of a family in Khudda Lahora area, a 67-year-old woman from Sector 15 and a 63-year-old man from Sector 21, according to a medical bulletin. Four coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. A total of 393 people have been cured of coronavirus till now, the bulletin said. It said 8,074 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 7,591 people tested negative, while reports of 27 are awaited. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the city stands at 55 and fatalities at six, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, the education department of the Union territory on Friday announced that it will waive off annual and monthly fund charges of students studying in classes 9 and 10 of government schools for the first six months of the 2020-21 academic session.  The one time measure was taken in view of the economic background of the students studying in these schools, a government release said. Around 24,500 students of classes 9 and 10 will be the beneficiary of this decision which will cost the state exchequer Rs 1.70 crore, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chandigarhs-covid-19-tally-reaches-454-856777.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir admin gives financial relief of Rs 5 lakh to man injured in ceasefire violation by Pakistan||A financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh was provided to a man who got injured during a ceasefire violation by the Pakistan Army in January, officials said on Friday. Poonch Deputy Commissioner Rahul Yadav handed over the cash relief to Mohd Shokat of Kossalian Tehsil Haveli, they said. Shokat, an army porter, escaped with critical injuries while two of his associates were killed when they were targeted by the Pakistan Army along the Line of Control (LoC) in Gulpur sector in January this year. He was under treatment at a hospital and was discharged in April, but his case could not be processed due to coronavirus-induced lockdown, a senior official said. The deputy commissioner inquired about his well-being and said that reaching out to the families affected by cross border shelling is among the prime priorities of the district administration. He said the administration is always with the victim and his family in these tough times and all possible efforts will be made to mitigate the sufferings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-admin-gives-financial-relief-of-rs-5-lakh-to-man-injured-in-ceasefire-violation-by-pakistan-856792.html
03-07-2020||North and Central||In Haryana's five NCR districts, 14-fold rise in deaths, 7-fold jump in infections in June||Haryana’s five NCR districts together have registered a 14-fold rise in COVID-19 fatalities and seven-fold jump in cases of infection in June alone, prompting the state government to pay special attention to check the spread of the pandemic in these districts. The five districts under Haryana government’s closer scrutiny are Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat, Jhajjar and Rohtak, said officials. As per the state’s Health Department data, coronavirus-related fatalities in these five districts were 14 as on June 1 but rose to 197 by June 30. The cumulative cases in these districts at the beginning of June were 1,653, which rose to 11,122 by June 30. As on July 2, these five Haryana districts accounted for nearly 12,000 of the total 15,509 cases and 209 of the 251 fatalities. For entire Haryana, the cases of coronavirus infection rose six-fold in June while the fatalities due to it registered an 11-fold increase. Haryana’s NCR districts of Gurgaon and Faridabad have emerged as the worst-hit districts in the state. As on June 1, Gurgaon had 903 cases with four deaths, which increased to 5,347 infections and 91 fatalities by June 30. Similarly, Faridabad had 392 cases with eight fatalities on June 1 which rose to 3,733 cases with 77 fatalities by June 30. At the beginning of the month, Sonipat had 212 cases, Jhajjar 101 and Rohtak 45, which rose to 1,208, 261 and 573, respectively by June end. Fatalities recorded on June 1 in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Rohtak were one, nil and one respectively, which increased to 18, four and seven respectively on June 30, as per the health department data. Overall, total cases in entire Haryana, which has 22 districts, were 2,356 on June 1 with 21 deaths which increased to 14,548 cases with 236 deaths. The positive sign was that recovery rate went up from 44.78 per cent at the beginning of the last month for the entire Haryana to nearly 70 per cent at the end of the month. The rate at which cases double also saw improvement going up from eight days to 15 days. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said the government will increase testing, hospital beds and ventilators to tackle coronavirus infection in these five NCR districts which have been worst-hit by the pandemic. Special attention will be paid to the districts of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak and Jhajjar, Chautala had told reporters after a meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and attended by chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi. To deal with the cases of coronavirus infection in the entire National Capital Region, the Union government and the governments of Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are now working together, Chautala had said. Increasing sampling, better contact-tracing, tracking those with travel history and house-to-house surveys by health workers, especially among the vulnerable sections of society, were some of the measures which the health department was taking to check the spread of infection, officials said. Earlier, as cases continued to rise in Haryana NCR districts, Health Minister Anil Vij had cited movement of people from Delhi into these districts as the reason behind the surge in cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-haryanas-five-ncr-districts-14-fold-rise-in-deaths-7-fold-jump-in-infections-in-june-856814.html
03-07-2020||Opinion||Goodbye to the Wild Wild Web||It felt like a dam breaking, or the changing of a guard. Within a 48-hour period this week, many of the world’s internet giants took steps that would have been unthinkable for them even months earlier. Reddit, which spent most of its life as a lawless free-for-all, banned thousands of forums for hate speech, including the largest pro-Trump forum on the internet. Twitch — an Amazon-owned video-gaming platform not known for its political courage — suspended President Donald Trump’s official account for “hateful conduct,” while YouTube purged a handful of notorious racists and punished a popular creator with a history of problematic videos. Facebook, under pressure from a growing advertiser boycott, took down a network of violent anti-government insurrectionists who had set up shop on its platform. Taken independently, these changes might have felt incremental and isolated — the kind of refereeing and line-drawing that happens every day on social media. But arriving all at once, it felt like something much bigger: a sign that the Wild Wild Web — the tech industry’s decade-long experiment in unregulated growth and laissez-faire platform governance — is coming to an end. In its place, a new culture is taking shape that is more accountable, more self-aware and less willfully naïve than the one that came before it. You can glimpse this shift in the words of technologists like Steve Huffman, the chief executive of Reddit. He said he recently rejected one of the Wild Wild Web’s core values — the idea that private internet platforms exist to provide a forum for all ideas, no matter how toxic. “When we started Reddit 15 years ago, we didn’t ban things,” Huffman told me in an interview this week. “And it was easy, as it is for many young people, to make statements like that because, one, I had more rigid political beliefs and, two, I lacked perspective and real-world experience.” Now, Huffman says he understands that some speech — hate, harassment, bullying — prevents others from speaking, and that a no-limits platform culture often empowers those least committed to civil conversation. It’s a position that reflects a more mature understanding of the dynamics of online communities, and the many ways a powerful platform’s inaction can be weaponized. I don’t mean to suggest that Reddit, or any other tech company, has fully matured, or fixed its problems overnight. (Some companies may be beyond reform, in fact.) But the world is changing, and the tech industry is being forced to change along with it. A tech monoculture that once celebrated its recklessness and irreverence — move fast and break things! — is being pushed aside by a younger and more politically conscious generation of tech workers who actually want their companies’ products to reflect their values. Lawmakers and activists have realized the tech industry’s influence, and they are finding points of leverage to force much-needed reforms. Users are savvier, too, and a generation of young people who grew up on the Wild Wild Web are demanding new rules and more attentive referees. It’s hard to define the Wild Wild Web exactly, or say precisely when it began. I usually mark it as starting in September 2006, when Facebook opened its doors beyond college students and introduced a new feature called the News Feed — a home screen that showed each user a personalized, dynamic list of their friends’ activities. That kind of feed — curated by an algorithm and designed for virality and addiction — coupled with Facebook’s increasingly unmanageable scale created the perfect environment for misbehavior, and became the template for nearly every successful internet company of the 2010s. More recently, the hallmark of the Wild Wild Web became a kind of shoot-first, aim-later approach to corporate strategy. Terms like “permissionless innovation” and “blitzscaling” entered the tech lexicon, and companies used lofty mission statements to paper over their more craven aspirations for dominance and profit. When things went wrong — privacy scandals, legal missteps, the occasional genocide — an apology and a five-point plan to do better next time usually sufficed. The Wild Wild Web hasn’t been all bad. Expanded access to information and convenience, the dismantling of problematic and exclusionary gatekeepers and a decade-plus of economic growth have all been all positive results. But every benefit has come with costs. The same tools that produced personalized recommendations, engagement-optimized feeds and the Internet of Things also produced political polarization, viral misinformation and pervasive surveillance. The internet giants’ unwillingness to make rules (and then, later, their inability to enforce them) empowered a generation of bigots and media manipulators who are now among our most influential public figures. Just like the California gold rush, the Wild Wild Web started an enormous accumulation of personal and corporate power, transforming our social order overnight. Power shifted from the czars of government and the creaky moguls of the Fortune 500 to the engineers who built the machines and the executives who gave them their marching orders. These people were not prepared to run empires, and most of them deflected their newfound responsibility, or pretended to be less powerful than they were. Few were willing to question the 2010s Silicon Valley orthodoxy that connection was a de facto good, even as counter-evidence piled up. There are still some stubborn holdouts. (Facebook, in particular, still appears attached to the narrative that social media simply reflects offline society, rather than driving it.) But among the public, there is no more mistaking Goliaths for Davids. The secret of the tech industry’s influence is out, and the critics who have been begging tech leaders to take more responsibility for their creations are finally being heard. It’s hard to say what caused this change. Joan Donovan, a research director at Harvard Kennedy School’s Shorenstein Center, wrote in Wired that the coronavirus pandemic had helped platform leaders locate their spines by raising the stakes of inaction. “Not so long ago, before the pandemic hit, each platform would only tend to its specific user base, keeping up with a triple bottom line by balancing profits with social and environmental impact,” Donovan wrote. “Now, having witnessed the terrifying results of unchecked medical misinformation, the same companies understand the importance of ensuring access to timely, local, and relevant facts.” The nationwide Black Lives Matter protests, and the calls for racial justice they have inspired, also helped empower rank-and-file tech employees to demand more from their bosses. Two weeks ago, after I wrote that Facebook, Twitter and YouTube were undermining the fight for racial justice, even as their leaders publicly proclaimed support for it, I got dozens of messages from tech employees who were frustrated with their own companies’ hypocrisy. Other motivations may be more practical. Regulators and lawmakers, especially Democrats, are eager to cut Silicon Valley down to size, and some U.S. tech companies may be hedging their bets in case Trump loses his reelection bid in November. The end of the Wild Wild Web may not be all positive, either. The next phase of the internet is likely to be more Balkanized, as countries like China and India tighten their digital borders. Increased scrutiny of social media platforms in the United States may cause them to splinter along ideological lines, in ways that will increase polarization and civic unrest. There is no guarantee that the new rules will be fairly applied, or that the new algorithms won’t end up supporting some other form of anti-social behavior. But there is no turning back. The people who build transformative technologies can no longer credibly claim that their creations are “just tools,” any more than Supreme Court justices can claim that their opinions are “just words.” Governments that once embraced innovation as an unalloyed good — like India, which this week banned TikTok and dozens of other Chinese-owned apps to protect its “sovereignty and integrity” — now recognize, correctly, that letting someone else build your apps is tantamount to letting them shape your society. Users, too, are ready to live in a more responsible internet. They understand that there are drawbacks to lawlessness, and that scale is no excuse for negligence. To the people who loved the Wild Wild Web — and, for a time, I was one of them — the coming wave of change may feel like the bittersweet end of an era. There was something romantic and thrilling about the idea of a digital realm that carried none of the baggage of the physical world, that played by different rules and obeyed different authorities. But the internet is no longer a world distinct and apart from the physical world. We all live online, and it’s long past time for the world on our screens to be managed as thoughtfully, and with as much accountability, as our roads and schools and hospitals. The Wild Wild Web may be over, but the real building has just begun.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/goodbye-to-the-wild-wild-web-856477.html
03-07-2020||Opinion||What explains BJP’s Priyanka Gandhi gambit?||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was asked to vacate her large 35, Lodhi Estate bungalow by the Central government on Wednesday. The move was not completely unexpected, but given her status, it was bound to generate political heat. And it has. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) faithful will, no doubt, be expected to marvel at the audacity of it. They are supposed to note how once again the BJP has exposed and acted against the family that has allegedly milked the country dry with their entitled ways. Do we hear cheering in the background? Now, mind you, this is no defence of Priyanka Gandhi. For the younger Gandhi scion cannot easily be counted among ‘victims’ given the stories of her husband Robert Vadra's lavish lifestyle and their rumoured wealth. She could have saved herself the embarrassment had she shifted out of the government accommodation after the Special Protection Group (SPG) cover to the Gandhi family was withdrawn late last year. Now buzz has it that she is almost packed to move to Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow where she will occupy her great-grandaunt Sheila Kaul’s old house. It seems like the BJP was one step ahead of her, trying to make her entry into UP look disgraceful rather than giving her the chance to milk the homecoming. All this might look like political jousting and perhaps we could have let it go at that, but the timing of the current incident deserves closer examination. Here’s why: The BJP’s top leadership is by now close to perfecting a politics of baiting voters with an ‘enemy’ who must be vanquished by Narendra Modi. And as the border confrontation with China heats up and the Covid-19 situation shows little sign of improving in the short run, what better diversion can there be than pulling out an old phantom and giving it a good thrashing? After all, Priyanka Gandhi is not going to get any public sympathy for being thrown out of a sprawling Lutyens' bungalow, practically being paid for with taxpayer money. For the BJP leadership, a domestic enemy —  in this case, the Gandhis, — is much easier to handle than an unpredictable external one like China. And there are very real and damaging consequences to allowing the public to demand a pound of the ‘real enemy’s’ flesh. It is easier to throw a punch at Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and be praised for it. The public’s appetite for muscular action is at once satiated. Notice also that Priyanka’s eviction notice comes just a day after the banning of 59 Chinese apps, a move that was also aimed at sending out the signal that this is a tough government. Returning to the Gandhis, the letter to Priyanka Gandhi also serves another function, namely, that of sending a strong signal to all the three members of the Gandhi family that they cannot hope to shape the narrative on China. Both Sonia and Rahul Gandhi have been rather vocal about the government’s mismanagement of the border situation with China over the past few weeks. Over the years Modi and Shah have created a constituency of supporters by conjuring up enemies whom they alone can fight and dismantle. Their anti-Muslim rhetoric is rooted in this mode. This is also the template they used to great effect in the 2014 and 2019 elections when the Gandhis were targeted time and again. It’s been the Congress’ singular failure that it has not been able to counter this narrative. This is, in part — a big part — because it is primarily a dynastic operation and has nothing to offer as defence against this charge. By now the BJP has created many such fronts on which the enemy can be fought: There are battles to be waged against ‘urban naxals’ , the ‘tukde-tukde gang’ and more recently ‘anti-CAA activists’, many of whom have been arrested under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act that is intended for use against terrorists.  The cult of personality around Modi makes it much harder than usual to examine the BJP leadership’s actions closely. But it must be done if we have to rescue ourselves from the fable of victimisation that has been sold to us over and over again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-explains-bjp-s-priyanka-gandhi-gambit-856518.html
03-07-2020||Panorama||Permission for closure under Industrial Disputes Act a mirage||Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution grants the fundamental right to a person to practice any profession or calling, including starting an industry. A consequential right to close the industry has also been recognised by various courts including the apex court. However, restrictions on this right are placed on the grounds of public policy under Article 19(6) of the Constitution. One manifestation of this restriction is under Section 25(O) of Chapter V-B of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (ID Act), which deals with closure apart from lay-off and retrenchment, that provides for an elaborate procedure to close down an industry employing 100 or more workmen. The procedure requires prior permission from the authority, to be sought at least 90 days in advance clearly stating the reasons for closure of industry. Although the closure procedure looks simple, it is riddled with hurdles, wasting resources and causing a long-drawn court process. Invariably, the application seeking permission to close the industry is not granted even when there are strong reasons to justify closure. A misplaced sympathy towards the retrenched employees seems to guide the authority forgetting that the benefit of quick redeployment of capital into productive activities far outweighs the temporary pain of retrenchment. Denial of permission by the authority entitles the employer for a review but rarely does the authority retract its decision, leaving the employer to wait for one more year to re-apply for closure. Meanwhile, the employer is obliged to pay full wages and all other benefits to his workmen, eroding the already unviable unit further. Many employers file a writ petition challenging the denial of permission to close. However, given the large backlog of cases in the courts, it takes 5–10 years before a decision is available, further eroding the value of the unit. Even if permission for closure is granted by the authority, trade unions invariably file writ petitions in the High Court challenging the grant of permission and seeking status quo, which the courts generally grant. The employer is back to square one. A case in point is the recent attempt by Parle group to close down its Bengaluru unit: A household name in biscuits, one of Parle’s 17 factories was in Bengaluru since 2001. The industrial climate was relatively peaceful until the end of March 2007. Thereafter, the workmen struck work for 3½ half months. Though the High Court directed the workmen to give a collective undertaking to maintain discipline and resume normal production, the truce did not last long. One more round of litigation followed, with the suspension of one workman. Protesting workmen stopped work midway, causing extensive damage to in-process material and finished products, i.e., biscuits. Egged on by the union, workmen resorted to obstructing movement of men and material. The government intervened and work resumed from September 28, 2012. 400 days were lost to strike. The situation continued to be grim, with workmen reporting to work wearing rings and chains and consuming gutka, paan, etc., in violation of food safety norms, forcing the management to dismiss six workmen. The agitating workmen protesting the dismissal stayed put in the factory for 50 days preparing food inside using LPG, having bath and even consuming alcohol within the factory. The High Court, taking a serious note of this free-for-all by the workmen directed them to obey interim orders and not take law into their hands. With great difficulty, the management evicted the striking workmen. The financial loss due to stoppage of production was around Rs 7 crore. The management thereafter had no choice but to declare lock-out on March 15, 2013, followed by an application to close the factory on June 6, 2013, under Section 25(O) of the ID Act. After a lengthy hearing, the Authority granted permission for closure of the factory on September 9, 2013, noting that for frivolous reasons, 190 workmen had abandoned work for 450 days in a span of 1½ years. The Authority said: “regarding the genuineness and adequacy of the reasons stated by the employer, which I feel in the present case is substantially and adequately proved beyond doubt, the intention of the employer is not to be in business and suffer further financial losses and industrial unrest in the unit.” After the closure order, all the workmen were paid closure compensation and Gratuity as required under the ID Act. The matter should have ended there but for the writ petition filed by the labour union seeking to quash the closure order which is still pending. After closure, the management shifted some machinery. A few big machines remain to be shifted, a task that has been held up pending final disposal of the writ petition. The enormous loss due to delay and hurdles faced by the management begs the question as to what purpose is served by a law that neither allows an employer to run his factory smoothly nor close down an unviable factory. The cause for this sorry state of affairs lies in Chapter 5B of the ID Act, which places an unconscionable burden on the employer employing 100 or more workmen. Unfortunately, the same Chapter 5B finds place as Chapter X under the newly proposed Industrial Relations Code 2020 (IR Code). If India has to attract large investments, it is imperative that Chapter 5-B must be scrapped. No other country in the world, including China, has such provisions. The phenomenal growth of the software industry in India was possible because software companies are not ‘factories’ and come under the definition of ‘establishment’ under the Shops and Commercial Establishments Act and have been kept out of the Chapter 5-B provisions. India has paid a very high price by delaying reforms in the labour laws. Even the reforms being attempted now are only half-hearted. No investor likes to get entangled in endless legal hurdles due to the impractical provisions contained in Chapter 5-B. It is high time the government woke up and provided a labour regime that encourages massive investments to flow into Indian industry. (The writer is an advocate and president, Karnataka Employers’ Association)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/permission-for-closure-under-industrial-disputes-act-a-mirage-856408.html
03-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Greying gracefully||The most distinguished people are those who do not interfere in others affairs. On the contrary, meddling is synonymous with several people and I know. One asks Why do you dye your hair? What is wrong in looking your age? Yet another would ask --why did you not dye your hair; do you want to project your wiseness? People with low self-esteem are likely to shrink from evaluation and avoid exacerbating their wounded self-esteem. I often say kids say the darnedest things, but adults can be ruder. Such incidents always remind me of the three wise monkeys--see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil. For me they have always symbolized, not speaking badly, ignoring or looking away from someone who insults you, and refraining from speaking badly about yourself. I try to keep that philosophy in mind when I encounter rude people, but I am pretty snarky when I want to be. I try to remain true to my personal vision and try not to pay heed to biased opinions. Having spent sufficient time trying to enhance the self-image and squandering energy to find my ideal self, I feel quite quaint now. Gratified with who I am, decided to grit my teeth, stop dyeing my hair, stop living as if my primary value was in how I was being perceived and stop participating in this ritual, I resent. I have made peace with the diminishment of virility and made a sane decision about tonsorial future. However, I was sure everyone is looking at me. I’d preempt their imagined judgment by announcing that I was growing out my grey on purpose, calling even more attention to the ugly little band of salt-and-pepper strands straddling my part. Acceptance is deliverance. Now I am delightfully counting the sprouting greys. I spot new strands frequently, and for some reason, they delight me. Each seems like a small victory, a sign of arrival. I don’t know which of life’s many stresses prompted the change, or if it’s just, well, age, but I consider their presence a kind of triumph. They show I’m a survivor and seem like a tribute to my strength. Ditching the dye has liberated me in more ways than one and I couldn’t give a toss of my silver mane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/greying-gracefully-856406.html
03-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Statue of Liberty: A statue for all seasons ||Statues are in the spotlight! Proud personages, in the history of the United States, regarded as racist, are — quite literally — being knocked off their pedestals. Christopher Columbus is among them. I recall an illustration, in a school textbook, of that Italian explorer at the court of King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain. Those mighty monarchs sponsored Columbus’s voyage across the Atlantic that culminated in his ‘discovery of America’. I neither doubted that his arrival was significant nor asked how a land that had never been lost could be found. Such issues are now being addressed by — among other methods — the toppling of statues.  The country’s most iconic image is immune to ignominy. As its name proclaims, the Statue of Liberty embodies enfranchisement. The famous figure is depicted treading on broken shackles, symbolising freedom from bondage. Sculptor Bartholdi’s magnificent masterpiece was presented to the Americans by the people of France, in 1866. Slavery had been abolished in the USA, just a year before. I have been fascinated by the Statue of Liberty ever since I watched a film, in the early 1960s, featuring that majestic monument. I could barely follow Alfred Hitchcock’s ‘Saboteur’, but remember the climax. Two men are fighting on the lofty viewing platform of the torch. One of them falls over the railings and plunges to his death. I learnt all I could about the Statue of Liberty and later acquired a postage stamp that portrayed it. I had a pen-friend in the US called Carol, and since both of us were budding philatelists, we occasionally exchanged stamps. I was more excited to receive the small purple one with the statue than others that looked more impressive.  Carol lived in a place known, somewhat strangely, as Great Neck. When she told me that it was not far from the island home of the Statue of Liberty, I enquired whether she visited it every day. She must have thought me incredibly naive but mailed me a beautiful picture-postcard. “Why don’t you come here and see it for yourself?” she wrote. That was over fifty-six years ago, but I am in no hurry. I know that if I ever make it to the US, although several sculptures may have tumbled with time, the Lady of Liberty awaits me. She stands in stately splendour, a statue for all seasons!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/statue-of-liberty-a-statue-for-all-seasons-856786.html
03-07-2020||Second Edit||Vladimir Putin, the perpetual President||Russian voters have endorsed constitutional reforms that will allow President Vladimir Putin to remain in power until 2036. Under the reforms, he can contest elections for two more six-year terms. This means that Putin, 67, could remain in the presidency till 2036. The road to his becoming Russia’s President-in-perpetuity has been cleared of an important obstacle – a limit on the number of terms he can serve as president.  A former KGB spy, Putin became prime minister in 1999 and since then he has ruled Russia as its President for the most part, with a second stint as Prime Minister between 2008 and 2012. The vote to amend the constitution was held with a great sense of urgency, in the midst of the raging Covid-19 pandemic in Russia, four years before Putin’s current term ends and at a time when his popularity ratings are at a historic low.    Removal of term limits to the presidency was just one among several issues that voters were asked to give a yes/no answer to. The package of amendments that was up for endorsement included a boost to pension and minimum wages, a ban on same-sex marriages, the inclusion of ''a belief in God'' as a core value in the Russian constitution, etc. Many of those who endorsed the reforms may have supported a boost in pensions rather than allowing Putin to remain in power till 2036. The referendum was marred by massive irregularities, too. It was not a fair exercise; the Kremlin used the Covid-19 lockdown to prevent opposition leaders from campaigning. Voters were bribed with lavish gifts to support the reforms. The voting was partly online; critics say that without a paper trail, it was impossible for them to monitor the process. Referendums, especially ones with an all-or-nothing package such as in Russia, are not democratic as they do not give voters a real choice of candidates. However, by allowing citizens to vote, they provide a veneer of public consultation to what is really an undemocratic process. Putin has cleverly used this route to perpetuate himself in power. He is neither the first nor the only leader to use this route. Maldivian President Maumoon Gayoom used referendums to remain in power for 30 years. As worrying is the manner in which leaders like Putin are crushing opposition parties and undermining democratic institutions like the media and the election commission to perpetuate themselves in power. Elections are just a cosmetic exercise to give authoritarian leaders democratic legitimacy. Several countries, including India, seem to be heading down this illiberal road. Putin’s path to remaining in power cannot hide the fact that his rule is authoritarian and illiberal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/vladimir-putin-the-perpetual-president-856404.html
03-07-2020||Second Edit||DKS has a plan, he needs a new image||DK Shivakumar, who took over as the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president on Thursday, may have breathed some life into the party state unit by galvanising both leaders and grassroots workers, forcing even the ruling BJP to take notice. Shivakumar may have made a good beginning with the hugely successful virtual swearing-in ceremony which, the party claims, was watched by some 16 lakh people on various platforms. However, he cannot afford to rest on that success. For one, he would do well to constantly guard his back. Congressmen, as he doubtless knows, have a penchant for pulling each other down, ignoring the larger interests of the party. Two declarations -- that he would convert Congress into a cadre-based party, and that he would take all sections along instead of being the lone ranger that he is often accused of being -- are significant. The commitment of the average Congressman to the party and its ideals leaves much to be desired. Shivakumar’s promise to recognise booth-level workers may go a long way in reviving the party. Shivakumar is a go-getter who has for long been the trouble-shooter of the Congress, and the Karnataka BJP, which too has become lifeless, cannot be complacent. The Yediyurappa government has lost much of its sheen, mainly due to the evident unpreparedness in handling the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases, thereby negating the initial gains. While Yediyurappa remains firmly in the saddle for now, a succession war has broken out in the shadows, with some ministers and party leaders working at cross-purposes to discredit the chief minister and show him in poor light. Meanwhile, state party president Nalin Kumar Kateel seems to have failed to inspire confidence in the cadres. As the state passes through the coronavirus crisis and then begins to face the reality of its finances, the going may get tougher for the government and the ruling party. Shivakumar has his task cut out: to bring Congress to power in the state. If that happens, he would be the natural choice to be chief minister, a dream he has long cherished. The stakes are high for him and the party. Thus, it is important that he makes himself more acceptable within his own party and to the people at large. In addition, he should not only rid the KPCC of undesirable elements who are deeply entrenched, but should surround himself with people of integrity and character who are aligned with the goals and principles of the party and not guided by purely selfish motives. But first, he should emerge as a team player and team builder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/dks-has-a-plan-he-needs-a-new-image-856783.html
03-07-2020||South||97-year-old woman dies of Covid-19 in Puducherry: 24 new cases reported||A 97-year-old woman died of Covid-19, while 24 new cases were reported, taking the toll to 13 and the infection tally to 824 in the Union Territory on Friday, the government said. The woman died at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college (IGGMC) hospital on Thursday, a government bulletin said, giving details of coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, ended at 10 AM. A total of 633 samples were tested, of which 24 turned out to be positive, taking the total number of cases to 824. The active cases stood at 427, while 384 patients have been discharged so far, the bulletin said. The 24 patients were admitted to hospitals in Puducherry and Karaikal and among them three were aged less than 18 years, while the others were in the 18-60 age group, it said. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters through video conferencing that 17,645 of the total of 18,791 samples tested had turned out to be negative. The results of the other samples were awaited, he said. Rao feared that with the easing of curbs from Friday there was the possibility of Puducherry witnessing more number of positive cases as movement of people would gather momentum. He warned private hospitals against going back on their commitment to admit Covid-19 patients and said if they did so, the government would write to the Centre to take action against them. The Minister said government run hospitals were adequately equipped to meet any contingency for the next six months and were ready to treat all those who approached the institutions for testing and follow up care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/97-year-old-woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-puducherry-24-new-cases-reported-856502.html
03-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh records 837 fresh Covid-19 cases, toll crosses 200-mark||Andhra Pradesh's aggregate number of coronavirus cases stood at 16,934 on Friday as 837 were added afresh in the last 24 hours. A recorded 38,898 samples were tested in the last 24 hours of which 837 turned out to be positive. The Covid-19 toll touched 206 as eight new fatalities were reported in the state, the latest bulletin said. In the last 24 hours, 258 Covid-19 patients were also discharged from hospitals upon recovery. Kurnool accounted for four fresh deaths in the last 24 hours while Chittoor recorded two and Krishna and East Godavari one each, the bulletin said. With the total number of recoveries touching 7,632 so far, the state has 9,096 active cases now. Out of the cumulative 16,934 cases, 14,414 were locals, 2,111 from other states and 409 foreign returnees. According to government data, the state so far completed a sum of 9.71 lakh tests at the rate of 18,195 per million. As the number of cases has been growing, the positivity rate increased to 1.74 per cent while the recovery rate dropped further to 45.07 per cent. Mortality rate stood at 1.22 per cent, as per the data on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-records-837-fresh-covid-19-cases-toll-crosses-200-mark-856579.html
03-07-2020||South||Cooperate with govt, adopt norms of lockdown: CM V Narayanasamy to businessmen||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Friday called upon businessmen in the Union Territory to ensure they and their staff followed norms of Covid-19 lockdown. The shopowners and their employees should wear masks and maintain social distancing to check the spread of the virus. They should also see to it that customers visiting the shops also followed the norms, he told reporters here through a virtual conference. The Chief Minister asked the officials concerned not to resort to sealing the shops for failure to follow lockdown norms. "The defaulting shopowners could be warned and a fine may be levied. Sealing the shops is not advisable," he said. Underscoring the need for ramping up tests for Covid-19 in the Union Territory, the Chief Minister said more the testing, the faster would be identification of the prevalence of the infection among the people. As part of the efforts to conduct larger number of tests, the government had pressed into service mobile- testing units in Puducherry and Karaikal regions, he said. The government-run hospitals in Villianoor and Karikalambakkam would be equipped with the facility for testing of swabs, he said. The Chief Minister appealed to privately-run medical colleges to cooperative with the government and take up swab test. Narayanasamyhad visited Karaikal on Thursday, along with Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao and other Ministers, for reviewing the anti-Covid-19 steps taken there. He said the border points linking Karaikal limits with neighbouring Tamil Nadu pockets of Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai had been brought under close vigil and instructions given to seal the border to keep flow of people from outside under check.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cooperate-with-govt-adopt-norms-of-lockdown-cm-v-narayanasamy-to-businessmen-856589.html
03-07-2020||South||Stray dog accident victim's family gets Rs 18 lakh compensation in Kerala||The family of a person killed in a road accident caused by a stray dog at Palakkad district in Kerala has been given a compensation of Rs 18 lakh. The Ottappalam municipality, about 35 kilometres from Palakkad town, granted the compensation, as per the recommendation of a Supreme Court appointed committee, to the family of Saidalavi, who died nine years ago. His wife Fathima will receive the compensation. The Justice Siri Jagan committee appointed by the Supreme Court to study the stray dog menace and recommend compensations has ordered the compensation. Justice Jagan told DH that compensations were fixed considering factors like the nature of injuries and the loss being suffered by the injured and his dependents. Even much higher amounts of Rs. 20 lakh and more were awarded in some other cases earlier. Saidalavi who was into textile business suffered the fatal accident in 2011 February at Ottapalam after his vehicle collided with a stray dog. The vehicle insurance firm denied due compensation citing that no other vehicle was involved in the accident. Hence, the family approached the committee and got an order in their favour. The municipality authorities said that the municipality decided to implement the order, even as there was option to challenge it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stray-dog-accident-victims-family-gets-rs-18-lakh-compensation-in-kerala-856592.html
03-07-2020||South||Kerala govt to come out with stringent norms against Covid-19||The Kerala government on Friday decided to implement strict restrictions in the state capital and Ernakulam district, among others, where Covid-19 positive cases and the number of those infected through contacts is on the rise. State Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran told reporters here that the city Corporation has decided to implement strict health protocol in the capital city with the number of cases shooting up. The city Corporation has taken steps to contain the pandemic. It has taken steps to disinfect the Saphalyam shopping complex and the Palayam Connemara market. Other major shopping malls and institutions have been brought under scanner for stringent compliance of health protocol, Surendran said. He said the state government has given strict instruction to the district administrations to take stern action, including cancellation of licence of those shops and other institutions which refuse to adhere to the health protocol. The Corporation had this morning disinfected the Connemara market and the Saphalyam shopping complex after an employee of a major store in the complex tested positive. As of now, 18 wards of the Corporation have been categorised as hotspots.  The situation in Ernakulam has also forced the state government to declare containment zones in any part of the district. Ernakulam had 191 patients till Thursday. "We will implement strict health protocol as the cases are increasing. Registration of the vehicles which violate the Covid-19 protocol will be cancelled," Agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar told the media at Ernakulam. People need to be more careful about the situation. The shops must not be crowded and all norms should be strictly followed. People should also not venture out unnecessarily, he said. On Thursday, the state's Covid-19 tally touched 4,753, with 160 fresh cases. In what could be some relief, 202 people have been cured, the highest single-day recovery so far. Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam reported nine cases each on Thursday and there are at least 123 hotspots in the state. Palakkad has the highest number of positive cases 249, while Malappuram accounts for 226 cases, Kannur 217 and Pathanamthitta 206.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-to-come-out-with-stringent-norms-against-covid-19-856617.html
03-07-2020||South||Inspector held in Sathankulam case tried all tricks to evade arrest||Shifting locations and changing vehicles, Sathankulam Inspector of Police Sridhar played hide and seek with CB-CID sleuths before being arrested in the sensational case of father-son deaths following alleged custodial torture in this southern district in Tamil Nadu. In the end, the relentless pursuit and meticulous planning by the specialised Crime Branch-CID personnel with the help of local police helped them outwit the suspended inspector who tried to evade arrest on sensing that he was under the radar, a police official privy to the probe said. P Jeyaraj and his son Bennicks, running a mobile phone shop, were allegedly tortured at the Sathankulam station recently under inspector Sridhar's nose and the duo later died in a hospital, triggering a nation-wide outrage and calls for strong action against the police personnel. Amid charges of cover-up attempts, the CB-CID police took over the probe on Wednesday on the directions of the Madras High Court and arrested Sridhar, two sub-inspectors and a head-constable based on preliminary investigations and slapped murder charges. Sridhar started shifting his location days ago after it became clear that he would be arrested in the case following suspension, the official told PTI. Initially, though the inspector had sent word that he would make himself available to the authorities for questioning, he did not turn up, the official said. Eventually, he became evasive and shifted locations often and changed vehicles to travel. A wireless message, meanwhile, asking police personnel manning district border checkposts to be on guard to spot the accused went viral on the social media. The photographs of the police personnel were shared with those manning the checkposts by authorities, the official said. Though they could nab the others, several teams of the CB-CID in addition to local police units here and neighbouring districts could not spot Sridhar despite efforts and it later emerged that he had successfully given police the slip in locations, including Kayathar in this district. After shuttling between one place to another, Sridhar finally reached neighbouring Tirunelveli on Wednesday with the alleged support of a political personality. "He did not have any intention to surrender before authorities though he claimed that it was his idea," the official said. Based on intelligence inputs that he was leaving Tirunelveli in a "specific car," to an undisclosed location, his vehicle was intercepted early on Thursday at Gangaikondan checkpost on the highway towards Madurai. "We tracked him, followed his car and managed to detain him at Gangaikondan and he was brought to Tuticorin," he added. Following questioning, Sridhar was arrested and later produced before the Chief Judicial Magistriate court here which remanded him to judicial custody. Three other policemen have also been remanded. Meanwhile, a senior CB-CID official scotched speculation that constable Muthuraj, also wanted in the case, has "come forward to be an approver" in the case. The official told PTI that the claim was not true adding efforts were afoot to apprehend him. "We will arrest Muthuraj soon," he said. A petition would be filed in a court here to take all the accused into police custody "in a couple of days," to take forward the investigation, he said. Jeyaraj and his son Bennicks were arrested on June 19 for alleged violation of prohibitory orders in force due to Covid-19 lockdown by keeping their mobile phone shop beyond the allowed time. After being remanded to judicial custody by a magistrate next day, the two were lodged in the Kovilpatti sub-jail. They were admitted at a government hospital in Kovilpatti by jail authorities on June 22 and died in the space of a few hours. Their family has alleged that the two were severely beaten up in the police station, which was later coroborated by a woman head constable who told a magisterial probe that the other personnel kept thrashing the father and son throughout the night. In the backdrop of outrage against their deaths following alleged police brutality, Chief Minister K Palaniswami had on June 28 announced a CBI probe. However, pending the central agency taking over the case, the high court directed the CB-CID to step in, apprehending disappearance of evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/inspector-held-in-sathankulam-case-tried-all-tricks-to-evade-arrest-856648.html
03-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 4,329 Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 1 lakh-mark||Tamil Nadu on Friday crossed the grim milestone of one lakh Covid-19 cases with the state reporting 4,329 fresh infections and 64 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 1,385. The new cases took the state's virus tally to 1,02,721, the health department said in its bulletin. Out of the 4,329 new cases, 2,082 were from Chennai alone. The total number of those who recovered grew to 58,378, with 2,357 people being discharged from health care institutions on Friday. With the government ramping up testing, 35,028 samples were tested today, pushing the count to 12,70,720. According to the bulletin, there are 42,955 active cases in the state including those in isolation wards. Sixty-five people who tested positive today are returnees from various locations, according to the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-4329-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-1-lakh-mark-856655.html
03-07-2020||South||Custodial deaths: Plea in SC to restrain Tamil Nadu CM from holding home portfolio||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court to restrain the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister from holding the home portfolio till completion of investigation and trial in Sathankulam twin custodial death case. Petitioner, A Rajarajan also sought a further direction to investigate the role of the chief minister in screening and safeguarding the accused police persons at initial stage by giving an open press statement on June 24. He claimed prima facie it appears that Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy, acting in contrary to law and acting in derogation to the constitutional post he held, indulged in saving the persons accused of custodial torture which resulted in a twin death. On June 22, 2020 at around 9 pm a person namely Bennicks aged around 31 years died in Kovilpatti Government Hospital and on next date, at around 5.40 am victim's father Jeyaraj aged around 63 years also died in the same hospital. Family members of the deceased persons alleged that the victims were subjected to severe physical torture by the police personnel belonging to Sathankulam police station in Tuticorin before remanding them in a criminal case. The CBCID had arrested five police personnel on July 2. The chief minister, however, gave a public statement in the press meet that the deceased persons had died due to illness and thereby ruled out foul play. The statement was "highly improper, condemnable and contrary to law" because the investigation was still pending. The petitioner claimed the purpose of his statement was to "safeguard the accused persons and prevent any adverse remark about his government since the accused police personnel were coming under the ministry held by the chief minister. "The chief minister may also be charged under provisions of IPC offences since he was actively involved in screening and safeguarding the accused persons involved in Section 302 IPC by using his official capacity. A free and fair investigation is not at all possible under his administrative leadership," the petitioner claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/custodial-deaths-plea-in-sc-to-restrain-tamil-nadu-cm-from-holding-home-portfolio-856664.html
03-07-2020||South||Kerala to press Central goverment over international tribunal’s decision that the two Italian Navy personnel||Kerala government will press the Centre to move against the international tribunal’s decision that the two Italian Navy personnel accused of killing two fishermen could not be prosecuted in India. Even while welcoming the tribunal decision that Italy will have to give compensation to the families of fishermen, the decision that the two marines could not be prosecuted in Kerala was unacceptable, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Opposition Congress has alleged that the Centre failed to ensure prosecution of the two marines. Congress leader Oommen Chandy said that his government in 2012 had held the marines and charged murder case against the two and the then UPA government at the centre’s strong stand led to setback to the Italian marines from High Court and Supreme Court. But it was criminal lapse on the part of the centre in properly pursuing the case at the international tribunal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-press-central-goverment-over-international-tribunal-s-decision-that-the-two-italian-navy-personnel-856689.html
03-07-2020||South||Woman’s search for husband in hospital ends with his body being found in mortuary a week later||In a case of apathy and mixup in the government hospitals during the ongoing pandemic, a 63-year-old Covid-19 suspect "missing" from a Vijayawada hospital has been found dead after a week in the mortuary. The patient – Vasantha Rao – was admitted in the government general hospital in Vijayawada on June 24, after he complained of hiccups and gasping. According to Dhana Lakshmi, Rao’s wife, she took him to a private hospital first and to another government facility, which sent them to the GGH, the designated treatment hospital for Covid-19. “I provided the personnel there his name, my father-in-law’s name, mobile number etc., details. They asked for aadhaar number, which we do not remember. I searched for it as my husband always carries it, but it was not in his shirt pocket that day,” Lakshmi said. “He was later taken inside in a wheelchair by the nurses saying his pulse was down and needed oxygen. Barred from going inside, I waited there till evening and was then told to go home and come the next day with the Aadhaar card (for details registration),” she said. But Lakshmi said she could not find Rao anywhere in the hospital when she returned the next day. After a frantic search for four days, she complained to the police on June 29. Though police probe and the CCTV footage established that Rao was taken inside, hospital staff claimed they have no record of Rao’s admittance there. “We searched every inch of the five-floor building for him. Today afternoon, his body was finally found in the mortuary,” P Venkateshwarlu, inspector, Vijayawada One-Town Police Station told DH. Till Friday, a frail and hapless Lakshmi was searching for Rao holding a "Please Find My Husband" poster with the couple’s photo and a CCTV grab of him in a wheelchair in the hospital. According to the police, the muddle is a case of non-entry or wrong entry of the name, in absence of the Aadhaar card. “Now-a-days, Aadhaar has become a must. What happened was unfortunate but if the hospital staff had denied him treatment because of this reason, it would have been more tragic,” Venkateshwarlu said. The inspector said that Rao’s death occurred on June 25 morning and his tests came negative for Covid-19 later. As his wife and relatives expressed their inability to take the body for the last rites, we have intimated the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation officials for the body’s cremation, the policeman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-s-search-for-husband-in-hospital-ends-with-his-body-being-found-in-mortuary-a-week-later-856743.html
03-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt extends free ration to family cardholders for July||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday announced that the free ration for family cardholders will be continued for July, too, and that tokens for obtaining the essential commodities will be distributed at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries from July 6 to 9. This is in view of the lockdown to contain Covid-19 having been extended till this month-end. The essentials could be obtained from the respective fair price shops from July 10 at the time stipulated on the tokens. However, for the benefit of those in the containment zones, arrangements have been made to deliver the essential commodities at their doorsteps, an official release here said. Chief Minister K Palaniswami had announced free essential commodities to ration cardholders in the State during the lockdown in April and May, and later extended the relief measure to June. The state government had doubled the rice entitlement of all rice-drawing ration cardholders in Tamil Nadu for three months, as a measure to mitigate the hardship imposed due to the shutdown, in alignment with the governments policy of universal public distribution system (UPDS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-extends-free-ration-to-family-cardholders-for-july-856744.html
03-07-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Kerala to tighten restrictions as local Covid-19 spread increases||As Kerala recorded a further higher single-day new Covid-19 cases — 211— on Friday and the number of new cases through local contact increasing, stringent lockdown measures were being reimposed at many places, including the state capital. Meanwhile, 201 more people have recovered from the infection. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that stringent restrictions would be put in place on movement of people and gatherings at places were the local spread is high. Stringent action would be taken against those flouting quarantine norms. The state was anticipating a spike in cases from those returning from abroad and other states, but is trying to keep spread through local contact at the lowest possible. Of the 211 fresh cases on Thursday, 138 people came from abroad and 39 from other states. As many as 27 got infected through local contact, which is the highest single-day number of fresh cases through local contact in the state. Six CISF personnel and one airline crew were also infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-kerala-to-tighten-restrictions-as-local-covid-19-spread-increases-856761.html
03-07-2020||State||Dakshina Kannada records 90 new Covid-19 cases, 14 get virus in Udupi||A 48-year-old male from Bantwal, who was admitted as a SARI case in a private hospital on June 27, died on Wednesday. The swab samples collected after his death tested positive to Covid-19 on Thursday. With the Bantwal youth’s death, the number of deaths due to Coronavirus increased to 18 in the district. On Thursday, a record 90 out of 130 people tested positive to Covid-19 on Thursday. Among the 90 Covid-19 positive patients, included eight children aged below 15 years. Among the 90 Covid-19 positive patients, 15 were from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, 14 were ILI, 8 SARI cases. The contacts of 15 patients are being traced. As many as 428 Covid-19 positive patients are being treated at the Covid Wenlock and other private hospitals. 33 patients were discharged from the hospital on Thursday, taking the total of discharges to 477 patients. Four Covid-19 positive patients including two women were shifted to ICU. A 57-year-old woman suffering from the liver problem and 78-year-old male suffering from Parkinsons disease were in a serious condition, hospital sources told DH. 1,090 discharged so far Total 14 patients tested positive to Covid-19 in Udupi district on Thursday. With the new cases, the number of patients testing positive to Corona increased to 1,242. Of the 14 cases, four of them have travel history to Maharashtra, four of them to Bengaluru, one has travel history to Kerala, and four contracted the infection through local people who had tested positive to Covid-19. The source of infection of one person was yet to be traced by the Health Department. As many as 1,090 patients had been discharged so far and 143 Covid-19 positive cases are being treated in the Covid Hospital. Around 938 swab samples are pending for results. 13,450 out of 15,630 samples had tested negative. 16 patients were admitted to isolation wards. There are as many as 1,012 persons under home quarantine in the district as on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dakshina-kannada-records-90-new-covid-19-cases-14-get-virus-in-udupi-856383.html
03-07-2020||State||Nisargadhama to close till July 31||Following an increase in Covid-19 cases, Dr. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama in Pachhanady will be closed to the public from July 4 to 31. A press release from Nisargadhama stated that the crowd visiting Nisargadhama also was reduced to a trickle due to monsoon and Covid scare. Thus it was decided to ban entry of public upto July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nisargadhama-to-close-till-july-31-856387.html
03-07-2020||State||Mescom releases compensation||An amount of Rs 56.26 lakh was released as compensation to those who died or suffered injuries due to electrocution, Mescom managing director Snehal Rayamane said on Thursday. At least 65 people including two staff from Mescom were electrocuted the previous year. 33 people had suffered injuries, she said. Mescom chief engineer (Electrical) Manjappa said there were increasing instances of people being electrocuted while switching on the irrigation pump set or while using wet grinder, washing machine and even while ironing clothes. He appealed to the farmers to ensure that the wiring of the IP set had not deteriorated. He appealed consumers with AEH homes to install earth leakage circuit breakers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mescom-releases-compensation-856389.html
03-07-2020||State||‘No shortage of funds for final rites of Covid-19 victims’||There is no shortage of funds to perform the last rites of the people who succumbed to Covid-19. The district disaster relief funds will be utilised towards the same, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said. The final rites of the deceased patients will be carried out by the district Covid-19 death disposal team as per the standard guidelines. Separate lands have been earmarked in Somvarpet, Madikeri and Virajpet taluks, for the last rites. Earlier, two more positive cases had surfaced from Balagunda region of Karkalli in Kodagu district on Wednesday evening. The 47-year-old male and 37-year-old female, both natives of Balagunda, are the primary contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient from Shirangala, Shanivarasanthe of Somvarpet taluk. The DC has said that the taluk government hospitals have been equipped to provided treatment to asymptomatic cases of Covid-19. The taluk hospitals have been identified as the treatment centres for asymptomatic cases as the cases of novel coronavirus have been increasing in the district. The medical staff will be on duty in these centres round the clock, the DC has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-shortage-of-funds-for-final-rites-of-covid-19-victims-856391.html
03-07-2020||State||Voluntary Covid-19 lockdown in parts of Mangaluru||Following the rise in Covid-19 cases in Ullal area, the traders in Ullal Kodi, under the aegis of Kotepura Jumma Masjid committee, have decided to hold voluntary lockdown during a fixed period of time in a day. Members of various organisations have started creating awareness on Covid-19 at Alekala, Manchila, Margathale, Halekote and other areas. Even the auto drivers have decided to support the voluntary lockdown. It has been decided to close down all the business establishments in Ullal Kodi, Ullal Junction, Kotepura Alekala, Machila, Halekote and surrounding areas after 12.30 pm. Meanwhile, Ullal Dargah Samithi President Abdul Rasheed has appealed to all the business establishments to suspend the business activities coming under Ullal Jamaat after 5 pm. He has appealed to the public to wear masks in public places mandatorily and maintain social distance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/voluntary-covid-19-lockdown-in-parts-of-mangaluru-856546.html
03-07-2020||State||Decision on reducing market cess on APMC traders on July 9||Co-Operation Minister S T Somashekar said that the decision to reduce the market cess on Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) traders from across the state will be decided in the cabinet meeting to be held on July 9. At present, market cess of 1.5 % is collected from the traders. The cess is used for the payment of salary of the employees, development work in the APMC yard and also carrying out cleanliness in the APMC yard, he told mediapersons in Mangaluru on Friday. As per the amendment to APMC Act, any trading outside the purview of any APMC yard will not attract any additional costs as levy or cess. Hence there is a demand to reduce the market cess from the trading community in Karnataka. “We are working on how much cess can be reduced without affecting the functioning of the APMCs. The issue will be placed in the Cabinet meeting for final decision,” added the Minister. Welcoming the move to bring cooperative banks under RBI, the Minister said that the move will help to put an end to cheating the customers by the cooperative banks. The ordinance is expected to give wider powers to the RBI to audit these lenders and also to supersede their board in case they are under stress.  The deposit by the customers in the cooperative banks will be safe, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decision-on-reducing-market-cess-on-apmc-traders-on-july-9-856557.html
03-07-2020||State||Union Health Ministry praises ASHAs’ role in Karnataka’s Covid-19 fight||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) in Karnataka have emerged as a "crucial pillar in the state's success" in combating Covid-19, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Acknowledging and praising their work, the ministry said they have been actively participating in household surveys in the state, screening inter-state passengers, migrant workers and others in the community for symptoms of the infection, “Around 42,000 ASHAs have emerged as a crucial pillar in the state's success” in combating Covid-19, the ministry said. "Recognizing the increased vulnerability of certain population groups to Covid-19, in a one-time survey to identify households with the elderly, persons with co-morbidities, and immune-compromised individuals, about 1.59 crore households were covered," the ministry said in a statement. ASHAs regularly monitor such high-risk groups in their area with a periodicity of follow-up visits varying from once a day in the containment zones to once every 15 days in other areas, it said. They also visit the houses of persons complaining influenza-like-illness (ILI) symptoms and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), besides high-risk individuals who have called the state health department helpline numbers, the ministry said. ASHAs are a part of the Rural Task Force, headed by Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) at the Gram Panchayat level, for addressing public grievances on both Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 related services. ASHAs are trained female community health activists selected from the village itself and accountable to it. They are trained to work as an interface between the community and the public health system. In the urban areas too, they have been at the forefront of dissemination of various awareness activities in fever clinics and swab collection centres in urban areas. They have also actively screened cases of ILI and SARI in urban areas. They are also part of the screening teams at international and interstate check-posts. Karnataka has reported 272 Covid-19 deaths and 18,016 cases, according to the health ministry data updated at 8 AM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/union-health-ministry-praises-ashas-role-in-karnataka-s-covid-19-fight-856564.html
03-07-2020||State||Covid-19: Insurance cover for journos||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday directed the officials to include journalists under the government's Covid-19 health insurance package.  The decision followed a representation made in this regard by Karnataka Working Journalists' Association president Shivananda Tagaduru and Editors' Guild member Hariprakash Konemane. They met the CM and urged him to include working journalists under the health package, on similar lines as that of the Assam government that has declared Rs 50 lakh for insurance of journalists, apart from Kerala and Delhi governments that have declared compensation for journalists.  The CM has also announced Rs 5 lakh compensation for the families of journalists G P Chandrashekar and Prajavani's Belur correspondent B M Ravish, who died recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-insurance-cover-for-journos-856696.html
03-07-2020||State||SSLC exams conclude, minister gives credit to students||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases, the SSLC examinations concluded in the state on Friday. A total of 102 students could not appear for the examination due to reasons associated with the pandemic. "It was a huge challenge. We did not conduct the examination to prove a point. But, it was aimed at boosting confidence in students and parents. The examination centres were converted into safety centres. We followed the SoP and guidelines issued by the Health department at every step," Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said. He credited the students for the successful completion of the exams. The minister said that students who were unable to attend the examination due to reasons associated with Covid-19, would be allowed to appear for the supplementary exams to be held in August.  However, the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state has cast a cloud on supplementary examinations. "Experts are saying the cases will rise in August. We are not sure of conducting  supplementary exams. We will take a decision after discussion", a source in the department said. The evaluation of SSLC answer sheets will be held from July 13 to 30. The minister said the SoP was being prepared keeping health and safety of evaluators in mind. Teachers and staff aged above 55 and those with comorbidities have been exempted from evaluation duty. According to the data provided by the department, more than 98% of the students who had enrolled, appeared for the SSLC examination held from June 25 to July 3. Suresh Kumar said that the results of the second-year PU examinations were likely to declared in the third week of July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sslc-exams-conclude-minister-gives-credit-to-students-856698.html
03-07-2020||State||App for donating funds to govt schools||With Covid-19 putting an end to meetings and conferences, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has developed a mobile app to receive funds under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) scheme for the development of government schools across the state. The mobile app 'Nanna Shaale Nanna Koduge' will soon be available to public . The department has spent Rs 1.45 crore for development of this application. Philanthropists,  alumni and corporates can donate to government schools through this app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/app-for-donating-funds-to-govt-schools-856700.html
03-07-2020||State||Covid victims: Last rites in electric crematoriums||The final rites of Covid-19 victims will be performed at electric crematoriums in places where the casualties are more, Health Minister B Sriramulu has said. "There have been more complaints in cases where the final rites are conducted in burial grounds. Therefore, in places reporting more deaths, the cremation will be at electric crematoriums," Sriramulu said. He was addressing a press meet here on Friday. The minister said that four places had been designated in Bengaluru for conducting last rites of Covid victims. He said that instructions had been given for using only 108 ambulances while ferrying the infected. The vehicle should be disinfected after each such trip. He said that the government was considering slapping a fine of Rs 50,000 on those who attack Asha workers. "Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah has alleged large-scale irregularities in purchase of equipment for Covid treatment. The government has accounts for each paisa spent. Let him come for a statewide tour with me," Sriramulu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-victims-last-rites-in-electric-crematoriums-856702.html
03-07-2020||State||No talks on lockdown, clarifies CMO amid speculation||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s office on Friday clarified that no discussions had taken place on imposing a lockdown and no meetings were scheduled over the weekend on the same. The clarification came amid speculations following the government's recent announcement that stricter curbs will be announced after the SSLC exams. The exams got over on Friday. “Yesterday (Thursday) and today (Friday), no meetings have been held on the lockdown,” the Chief Minister’s Office said. “Tomorrow and the day after also, no meetings are scheduled.” CMO sources said the clarification was directed at reports in some sections of the media over a possible lockdown. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar told reporters that there was no such proposal before the government. "There is neither any proposal to seal the borders nor any thought about imposing lockdown across Bengaluru. We cannot close down anything now. Lockdown is not the only solution," he said, after a meeting of the Covid-19 task force. "The only way out is to take enough precautions and keep ourselves safe from the infection."  Speculation is rife that the government would resort to lockdown or lockdown-like measures in the wake of a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, especially in Bengaluru. The government has already announced total lockdown every Sunday till August 2, a five-day work week for government offices and an 8 pm to 5 am daily curfew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-talks-on-lockdown-clarifies-cmo-amid-speculation-856719.html
03-07-2020||State||Rs 140 crore spent on Covid-19 from public donations: Karnataka CMO||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's office on Friday said it had given Rs 140.72 crore to the Health & Family Welfare department from the total Rs 334.50 crore it received from citizens and corporates to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister’s office (CMO) issued a statement detailing the money received by way of donations into the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) and the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority hours after Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah alleged that “not a single rupee” had been spent. According to the statement issued by CM’s Secretary S Selvakumar, the CMRF had received Rs 299.50 crore whereas the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority got Rs 35 crore, totaling to Rs 334.50 crore.  The Health & Family Welfare department was given Rs 109.10 crore from the CMRF to provide ‘medical gas pipeline with high flow oxygen system’ facilities at district and taluk hospitals for Covid-19 patients. Likewise, the department was given Rs 31.62 crore from the Authority’s fund to procure “B1-PAP-RNA extraction equipment etc”, the CMO said.  Earlier in the day, Siddaramaiah said the CMRF had received about Rs 290 crore. “Has a single rupee been spent,” he asked, daring Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to issue a statement. He complained that the government was not providing information. “I must have written about 20 letters. It’s a breach of my privilege as the leader of the opposition. I’ve also asked how much money has come to Karnataka from the PM CARES fund, which according to me has about Rs 60,000 crore,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-140-crore-spent-on-covid-19-from-public-donations-karnataka-cmo-856755.html
03-07-2020||State||Virus spreads its tentacles as 19 dists see cases in two digits||The novel coronavirus is fast spreading its tentacles in the districts as new infections continued to soar in the virus-hit Ballari, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi and Tumakuru districts. As many as 19 districts, excluding Bengaluru which recorded six short of 1,000 cases on Friday, have reported new cases in two digits with the four aforementioned districts going past the half-century mark. Ballari, the Covid-19 hotspot, saw its second highest single-day spike of 99 cases in the last 24 hours. Friday’s cases have taken Ballari’s case count to 1,118. Four health workers, including one from VIMS and three Jindal steel plant employees, are among the new cases reported in the district. As many as 20 people with influenza-like illness, 46 contacts of the infected and six Ranchi (Jharkhand) returnees have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul told reporters. A 50-year-old woman from Devinagar in Ballari with co-morbid condition of chronic kidney disease, died at the designated Covid hospital on Thursday. The district’s death toll has reached 34. Dakshina Kannada became the fifth district in Karnataka to log 1,000-plus Covid cases. The district on Friday recorded 97 cases. According to the district administration, 28 ILI cases. 25 contacts of the previously diagnosed persons, three international arrivals are among the Friday’s cases. Contact tracing is underway for six patients. The district also saw its 16th Covid-19 fatality with a 47-year-old man from Madikeri losing his battle against the virus at the Wenlock district hospital in Mangaluru. According to Deputy Commissioner Sindhu Roopesh, the man died due to multiple organ failure. A doctor at D N Doddi PHC in Maluk taluk of Kolar has tested positive for the virus on Friday. She’s is believed to have contracted the Covid-19 from her doctor-husband. Two health workers deputed on Covid duty at Jalappa Hospital also tested positive for coronavirus. The district hospital is witnessing a steady rise in infection among the medical and health workers, sparking a concern among the Health department officials. A staff nurse from Chincholi government hospital is among the 28 fresh infections reported from Bidar district. Sr’patna govt hosp sealed Meanwhile, the government hospital in Srirangapatna, Mandya district, was sealed on Friday after a clerk and a Group-D employee tested positive for the virus. More than 10 staff, including doctors, nurses and the sanitation workers, have been quarantined following the incident. The hospital will remain sealed for next three days, chief medical officer Dr P Maruthi told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/virus-spreads-its-tentacles-as-19-dists-see-cases-in-two-digits-856779.html
03-07-2020||State||Relaxation for industries: Ordinance gets Guv nod||Governor Vajubhai R Vala has given his assent to an ordinance promulgated by the government to exempt new industrial projects from seeking various licences and permits for three years.  The ordinance was promulgated to amend the Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Act, 2002.  The provision will apply to a manufacturing industry or enterprise approved by the State High Level Clearance Committee, State Level Single Window Clearance Committee or District Level Single Window Clearance Committee.  The ordinance also allows self-certification for industries during the approval process. The self-certification will be in the form of an affidavit, a mandatory document with an undertaking that “on clearance they shall abide by all the applicable Acts, rules etc. and any deviation found at a later stage shall be liable for penal action under this Act or any applicable Acts.” The government said this was an ease of doing business reform that would help attract investments and fasten the process of industries setting up shop. Under the ordinance, an industry can commence work soon after it receives approval from any of the state-level or district-level investment committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/relaxation-for-industries-ordinance-gets-guv-nod-856781.html
03-07-2020||State||Covid patient escapes from KIMS, caught||A man arrested on theft charges and who subsequently tested positive for Covid-19 escaped from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Institute (KIMS) in Hubballi on Friday. However, he was traced to Gadag, and brought back to the hospital later. CCTV footages show him wandering outside the ward, while two policemen were on security outside the Covid-19 hospital, sources said. Suburban police had recently arrested him on charges of stealing valuables from a hardware shop. As he turned positive for Covid-19, he was shifted to KIMS. As soon the patient gave the slip to police, two teams were formed to nab him. Finally, police in PPE kit found him in Gadag and brought him back to the hospital. He is said to have reached Gadag by a lorry.  Police Commissioner R Dileep said that a notice for dereliction of duty has been issued to the policemen who were on duty at the hospital. A case is registered with Vidyanagar police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-patient-escapes-from-kims-caught-856793.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Orange alert for Karnataka's coastal districts, to receive heavy rain till July 4||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued orange alerts for three consecutive days starting July 2 for the coastal region of the state, forecasting widespread to fairly widespread rainfall till Saturday. June rainfall data shows the Malnad region received deficit rainfall — 35% less than normal. Karnataka had normal rainfall for the month, receiving an average of 185 mm against a long period average of 199 mm. “High convergence of strong moist westerly/southwesterly winds at lower tropospheric levels from the Arabian Sea very likely along the coast till 06th July,” said the IMD forecast. Due to the phenomenon, isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over coastal Karnataka between July 2-4. While rainfall will be fairly widespread (51-75% of stations recording rainfall) on Thursday and Saturday in North and South Interior Karnataka, it will be widespread (76-100% stations recording rainfall) across the state on Friday. A red alert has been issued for the catchment region of river Krishna in Maharashtra, which is expected to cause heavy inflow into the Almatti dam. June rainfall Between June 1 and June 30, despite an early onset of monsoon this year, the Malnad region received 35% less than normal rainfall. While the region receives an average rainfall of 363 mm, it received 236 mm this year. South Interior Karnataka and North Interior Karnataka received 35% and 15% excess rainfall, respectively, in the month. According to the IMD’s extended-range forecast, rainfall is expected to be around 10-20% above normal in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/orange-alert-for-karnatakas-coastal-districts-to-receive-heavy-rain-till-july-4-856376.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Somashekhar assures financial support to Asha workers||A scheme will be launched by the government to provide financial stability to Asha workers in the state, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar said. He was speaking after distributing financial assistance of Rs 3,000 each to Asha workers, provided by the Department of Cooperation, in the district during a programme held at Zilla Panchayat Bhavan on Thursday. “Meetings have been held at the government level for providing loans to the Asha workers on the lines of self help groups and Stree Shakti groups. The decision will be taken soon. Around 42,000 Asha workers are working in the district and 21,000 of them have been given financial assistance,” he said. Lauding the efforts of the Asha workers in collecting the details from people with international travel history, Somashekhar said that the workers had played a big role in containing novel coronavirus. Rs 20,000 crore loans The minister said there was a target to provide Rs 20,000 crore loans to the farmers in the state next year. A whopping Rs 13,500 crore loans were provided to the farmers during last year. Loans to the tune of Rs 14,500 crore will be provided to the farmers this year, he said. Somashekhar said, “A letter has been written to the Department of Finance to extend the date of repayment of farmer’s loans till December this year. A discussion in this regard was held with the chief minister as well.” Services lauded MLA K G Bopaiah, MLA Appachu Ranjan and MLC Sunil Subramani too appreciated the valuable service of the Asha workers. District Central Cooperative Bank President Kodandera Bond Ganapathy said that the DCC Bank had contributed Rs 10 lakh to the CM’s Relief Fund. Relief fund Two ventilators will be purchased with an amount of Rs 8 lakh. Various cooperative societies have raised an amount of Rs 33 lakh and have handed it over to the relief fund, he added. Kodagu Zilla Panchayat Vice President Lokeshwari Gopal, DCC Bank Vice President Ketolira Harish Poovaiah and Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/somashekhar-assures-financial-support-to-asha-workers-856381.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mescom’s rain-related losses pegged at Rs 12.31 crore||Despite monsoon being normal, Mescom (Mangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited) suffered rain-related losses to the tune of Rs 12.31 crore. Much of the losses were incurred due to damages in transformers and cutting of power cables in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagalur and Shivmogga districts, informed Mescom managing director Snehal Rayamane. She told mediapersons at ‘Meet the Press’ organised at the Patrika Bhavan that in the previous year, Mescom’s rain-related losses was over Rs 33.61 crore. As the focus was on restoring power at the earliest, nearly 850 monsoon gang men and 50 vehicles had been engaged this time. Undeterred by rains and Corona virus, the gangmen work at restoring power wherever it has been disrupted. The fully staffed customer care centre receives 300 to 400 calls. “Many among the calls are related to disconnection of power,” MD said and added that there will be fewer delays as the decision-making was decentralised. The complaints on electricity bill being high also had been resolved. The power consumed was 1.5 crore units per day and the revenue was Rs 330 crore per month, the MD said. The consumption of units by the industries which had dipped during the lockdown had increased to 75 per cent with the relaxation of lockdown. 33 KV gas-insulated sub-stations were being planned in Mangaluru, Bantwal, Udyara and Kota in Udupi district at a total cost of Rs 38 crore. A user-friendly app on the lines of “Bescom Mithra”, which will help customers know about his consumption of units, will be a reality within six months, she said. Mescom director (Technical) Padmavathy, chief engineer (Electrical) Manjappa among others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mescom-s-rain-related-losses-pegged-at-rs-1231-crore-856384.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress workers rejoice as DK Shivakumar takes over as KPCC chief||Congress leaders and workers watched the installation ceremony of D K Shivakumar as Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, through a live session on zoom application, at Coorg Community Hall in Madikeri and various other places in the district on Thursday. The programme was aired live at the gram panchayat levels as well. Congress leaders and workers took oath on the occasion, towards strengthening the party further. In the leadership of Congress leader Nandakumar, ration kits were distributed to 200 families on the occasion. Senior leader Chandramouli said that everyone should lend a helping hand to the needy.  The programme at the Coorg Community Hall was inaugurated by Kodagu District Congress Committee President K K Manjunath Kumar. MLC Veena Acchaiah, leaders Appu Ravindra, Kolyada Girish and K P Chandrakala were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-workers-rejoice-as-dk-shivakumar-takes-over-as-kpcc-chief-856393.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No darshana for devotees at Krishna mutt||Paryaya Admaru mutt seer Eshapriya Theertha Swamiji clarified that no darshana of the deity will be allowed for the devotees at Krishna Mutt in Udupi for the time being. “Depending on the situation, we will decide on allowing the devotees to have darshana of the deity in the future. The decision was taken to save the tradition of Krishna Mutt. The devotees can offer prayers while remaining indoor at home. As per the tradition of the mutt, the seers of Ashta Mutt offer puja rituals. If anything wrong happens, then puja rituals will be affected. “We seers too have been offering puja and prayers seeking the blessings of the Almighty for the welfare of the society,” he said. “One can win over any disease through will power and by keeping the mind clean. One should develop good thoughts in life and help in building immunity,” the seer advised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-darshana-for-devotees-at-krishna-mutt-856541.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stranded Karnataka citizens coming soon from Kuwait||Finally, a chartered flight arranged by Karnataka chapter of Kuwait Kerala Muslim Association, with stranded Kannadigas will land at Mangalore International Airport, on July 4. The flight was scheduled to land with 164 Kannadigas on board on June 27. As the State government failed to accord permission, the flight was cancelled. Enraged over the incident, the stranded Kannadigas had vent out displeasure at the elected representatives through audio clips, which had gone viral on social media. Institute of Engineers Kuwait unit former president Manjeshwar Mohandas Kamath said “finally State government nodal officer Meena Nagaraj has given permission for the chartered flight to land at Mangaluru on July 4. She has asked the stranded passengers to adhere to the government guidelines. With the efforts of MP Shobha Karandlaje and former MLC Capt Ganesh Karnik, permission has been accorded,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stranded-karnataka-citizens-coming-soon-from-kuwait-856555.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No talks on lockdown in Karnataka, says CMO||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s office on Friday clarified that no discussions had taken place on imposing a lockdown, and no meetings were scheduled over the weekend on this.  The clarification came amid speculations over the government's recent announcement of implementing stricter curbs after the SSLC exams are over. The exams got over Friday.  “Yesterday and today, no meetings have been held on the lockdown,” the Chief Minister’s Office said. “Tomorrow and the day after also, no meetings are scheduled on the lockdown," it added. CMO sources pointed out that there were reports in some sections of the media that the government would impose a lockdown after the SSLC exams are completed.  Such reports found base in the recent statements of Revenue Minister R Ashoka, who was in charge of Bengaluru Covid-19 affairs, saying that the government was waiting for the SSLC exams to finish. “It was about compulsory use of masks, strict curfew regulations between 8 pm to 5 am and others. His statements were misinterpreted to claim that the state government was planning another lockdown," a CMO source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-talks-on-lockdown-in-karnataka-says-cmo-856624.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rebuked by parents over video game, boy ends life||Upset over parents’ scolding for playing games on his smartphone, a 15-year-old boy ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his residence in Brahmapur layout here in the wee hours of Friday. The police said the deceased has been identified as Rahul Sharanappa Sollapur. He was to secure admission for Class 10 this academic year. Over the past few months, the boy is said to be spending most of his day’s time playing games. The parents had also advised him to stay away from the video games, but they found him busy with the smartphone on Thursday night also. The parents reprimanded him for being addicted to video games. Upset, the boy ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan at his home around 2 am. The incident came to light in the morning, they said. A case of unnatural death has been registered at Raghavendra Nagar police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rebuked-by-parents-over-video-game-boy-ends-life-856705.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy showers batter Kalaburagi and coastal districts||Incessant showers since Thursday night have thrown life out of gear in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district and coastal districts. North and south interior Karnataka and Malnad also witnessed widespread rain in the last 24 hours. Chincholi taluk received showers of hitherto unseen proportions during the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. Chincholi town received an unprecedented 122 mm (12 cm) of rain in four hours. The downpour brought misery to the people with rainwater gushing the houses and flooding the fields. Vehicular movement was disrupted along Murki-Handaraki stretch on State Highway 122 for five hours owing to submergence of a bridge. According to taluk officials, the water level in Chandrampalli reservoir and Lower Mullamari project by two and one metres respectively. All three coastal districts have been experiencing heavy to very heavy showers for the past two days. Honnavar town in Uttara Kannada recorded a whopping 17 cm of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Friday). Mangaluru and Moodbidri witnessed 16 cm of rain each followed by Ankola 13, Karkala 12 and Uppinangady, Gokarna, Karwar, Kumta 10 cm each. Water level in most of the west-flowing rivers has increased by a good measure in the last 48 hours following the downpour in the region. Many parts of Malnad and north and south interior Karnataka have been receiving spells of mild to moderate rain in the last two days. Orange alert  Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has sounded orange alert for the coastal districts for next four days (till July 7). The southwest monsoon is active over the state. The coastal districts are likely to receive heavy showers from July 4 to 7. With the wind speed picking up, fishermen should not venture into the Arabian Sea, said IMD Director  C S Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-showers-batter-kalaburagi-and-coastal-districts-856706.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Panel on online classes to submit report on Monday||The state government on Friday informed the Karnataka High Court that the expert committee will submit its report on the issue of conducting online classes to children on Monday. A division bench of the high court comprising Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy is hearing a batch of petitions challenging the ban imposed by the state government on conducting online classes. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi submitted to the court that the expert committee on technology-enabled education has completed deliberations and is likely to submit the report on Monday. Navadgi stated that the state government will take a decision on conducting online classes once the report is submitted. Appearing for the schools, senior advocate Uday Holla submitted that the state government had no authority to ban online classes under Section 7 of the Karnataka Education Act. He said more particularly the state has no jurisdiction to ban online classes at schools imparting education under CBSE and ICSE curricula. He said even the Union Home Ministry’s guidelines released after Unlock-2 stated that though schools and colleges would remain closed, online and distance learning is permitted and shall be continued. "All across the world online classes are going on. Unicef is not only supporting online classes during the pandemic but has also come out with plan for continuity of learning with emphasis on online classes. Kerala state itself is conducting online classes. In our state a survey had been conducted and overwhelming majority of parents preferred online classes for the children,’’ he argued. The division bench adjourned the hearing to Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panel-on-online-classes-to-submit-report-on-monday-856707.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Most migrant workers in misery, says pre-Covid study||Three months before the Covid-19 outbreak, a state-wide sample survey of construction workers had clearly established that 77% owned no land or were small and marginal farmers. Irregular income from agriculture forced them to migrate to cities for work, a fact dramatically exposed by the crisis. The survey was part of a comprehensive study by Dr Y Narayana Chetty, retired Bangalore University professor and director, Alampally Chair on Labour Research. Covering 1,800 workers spread across 14 districts. the sample survey was completed in August 2019. The findings also revealed that 80% of the respondents were not part of any labour union, and 12.4% were even terrified of any union. They had to rely on contractors and make do with low wages that were often delayed. The pandemic and a hastily announced lockdown had triggered a massive, nationwide migrant crisis. The shutdown of interstate trains and buses had forced thousands to walk back, triggering deaths and misery. That the migrants were already in a precarious situation was brought out tellingly by the survey. Although the survey data was analysed by December 2019, it could not be collated and printed in time due to the constraints imposed by the pandemic, Dr Chetty told DH. “We will soon be submitting the entire report to the Chief Minister.” Even before the Covid crisis amplified their extreme challenges, the workers had no access to proper transportation, accommodation, safe food, water and toilets. This too came out strongly in the survey. Indicating the inherent insecurity in their workplaces, most respondents pointed to wage cuts when any issue cropped up between the builder and contractor. Their illiteracy, as Dr Chetty put it, prevented them from aptly articulating their issues before the government to seek justice. Incidentally, almost a third of the survey respondents were illiterate. Over a third of the workers surveyed had only elementary reading and writing skills. Long working hours, lack of medical help and dependence on usurious money lenders were all part of the workers’ everyday challenges, the survey showed. Among the districts covered by the study were Bengaluru urban and rural, Tumakuru, Chikkaballapur, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Belagavi and Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/most-migrant-workers-in-misery-says-pre-covid-study-856708.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah alleges scam in procurement of Covid-19 equipment; Sudhakar refutes||Leader of the Karnataka Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday demanded a probe into alleged misappropriation of public money worth Rs 3,000 crore in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment, a charge the ruling BJP refuted.  “The government has spent about Rs 3,000 crore. Of this, there are irregularities to the tune of Rs 2,200 crore in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment. An inquiry should be ordered to find out who is involved in misappropriating this money,” Siddaramaiah told media.  In a quick rebuttal, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said the BJP government has nothing to hide. “Officials have been carrying out their duty under the chief secretary with full transparency. It’s wrong to say there is corruption. A former CM making such allegations is hurtful,” he said, adding that Siddaramaiah could have reached out to ministers or the chief secretary if he wanted information. “We won’t run away. We will account for everything. We even welcome a CBI probe,” Sudhakar said.  Siddaramaiah attacked the BJP government for its “lack of preparedness” in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. “There was sufficient time to arrange ventilators and other infrastructure. We’d not have had so many positive cases or deaths if the Centre and state governments were better prepared,” he said.     The Congress leader said the government should have kept ready at least 30,000-40,000 beds by now. “The total allocation of beds for coronavirus patients is 4,663 of which total occupied beds are 2,694. The net available beds are 1,969. What was the government doing? How long do we keep quiet?” Siddaramaiah said. Taking a dig at Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah said Cabinet ministers were busy fighting amongst themselves. “I don’t think they listen to the CM. The medical education minister (Sudhakar) can’t stand the health minister (B Sriramulu). Then, Suresh Kumar (education minister) was brought in. Then, R Ashoka (revenue minister) came, I don’t know why,” he said.  Sudhakar dismissed this charge saying, "We're all working as a team under Yediyurappa."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-alleges-scam-in-procurement-of-covid-19-equipment-sudhakar-refutes-856709.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Draft of industrial policy to be tabled in 10 days: Minister||A draft of the new industrial policy to develop industries in the second and third tier cities of Karnataka would be presented before the Cabinet in the next 10 days, a state Minister said on Friday. The Minister for Medium and Large Industries Jagadish Shettar said, "The Governor has approved the Karnataka Industrial Facilitation Amendment Act which was recently approved by the Cabinet." Such changes would make Karnataka the number-one industry-friendly state in the country, he said while addressing the International MSME Day celebrations organised by the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI). Shettar said the draft industrial policy would focus on developing industries in the second and third tier cities of the state. The policy would encourage investors to favour the establishment of industries in the backward taluk and hoblies besides easing the pressure on Bengaluru city. The Minister said migrant workers of north Karnataka would find a source of employment in their respective districts with the development of industries in the second tier cities. He was optimistic of the recent land reform and labour policies making the state more industry-friendly. He promised to examine and adopt the advice of the state's industrial bodies in the near future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/draft-of-industrial-policy-to-be-tabled-in-10-days-minister-856738.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tourism sector loss estimated at Rs 20k crore||The tourism industry in the state may have suffered losses to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore due to Covid-19 and lockdown, said Tourism Minister C T Ravi. The minister said that though the government had allowed functioning of hotels the response was very poor with not even 10% of the customers turning up. Ravi was speaking to reporters here on Friday after visiting tourist spots in Sakleshpur taluk. "The spread of novel corona infection could be contained to a certain extent. But, it is difficult to eradicate the virus totally. We will launch programmes to draw tourists once the pandemic is brought under control," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tourism-sector-loss-estimated-at-rs-20k-crore-856766.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||M'luru firing: probing officer seeks 2 more months to submit report||The magisterial probe into police firing against anti-CAA protestors in Mangaluru on December 19 appears to be progressing at a snail's pace, as the enquiry officer has now sought an additional two months to submit the report. Two persons - Nausheen (23) and Jaleel (49) - were killed after police opened fire at civilians in the coastal city during widespread protests against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act in December. While police had claimed that the firing was to prevent protesters from gheraoing a police station and setting it on fire, JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy had released videos alleging high-handedness and indiscriminate firing by the police. While the report was expected to be submitted by March 23, enquiry officer G Jagadeesha,  deputy commissioner, Udupi district, had sought an extension by a month till April 23. Speaking to DH, Jagadeesha said that the report is yet to be submitted. "The last date for submission was extended till June 23. But, due to Covid pandemic, the report is not yet complete. So, I have sought an additional two months to submit it," he said. The magisterial probe along with a CID inquiry was ordered by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in December. Yediyurappa, who had assured Rs 10 lakh compensation to families of victims, subsequently reversed his stance. The CID, which filed a charge sheet a month ago, named both the decease as accused in the case. A People's Tribunal, under retired Supreme Court judge Justice V Gopala Gowda, in its report on the incident had accused police of 'indiscriminate lathi charge and firing', 'communal slurs' aimed at provoking protestors, 'use of teargas shells within hospital premises', among others during the violence that hit parts of Mangaluru on December 19. No case against cops Zeeshan Ali, an advocate from Mangaluru, said that almost seven months after the incident, police are yet to register FIRs on the cases filed against policemen behind the firing. "Responding to a petition, the High Court had granted bail to civilians imprisoned in the case and directed authorities to file complaints against policemen. But, the state appealed in Supreme Court and succeeded in getting an interim stay," he said. As a result, 20 of the 23 accused - who had no prior criminal history but are named in multiple FIRs - were denied bail at the last moment, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mluru-firing-probing-officer-seeks-2-more-months-to-submit-report-856768.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC expunges remarks on rape victim||The Karnataka High Court has expunged the remarks on a complainant in a rape case. Justice Krishna S Dixit passed an order in this regard based on an application moved by the state government. "Taking note of the contents of respondent-State’s application which is supported by the accompanying affidavit and also the No Objection tendered by the petitioner-accused thereto, I deem it appropriate to expunge the last four lines occurring in para No. 3(c) at page 4 of the subject judgment dated 22-06-2020, as sought for at para 5 of the said Application, the rest having been retained intact.’’ the order stated. In the order passed on June 22, 2020 while granting advance bail on the application moved by the accused in the case, the judge had remarked, "The explanation offered by the complainant that after the perpetration of the act she was tired and fell asleep, is unbecoming of an Indian woman; that is not the way our women react when they are ravished." Several women rights activists had taken objection to the remark. Several organisations had posted open letters on social media calling upon the higher echelons of the judiciary to expunge the remark. In the order expunging the remarks, the bench also clarified that the observations of the court shall not influence the investigation. "It hardly needs to be stated that the observations made by this court in the subject judgment being confined to consideration and disposal of the bail petition, shall not influence in any way the investigation of the offences alleged and the likely trial thereof."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-expunges-remarks-on-rape-victim-856775.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sheep, goats test negative for coronavirus||The shepherds of the district on Friday breathed easy after the throat swab samples of 10 goats and sheep tested negative for Covid-19. A few sheep and goats had showed Covid-19 symptoms after a shepherd from Godekere Gollarahatti in Chikkanayakanahalli taluk tested positive for novel coronavirus. Swab samples of the livestock were sent to a lab in Bengaluru. "Reports of all samples have come back negative for Covid-19. Sheep and goats do not contract and transmit coronavirus to humans. Shepherds can breed the livestock and people can consume mutton without any fear of contracting Covid," Animal Husbandry Deputy Director Dr K G Nandeesh told reporters||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sheep-goats-test-negative-for-coronavirus-856782.html
03-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports biggest single day spike of 1,694 Covid-19||Karnataka on Friday reported its biggest single day spike of 1,694 new Covid-19 cases, taking the taking the total number of infections in the state to 19,710, the Health department said. The state also recorded 21 fatalities pushing the death toll to 293. The day also saw 471 patients getting discharged after recovery; even as 201 patients in the state were undergoing treatment in ICU. Of the 1,694 fresh cases reported today, a whopping 994 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The previous biggest single day spike was recorded on July 2 with 1,502 cases. As of July 3 evening, cumulatively 1,9710 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 293 deaths and 8,805 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 10,608 active cases, 10,407 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 201 are in ICU. The 21 dead include five from Bengaluru Urban, three each from Chikkaballapura and Kalaburagi, two each from Vijayapura and Shivamogga and one each from Ballari, Hassan, Davangere, Bidar, Raichur and Bengaluru Rural. Out of 21, fourteen are men between the age 48-87 years, and seven women between 25-75 years. The deceased include those with the history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), Influenza-like illness (ILI), inter-state and inter-district travel and cardiac patients. The contact history of at least four deceased is under tracing. Out of 1,694 positive cases today, contacts of the majority of the cases are still under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 994, followed by 97 from Ballari and Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi 72, Tumakuru 57, Bengaluru Rural 44, Dharwad 38, Mysuru 35, Mandya 33, Bidar 28, Chamarajanagara 24, Shivamogga 23, Gadag 19, sixteen each from Udupi and Kodagu, Yadgir 14, thirteen each from Hassan and Belagavi, Kolar 11. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 7,173 infections, followed by Kalaburagi (1,560) and Udupi (1,258). Among discharges, Kalaburagi tops the list with 1,143 followed by Udupi (1,093) and Yadgir (855). A total of 6,71,934 samples have been tested so far, out of which 18,307 were tested on Friday alone. So far 6,35,582 samples have been reported as negative, and out of them 16,290 were reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-1694-covid-19-856808.html
03-07-2020||West||Muslim body urges Maharashtra govt to equip abattoirs for Bakri Eid||The All India Jamiatul Quresh has urged the Maharashtra government to make necessary arrangements at government-run abattoirs for the upcoming Bakri Eid festival. Bakri Eid will be celebrated across the country on August 1. "We have asked the state government to set up shelter sheds for livestock keeping in mind the monsoon season and also arrange for security, electricity and water supply," said Imran Babu Qureshi, the national vice-president of the All India Jamiatul Quresh. Apart from this, the organisation has also sought the deployment of veterinarians and doctors for emergencies, he said, adding that the abattoirs should charge a regular fee for their services. Moreover, the government should also issue transport permits to ferry livestock from other states as per norms, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/muslim-body-urges-maharashtra-govt-to-equip-abattoirs-for-bakri-eid-856437.html
03-07-2020||West||Resumption of tourism will kickstart Goa's economy: Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said that the resumption of domestic tourism, which was suspended due to the coronavirus lockdown, will kickstart the coastal state's economy. Tourism activities resumed in Goa on Thursday, with 250 hotels with government permits opening their doors to domestic tourists. Taking to Twitter, Sawant said, "Tourism is one of the biggest industries in the state and is the backbone of our economy. In this unlock phase, we are kickstarting our economy again by keeping the highest health safety norms in place in view of #COVID19." According to the Goa tourism department's standard operating procedure, only domestic tourists who have pre- booked their accommodations will be allowed to enter the state. As many as 250 hotels have received the state government's permission to operate, a senior official from the tourism department said. Tourists will either have to carry a Covid-19 negative certificate or get tested at the state borders before gaining entry, he said. Persons who test positive have the option of returning to their states or availing treatment in Goa, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/resumption-of-tourism-will-kickstart-goas-economy-pramod-sawant-856468.html
03-07-2020||West||Tracking app helps Pune court convict externed man||A local court here sentenced an externed criminal to four months imprisonment after the Pune police used their customised tracking app to find that he had violated the conditions of his externment. According to the Pune police, this is the first-ever conviction made based on the findings of ExTra app (Externees Monitoring and Tracking System), which is a customised and modified version of a home quarantine monitoring mechanism. Judicial magistrate M A Shaikh sentenced Shankar Babu Kailash Pandhekar to four months imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 500 on Thursday, said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner (crime) of Pune police. "A history-sheeter, Pandhekar was externed by the Pune police. However, using ExTra app, we found that he had violated the conditions of his externment by entering the Pune police's jurisdiction," the official said. An offence was registered against him at Bibvewadi police station on June 30, a chargesheet was filed within two days, Singh said. In the last couple of months, the police developed ExTra, which is a customised and modified version of a home quarantine monitoring mechanism, which is used to track externed criminals. ExTra is a facial recognition and geographical location-based tracking system operationalised on an experimental basis, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tracking-app-helps-pune-court-convict-externed-man-856491.html
03-07-2020||West||Five drown during selfie bid at waterfall in Maharashtra's Palghar||Five men drowned while trying to take a selfie at Kalmandvi Waterfalls near Jawhar town in Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday afternoon, when a group of 13 men had gone to the waterfall located on the outskirts of Jawhar, district disaster control room head Vivekanand Kadam said. While two men who were taking a selfie slipped and fell in the waterfall, three others dived in to rescue them, he said, adding that all five of them drowned in the process. The bodies of the deceased were fished out by a team of National Disaster Rescue Force late in the evening, the official said. A case of accidental death was registered and the bodies were sent for post-mortem, a police official said. The deceased have been identified as Devendra Wagh (28), Pratamesh Chavan (20), Devendra Faltankar (19), Nimesh Patil (28) and Rinku Bhoir (22), he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-drown-during-selfie-bid-at-waterfall-in-maharashtras-palghar-856515.html
03-07-2020||West||ASI sacked, 4 constables suspended for links with criminals||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) was dismissed from service and four police constable were suspended in Parbhani district of Maharashtra for alleged links with criminals, officials said on Friday. Krishnakant Upadhyay, Superintendent of Police, Parbhani, confirmed the action taken against the police personnel. The action against the five police personnel stemmed from two separate cases where they were found in collusion with criminals, the officials said. The police in Parbhani, around 500km from here in central Maharashtra, had arrested two persons, Suresh Jaiswal and Sunil Shitalkar, for selling illicit liquor at Jintoor on June 17, an official said. During investigations, it came to light that the accused persons had connection with some police personnel in the district, he said. Mobile numbers and bank account details of some police personnel were found in mobile phones of the accused persons, following which an inquiry was initiated, he said. The probe revealed that at least five policemen had connection with criminals (in two separate cases) and some amount of money was also transferred in their bank accounts by offenders, the official said. Taking serious cognisance of the matter, authorities suspended constables Suresh Dongare, Vishal Waghmare, Uddhav Satpute and Sharad Mulgir, and dismissed ASI Hanumant Kachave from police service, he said. Action was taken against four police personnel, including the ASI, in the Jintoor case and against one constable in another case, said Upadhyay. We have taken the action according to the role of the police personnel in both the cases," he said. The probe is still on and stern action will be taken if more police personnel are found to be guilty, the SP warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/asi-sacked-4-constables-suspended-for-links-with-criminals-856526.html
03-07-2020||West||Goa to curtail monsoon Assembly session to one day in the wake of Covid-19||In light of the Covid-19 outbreak, the upcoming monsoon session of the Goa legislative Assembly will be curtailed to a day instead of two weeks as scheduled earlier, a senior official said on Friday. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by Speaker Rajesh Patnekar with all party leaders at Porvorim, the official said. Leader of Opposition, Digambar Kamat, who participated in the meeting, told PTI that it was unanimously decided to curtail the session to just a day to avoid the possible spread of coronavirus. Earlier, Governor Satya Pal Malik had summoned a two-week-long session from July 27 onwards. At least 1,500 people, including policemen and legislature staff, are on duty during these sessions, Kamat said. The Leader of Opposition said that the Business Advisory Committee would meet soon to decide about the agenda for the session. On Thursday, Patnekar had urged all MLAs to get themselves tested for coronavirus infection ahead of the session, while the state legislature department also advised the MLAs not to hold any meetings amid the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-curtail-monsoon-assembly-session-to-one-day-in-the-wake-of-covid-19-856533.html
03-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Curfew imposed in Maharashtra's Aurangabad||The police in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city have imposed a curfew from 7 pm to 5 am to curb unnecessary movement of people amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Friday. As per the orders passed by the police commissioner on Thursday, only vehicles engaged in medical services and those belonging to industries with valid passes will be allowed to ply during curfew hours. The administration has also advised citizens not to step out unnecessarily and purchase essentials from shops located within 2-km radius from their homes, the official said. The order that came into effect from Friday will be in force till July 15, he added. Meanwhile, as many as 200 fresh cases of Covid-19 were detected in Aurangabad district on Friday, taking the tally in the region to 6,243, a health official said. Currently, the city has 2,995 active cases, while 2,969 patients have been discharged following recovery, he said. At least 279 persons have succumbed to the deadly infection in the district so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-curfew-imposed-in-maharashtras-aurangabad-856561.html
03-07-2020||West||Forming panel for prisoners' release shows govt indulgence: HC||The Bombay High Court on Friday said that the formation of a high-powered committee to release undertrials and prisoners from jails was "indulgence" shown by the state government to avoid crowding in prisons amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice N J Jamadar said that not every prisoner can claim the right to be released on temporary bail due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The court was hearing a petition filed by Preeti Kartick Prasad challenging several orders passed by the by high-powered committee by which prisoners, accused of or convicted for serious offences or under special Acts cannot be released on bail. The petitioner's husband is lodged in jail and is facing trial under the provisions of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act. As per the committee's orders, all those prisoners, booked or convicted on charges punishable up to seven years in jail could be released on parole or temporary bail. The committee, however, said those prisoners either charged or convicted on serious offences like murder or under provisions of special statutes like the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crimes Act (MCOCA), 1999, the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) will not be released on temporary bail on account of coronavirus pandemic. These prisoners will have to approach the concerned courts seeking regular bail, the committee had said. The petitioner's advocate Samir Vaidya argued that the committee, by categorising and classifying prisoners who can or cannot claim relief, was discriminating. "There are some provisions under the MPID Act and the MCOCA, which are punishable up to six years or three years. But due to the committees decision persons booked under these provisions cannot seek relief as they are booked under special Acts," Vaidya argued. The bench on Friday noted that the committee has the power to decide and if as per the panels decision a particular prisoner cannot be released then nothing can be done. "The setting up of a high-powered committee and releasing prisoners is an indulgence shown by the government to avoid crowding in jails due to the COVID-19 pandemic. If not for this (COVID-19), such indulgence and reliefs would not be extended," Chief Justice Datta said. The bench posted the petition for further hearing on July 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/forming-panel-for-prisoners-release-shows-govt-indulgence-hc-856572.html
03-07-2020||West||Steps taken for safe disposal of Covid-19 victims' bodies: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday told the Bombay High Court that it was taking adequate safety measures and scrupulously following the guidelines prescribed for the safe disposal of bodies of persons who died due to Covid-19. The civic body was responding to a petition filed by former journalist Ketan Tirodkar, which alleged that there were several lapses in handling of Covid-19 victims' bodies in crematoriums at Shivaji Park in Dadar, at Sion in central Mumbai and at the Chandanwadi crematorium in south Mumbai. As per the plea, the staff at these crematoriums are not provided with safety gears like PPE kits, masks and sanitizers. BMC counsel Anil Sakhare told a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice N J Jamadar that the civic body was following the guidelines laid down by the Union government and the World Health Organisation (WHO) for safe disposal of Covid-19 infected bodies. "The staff at the crematorium and the driver and attendant transporting the bodies from the concerned hospital to the crematorium are provided with safety gears like PPE kits, masks, sanitizers and so on. The staff undergo regular thermal screening and throat swabs are also taken to test for Covid-19," Sakhare told the court. According to him, Covid-19 infected bodies are disposed of in electric furnaces only. Per day only 20 bodies Covid-19 victims are permitted to be disposed of in a crematorium, he added. "At the same time, cremation of non-Covid-19 victims' bodies is also being permitted," Sakhare said. As per the BMC, when a Covid-19 positive patient dies in a hospital then the authorities inform the concerned police and crematorium which then takes all the necessary steps to transport the body from the hospital to the crematorium.  "Unclaimed bodies are disposed of by the concerned police station staff," Sakhare said. The bench, after hearing the submissions made by the BMC, noted that the authorities were scrupulously following the guidelines prescribed for management and safe disposal of bodies infected with Covid-19 and hence no case is made out for the court to interfere. "BMC and all other authorities shall continue adhering to the guidelines prescribed so that dignity of all citizens is preserved and no citizen is put to any unnecessary risks," the court said while disposing of the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/steps-taken-for-safe-disposal-of-covid-19-victims-bodies-bmc-856575.html
03-07-2020||West||Maharashtra's Dharavi slowly returning to life after Covid-19 outbreak||In what could be considered as a healthy sign, two isolation centres in the vast slum cluster of Dharavi in Mumbai have been shut as Covid-19 pandemic cases have come down considerably. Once a hotspot of the deadly viral pandemic, Dharavi is embracing 'the new normal' and now is a success story of Covid-19 combat strategy. Dharavi falls under the G/North ward of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The two isolation centres that have been shut are Dharavi Municipal School and Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex. "Yes, we have decided to close two isolation facilities as cases have come down," Kiran Digavkar, the assistant municipal commissioner of G/North ward told DH on Friday. The Dharavi Municipal School had 700 beds while Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex had 300 beds. "We had a total bed capacity of 3,800 across various isolation centres. Now we have reduced 1,000 as cases have come down," he said. The first Covid-19 positive case and death from Dharavi was reported on April 1 when a 56-year-old man died. As on June 2, the total progressive cases stand at 2,301 and 82 deaths. As of now, the total progressive cases stand at 551. Throughout April and the first fortnight of May, the cases zoomed but then it was brought down. The Dharavi model of fighting Covid-19 is being replicated in Mumbai's suburbs of Malad, Kandivli, Borivali and Dahisar on the Western line and Mulund and Bhandup on the Central line. "We adopted the Chase-the-Virus strategy rather than the patient coming to us," he said, adding that the concept of 4 Ts - Tracing, Tracking,Testing and Treating has worked and showed results. As part of the strategy, several fever clinics were opened and people were checked. As part of the war against the virus, Chase the Virus was launched to break the cycle. Against every patient and 15 close contacts were quarantined. The frontline caregivers were also given medicines. A new institutional quarantine facility was also opened. Senior citizen patients were shifted to the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion and the King Edward Memorial Hospital at Parel. A senior official of the Maharashtra Medical Council also noted that a very large migrant population has moved out from Dharavi. "That ensured physical distancing. The CRPF was also deployed along with local police stations," the official said. Dharavi has a population of nearly seven to 10 lakh, staying and working in 2.1 sq km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-dharavi-slowly-returning-to-life-after-covid-19-outbreak-856583.html
03-07-2020||West||50 million cubic litre water released for Mumbai: Minister||Maharashtra Minister Jayant Patil on Friday said 50 million cubic litre water has been released from Upper Vaitarna dam for Mumbai as demanded by the BMC. Water Resources Minister Patil said there is enough stock in Upper Vaitarna and Bhatsa dams, which supply water to the metropolis, and added Mumbaikars would not face any shortage. The Upper Vaitarna dam is located in Nashik district, while Bhatsa is near Shahapur in neighbouring Thane. "As demanded by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, 50 million cubic litre water has been released from Upper Vaitarna dam to quench the thirst of Mumbaikars. "There will be no shortage of water in Mumbai as there is enough water stock in Upper Vaitarna and Bhatsa dams which supply water to Mumbai," Patil tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/50-million-cubic-litre-water-released-for-mumbai-minister-856593.html
03-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Goa monsoon session reduced to one day||"The Speaker had called for an all-party meeting. Speaker had called for suggestions. After listening it them it was decided that only a one-day assembly session would be called. Business will be decided by the Business Advisory Committee," Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters after the meeting.  One ruling BJP MLA and his family have already tested positive for Covid-19 and have been quarantined in an institutional facility. After the one-day session which has beenscheduled for July 27, Speaker Patnekar also told the legislators that the next session could be held in December for a longer duration. Opposition MLAs who were in attendance at the meeting said they were in agreement with the decision taken by the Speaker. "Today's meeting was an informal one called by the Speaker. There were discussions on various aspects taking into consideration the Covid-19 situation. One suggestion is that the assembly session should be limited to one day for passing of vote on accounts," Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat told reporters. "Some MLAs have also requested for a virual session of the state assembly to be conducted," he also said.  Kamat also demanded the scrapping of the state budget, which he said was no longer relevant with Covid-19 related expenses throwing the calculations off gear. "The budget has no meaning. It will have to be reset. All these aspects will be discussed in upcoming BAC meeting. The Speaker has also said that information about how states are managing state Assembly sessions in other states like Maharashtra and Delhi will be sought, before the BAC meeting," the former Chief Minister told reporters. The Leader of Opposition also said that there were several factors which were discussed, before deciding on curtailing the 11-day session to one day. "Apart from MLAs, there are hundreds of persons who are present during an assembly session including civil officers, policemen, assembly staff," Kamat said. "There is the air conditioning factor, the rainy season. Cases are increasing on the outside. The Speaker has said let us have a one-day session and then a full-fledged session at a later date," he also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-monsoon-session-reduced-to-one-day-856602.html
03-07-2020||West||Pawar orders appointment of 'Testing In-charge' in Pune||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday directed the Pune district and city administrations to appoint an IAS officer as "Testing In- charge". Pawar held a meeting and reviewed the coronavirus situation in the district where the case count is nearing 25,000, an official release said. Expressing concern over the increase in COVID-19 cases in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, Pawar directed the administration to appoint an IAS-rank officer as a "Testing In-charge", it said. He also asked the officials to implement strict measures to prevent the spread of the virus in containment zones and take action against those who are not wearing masks in public places. Pawar, who is the guardian minister of the district, also said that there are complaints that doctors at some hospitals do not visit COVID-19 wards, and action should be taken in such cases. After the relaxation of lockdown, the movement of people between urban and rural areas increased, which contributed to the spike in cases, the NCP leader observed, adding that the police should screen such people. Factory owners in the industrial belt should provide accommodation to the workers, he said. Chief Minister's principal adviser Ajoy Mehta, who was also present at the meeting, said officials should take help of local community leaders in rural parts to control the spread of the virus, and testing should be ramped up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pawar-orders-appointment-of-testing-in-charge-in-pune-856628.html
03-07-2020||West||Maharashtra BJP forms new executive, Pankaja to get 'national' role||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Friday announced the party's new executive committee for the state, and said that former minister Pankaja Munde will get a role in the party at the national level soon. Addressing a press conference, Patil said that apart from her position at the national level, Munde will also be made part of the state BJP's core committee. Pankaja Munde, daughter of BJP stalwart late Gopinath Munde, had lost the Parli seat to her cousin and NCP rival Dhananjay Munde in the state assembly polls held last year. She had been reportedly sulking since her defeat in the state polls. She was reportedly also upset over not being given candidature for the state Legislative Council polls held on May 21. "Munde will be given a party position at the national level soon. She will also be made part of the state BJP's core committee," Patil said. He said that the new executive committee has 12 vice presidents, including former state minister Ram Shinde, former ministers and current legislators Jaykumar Raval and Sanjay Kute. Shinde had lost last year's assembly polls. Beed MP and Pankaja's younger sister Pritam Munde and state BJP spokesman Madhav Bhandari are two vice presidents of the executive committee, he added. Former energy minister Chandrashekar Bawankule, who was denied a ticket in the last assembly polls, is among the five general secretaries of the state executive, Patil said. There will be 12 secretaries and one treasurer as well as 55 special invitees, he said. Patil said that the state executive has representation from all sections of the society and all regions of the state. Patil, who was the Revenue Minister in the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led state government, was appointed as the state BJP president in July last year. He replaced Raosaheb Danve, who had resigned from the position after his induction into the Union cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-forms-new-executive-pankaja-to-get-national-role-856639.html
03-07-2020||West||Allow co-operative, private, foreign bank employees to use suburban trains as well: Unions||Bank unions have written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to let employees of private, foreign and co-operative lenders commute by suburban trains, officials said on Friday. Official notifications had included only employees of nationalised banks to take the local train to work from July 1, excluding their other colleagues. In normal times, the local trains ply over 80 lakh passengers a day in crammed rakes, earning praise as 'lifeline of Mumbai'. The network, however, is allowing only limited passengers to board the trains due to the social distancing restrictions. "The rains have started in Mumbai from today and it is very necessary to allow employees to take the trains as commuting by vehicles becomes difficult," said an employee working for a private sector lender. There are limitations on carrying capacity for the buses run by the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) and it takes a lot of time to wait for an empty bus, the employee said, adding there are many who stay over 50 kms away in places like Kalyan or Virar for whom private transport is expensive. Devidas Tuljapurkar, the convenor of the United Forum of Bank Unions said a distinction cannot be made between bank employees once a decision has been taken to allow the bank employees after duly recognising banking as an emergency service. He said employees of state-run lenders like Andhra Bank or Corporation Bank, which have got merged with bigger state-run lenders, are also facing problems. The mergers happened during the lockdown and the employees' i-cards are yet to be replaced, resulting in the problem. Tuljapurkar estimated that over 30,000 bank employees are left out because of the distinction and need to be accommodated. The UFBU has written to Thackeray to ensure that all the bank employees are allowed to board the trains without any distinction, stressing that services of all the bank employees are at par from a societal benefit perspective. It can be noted that the railways is running over 700 services a day on the suburban rail network and each of the trains is expected to carry 700 people as against an estimated 5,000 it transports during usual times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/allow-co-operative-private-foreign-bank-employees-to-use-suburban-trains-as-well-unions-856660.html
03-07-2020||West||Maharashtra govt taking all steps to break coronavirus chain: Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope has said that the state government has been making all efforts to break the chain of coronavirus transmission. He said this during a visit to Thane on Thursday evening, during which he held talks with senior officials from the district and took stock of the Covid-19 situation. "The government has been making all efforts to break the chain of coronavirus transmission in the state. Within 10 days, all the facilities related to Covid-19 will be made available in Thane district. Five testing centres would be set up for Badlapur Ambernath rural areas in the district," Tope said. He asked the district and civic administrations to increase measures for detection of Covid-19 cases. The minister also directed the local authorities to hold discussions with colleges and hotels for setting up quarantine facilities there. Tope also hinted at taking stern action against private hospitals for charging hefty fees from Covid-19 patients. During the meeting, he ordered the administration to take over an ayurvedic college at Ambernath to set up a 50-bed Covid-19 hospital with ICU facility there to treat local people. "Facilities would be created at the local level for the patients in Badlapur and Ambernath. Once it is done, they will not have to depend on Mumbai," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-taking-all-steps-to-break-coronavirus-chain-rajesh-tope-856670.html
03-07-2020||West||Cloth used by Sushant Singh Rajput to hang self to undergo 'tensile' test||As part of probe into the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Mumbai Police have sent the cloth, allegedly used by him to hang himself, to a forensic lab for "tensile strength" analysis to determine whether it can bear the weight similar to that of the film star, an official said on Friday. The test will help determine if there was any foul play, he said. Meanwhile, the Bandra police have summoned film director Sanjay Leela Bhansali to record his statement in connection with the case on July 6, the official said. Bhansali had offered films to Rajput but could not work with him apparently due to date issues. Rajput (34) was found hanging at his suburban Bandra residence on June 14. According to the investigators, the actor ended his life by hanging himself from the ceiling using a green coloured night gown made of cotton. No suicide note was found from the spot, the police had said then. "Besides the viscera from the actor's body, the police also sent the gown for chemical and forensic analysis at the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in suburban Kalina," the official said. It will take at least three more days to get the final forensic report, the official said. To ascertain the exact cause of death, forensic experts will check pattern of ligature marks around the actors neck and also determine the strength of the gown with the help of "tensile strength" analysis, he said. The tensile strength test will technically establish whether the cloth can bear around 80 kg, the weight of the actor. The test will help determine if there was any foul play, the official said. Tensile strength is maximum load that a material can support without fracture when being stretched. Viscera analysis will help in checking whether there were any traces of chemical, poisonous or narcotics substance in his body, the official said. "Usually, it takes eight to ten working days to get report from the FSL in regular cases. But since this case is sensitive, experts are taking more precautions to avoid any kind of error in their analysis," the official said. The forensic report of the actors mobile phone is also awaited, he said. Recently, the police received the final post-mortem report of the actor from Cooper Hospital, which mentioned the cause of the death as "asphyxia due to hanging". Rajput, who had started his acting career from TV, starred in films such as 'Shuddh Desi Romance', 'Raabta', 'Chhichhore', 'Kedarnath' and 'Sonchiriya'. But his most prominent role came as popular cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni in the biopic "MS Dhoni: The Untold Story". The official said that the Bandra police have summoned the Bollywood director Sanjay Leela Bhansali and he will join the investigation on Monday, when his statement will be recorded. The police, who are probing angle of possible professional rivalry in the case, will enquire about reasons behind the actor's depression, he said. Bhansali had offered films to Rajput, but due to date issues, things did not work out between them as the actor had signed a contract with a big production house. The police will try to understand the circumstances in which the rising star of Bollywood killed himself, the official said. The police have so far recorded statements of 29 people, including Rajput's family members, his close friends like actor Rhea Chakraborty, casting director Mukesh Chhabra, Yash Raj Films casting director Shanoo Sharma and actor Sanjana Sanghi, who was the actor's co-star in her debut film 'Dil Bechara'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cloth-used-by-sushant-singh-rajput-to-hang-self-to-undergo-tensile-test-856674.html
03-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Mumbai's trouble spots floods during first rains||The chronic trouble spots of Mumbai was waterlogged as the financial capital of India received the first bout of heavy rain this monsoon.  The entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR)  and the coastal Konkan belt has been receiving rainfall. In 24 hours,  parts of the MMR received over 100 mm rainfall. Waterlogging in central Mumbai areas slowed down vehicular traffic,  however,  there was an impact on Central Railway and Western Railway services. "Monsoon is active over coastal Konkan coast. Heavy rains is expected in next 24 to 48 hour," said KS Hosalikar,  deputy director general of meteorology, IMD. Waterlogging  was reported in Cuffe Parade, Bhulabhai Desai Road, Worli, Dadar, Parel, Chira Bazaar, Masjid Bunder and its surroundings. In the suburbs, waterlogging was reported in Andheri forcing closure of the subway, and vehicle movement had slowed down in Borivali, Malad and Jogeshwari areas. The IMD has issued an Orange Alert for most of the coastal Konkan on Friday-Saturday-Sunday, besides north and south Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mumbais-trouble-spots-floods-during-first-rains-856676.html
03-07-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Thackeray, NCP chief Sharad Pawar hold meeting over Covid-19, other issues||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar on Friday held a meeting here over the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state and others issues. The hour-long meeting took place amid reports that some ministers from the NCP and the Congress, constituents of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation, being unhappy over the chief minister taking decisions without taking them into confidence. The three parties with different ideologies had joined hands to form the government after the Assembly election held last year. "The two leaders keep meeting to discuss the current affairs relating to the state, particularly the situation triggered by Covid-19. They held a meeting today. There is no bickering within the MVA," sources in the NCP said. On June 29, the Maharashtra government had extended the coronavirus-triggered lockdown till July 31 without providing any further relaxations amid mounting cases of Covid-19 in the state. The NCP has been insisting that economic activities be resumed in a staggered manner in those parts of the state that have not been affected much by the Covid-19 crisis, to bring the economy back on track. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country till now. Some of the municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, like Thane and Mira Bhayandar, have even announced lockdown in their jurisdictions due to the rising cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-thackeray-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-hold-meeting-over-covid-19-other-issues-856683.html
03-07-2020||West||Gujarat: Covid-19 count crosses 34,000-mark with 687 new cases||Gujarat recorded its highest single-day spike of 687 new coronavirus positive cases so far on Friday, due to which the state's overall tally crossed the 34,000-mark, the health department said. This is for the seventh consecutive day that the state has reported 600-plus fresh Covid-19 cases. With the addition of 687 patients, the total number of positive cases in the state has gone up to 34,686, the department said in a statement. During the same period, 18 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll in the state to 1,906, it added. As many as 340 persons recovered and were given discharge from different hospitals in the state, taking the count of such persons to 24,941. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 34,686, new cases 687, deaths 1906, discharged 24,941, active cases 7839 and people tested so far 3,95,873.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-count-crosses-34000-mark-with-687-new-cases-856731.html
03-07-2020||West||Maharashtra records 6,364 new coronavirus cases, 198 deaths||The coronavirus case count in Maharashtra rose to 1,92,990 on Friday with addition of 6,364 new patients, a fresh single-day high, the state health department said. Death toll due to the pandemic rose to 8,376 with 198 fatalities being reported.  On the other hand, 3,515 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered cases to 1,04, 687, said an official release. So far 10,49,277 people have been tested in the state while there are 79,927 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-6364-new-coronavirus-cases-198-deaths-856770.html
03-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Naxal killed by C-60 commandos in Gadchiroli||A Naxal was gunned down on Friday evening by Gadchiroli police's C-60 commandos in an encounter in Yeldami jungle, an official said. The personnel from C-60, a specialised combat unit of the district police, were on an operation in a jungle under Hedri police help centre in Mauza Yeldami when an exchange of fire took place with Maoist ultras, he said. "After the encounter, we found the body of one Naxal as well as a weapon. The operation has been intensified inside the forest," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-naxal-killed-by-c-60-commandos-in-gadchiroli-856785.html
03-07-2020||West||Gujarat: Covid-19 death toll passes 1,900-mark, mortality rate down yet highest||The death toll from coronavirus in Gujarat passed 1,900-mark on Friday with the state recording 18 fresh deaths in the past 24 hours. This is the third highest number of casualties from the virus in the country after Maharashtra and New Delhi. The state's mortality rate continues to be highest in the country with nearly 5.5 percent which has come down from over 6 percent in the last two weeks as number of deaths is witnessed a decline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-death-toll-passes-1900-mark-mortality-rate-down-yet-highest-856819.html
