04-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Another Mysuru police official tests positive for Covid-19||A police personnel attached to Mysuru district police tested positive for Covid-19. The constable was working at T Narasipur Police station. According to the officials, he was a primary contact of an infected person and was under home quarantine. The Health department authorities shifted him to designated Covid hospital||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/another-mysuru-police-official-tests-positive-for-covid-19-856938.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Separate hospital to treat Covid-19 patients with criminal charges||In the wake of arrest of a theft accused, who is a Covid-19 patient, escaping from designated Covid-19 hospital at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, and was later arrested in Gadag on Thursday, a Social Welfare Department's hostel in the city will become a separate hospital to treat Covid-19 patients who are arrested on charges of criminal activities. In addition, as policemen and government employees are also getting Covid-19 infection, they will be treated separately at Dr B D Jatti Homoeopathic Medical College in Dharwad. "After giving approval, both the places are identified, and shifting would be completed in a couple of days. Policemen will provide security to those buildings," Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil told DH. Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissioner R Dileep stated that separate buildings for Covid-19 infected policemen and accused were demanded. As police are on duty to contain Covid-19 infection and implementing lockdown, they also get infected sometimes. Due awareness is given to police and their family members. Police personnel above 50 or 55 years and those who have comorbidities are given the option to work from home. Safety material like PPE kits and gloves are also provided, along with immunity booster medicines, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/separate-hospital-to-treat-covid-19-patients-with-criminal-charges-857009.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Harassment of workers of essential services alleged||Employees of establishments that are listed under essential services feel that they are being harassed by the police, under the guise of Prohibitory Orders, by blocking the main roads in the central business district (CBD), instead of penalising violators. A lab technician, who requested anonymity, working on Krishna Vilas Road, said, that on Friday, after finishing work, around 7.30 pm, he left for home at Raghavendra Nagar. “I turned to the left on Dewan’s Road as the Krishna Vilas Road is a containment zone, Maharani’s PU College onwards. Thus, I took an U-turn and headed towards Narayana Shastri Road via Bidaram Krishnappa Road, to join D Devaraja Urs Road. I moved towards DC’s office, as it is an one-way. I was supposed to take a right to Dewan’s Road, to reach Shivarampet and join Krishnaraja (KR) Circle, via Chikka Gadiyara.” “However, Dewan’s Road was blocked beyond DD Urs Road also. Thus, I returned to my work place, via Jhansi Lakshmi Bai Road. Again, I moved down Krishna Vilas Road and took the road on the southern side of Jaganmohan Palace (Lakshmi Vilas Road) and reached New Sayyaji Rao Road. New Sayyaji Rao Road, in between Thathaiah Park and Bramhapuri Gate of Mysuru Palace, was blocked, leaving a small gap, sufficient for two-wheelers. But, some police personnel, sitting on their motorbikes, on the footpath, shouted at me and stopped me from using this small gap to move towards KR Circle.” “They did not listen to me, while I tried to tell them that I work for a diagnostic lab and I need to return home. They bluntly told me to return. To try my luck, I moved on New Sayyaji Rao Road, towards Agrahara. To my dismay, the road was again blocked near Patashala Circle. Riders of two more two-wheelers and an autorickshaw were already engaged in an argument with a Home Guard at the barricade. As the argument heated up, the Home Guard let us pass, with magnanimity. Thus, I reached Bannur Road, via Gun House, Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Road, Sir Mirza Ismail Road and Nazarbad Police Station,” the lab technician said. “To avoid coming out once again on Saturday morning, I bought milk at Milk Galaxy of MyMUL and headed towards home. The arch of Central Public Works Department (CPWD), that connects to my home was blocked and guarded by a policeman. He was so strict, that he was deaf to what I was saying. So, I took a U-turn on Bannur Road and returned to Milk Galaxy and took a right turn on Air Force Road to reach Jyothi Nagar and then to my home in Raghavendra Nagar,” the lab technician said. “Right or wrong, District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar said that unlike across the state, where Prohibitory Orders are in force from 8 pm, there will be early Prohibitory Orders, from 6 pm itself from Friday in Mysuru. All should follow the guidelines. If I am roaming around unnecessarily, let them arrest me, file a case against me, seize my motorbike and take action against me. Because I am in the healthcare sector, I have to attend to work, according to my shift timings. However, after finishing work, I was left roaming around, due to the blockades. Already, my salary has been slashed, citing Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, the price of petrol has increased over the past one month. My expedition, in search of a route to my home, consumes not only my energy and time, but also fuel cost,” the lab technician said. “Instead of penalising violators, the police personnel have taken the easy route, of blocking the roads. As it is announced that essential services are available, they can check ID cards, for validity and genuineness, and let us. Otherwise, they can order all establishments, whether essential or non-essential, to close down by 5.30 pm, so that we can reach our home by 6 pm,” he said. DCP A N Prakash Gowda said, “Police personnel are letting those working in the essential services and there is no problem. If one road is blocked, another road will be open, so they can use alternative roads. If there are problems, I will direct the officials to give passage to those in essential services.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/harassment-of-workers-of-essential-services-alleged-857117.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||KG Koppal Road sealed down as resident test +ve||The officials of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) sealed down KG Koppal Main Road, as a resident here tested positive. The person, who arrived at his home at KG Koppal in the city, from Hyderabad, tested positive. As the news spread, all shops and business establishments on the street and adjoining areas were closed. The MCC workers sanitised the area. The entry and exit to the area is restricted and no people are allowed to move out of the sealed down area. It has to be noted that the authorities had collected the sample of the victim on Friday. A police personnel attached to district police force tested positive for Covid-19. The constable working at T Narasipur Police station is infected with coronavirus. According to the officials, he was the primary contact of an infected person and was under home quarantine. The constable’s sample tested positive for Covid-19. The Health department authorities shifted him to the designated Covid hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kg-koppal-road-sealed-down-as-resident-test-ve-857118.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sunday lockdown: Cops ask people not to move out||City Police is all prepared for strict enforcement of Sunday lockdown, announced by the state government to contain the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown is in place from 6 pm on Saturday to 5 am on Monday. The city will remain closed for the day, on Sunday, and on another four Sundays till August 2. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta has warned of taking stringent action against the people, who violate the lockdown norms and move around unnecessarily. Except emergency and essential services, no other service is available across the city.   Chandragupta said that the lockdown will be enforced strictly and no unnecessary movement of people will be tolerated. “Except emergency vehicles and essential services, other vehicles on the road will be seized,” said a police officer. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses will be off the roads and no taxi or autorickshaw service is available. The police have advised the people to maintain social distance and to wear masks on normal days, while coming out of houses. The police also warned the vendors and businessmen to ensure safety of the people, by arranging necessary facilities, to contain the spread of virus. The people should maintain six feet distance. Criminal cases will be filed against the people who violate the norms and Rs 200 fine will be imposed from not wearing masks. The police have asked to place sanitisers and do mandatory thermal screening at work places and also directed to make arrangements for hand wash. The police commissioner has urged the people above 65 years and below 10 year children not to come out of their residence. According to the commissioner, no mass gathering is allowed and not more than 50 persons can gather in ceremonies like marriage. However, social distance and wearing masks is compulsory everywhere, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sunday-lockdown-cops-ask-people-not-to-move-out-857119.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||English dictionary on Soliga language||A researcher from Myanmar has compiled an English dictionary on the words used by the people of Soliga tribe, living in and around Biligiri Ranga Hill in Chamarajangar district. Aung Si has compiled the words used only by the six Soligas tribes, living in the tribal hamlets. The 445-page dictionary has more than 1,500 words, used by Soligas. The words have been written in Kannada script and the explanation and meaning is in English. The book has pictures of rare trees, plants and animals found in BR Hills. Aung Si has printed around 150 copies, priced Rs 1,500 each. He has handed over the responsibility of the book sales to the Soliga leaders, asking them to utilise the money earned for the development of the tribals. Aung Si has earned a PhD from the Australian National University, conducting a research on the lifestyle of Soligas in 2012. He has been working hard for around 12 years, from 2008. He has interacted with the tribe of Soligas, learning about their language. He has sought the help of Ashoka Trust for Ecology and Environment in BR Hills, to compile the dictionary. He has also taken the help of Soliga leaders and other research persons for his work. Scientist C Madegowda of Ashoka Trust told DH that there are 148 Soliga tribal hamlets in the district. Only six particular tribes of Soligas in 55 hamlets of BR Hills, still use the words and language, which are on the verge of extinction. Others speak Kannada and have adapted to the new lifestyles. Youngsters are not well versed in Soliga language and culture. This dictionary may be useful for them in future. It will also help those involved in further research on the language, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/english-dictionary-on-soliga-language-857123.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Two more succumb to Covid-19, toll increases to six in Belagavi||Death toll in the district due to Covid-19 increased to 6 with 2 patients succumbing to the pandemic during treatment at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital on Saturday evening. A 70-year-old from Kuduchi in Raibag and 48-year-old from Veerbhadra Nagar in the city died during treatment. Both had been admitted in the hospital on Thursday and Friday respectively for treatment of breathing related problems. BIMS Director Dr Vinay Dastikopp confirmed death of two patients during treatment. Earlier in the health bulletin issued 27 new cases of Covid-19 positives had been reported taking the tally to 377.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-two-more-succumb-to-covid-19-toll-increases-to-six-in-belagavi-857168.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress to be reorganised into cadre based party: Jarkiholi||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Working President Satish Jarkiholi said that the Congress party would be reorganised and strengthened at the grassroot level. “Congress is mass based party and in the coming days, it would also be made into cadre based party to meet the current political needs," he said. Jarkiholi after officially assuming charge as KPCC working president visited the Congress party district office on Saturday. He told reporters that BJP was not the first cadre based party in the country and it was the communist parties which followed this formula. "Congress too would be made as cadre based party and it would be reorganised. Party has presence at root level and it needs to be mobilised. Congress leaders and workers will work towards strengthening the party," he said. "Factionalism was common in all political parties and it has become a norm. Congress too has factions, but when we come on party forum there were no factions and we all are one," he added "Since announcement of D K Shivakumar as KPCC president and Ishwar Khandre and Saleem Ahmed as working presidents, we have been working towards reorganising the party. Formal programme to assume office was organised on Thursday. Despite Covid-19 crisis, we have been working," Jarkiholi stated. He said, leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, Siddaramaiah has already stated that there has been a scam in procurement of Covid-19 equipment and it needs to be inquired. We support the demand for impartial inquiry, he added. KPCC has formed a team to bring back leaders who had quit the party and want to return to its fold. Team will submit its report and later decision on readmitting them to the party will be taken, he informed.  After assuming the office, responsibility to reorganise the party in the district and state has increased, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-to-be-reorganised-into-cadre-based-party-jarkiholi-856998.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Govt is ready for any probe: Karnataka health minister on Siddaramaiah's allegation||Reacting to former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah's allegation on misappropriation of funds in purchase of Covid-19 medical equipment, Health Minister B Sriramulu said the government is ready for any kind of probe in this regard.  Speaking to media persons, on Saturday, he said the government has maintained accounts for each purchase of equipment related to Covid-19. "So, Congress leader's allegations are far from truth. Siddaramaiah had served as chief minister and he has vast political experience. It is unbecoming of such a leader to make such ridiculous allegations. The government is ready to release white paper on purchase of equipment related to Covid-19," he said. He said Karnataka stands third in the country in collection of throat swabs and examination of people related to Covid-19. The entire country has hailed Karnataka's role in containing Covid-19, Sriramulu claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/govt-is-ready-for-any-probe-karnataka-health-minister-on-siddaramaiahs-allegation-857027.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah asks Karnataka govt to evaluate if SSLC exams were held safely||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday suggested that the Karnataka government ascertain whether the recently concluded class 10 exam was conducted safely by checking the primary contacts of patients testing positive for Covid-19, between June 15 to July 20. Expressing hope that everybody was safe, the former Chief Minister said, we will have to wait for 15 days to know the exact outcome. "@CMofKarnataka seems to be motivated & overconfident to conduct more exams after 'assuming' that SSLC exams were conducted safely. I too hope that everybody are safe. But we will have to wait for 15 days to know the exact outcome," Siddaramaiah said. "My strong suggestion to the govt is to collect data from all #COVID19 positive patients reported/ing between 15th June to 20th July to check if any of their primary contact wrote SSLC exams. This will help the govt to evaluate if at all exams can be conducted safely," he said in another tweet. This will help the govt to evaluate if at all exams can be conducted safely. 2/2 The exam that began on June 25 concluded on Friday, amid a spike in Covid-19 cases, in which about 102 students could not appear due to reasons associated with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-asks-karnataka-govt-to-evaluate-if-sslc-exams-were-held-safely-857068.html
04-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||BS Yediyurappa rejigs ministerial tasks to handle Covid-19 ||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday reallocated Covid-19 responsibilities among his Cabinet colleagues, amid talk that there was a race among ministers to prove their credentials during the raging pandemic.  In the fresh rejig, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar will be in charge of policy, guidelines, the Covid-19 War Room and press briefings.  Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan will look after Covid Care Centres (CCC), which are mostly private institutions converted into facilities to manage the pandemic.  Revenue Minister R Ashoka and the CM’s political secretary SR Vishwanath have been asked to manage beds in private hospitals and ensure they are available for patients.  The reallocation of responsibilities was decided at a meeting of the Covid-19 task force that Yediyurappa convened Saturday afternoon, Sudhakar said. “We discussed everything and that we should work as a team,” Sudhakar told reporters.  This is not the first time Yediyurappa has stepped in to sort matters out. When the pandemic first broke out, he had to deal with what looked like a turf war between Sudhakar and Health Minister B Sriramulu. Then, Yediyurappa made Sudhakar in charge of Covid-19 affairs in Bengaluru and asked Sriramulu to focus on the rest of Karnataka. When both of them continued to issue contradictory statements, Yediyurappa appointed Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar as the Covid-19 spokesperson.  On June 25, when Sudhakar was under home quarantine, Yediyurappa asked Ashoka to manage Covid-19 in Bengaluru, which reportedly led to heartburn within the Cabinet.   The apparent lack of coordination among ministers came as a shot in the arm for the Opposition Congress, which took potshots at the Yediyurappa administration.  Sudhakar also said that Yediyurappa wanted all those areas in Bengaluru having high Covid-19 cases to be sealed down effectively. “Since more cases are being reported in Bengaluru south, the CM said the seal down should be done more in appropriate places,” he said.  The possibility of imposing a lockdown was also discussed, Sudhakar said. “But lockdown isn’t a permanent solution. I said we shouldn’t go for another lockdown and even Narayan concurred. The CM, however, stressed on seal downs and the need to do more tests in crowded places such as markets,” Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bs-yediyurappa-rejigs-ministerial-tasks-to-handle-covid-19-857097.html
04-07-2020||National||2,520 fresh Covid-19 cases in Delhi take tally to over 94K; 2,520 fresh COVID-19 cases in Delhi take tally to over 94K||Delhi recorded 2,520 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the tally in the city to over 94,000, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 2,923, the authorities said. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike till date of 3,947 cases. However, in the last five days, the number of fresh cases has oscillated, not showing a particular trend in figures. The number of cases reported from June 28 to July 1 are -- 2,889 cases (June 28); 2,084 (June 29); 2,199 (June 30); and 2,442 (July 1), with a steady rise in death figures. Fifty-nine fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department bulletin said on Friday. The death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi stood at 2,864 on Thursday. The bulletin said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 2,923 and the total number of cases has mounted to 94,695.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2520-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-take-tally-to-over-94k-2520-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-take-tally-to-over-94k-856829.html
04-07-2020||National||ICMR's vaccine rush raises eyebrows||The decision has not only come under serious criticism from independent scientists and public health experts but has even made the vaccine's manufacturer – Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech – uncomfortable, as the company refused to put a deadline on the vaccine's commercial launch in the absence of even preliminary human trial data. A day after the company announced receiving the DCGI approval for phase-I and phase-II clinical trials of Covaxin, the apex council wrote to 12 hospitals chosen for the trial asking them to set a July 7 deadline for enrollment of participants for the phase-I trials to check the safety of the vaccine while reminding them to accord “highest priority” to the project that was being monitored at the “topmost level in government”.  “It is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by 15th August 2020 after completion of all clinical trials,” Bhargava said in the letter dated July 2. But Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella was non-committal on any launch date for the vaccine. “I cannot commit now on when the trial would start and when we would receive the results,” Ella told DH. Health experts scoffed at the “deadline-oriented” clinical trials, wondering whether the efficacy of the vaccine was pre-decided. “For a vaccine for which pre-clinical development is still ongoing, as per the letter itself, how can clinical trial recruitment be starting on July 7? And that the vaccine will be launched on  August 15? A vaccine trial completed in little over a month, efficacy pre-decided,” said Anant Bhan, former President of the International Association of Bioethics. For comparison, the indigenous rotavirus vaccine — also manufactured by Bharat Biotech — took three decades to come to the market after the strain was isolated at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in the mid-1980s.  “It is not possible for human safety, immunogenicity and efficacy studies on a new vaccine to be completed in four weeks. If the aim is to give the people of India a safe and efficacious vaccine, ICMR should reconsider its directive,” a senior biologist who doesn't want to be identified told DH. According to the Clinical Trials Registry-India, the Phase-I and Phase-II clinical trials of the Covaxin will be carried out on 1,125 participants across 12 hospitals that include AIIMS in Delhi and Patna, and the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmrs-vaccine-rush-raises-eyebrows-856836.html
04-07-2020||National||Private labs starting TrueNat/CBNAAT based tests for Covid-19 be encouraged for NABL seal: ICMR to states||The ICMR has written to all states and UTs saying all private laboratories in their areas which intend to initiate TrueNat/CBNAAT based tests for Covid-19 be encouraged to apply for NABL accreditation to ensure quality testing. In a letter to all chief secretaries, additional chief secretaries, secretaries, commissioners and principal secretaries (Health and Family Welfare), Additional Director General of ICMR Dr G S Toteja said many of the labs are doing this test for the first time and in view of this, it is prudent to comply with NABL norms and obtain accreditation of private labs. The letter stated that ICMR, so far, has included a mandatory criterion for obtaining NABL accreditation for all Covid-19 testing private laboratories, including those with TrueNat/CBNAAT platform. "This is primarily to ensure quality testing and ensure correct interpretation of test results," the letter said. The apex health research body had validated the usage of TrueNat, a diagnostic machine commonly used for detecting tuberculosis, for conducting coronavirus tests on April 10. Toteja emphasised that in the backdrop of Covid-19 crisis, the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) has established expedited approval mechanism with fast-track approval being granted within seven days. "However, the need to augment testing for Covid-19 in the current situation is well understood. ICMR is committed to support all states in ramping up testing. In view of this, all private laboratories in your state who intend to initiate TrueNat / CBNAAT based testing for Covid-19 should be encouraged to apply for NABL accreditation,"  Toteja said in the letter. All the labs which have applied can reach out to the ICMR with a copy of their NABL application. The ICMR will provide expedited approval for TrueNat /CBNAAT subject to NABL approval, which can be submitted within a maximum time span of four weeks from the date of approval. "I request you to direct the concerned private labs/hospitals in your state who intend to initiate Covid testing using TrueNat / CBNAAT, to adopt the above mechanism for obtaining approval for Covid testing from ICMR," the letter said. The TrueNat and CBNAAT systems have been deployed for diagnosis of Covid-19 in view of availability of customised cartridges. These platforms have a quick turnaround time (30 -60 minutes) but only 1-4 samples can be tested in one run, limiting the maximum numbers that can be tested to 24-48 samples / day only, according to an advisory issued by the ICMR on June 23. All Covid-19 tests conducted through RT-PCR, TrueNat and CBNAAT are reported on ICMR data entry portal which helps in drawing the national estimates on numbers of tests conducted, numbers of positives, tests conducted per million population, etc, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-labs-starting-truenat/cbnaat-based-tests-for-covid-19-be-encouraged-for-nabl-seal-icmr-to-states-856852.html
04-07-2020||National||DH Toon | 'Great to see some movement in the party!'||After Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was asked to vacate her bungalow in the national capital, Congress has gone the whole hog to condemn her "harassment" and the buzz is that she would now relocate to Lucknow ahead of 2022 assembly polls. Congress, which has been trying to pitchfork her as the main Opposition face in Uttar Pradesh ahead of next state polls, sees an opportunity in this action but the political dynamics of the state politics could end up benefiting the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-great-to-see-some-movement-in-the-party-856858.html
04-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 4||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 6.3 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country.   Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 6,70,035 as of July 4 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 19,259   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 3,92,403 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-4-856859.html
04-07-2020||National||Fact-check | Viral photo does not show Bharat Biotech’s VP taking first dose of Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has written to Bharat Biotech India Ltd (BBIL) to step up the clinical trials for their jointly-developed Covid-19 vaccine (BBV152 Covid vaccine) or ‘Covaxin’. In the view of this news, a photograph is widely circulating on social media with the claim that the first dose of the vaccine was administered on the “Vice President of BBIL Dr VK Srinivas”.   Dr V. K.Srinivas , Vice President, Bharat biotech, taking Corona vaccine clinical trial After taking the first dose that he said he is the first person in India to take vaccine developed by his team in Bharat Biotech.    It is also circulating on WhatsApp.  1. The photograph shows the administration of BBV152 Covid vaccine. 2. BBV152 can be administered intravenously. False. 1. Bharat Biotech denies that the image represents clinal trials of BBV152 In an email response to Alt News, BBIL wrote, “Certain images and messages being circulated on WhatsApp and other social media platforms have NOT been disseminated by Bharat Biotech. The image being circulated is a routine procedural blood draw for testing all production staff. ”  2. BBV152 cannot be administered intravenously  Intra-muscular vaccines are not given in the elbow pit region (cubital fossa) due to a lack of muscles in that area. The cubital fossa is used to access superficial nerves, arteries and veins for intravenous administration. Furthermore, as seen in the picture, the person is wearing a tourniquet rubber band on his arm. The band is used to put pressure on a patient’s arm to draw blood. This is a compression method, highly unlikely to be used while administering a vaccine. The band is used to pool blood or accumulate blood to draw it intravenously, and this pooling of blood is not required for intramuscular vaccine administrations. What are the different routes of administration of vaccines? Vaccines can be administered using three different routes of injection, oral administration (for example, rotavirus vaccine) and intranasal spray application (for example, flu vaccine).  Some examples of vaccines administered through intramuscular injection are the Hepatitis B vaccine and measles-rubella vaccine. A photograph of a routine procedural blood draw was shared with the false claim that it represents the first dose of Covaxin being administered to Bharat Biotech’s Dr V K Srinivas. Moreover, the route of administration of BBV152, as per the vaccine’s registration document, is intramuscular while the image shows blood drawn intravenously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-viral-photo-does-not-show-bharat-biotech-s-vp-taking-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-856861.html
04-07-2020||National||James Sherwood, who revived the Orient Express, dies at 86||Over his long, colorful life, the peripatetic James Sherwood seeded many businesses — container leasing, a London guidebook, ferries and riverboats, hotels and restaurants (like the “21” Club in New York and Harry’s Bar in London), an ice cream company, a magazine, fruit farms and a vineyard. But what made his name was his revival of the once-glamorous Orient Express. Sherwood died on May 18 at a hospital in London. He was 86. His son Charles said the cause was complications of gallbladder surgery. Sherwood bought his first train in 1977: two battered first-class sleeping carriages that had been part of the Orient Express in its heyday. For more than half a century, the Orient Express ran from Paris to Istanbul, among other routes, its luxurious cars fitted out with Lalique glass reliefs, mahogany paneling and rosewood marquetry. Mata Hari was a regular traveler, as was a Bulgarian king, who liked to play engineer when the train ran through his kingdom. Agatha Christie made it the scene of a clever murder, solved by Hercule Poirot. But inexpensive air travel killed it off. Sherwood, who was based in London but born in America, had been a multimillionaire since he was 36, when the container leasing business that he and a college buddy started in 1965 with $100,000 (his investment was $25,000 for a half interest) went public. He had just bought the Hotel Cipriani in Venice when the two carriages came up for auction. On an impulse, he bid on them as a way to connect to his new property, and he won them for just over $113,000. It would take five years and $31 million to round up 23 more of the original carriages, which were scattered in yards across Europe; he restored 18 of them and cannibalized the rest for parts. The revived Orient Express, which ran from London to Venice (and in those days involved a ferry ride from Dover to Calais), rolled out of Victoria Station in the spring of 1982. And it became the centerpiece and branding engine for a portfolio of grand hotels, under the hyphenated name Orient-Express, that Sherwood rescued and rehabilitated all around the world. James Blair Sherwood was born on Aug. 8, 1933, in Newcastle, Pennsylvania, the only child of Florence (Balph) Sherwood, a pianist, and William Sherwood, a patent lawyer. He grew up in Lexington, Kentucky, where his father’s family was from, as well as in Berkeley, California, and Bronxville, New York, when his father began working for the Atomic Energy Commission. He studied economics at Yale, where he was in his own estimation an indifferent student but an enthusiastic bridge player. Still, his winnings did not cover his tailor’s debts or his club dues. It took a year of Navy pay to do that. When he had made his fortune, he sent his parents a Cadillac. His father, although he came from a prosperous tobacco family, disdained displays of wealth and refused the gift, telling his son that lawyers could be seen in Buicks but not Cadillacs. In the 1960s, Sherwood met Shirley Cross, an Oxford-educated botanist. A widow with two young sons, Charles and Simon, she was working for Smith, Kline & French, the pharmaceutical company (now GlaxoSmithKline), on the development of Tagamet, the wildly successful beta blocker that soothes stomach ulcers. They married on New Year’s Eve 1977. Charles gave his mother away, and Simon was best man. Afterward, the boys changed their last name by deed poll to Sherwood, as a gift to their parents. But they weren’t formally adopted until two years ago — at ages 58 and 57 — when Sherwood discovered that the adoption of adults was legal under Kentucky law. Although he was a devoted Anglophile, Sherwood never became a British citizen. The Sherwoods spent the better part of each year traveling, scouting hotels for Sherwood’s company and amassing a collection of 50 properties that spanned Brazil, Laos, Russia and South Africa. It was Sherwood’s practice to type up lengthy reviews after each stay on a manual typewriter he brought with him for that purpose. Among his pet peeves were soap wrapped in plastic, which he found difficult to open with wet hands, and room safes below eye level. He did not always succeed in his bids. He was thwarted in an attempt to buy the Carlyle in New York. His overture to Mohamed al-Fayed, the owner of the Ritz in Paris, was met with laughter. As a consolation prize, al-Fayed gave him Turnbull & Asser ties (al-Fayed owned the company) and frozen stag’s testicles from his estate in Scotland, which he said would improve his sex life. That story is recounted in Sherwood’s 2012 memoir, “Orient-Express: A Personal Journey,” written with Ivan Fallon, a British journalist. Sherwood had many battles over the years, including one with the heirs of Mark Birley, his former partner at Harry’s Bar, and one with the Cipriani family over their name. The former chairman of the P & O shipping line, Jeffrey Sterling, called Sherwood “as subtle as a boatload of bricks,” according to The Telegraph. In the mid-2000s Sea Containers, the parent company of Sherwood’s holdings and the owner of 25% of Orient-Express Hotels, restructured itself and sold off the hotel business. Sherwood resigned from the parent company but stayed on at the hotel business until stepping down in 2011, though he remained chairman emeritus until his death. Suspended by the pandemic, the Orient Express plans to resume service in August. An overnight passage from London to Venice in the grande suite, a rosewood and damask sleeping carriage with its own living room, costs about $18,000, and includes complimentary Champagne. A dozen roses or a small sponge cake are extra. Last year, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton bought the hotel business, since renamed Belmond, for a reported $2.6 billion. As was his habit, Sherwood wrote a 25-page memo offering his views on what to do with the properties, although he was told that Bernard Arnault, the chief executive of LVMH, would read only one page. Arnault not only read the entire memo; he invited Sherwood to meet with him. “Jim was really chuffed,” Fallon said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/james-sherwood-who-revived-the-orient-express-dies-at-86-856863.html
04-07-2020||National||In highest single-day spike, nearly 23,000 test positive for Covid-19; death toll rises to 18,655||With 22,771 people testing positive for coronavirus in the highest single-day spike so far, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 6,48,315 on Saturday, while the death toll rose to 18,655 with 442 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 3,94,226 and one patient has migrated. There are 2,35,433 active cases of coronavirus presently in the country, the updated data at 8 am showed. "Thus, around 60.80 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases also include foreigners.  Of the 442 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 198 are from Maharashtra, 64 from Tamil Nadu, 59 from Delhi, 21 from Karnataka, 18 each from Gujarat and West Bengal, 14 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from Rajasthan, eight each from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, five from Punjab, four each from Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, three from Bihar, two each from Assam and Odisha. DIA||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-highest-single-day-spike-nearly-23000-test-positive-for-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-18655-856917.html
04-07-2020||National||PM applauds BJP workers for helping needy during lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday applauded BJP workers for extending help to those in need during the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, saying for his party workers the nation comes first. Before he chairs the 'Seva Hi Sangathan' meet this evening,  Modi said in these challenging times, the party workers have been working tirelessly across India, helping those in need. "For BJP karyakartas, serving the nation comes first," he wrote on Twitter. In these challenging times, our Karyakartas have been working tirelessly across India, helping those in need. BJP state units will present a report card to Modi regarding the public service works and outreach undertaken during the nationwide lockdown period on Saturday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-applauds-bjp-workers-for-helping-needy-during-lockdown-856983.html
04-07-2020||National||Amit Shah pays tributes to Swami Vivekananda on his death anniversary||Union Home Minister Amit Shah paid tributes to Swami Vivekananda on his death anniversary on Saturday and said the great thinker not only reinforced the spirit of nationalism in the country, but also enriched the whole world with the ethos of Indian culture. He also said the relevance of Vivekananda's thoughts on education, universal brotherhood and self-awakening continues to remain unbroken even today. "Swami Vivekananda was a patriotic saint, a great thinker and an exemplary orator who not only reinforced the spirit of nationalism in India but also enriched the whole world with the ethos of Indian culture," a home ministry statement quoted Shah as saying. The home minister said Vivekananda had great faith in the abilities of the country's youth and believed that only youngsters could provide the right direction and empower the nation in the times to come. "Even today, Vivekananda ji's principles and his ideals continue to inspire the youth towards the service of the nation. I bow before him on his punyatithi," he said. Swami Vivekananda was born on January 12, 1863. He passed away on July 4, 1902.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-pays-tributes-to-swami-vivekananda-on-his-death-anniversary-856987.html
04-07-2020||National||Man impersonates PMO official, calls Boeing India on defence deals||The CBI is in search of a man who sought details of defence deals from Boeing India through a series of calls impersonating as one who is linked to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) and wanting the firm's officials to meet Home Minister Amit Shah and the Principal Secretary P K Mishra. The agency registered a case on June 30 following a complaint it received from PMO Assistant Director P K Issar, who referred to a letter from Boeing India, which claimed about receiving calls in November last year. According to the FIR, which was registered on the complaint filed on January 24 this year, Boeing India's Chief of Staff Praveen Yagnambhat wrote to the PMO on November 5 last year regarding the calls the company's Executive Secretary received. The FIR said one Anirudh Singh called the Executive Secretary from his mobile phone posing as someone who is working with Jitendra Kumar, who is claimed to be working as Special Assistant of Mishra. However, the CBI said, no Kumar worked with Mishra and there was no such post in the PMO. Following this, the CBI registered the FIR under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy, 419 (impersonation) and 420 (cheating). In his email to the PMO, Yagnambhat said that Singh kept calling the Executive Secretary and referred to "some defence bids" that Boeing India had submitted to the Ministry of Defence and that "he has orders from some higher ups for us to meet P K Mishra and Amit Shah". At least three similar cases of impersonating PMO officials are already being probed by the CBI in the past 18 months. The CBI had earlier registered a case after an unidentified person called the administrator of Mahe region of Puducherry posing as Mishra and sought personal favours. In another case, one Umeshchandra J Tank lost Rs 18,999 after he received a call from one person who claimed to be from the Insurance Cell of the PMO. A Bengaluru-based man, identified as S V Srinavasa Rao, also faced a CBI probe after the PMO complained that he had written letters in the name of PMO to the Department of Justice asking it to conduct investigations against various judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-impersonates-pmo-official-calls-boeing-india-on-defence-deals-856994.html
04-07-2020||National||Scientists strike note of caution as 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccine programme gains momentum||India’s Covid-19 vaccine programme has gained sudden traction but it is imperative to strike a balance between giving it high priority and rushing into a process that takes months, even years, several scientists said on Saturday, a day after the ICMR announced it envisaged a preventive by next month. There was hope but caution too as the Indian Council of Medical Research on Friday said it aims to launch the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine by August 15. The same day, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila announced it has got the Drugs Controller General of India’s (DCGI) nod for human clinical trials for a potential vaccine. “Fast tracking a vaccine trial in four weeks for safety, immunogenicity and efficacy is just not possible if things are to be done correctly,” Shahid Jameel, virologist and CEO of the Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance, a public charity that invests in building biomedical sciences and health research framework, told PTI. Immunogenicity is the ability of a foreign substance, such as an antigen, to provoke an immune response in the body of a human or other animal, he explained.   Virologist Upasana Ray added that an accelerated launch or promise for launch of a vaccine against the novel coronavirus deserves applause but it is important to ask whether “we are rushing too much”. “We must rush albeit carefully. Giving this project high priority is absolutely important. However, excess pressure might not necessarily lead to a positive product for public use,” the senior scientist at CSIR-IICB, Kolkata, told PTI. India’s premier medical body ICMR has said 12 clinical trial sites for the indigenous Covaxin, being developed in collaboration with the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), have been identified. It asked medical institutions and principal investigators to ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7. "It is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by August 15 after completion of all clinical trials,” ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said in his letter to the principal investigators of the 12 sites.   The tone of the letter and the haste it indicated had some scientists worried. They questioned the timeline of the announcement mentioned in the letter, and advised against subverting the due vaccine development process.   “The ICMR 'letter' is, to say the least, a deeply inappropriate letter, in tone and content, both in terms of the integrity of due processes of product development, and in terms of technically realistic estimates,” immunologist Satyajit Rath told PTI.   Vaccine development is a multi-phase process. Phase 1 trials are small-scale, usually involving few participants, to assess whether the vaccine is safe for humans. Phase 2 trials often involve several hundred subjects, and mainly evaluate the efficacy. The final phase involves thousands of people to further assess the efficacy of the vaccine over a defined period of time, and can last several months. Ray added that a vaccine normally takes at least 12-18 months to pass all necessary clinical trial phases. “From now till August 15, the company has just over a months’ time to wrap up everything that normally a vaccine development process requires for releasing a vaccine for clinical use,” she said. “How can such a sharp timeline be even decided? Where does the evidence come from that by such a short time all the essential steps will be completed? What about the safety and efficacy, the fundamental steps of any drug development? Have even the pre-clinical studies been completed? Too much rush comes with possible risks,” she said.   Ray noted that there are some broad mandatory steps for developing a vaccine. Preclinical tests in small animals and mammals, she stressed, are essential to assess neutralising antibody titers and that itself can take at least a month or two. A titer is a laboratory test that measures the presence and amount of antibodies in blood. “Next, we check for safety. Then is the human trial. Even if we are in a deep rush we have to wait for some time for immunised individuals to start generating antibodies. After that a population needs to be monitored over time to investigate if people are still being infected,“ she explained. Skipping steps could either be dangerous or lead to poor product, Ray said. “We must not compromise with the standard, the quality. We don’t need to be the first to launch a drug but what we need is a Made in India vaccine that the entire world can rely on,” she added. The vaccine landscape in India has been also bolstered after the approval for Zydus Cadila’s vaccine candidate. It was fast-tracked following a recommendation by the subject expert committee on Covid-19, considering the emergency and unmet medical need during the pandemic. "DCGI Dr V G Somani has given approval for the phase I and II clinical trials (on humans) of the potential novel coronavirus vaccine developed by Zydus Cadila Healthcare Ltd on Thursday after its animal studies were found to be successful," an official source said.   Jameel, winner of the 2000 Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology, one of the highest Indian science awards, noted that it is a vaccine funded by Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) and the Department of Biotechnology. “Congratulations to Cadilla, BIRAC and DBT. We would look forward to properly conducted trials and good news in due course,” he told PTI.   “I am glad that a locally made vaccine candidate is making the same progress that others elsewhere in the world are making, not just with SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidates but with DNA-based SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidates, and I will look forward to the results,” added Rath from Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology (NII).   Gautam I Menon, professor from the Departments of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University, said Zydus Cadila’s vaccine appears to have shown safety and efficacy in animal trials and so they have been allowed to go to the next step, to human trials. “This is the standard procedure. It is the human trials that are time-consuming and it is important to get this right,” Menon told PTI.   In another development, Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla told The Tribune newspaper that the Covid-19 vaccine being developed at the University of Oxford will hit the market by the year-end.   ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 is made from a virus (ChAdOx1), which is a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus) that causes infections in chimpanzees, and has been genetically changed so that it is impossible for it to reproduce in humans.   “I think it is likely that the ChAdOx1-S vaccine candidate which has entered a phase 3 clinical trial in Brazil, will give at least somewhat promising results by late this calendar year,” Rath said. “Whether this will lead to the 'vaccine' becoming available in the market, and in the public health system, more importantly, by the end of this calendar year in India is much more uncertain, Mr Poonawala's welcome optimism notwithstanding,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-strike-note-of-caution-as-made-in-india-covid-19-vaccine-programme-gains-momentum-856996.html
04-07-2020||National||Indian-led team develops cheap, electricity free centrifuge for Covid-19 testing||Researchers, led by an Indian scientist, have developed a cheap, electricity-free centrifuge to separate components in patient saliva samples for the detection of the novel coronavirus, an advance that may increase the accessibility of Covid-19 diagnostics in poor regions of the world. According to the scientists, including Manu Prakash from Stanford University in the US, the 'Handyfuge' device spins sample-containing tubes at very high speeds, enough to separate the virus genome from patient saliva samples, without needing electricity. They said the cheap centrifuge, described in a yet-to-be peer-reviewed study published in the platform medRxiv, can be assembled using readily available components for a cost less than five USD per unit. It can allow clinicians and scientists to carry out a quick and cheap diagnostic technique called the LAMP assay to detect the presence of the novel coronavirus genome in patient saliva samples, the scientists noted. The LAMP protocol, according to the researchers, "has the benefits of being simple, requiring no specialised equipment, rapid, requiring less than an hour from sample collection to readout, and cheap, costing around one dollar per reaction using commercial reagents." While the assay has these benefits, the scientists said there could be variability in output in diagnostic methods based on viral genome detection in saliva samples. They explained that this is due to the saliva containing substances which can inhibit diagnostic reagents. "Centrifugation to separate the reaction inhibitors from the inactivated sample was shown to be an effective way to ensure reliable LAMP amplification," the scientists wrote in the study. However, they said a centrifuge capable of safely achieving the necessary speeds of 2000 rotations per minute (RPM), for several minutes, costs hundreds of dollars, also requiring a power supply. With Handyfuge, this limitation can be overcome, said Prakash -- a professor of Bioengineering at Stanford University, whose lab had earlier developed a cheap "origami microscope" called 'Foldscope'. The scientists explained that the novel device uses a mechanical strategy similar to the 'Dyno-torch' flashlights to generate centrifugal force using kinetic input from the user. "The user repeatedly squeezes the handle to spin a small freewheel connected to a centrifuge spindle," they wrote in the study. After a designated amount of time, enough centrifugal force is applied to the sample-containing tubes, the scientists said, yielding a separated liquid layer that is free of chemicals that may inhibit the coronavirus genetic material, its RNA. "This supernatant can then be reliably used for LAMP detection of SARS-CoV-2 or other viruses using the Rabe and Cepko assay," the researchers wrote. According to the study, the Handyfuge-LAMP assay works based on the protocol for the diagnostic method developed by scientists, Brian Rabe and Constance Cepko, from Harvard University in the US. "This simple electricity-free LAMP protocol builds on fantastic work by Cepko lab at Harvard, but with a hand-powered centrifuge to make this assay completely electricity-free for resource-constrained settings," Prakash's lab mentioned in a tweet. "The advantage for handyfuge is increased stability and limited fluctuations in RPM and it matches covid test need," the scientists noted on Twitter. According to the scientists, the idea started from a flash light picked up from a toy store, which they hacked to build Handyfuge. They then validated the performance of the device using the LAMP protocol from Rabe and Cepko. They said the Handyfuge, combined with the assay from Cepko and Rabe, works reliably in detecting synthetic Covid-19 RNA "down to 10-100 copies per microlitres in saliva." "With the use of insulated coolers for reagent supply chain and delivery, the assay presented can be completed without the need for electricity or any laboratory scale infrastructure," the study noted. However, to determine the effectiveness of the device as a point of care tool, the researchers said it will need to be validated with actual patient samples. "We are currently preparing to test this protocol and Handyfuge in field settings," they wrote in the study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-led-team-develops-cheap-electricity-free-centrifuge-for-covid-19-testing-856999.html
04-07-2020||National||Will give befitting reply to China: Pralhad Joshi||Making it clear that India would not initiate military action voluntarily against China or declare war, Union Parliamentary Minister Pralhad Joshi said, "we will definitely give a befitting answer if they continue efforts to occupy Indian territory". "Since ancient times, India never voluntarily invaded other countries, and we will continue that culture. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Ladakh gave a message that there is no compromise in border issues, and it also gave a morale boost to our soldiers. There will be no compromise in protecting our border and culture," Joshi said. In reply to Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Choudhury's demand to the government to acknowledgment Chinese intrusion into Indian territory, Joshi stated that politics should not be played in such cases, but all should be united for the country. Modi's visit has also given an answer to Congress leader Siddaramaiah who used to criticise Modi always, like a spokesman of a single-family, he said. On Covid-19"I do not think Covid-19 has reached the community spread level, and infection is less compared to the huge population of India. Inability in contact tracing of Covid-19 patients, and infection entering new areas are mainly due to lack of awareness and precautions," Joshi said. People should be alert, and take precautions against Covid-19 spread. They should also change their lifestyle in post-Covid-19 times, Joshi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-give-befitting-reply-to-china-pralhad-joshi-857004.html
04-07-2020||National||14 potential routes identified in Karnataka for private trains||With Indian Railways starting the process of allowing private players to operate passenger trains in its network as it invited Request for Qualification (RFP), the national transporter identified 14 potential routes in Karnataka to run such trains. Bengaluru - Patna ( 5 days a week), Bengaluru-Gorakhpur (Bi-Weekly), Bengaluru-Prayagraj (Bi-Weekly), Bengaluru-Visakhapatnam (Tri-Weekly), Bengaluru-Jaipur(Weekly), Chennai-Mangaluru (Weekly), Guwahati-Bengaluru (Tri-Weekly), Mysuru-Guwahati (Tri-Weekly), Mysuru-Bubaneshwar (Daily), Bengaluru-Delhi (Daily), Bengaluru-Howrah (Daily), Ranchi-Bengaluru (Bi-Weekly), Kalaburagi-Mumbai (6 days a week), Mangaluru-Mysuru (6 days a week) are the routes identified by railways.  As per proposal, private players can bid for operation on trains on 109 pairs of routes across the country,  through the introduction of 151 modern trains. Out of 106 pairs of routes, the railways identfied 14 routes connecting major cities in Karnataka to other places where demand for passenger trains are high. These trains will be in addition to existing trains on these routes. The existing trains plying on these routes will continue to operate, said an official in the railways. Earlier Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said, the  private operators are allowed to bring their own train sets, maintained by them. Private train operations are likely to begin by April 2023, all coaches will be procured under Make in India policy. The concession period for the project will be 35 years and private entities will be responsible for financing, procuring, operation and maintenance of the trains. The trains are to be designed for a maximum speed of 160 kmph. The private companies, which bag the tender to operate the train, have to pay lease charges and haulage charges (or freight charges for using infrastructure) to Indian Railways. Apart from fixing fare, the private companies also have provided inside facilities like catering, cleaning and supply of blankets to passengers. Fares in private trains will be competitive and prices on other modes of transport like airlines, buses will have to be kept in mind. With several companies including Indigo, Vistara, Spice Jet, R K Catering and Make My Trip and others showing interest to partipate in operating private trains, the ministry is keen on starting the project at the earliest. During pre-lockdown period, IRCTC, a catering and ticketing arm of railways, operated three trains- New Delhi-Lucknow, Mumbai -Ahmedabad and Ujjain-Varanasi. Since all the three trains operated successfully with occupancy more than 70 per cent, the railways wanted to hand over more routes to private companies, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-potential-routes-identified-in-karnataka-for-private-trains-857006.html
04-07-2020||National||Indian Army trashes criticism over medical facility in Leh, terms it malicious and unsubstantiated||The Indian Army on Saturday termed as "malicious and unsubstantiated" criticism in some quarters about a medical facility in a military hospital in Leh where Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with the soldiers injured in the Galwan Valley clashes. In a statement, the Army said "it is unfortunate that aspersions are being cast on how our brave Armed Forces are treated. The armed forces give the best possible treatment to their personnel." Prime Minister Modi made an unannounced visit to Ladakh on Friday, signalling India's firmness in dealing with the border row with China in several areas of the region. Modi also interacted with the soldiers who are undergoing treatment at the hospital, and told them that their bravery will be a source of inspiration for times to come. Following release of photographs of Modi's interaction with the injured soldiers, there were comments on Twitter that the facility did not look like a hospital as there were no medicine cabinet, I V (intravenous) stand, and other medical equipment. "There have been malicious and unsubstantiated accusations in some quarters regarding the status of the facility visited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to the General Hospital at Leh on July 3," the Army said. The Army further said: "It is clarified that the said facility is part of the Crisis Expansion capacity of 100 beds and is very much part of the General Hospital complex." "Hence, this hall which otherwise was normally used as a Training Audio Video Hall was converted into a ward ever since the hospital was also designated as COVID-19 treatment hospital," it said. The Army said the "injured braves have been kept there since their arrival from Galwan to ensure quarantine from COVID areas. The Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane and the Army Commander have also visited the injured braves in the same location." The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-trashes-criticism-over-medical-facility-in-leh-terms-it-malicious-and-unsubstantiated-857013.html
04-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi shares pictures of Sindhu Puja he performed in Ladakh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday shared pictures of Sindhu Puja he performed in Ladakh, saying he prayed for the peace and prosperity of the nation. The prime minister on Friday made a surprise visit to Ladakh amid the border standoff with China. He interacted with Army personnel and paid glowing tributes to 20 Indian soldiers who were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. Performed Sindhu Puja in Nimu yesterday. Sharing the pictures on Twitter, Modi said, "Performed Sindhu Puja in Nimu yesterday. Prayed for the peace, progress and prosperity of our nation." The puja is performed on the banks of river Sindhu (Indus).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-shares-pictures-of-sindhu-puja-he-performed-in-ladakh-857015.html
04-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pitches for Atmanirbhar App ecosystem, says IT is tackling disruption brought about by Covid-19||Days after the government banned 59 Chinese apps, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday invited the start-up and tech community to participate in the "Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge". The prime minister has launched the “Aatmanirbhar Bharat Innovation Challenge" to identify the best Indian apps that are already being used by citizens and have the potential to scale and become world-class apps in their respective categories, an official statement said Modi also said that the challenge will help create an "Aatmanirbhar App Ecosystem". "Who knows, I may also use some of these apps made by you," he said in a write-up on LinkedIn. Today there is immense enthusiasm among the tech and start-up community to create world-class "Made in India Apps", Modi said. "To facilitate their ideas and products, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology along with the Atal Innovation Mission are launching the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge'," the prime minister tweeted sharing the link to the LinkedIn post. Modi had given a call for an "Atmanirbhar Bharat (a self-reliant India) and had urged people to be "vocal for local" products. He said the app innovation challenge is for those who have such a working product or if they feel they have the vision and expertise to create such products. "I urge all my friends in the tech community to participate," he said while sharing the write-up "Let us Code for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat". India has a very vibrant tech and start-up ecosystem, which has done India proud nationally as well as globally, Modi said. The country's youth have excelled in providing tech solutions across sectors, he said. "The Covid-19 pandemic has also brought about a big disruption, which is being tackled through the use of technology to aid our day to day lives," the prime minister pointed out. Everyone is aware of the huge potential of the market and the scale products can achieve if they can satisfy the demand, he said. "Nowadays, we are seeing huge interest and enthusiasm among the start-up and tech ecosystem to innovate, develop and promote homegrown apps, Modi said. "Today, when the entire nation is working towards creating an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, it is a good opportunity to give direction to their efforts, momentum to their hard-work and mentorship to their talent to evolve apps which can satisfy our market as well as compete with the world," he said in the write-up. To help the start-up and tech community achieve this objective, the challenge will run in two tracks, which are Promotion of Existing Apps and Development of New Apps, Modi explained. For the promotion of existing apps and platforms across the categories of e-learning, work-from-home, gaming, business, entertainment, office utilities and social networking, the government will provide mentoring, hand-holding and support. "Track-01" will work in mission mode for identifying good quality apps for the leader-board and will be completed in around a month. For incubating new apps and platforms, the "Track-02" initiative will work to help create new champions in India by providing support in ideation, incubation, prototyping and roll out along with market access. The outcome of this challenge will be to give better visibility and clarity to existing apps to achieve their goals, and to create tech products to find solutions to tech conundrums with the help of mentorship, tech support and guidance during the entire life-cycle, the prime minister said. There is tremendous scope among these sectors for new apps that solve specific issues for India and the world, he said. "Can we think of making traditional Indian games more popular via apps? Can we develop apps with targeted and smart access to the right age group for learning, gaming? Can we develop gaming apps for people in rehabilitation or getting counselling to help them in their journey? There are many such questions and technology alone can give answers in a creative manner," Modi observed. This challenge will be jointly hosted by the government and members of the tech community to make it more holistic, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pitches-for-atmanirbhar-app-ecosystem-says-it-is-tackling-disruption-brought-about-by-covid-19-857029.html
04-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: 'Two-fifth of India’s consumers still prefer ordering goods online'||In today's episode, Two-fifth of India's consumers still prefer ordering goods online, says survey; CPM General Secretary Sitaram Yechury slams ICMR; CBI is in the lookout for a man impersonating as one who is linked to the Prime Minister's Office and man gets himself a gold mask worth Rs 2.89 lakh.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-two-fifth-of-india-s-consumers-still-prefer-ordering-goods-online-857034.html
04-07-2020||National||Prithviraj Chavan questions ICMR plans for Covid-19 vaccine by August 15||Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan alleged on Saturday that the ICMR's plans to launch a coronavirus vaccine by August 15 was aimed only at enabling the prime minister to make a big announcement from the Red Fort. The Indian Council of Medical Research said on Friday that it aims to launch the world's first Covid-19 vaccine by August 15. "Why is ICMR rushing for an unrealistic timeline of August 15for Indian corona(virus) vaccine when global experts are giving 12 to 18 months 'time frame," Chavan tweeted. The Congress leader alleged that the ICMR was in a hurry to develop a vaccine only so that Prime Minister Narendra Modi could make a major announcement from the Red Fort during the Independence Day address. The Union health minister should make a clarification in this regard, Chavan demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prithviraj-chavan-questions-icmr-plans-for-covid-19-vaccine-by-august-15-857035.html
04-07-2020||National||Vaccine for Covid-19 can t be expected this year: CCMB director Mishra||A vaccine for Covid-19 cannot be expected before early next year as the process involves a lot of clinical trials and data testing, a top official of CSIR- CCMB said on Saturday, a day after ICMR said it aims to launch the world's first Covid-19 vaccine by August 15. Rakesh K Mishra, Director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, said the ICMR's letter in this regard may be for internal consumption and aimed at putting pressure on hospitals to get ready for clinical human trials. "If everything goes absolutely really like a textbook plan, then we are talking about six to eight months to think of something that now we have a vaccine. Because you have to test in large numbers. It is not like a drug that if somebody is sick you give and see if it is cured or not," Mishra told PTI when asked about the possibility of the vaccine becoming ready by August 15. The Indian Council of Medical Research on Friday wrote to select medical institutions and hospitals to fast-track clinical trial approvals for the coronavirus vaccine candidate Covaxin, being developed in collaboration with Bharat Biotech, a city-based vaccine maker, which it plans to release on August 15. "Actually vaccine development takes many years, but you are in very desperate conditions. Maybe by the beginning of the next year if the vaccine clicks, we can expect. Not before that. Before that (it is) very unlikely as far as I understand," Mishra said. He said thousands of people are given vaccine during clinical trials and one has to wait for the data and results, which normally takes months. To a query, he said CCMB is currently doing 400-500 COVID-19 tests every day and had sent proposals to the ICMR for undertaking a new way of testing, which will consume less time and manpower. "We are doing a lot of tests... 400 to 500 tests every day. But there are limitations that you cannot go beyond certain numbers. But we had proposed to the ICMR a new way of testing. It is a shorter method. It can be done in a safer way and will take half the time. It is much less expensive and less human resources required. We are waiting for the ICMR to give an advisory on that," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-for-covid-19-can-t-be-expected-this-year-ccmb-director-mishra-857044.html
04-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Indian dozes off at Dubai airport, misses repatriation flight||A 53-year-old Indian worker in the UAE has missed a special repatriation flight after he dozed off at the Dubai International Airport, a media report said. P Shajahan, who worked as a storekeeper in Abu Dhabi, was supposed to fly to Thiruvananthapuram on the Emirates jumbo jet chartered by the Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre (KMCC) Dubai, Gulf News reported. It was the first-ever jumbo jet chartered for repatriation. Shajahan, who had paid 1,100 dirham (USD 300) for the ticket, said that he did not sleep on the previous night as he kept on waiting for the confirmation of his ticket for the jumbo jet flying 427 stranded Indians to Kerala, it said. He reached the airport early in the morning and after finishing the check-in procedures and rapid test, he reached the waiting area of the boarding gate at Terminal 3 around 2 PM local time, the report said. “I sat away from most of the others. But I fell asleep after 4.30 PM,” he said. S Nizamudeen Kollam, who coordinated the charter flight, said that the airline officials could not trace Shajahan when the flight was to take off. “He woke up and called us after the flight left. It is sad that he missed the flight, which was the first-ever jumbo jet chartered for repatriation. We are now trying to send him on another Emirates flight that we are chartering on Saturday,” Kollam said. Since Shajahan did not have any money, Jasimkhan Kallambalam, organising secretary of KMCC Thiruvananthapuram, went to the airport to meet him on Friday. “Since his visa was cancelled, he could not come out of the airport. He had only eaten the snacks in the kit KMCC had given. We managed to give him some cash for buying food through KMCC volunteer Alamsha Latheef,” Kallambalam said. In March, another Indian expat had fallen asleep in the same terminal and missed the last flight home before flights were suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He was stranded here for over 50 days before getting repatriated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-dozes-off-at-dubai-airport-misses-repatriation-flight-857063.html
04-07-2020||National||SC to pronounce judgment on plea alleging preferences to influential lawyers in listing of cases||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its judgement on Monday on a petition filed by an advocate for a direction to its officials for not giving preference to cases filed by influential lawyers, law firms and touts in listing of cases. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and S Abdul Nazeer would deliver the verdict on July 6 on the PIL filed by Delhi lawyer, Reepak Kansal. The court, which on June 19 reserved its judgement, had taken exception to allegations made by the petitioner. It had not even issued notice to the respondents which included the SC's Secretary General, SC Bar Association and Union government. "Why are you making such irresponsible comments? Why can't you be more responsible? Court officials are working day and night for you people. Such comments have become a trend today," the bench had then said. The petitioner has sought direction to the court officials to give equal treatment to ordinary lawyers and not to point out unnecessary defects in their petitions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-judgment-on-plea-alleging-preferences-to-influential-lawyers-in-listing-of-cases-857073.html
04-07-2020||National||Sentenced to jail term without remission, man not entitled to furlough: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has ruled that a man, sentenced to life imprisonment without remission till he completes a particular term, cannot be granted furlough, which is a conditional release to break the monotony of prison life. Such prisoners, however, are entitled to parole for re-establishing social and family ties, it added. In a judgment, Justice Mukta Gupta answered in negative to a legal issue whether a convict, who has been sentenced for life with the stipulation that no remission would be granted for a particular period or for the remainder of the life, is entitled to furlough during the said period of sentence. The court pointed out that the Supreme Court, in its various decisions, has held that parole is an exercise of discretion whereas furlough is a salutary right of the convict to be considered for release. Parole is granted during certain emergencies while furlough accrues to the petitioner on compliance of the conditions prescribed. Sanjay Kumar Valmiki, sentenced to a life term without remission till he completed 25 years in jail, and Chandra Kant Jha, sentenced to a life term with no remission till the remainder of his natural life, have filed writ petitions. They were denied furlough and parole respectively. The court said since the sentences awarded to the petitioners barred consideration for remission for a fixed number of years in the case of Valmiki and for the remaining life in case of Jha, they cannot be said to be eligible for grant of remission and consequently furlough. Their counsel contended furlough and parole were part of the reformative scheme. It required that a prisoner reformed himself into a good meaningful citizen and moved away from crime. The court, however, pointed out that as per Delhi Prison Rules, a convict can be considered for roughly two paroles in a year to meet to exigencies, including one to re-establish social ties.  "Hence, the contention that in case of furlough is not granted, the petitioners will be denied consideration of their case from a reformative angle is incorrect," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sentenced-to-jail-term-without-remission-man-not-entitled-to-furlough-delhi-hc-857081.html
04-07-2020||National||Bihar Council chairman tests Covid-19 positive||The health department officials here went into a tizzy after the Bihar Legislative Council Chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh tested coronavirus positive on Saturday. He has been admitted to the AIIMS-Patna. More importantly, Singh had administered the oath to the nine newly-elected Members of the Legislative Council (MLCs) on July 1. As per the protocol, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi, Assembly Speaker Vijay Choudhary, besides senior ministers and legislators also attended the oath ceremony in the state capital on Wednesday. Sources said Nitish and senior officials associated with his office have given their swab samples for test on Saturday after they came to know that Singh had tested positive. Bihar has so far recorded 88 Covid-19 deaths, while those afflicted with the coronavirus are estimated to be 11,460.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-council-chairman-tests-covid-19-positive-857085.html
04-07-2020||National||Amarnath ‘Aarti’ to be telecast live on Doordarshan||The Amarnath ‘Aarti’ this year will be telecast live on Doordarshan, while in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to allow only a maximum of 500 yatris to proceed from Jammu by road daily to perform darshan. This was decided during a meeting of the sub- committee constituted by the Supreme Court for Shri Amarnathji Yatra, held under the chairmanship of J&K Chief Secretary, B V R Subrahmanyam, in Jammu. An official spokesperson said during the meeting it was informed that Baba Amarnath ‘Aarti’ this year will be telecast live on Doordarshan. The Chief Secretary emphasised that adequate arrangements should be made to ensure unhindered telecast of the Aarti, he said. Given the constraints, a maximum of 500 yatris only could be allowed per day by road from Jammu.  Therefore, arrangements will have to be limited to this number. With regard to the security arrangements, the Chief Secretary asked the police to ensure effective regulation of the Yatra at access control gates. He emphasised that all deployments in relation to security, rescue and fire and emergency need to be in place well in time. While reviewing the preparations for the annual pilgrimage, the Chief Secretary observed that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the State Executive Committee constituted under the Disaster Management Act has issued SoPs which, inter alia, prescribe 100% RTPCR test for all persons travelling into J&K. All entrants into J&K will have to be sampled, tested and quarantined till they are reported to be negative. Besides, social distancing norms would further strain these holding capacities.. Chief Secretary said, keeping in view these circumstances, the Yatra this year, would have to be undertaken in a restricted manner, so that the SoPs for Covid-19 are strictly adhered to during the conduct of the Yatra. The 42-day long annual pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas was scheduled to begin from June 23 from traditional Pahalgam -Chandanwari track and shorter Sonamarag-Baltal route. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the decision to cut-short the time period of the pilgrimage was taken last month during a meeting held by Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu. Every year lakhs of pilgrims either take the traditional and longer 45km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14km-long Baltal route to Amarnath, one of Hinduism’s holiest shrines. The pilgrimage usually spans nearly a month-and-a-half and takes place during July and August. Last year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarnath-aarti-to-be-telecast-live-on-doordarshan-857089.html
04-07-2020||National||In highest single-day spike, nearly 23,000 test positive for Covid-19; death toll rises to 18,655||With 22,771 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus in a day, the highest so far, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 6,48,315 on Saturday, while the death toll rose to 18,655 with 442 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 3,94,226 with 14,335 Covid-19 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours, according to the updated data at 8 am. The number of recovered patients exceeded the active cases by 1,58,793 as of Saturday. There are 2,35,433 active cases of Covid-19 presently in the country, the data showed. "The recovery rate has further increased to 60.81 per cent," the Union Health Ministry said. The total number of confirmed cases also include foreigners. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 95,40,132 samples have been tested up to July 3 with 2,42,383 samples being tested on Friday. "The efforts to expand the testing labs network in the country have led to their numbers increasing every day. There are as many as 1,087 labs in the country -- 780 labs in the government sector and 307 private labs. "Facilitation of widespread testing by States/UTs has spurred the number of samples tested every day," the health ministry said. This is the second consecutive day when coronavirus cases have increased by more than 20,000. There has been a surge of 4,57,780 Covid-19 cases from June 1 till date. Of the 442 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 198 are from Maharashtra, 64 from Tamil Nadu, 59 from Delhi, 21 from Karnataka, 18 each from Gujarat and West Bengal, 14 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from Rajasthan, eight each from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, five from Punjab, four each from Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, three from Bihar, and two each from Assam and Odisha. Of the total 18,655 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 8,376 fatalities, followed by Delhi with 2,923 deaths, Gujarat with 1,904, Tamil Nadu with 1,385, Uttar Pradesh with 749, West Bengal with 717, Madhya Pradesh with 593, Rajasthan with 440 and Karnataka with 293. The COVID-19 death toll reached 283 in Telangana, 255 in Haryana, 206 in Andhra Pradesh, 157 in Punjab, 119 in Jammu and Kashmir, 80 in Bihar, 42 in Uttarakhand, 29 in Odisha and 25 in Kerala. Jharkhand has registered 15 deaths, Chhattisgarh and Assam 14 each, Puducherry 12, Himachal Pradesh 10, Chandigarh six, Goa four and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 1,92,990, followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,02,721, Delhi at 94,695, Gujarat at 34,600, Uttar Pradesh at 25,797, West Bengal at 20,488 and Telangana at 20,462, according to the ministry data. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 19,710 in Karnataka, 19,052 in Rajasthan, 16,934 in Andhra Pradesh, 16,003 in Haryana and 14,297 in Madhya Pradesh. It has risen to 10,954 in Bihar, 9,673 in Assam, 8,106 in Odisha and 8,019 in Jammu and Kashmir. Punjab has reported 5,937 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 4,964 cases. A total of 3,065 people have been infected by the virus in Chhattisgarh, 3,048 in Uttarakhand, 2,695 in Jharkhand, 1,525 in Tripura, 1,482 in Goa, 1,316 in Manipur, 1,033 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,001 in Ladakh. Puducherry has recorded 802 Covid-19 cases, Nagaland 539, Chandigarh 457 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 257 cases. Arunachal Pradesh 252, Mizoram has 162 cases, Andaman and Nicobar Islands has 116, Sikkim has registered 102 infections so far, while Meghalaya has recorded 62 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 4,999 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-highest-single-day-spike-nearly-23000-test-positive-for-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-18655-857090.html
04-07-2020||National||Navi Mumbai: 64-year-old Covid-19 patient kept in ambulance for one day for want of bed||Family of a 64-year-old man who succumbed to coronavirus infection in neighbouring Navi Mumbai has alleged that he had to be kept in an ambulance for a whole day before he could be admitted to a hospital. When he was finally admitted, the family did not have the money to buy an injection that cost Rs 32,000. The man, who performed in a music band, died on June 25. "He developed coughing and breathing problem on June 20. We took him to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation's (NMMC) COVID hospital at Vashi," his son told PTI. "There was no bed with oxygen supply available, so I was asked to go to another hospital," he said. "I asked them to tell us where to go, but they did not guide us and only said go to a private hospital," he said. "Then I started searching for a hospital. After a few hospitals refused to admit him, I called a cardiac ambulance and put my father in it because he needed oxygen support," said the son, who also performs in a music band. The next day the man was admitted to a private hospital in Kopar Khairane area. When the doctors told him that his father would need an injection which cost around Rs 32,000, he approached the NMMC for help, but the authorities said they could not do anything, he alleged. Four days after he was admitted, his father died on June 25, he said. The hearse arrived after three hours and there was no attendant with it, he said. "I and my brother-in-law donned PPE kits and took the body for last rites," he said. "It is all very unfortunate. We are sons of the soil, this city stands on our land, and I am a regular tax payer, but the NMMC could not provide a single injection to save father's life," he said. "I am telling this to the media now because I don't want any other patient to die in this way. The NMMC should improve its medical facilities," he added. As of Friday, the virus had claimed at least 232 lives in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navi-mumbai-64-year-old-covid-19-patient-kept-in-ambulance-for-one-day-for-want-of-bed-857098.html
04-07-2020||National||Twitter account of Sushant Singh Rajput’s father fake, says family source||Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput’s father K K Singh is not on Twitter, a source close to the family said on Saturday in response to the media reports claiming that he has demanded CBI inquiry into the actor’s death in a post on the social media platform. Rajput, 34, best known for films like "Kai Po Che!", "MS Dhoni: The Untold Story" and "Chhichhore", died on June 14 at his Bandra residence. “He (Singh) has out rightly denied existence of any such account and urged those behind such things to not create confusion in public,” the family source told PTI. The source added that the family has released no statement related to Rajput after June 27, in which they announced initiatives to support aspiring talent in the field of cinema, sports and science. The family has also not given any media interviews or shared posts on social media. As per the reports, Singh posted on Twitter that his actor son’s death is a murder and some people are trying to project it as a suicide. Rajput’s last film “Dil Bechara” will release on streaming platform Disney + Hotstar on July 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-account-of-sushant-singh-rajput-s-father-fake-says-family-source-857103.html
04-07-2020||National||ICMR issues clarification on 40-day target to roll out Covid-19 vaccine||After it was pilloried for setting up a target of just 40 days to roll out India’s first Covid-19 vaccine, Indian Council of Medical Research issued a clarification on Saturday underscoring that “safety and interest of people are the topmost priority” of the agency and the controversial letter from its director general was only meant to cut the red tape. “The letter by DG-ICMR to investigators of the clinical trial sites was meant to cut unnecessary red tape, without bypassing any necessary process, and speed up recruitment of participants,” the medical research agency said in a press statement. In a letter to 12 hospitals chosen for Phase-I and II human clinical trials of the vaccine candidate, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava wrote that the hospitals have to complete the volunteer recruitment process by July 7 and would have to accord the “highest priority” to the project that was being monitored at the “topmost level in government”. “It is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by August 15, 2020 after completion of all clinical trials,” he said in the letter dated July 2. A former professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, Bhargava has been heading the ICMR since 2018. Going by the global experience, a minimum of 15-18 months are required for bringing out a vaccine to the market from the preclinical stage and that too if everything goes according to the plan like a clockwork. For a comparison, the indigenous rotavirus vaccine took 30 years to hit the market. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech manufactured the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine using a strain isolated by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Based on successful preclinical trials, the Drugs Controller General of India approved the vaccine for phase-I and phase-II trials that would be carried out on 1125 individuals. In the clarification, the ICMR did not fix any specific date on the indigenous vaccine development process but maintained that the purpose of the letter was to insulate the process from slow file movement. “The aim is to complete these phases (Phase-I & II) at the earliest, so that population-based trials for efficacy could be initiated without delay.” “The ICMR process is in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track the vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential wherein human and animal trials can continue in parallel. all other vaccine candidates across the globe have been similarly fast-tracked,” it added. The criticisms, however, refused to die notwithstanding the clarification. "If everything goes absolutely really like a textbook plan, then we are talking about six to eight months to think of something that now we have a vaccine,” said Rakesh Mishra, director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad – a CSIR laboratory. “Fast tracking a vaccine trial in four weeks for safety, immunogenicity and efficacy is just not possible if things are to be done correctly,” said Shahid Jameel, virologist and CEO of the Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance, a public charity that invests in building biomedical sciences and health research framework. A group of doctors and scientists representing a body named Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum demanded resignation of Bhargava for the “sham of a trial” and “vaccine fixing.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-issues-clarification-on-40-day-target-to-roll-out-covid-19-vaccine-857106.html
04-07-2020||National||BJP's relief work during lockdown was biggest 'seva yagya': PM Modi||Lauding BJP workers for the party's relief work during the nationwide Covid-19-induced lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said this was the biggest "seva yagya". Addressing BJP leaders at an online meeting, 'Seva Hi Sangathan', where seven state units of the party presented reports of the welfare works done by them, Modi cautioned them that the danger of Covid-19 remains and the festival season is set to begin. Be aware and spread awareness, the prime minister said. Modi said at a time when everyone is busy protecting themselves, BJP workers have dedicated themselves to the service of the poor and the needy. BJP workers are taking risks to carry out welfare work during the Covid-19 pandemic and some even lost their lives, he said, while paying tribute to them. Noting the scale and range of the welfare work being done by BJP workers during this time of crisis, Modi said, “The nationwide welfare work undertaken by BJP workers for so long and at such a scale during the COVID-19 crisis is the biggest 'seva yagya' in history.” Underlining that serving the people is the philosophy of the party, Modi said for the BJP, power is a medium to serve the people and not to benefit. He also emphasised that the party has empowered the poor and the backward classes, and its 53 Dalit, 43 tribal and more than 113 OBC MPs, are testimony of this. Serving the people is part of the BJP’s nationalistic approach, Modi said, adding that for BJP workers nation is first and it comes before anything. The prime minister said that nationalism is inculcated in the party’s values. Speaking at the online meet about the presentation made by the BJP’s Bihar on the relief works done by it, Modi said some believed that COVID-19 will spread more in east India due to high poverty, but people proved it wrong. Praising the work of the BJP’s Rajasthan unit during the lockdown, he said this shows as to how a party can play a "constructive role" whether it is in power or in opposition during a crisis. The Congress is in power in Rajasthan. Modi applauded many state units such as those of Maharashtra and Bihar in their respective local languages Marathi and Bhojpuri. Before chairing the meet, Modi in a tweet said in these challenging times, party workers have been working tirelessly across India, helping those in need. "For BJP karyakartas, serving the nation comes first," he tweeted. In these challenging times, our Karyakartas have been working tirelessly across India, helping those in need. The report cards presented during the meet by the state units were on the public service works and outreach undertaken by them during the nationwide lockdown period. At the beginning of the meeting, BJP chief J P Nadda applauded Prime Minister Modi for his exemplary leadership during the time of crisis, saying that he has been praised across the globe for his actions in tackling the pandemic. Nadda also shared details of the overall relief work done by party workers during the lockdown and said nearly four lakh workers served the elderly and sick people. They ensured that medicines are delivered to such people regularly, to ensure they stay healthy, he said. Top BJP leaders, including Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal and Giriraj Singh besides party president J P Nadda, joined the online meeting from the BJP headquarters in the national capital, while Modi connected via video link from his residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-relief-work-during-lockdown-was-biggest-seva-yagya-pm-modi-857107.html
04-07-2020||National||Shoot him wherever he is, says criminal Vikas Dubey's mother||"Shoot him wherever he is," said the angry mother of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey, whose hencemen killed eight policemen in an ambush when they came to arrest him from his hideout in a village near Kanpur. Uttar Pradesh Police has announced a Rs 50,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of Dubey, who has at least 60 cases against him including murder and attempt to murder. An official said there was a possibility that Dubey may have fled to Nepal or taken shelter in a neighbouring state. He was named an accused in the murder of Santosh Shukla, a minister of state-rank BJP leader, inside a police station in 2001 but was acquitted. His mother Sarla Dubey is angry over the brutal killing of the police personnel. She says no mercy should be shown to her son. "Maar dalo unko, jahaan rahe maar dalo (He should be gunned down, wherever he is found)," she told a news channel. "People came and told me about the incident. I also saw it on TV. One who has given so much pain to others must pay for his sin," she said. Her husband left it to the government to take appropriate action against his son. "The government will act as per the norms, what can I do? The government will take steps, which it feels are appropriate," Ramkumar Dubey told reporters on Saturday. "I did not have any information about the incident. I had taken medicines and was lying in a semi-conscious state. When I cannot speak for myself, then how can I speak for others," he said. When asked whether he had asked his son to stop criminal activities, Ramkumar merely said, "He had left this place during his student days and had been living with my brother-in-law."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shoot-him-wherever-he-is-says-criminal-vikas-dubeys-mother-857109.html
04-07-2020||National||India set to overtake Russia as third worst-hit country by Covid-19||India was Saturday chasing Russia to become the third worst-hit country by Covid-19 as it added more than 20,000 new infections for the second consecutive day taking its tally beyond the 6.5 lakh-mark. On Saturday evening, India had 6,59,496 confirmed cases of Covid-19 against Russia’s 6,73,564. While India had reported 18,655 deaths due to the infectious disease, Russia had reported far fewer fatalities at 10,027. While India is now adding more than 20,000 new cases daily, Russia has been adding about 6,500 cases every day. The maximum cases reported in a single day in Russia was 11,656 on May 11. India had 6,62,466 confirmed cases of Covid-19 at 8:30 p.m. on Saturday, while the death toll had reached 18,949. While Maharashtra remained the top contributor to the national tally of new Covid-19 infections, southern states such as Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were adding cases at a faster pace than the national growth rate. Tamil Nadu had added 4,329 cases on Saturday morning to cross the one-lakh infections mark, while Telangana and Karnataka had added 1,892 and 1,694 new cases respectively. Andhra Pradesh reported 837 new infections. Kerala, too, has added 211 new cases, which is higher by the trends witnessed in the state in the past week. The number of Covid-19 patients recovering from the disease has also been rising steadily with 14,335 persons being discharged from hospitals between Friday and Saturday. A total of 3,94,226 Covid-19 patients have been cured of the disease so for, taking the recovery rate to 60.81%. The number of patients under active medical supervision was 2,35,433 as on Saturday. On the testing front, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) tested a total of 2,42,383 samples for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far to 95.40 lakh. Meanwhile, the Health Ministry revised the dosage of anti-viral drug remdesivir to be administered to Covid-19 patients in the moderate stage of illness from the earlier six days to five days. The ministry released an updated 'Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19' that stated that the drug, administered in the form of injection, should be given at a dose of 200 mg on day one followed by 100 mg daily for four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-to-overtake-russia-as-third-worst-hit-country-by-covid-19-857110.html
04-07-2020||National||Bajaj Auto unions demand factory halt after 250 workers catch coronavirus||Workers at Bajaj Auto, India's biggest exporter of motorbikes, are demanding the temporary closure of one of its plants after 250 employees there tested positive for coronavirus, its unions said on Saturday, as companies struggle to ramp up operations. India went into complete lockdown in late March to curb the spread of the virus but it has recently eased restrictions despite the number of cases surging, putting some companies in a difficult position as they try to revive production. The Bajaj Auto factory affected is located in western Maharashtra, the state with the highest number of cases of Covid-19, the disease the virus causes. The company said in a letter to employees this week that those who do not show up for work will not be paid. "People are scared to come to work. Some are still coming but some are taking leave," said Thengade Bajirao, president of the Bajaj Auto Workers' Union. The company said on June 26 that 140 of the roughly 8,000 staff at the factory had caught the virus and two had died. It said work there would not be stopped, however, as the company wanted to learn to "live with the virus". An official in Aurangabad district, overseeing the Waluj area where the plant is located, said the number of cases had now gone up to more than 250. Bajaj Auto did not respond to Reuters' requests for comment. On Saturday, India reported a record number of more than 22,000 daily cases of infection, taking the nationwide total to more than 640,000. "We requested the company to temporarily close the plant for 10-15 days to break the cycle but they said there is no point as people will continue to gather for social events outside of work," the Bajaj union's Bajirao said. For every employee testing positive, four who work close to them have to be quarantined, affecting productivity, he said. With an annual production capacity of over 3.3 million motorbikes and other vehicles, the Waluj plant accounts for more than 50% of Bajaj's manufacturing volume in India. "If an employee remains absent at office or plant due to any reason despite being asked by the company ... then his/her salary would be deducted 100% during the period," Bajaj said in the letter to employees. In May, Chinese smartphone maker OPPO suspended operations briefly at a plant near New Delhi after some workers tested positive. Workers and union leaders say Bajaj has taken steps to ensure social distancing on the factory floor and in its cafeteria, besides arranging separated seating on its buses and providing masks and sanitisers for staff. But they say this is not enough. "On the assembly line, multiple people touch the same engine. We were wearing gloves but still caught the virus," said one worker who was in the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bajaj-auto-unions-demand-factory-halt-after-250-workers-catch-coronavirus-857115.html
04-07-2020||National||Promote millets for healthy diet, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday pitched for making millets such as jowar, bajra and ragi as part of regular diet to stamp out malnutrition from the country. Reviewing the functioning of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the Prime Minister also said traditional varieties of crops cultivated by farmers over generations were being screened for stress tolerance and other favourable traits at a time climate change stress had posed a threat to agricultural livelihoods. Modi also directed that start-ups and agri-entrepreneurs need to be promoted to ensure innovation and use of technology in agriculture and allied sectors. He highlighted the need to leverage information technology to provide information on demand to the farmers. He suggested that hackathons may be organised twice a year to solve identified problems and meet design needs for tools and equipment that can reduce drudgery if farming activity, given that a large number of farm workers are women. While reviewing the contributions of ICAR in developing new breeds of cattle, sheep and goats, the Prime Minister highlighted the need for research on indigenous breeds of dogs and horses. He directed that a focused mission mode approach be adopted for vaccination drives for Foot and Mouth disease. In the virtual meet, he exhorted that study of grasses and local fodder crops should be undertaken to understand their nutritive value. He underlined the need to study use of sea weeds for their impact on soil health apart from exploring commercial applications in nutraceuticals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/promote-millets-for-healthy-diet-says-pm-modi-857121.html
04-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets President Donald Trump on 244th Independence Day of United States||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated President Donald Trump and the people of the United States on the country's 244th Independence Day, saying as the world's largest democracies "we cherish freedom and human enterprise that this day celebrates". "I congratulate US President Donald Trump and the people of the USA on the 244th Independence Day of the USA," Modi tweeted. As the world's largest democracies, "we cherish freedom and human enterprise that this day celebrates," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-president-donald-trump-on-244th-independence-day-of-united-states-857126.html
04-07-2020||National||Promote millets for healthy diet: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday pitched for making millets such as jowar, bajra and ragi as part of regular diet to stamp out malnutrition from the country. Reviewing the functioning of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the prime minister also said traditional varieties of crops cultivated by farmers over generations were being screened for stress tolerance and other favourable traits at a time climate change stress had posed a threat to agricultural livelihoods. Modi also directed that start-ups and agri-entrepreneurs need to be promoted to ensure innovation and use of technology in agriculture and allied sectors. He highlighted the need to leverage information technology to provide information on demand to the farmers. He suggested that hackathons may be organised twice a year to solve identified problems and meet design needs for tools and equipment that can reduce drudgery if farming activity, given that a large number of farm workers are women. While reviewing the contributions of ICAR in developing new breeds of cattle, sheep and goats, the prime minister highlighted the need for research on indigenous breeds of dogs and horses. He directed that a focused mission mode approach be adopted for vaccination drives for Foot and Mouth disease. In the virtual meet, he exhorted that study of grasses and local fodder crops should be undertaken to understand their nutritive value. He underlined the need to study use of sea weeds for their impact on soil health apart from exploring commercial applications in nutraceuticals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/promote-millets-for-healthy-diet-pm-narendra-modi-857131.html
04-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pitches for need to promote start-ups to ensure innovation in agriculture sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the progress of agriculture research, extension and education in India and pitched for promoting start-ups and agri-enterpreneurs to ensure innovation and use of technology in farming and allied sectors. He underlined the need for developing forward and backward linkages to assure better returns to farmers, an official statement said. Modi highlighted the need to adopt organic and natural farming practices on a cluster based approach.  The Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) has developed geo-referenced Organic Carbon Map of India, identified 88 bio control agents and 22 Biopesticides which can promote organic agriculture, the statement said. The prime minister also directed that start-ups and agri-entrepreneurs need to be promoted to ensure innovation and use of technology in agriculture and allied sectors. He highlighted the need to leverage information technology to provide information on demand to the farmers.   He suggested that hackathons may be organised twice a year to solve identified problems and meet design needs for tools and equipment that can reduce drudgery if farming activity, given that a large number of farmworkers are women. He exhorted the need to create awareness regarding inclusion of millets like jowar, bajra, ragi and several other minor millets in diet to ensure a healthy diet. In order to enhance water use efficiency, the prime minister desired that awareness and outreach programmes be conducted. While reviewing the contributions of ICAR in developing new breeds of cattle, sheep and goats, the prime minister highlighted the need for research on indigenous breeds of dogs and horses. He directed that a focused mission mode approach be adopted for vaccination drives for Foot and Mouth disease. In the virtual meet, he exhorted that study of grasses and local fodder crops should be undertaken to understand their nutritive value. He underlined the need to study use of sea weeds for their impact on soil health apart from exploring commercial applications in nutraceuticals. Modi directed that ease of access to farm equipment and transport facility from field to markets should be ensured. In this regard, the Department of Agriculture, Cooperatives and Farmers Welfare  launched an app Kisanrath. He said there was a need to orient agricultural education and research systems based on agro climatic requirements to meet the demands of the farmers. The systems are to be geared towards enhancing farmer's incomes while meeting international standards. The prime minister exhorted that traditional knowledge of Indian communities should be coupled with technology and skill sets of youth and agriculture graduates to translate the full potential of Indian agriculture in transforming rural areas. Trilochan Mohaptra, Director General of Indian Council of Agricultural Research cum- Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Extension presented the priorities, performance and preparedness to face various challenges. Since 2014, based on the research at various centres of ICAR, 1434 varieties of field crops, 462 horticulture crops and 1121 climate resilient varieties have been developed. Molecular breeding techniques have been used to develop varieties which are tolerant to multiple stress. HD 3226 of wheat and ArkAbed of tomato are resistant to seven diseases and four diseases respectively, the statement pointed out. It said Karan-4, a sugarcane variety has enhanced sugar recovery and has replaced traditionally grown varieties in Uttar Pradesh. Minister of Agriculture, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, both the ministers for State for Agriculture joined the review meeting. In addition to the senior officials from the Prime Minister's Office,  secretaries from Departments of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Dairy and Fisheries were present, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pitches-for-need-to-promote-start-ups-to-ensure-innovation-in-agriculture-sector-857139.html
04-07-2020||National||Kerala urges Centre to ensure fair trial of Italian marines||The Kerala government has urged the centre to take steps to ensure a fair trial against the Italian marines accused of killing two fishermen from Kerala. In a letter sent on Saturday, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi that if an appeal against the international tribunal order exempting the marines from prosecution in India was not possible, India should try to build international pressure for a fair trial in Italy. Though the tribunal upheld the right for compensation to the marines, it was unfortunate that the tribunal held that the crime cannot be tried in India, said Vijayan. He also added that India need to bargain for an exemplary amount of compensation as the fishermen were killed without any provocation from them. It was in 2012 February fishermen Valentine and Ajesh Binki were shot by marines Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone of oil tanker vessel Enrica Lexie. The incident took place of the Kollam coast in South Kerala. The marines were suspected to have fired the fishermen mistaking them for pirates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-urges-centre-to-ensure-fair-trial-of-italian-marines-857141.html
04-07-2020||National||India registers another highest single-day spike of nearly 23,000 new Covid-19 cases||India's Covid-19 tally neared 6.5 lakh cases on Saturday with a record single-day spike of 22,771 new infections, even as the recovery rate further improved to 60.81 per cent. The government said several people-centric measures taken as part of the “test, trace, treat” strategy have removed the impediments for Covid-19 testing. Facilitation of widespread testing by states or Union Territories has spurred the number of samples tested every day, the Union health ministry said. During the last 24 hours, 2,42,383 samples have been tested, pushing the cumulative number of tests to 95,40,132. While the Covid-19 tally climbed to 6,48,315, the death toll rose to 18,655 with 442 new fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry data. With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 3,94,226 and one patient has migrated. There are 2,35,433 active cases of the novel coronavirus currently in the country, the updated data at 8 am showed. "Thus, around 60.81 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases also include foreigners. This was the second consecutive day when coronavirus cases have increased by more than 20,000. There has been a surge of 4,57,780 COVID-19 cases from June 1 till date. Meanwhile, as experts cautioned against rushing the process for developing a Covid-19 vaccine after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) stated it plans to launch one by August 15, the apex health research body stressed that it is acting in accordance with the globally accepted norms to fast-track vaccine development for diseases of pandemic potential. The ICMR said that the letter by Director General of ICMR Dr Balram Bhargava to principal investigators of the clinical trial sites was meant to cut unnecessary red tape, without bypassing any necessary process, and speed up recruitment of participants. Bhargava had on July 2 written to principal investigators of select medical institutions and hospitals to fast-track human clinical trial approvals for the vaccine candidate 'Covaxin' being developed in collaboration with Bharat Biotech. All other vaccine candidates across the globe have been similarly fast-tracked, the ICMR said, adding that the Drugs Controller General of India has accorded permission to conduct phase 1 and 2 (human) clinical trial of 'Covaxin' based on in-depth scrutiny of the available data from pre-clinical studies. Just as red tape was not allowed to become a hindrance in the fast track approval of new indigenous testing kits or for introducing in the Indian market potential Covid-19 related drugs, the indigenous vaccine development process has also been sought to be insulated from slow file movement, it said. "The aim is to complete these phases at the earliest, so that population-based trials for efficacy could be initiated without delay," ICMR said in a statement. After intense characterisation and review of all data from BBIL, the ICMR said it is supporting the clinical development as the vaccine candidate appears to be promising. In the larger public health interest, it is important for ICMR to expedite the clinical trials with a promising indigenous vaccine, the statement said. Faced with the unprecedented nature of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the consequent dislocation of the normal life, all other vaccine candidates across the globe have been similarly fast-tracked, it said. The ICMR has identified 12 clinical trial sites, including medical institutions and hospitals, and has asked their principal investigators to ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7. Of the 442 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 198 are from Maharashtra, 64 from Tamil Nadu, 59 from Delhi, 21 from Karnataka, 18 each from Gujarat and West Bengal, 14 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from Rajasthan, eight each from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, five from Punjab, four each from Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, three from Bihar, and two each from Assam and Odisha. Of the total 18,655 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 8,376 fatalities, followed by Delhi with 2,923 deaths, Gujarat with 1,904, Tamil Nadu with 1,385, Uttar Pradesh with 749, West Bengal with 717, Madhya Pradesh with 593, Rajasthan with 440 and Karnataka with 293 deaths. The Covid-19 death toll reached 283 in Telangana, 255 in Haryana, 206 in Andhra Pradesh, 157 in Punjab, 119 in Jammu and Kashmir, 80 in Bihar, 42 in Uttarakhand, 29 in Odisha and 25 in Kerala. Jharkhand has registered 15 deaths, Chhattisgarh and Assam 14 each, Puducherry 12, Himachal Pradesh 10, Chandigarh six, Goa four and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-another-highest-single-day-spike-of-nearly-23000-new-covid-19-cases-857143.html
04-07-2020||National||Strategic affairs experts hail Modi's visit to Ladakh, say his message to China 'clear'||By visiting Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sent a very clear signal that India is ready to escalate the cost on China for its "misadventurism" and that the armed forces are adopting a firm approach in defending the country's territories, strategic affairs experts said on Saturday. They also said that China is increasingly getting isolated internationally for its aggressive military posturing in Ladakh, South China Sea and the Indo-Pacific region, and time has come for India to take advantage of the situation. Hailing Modi's visit to Ladakh, former Deputy Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen (retd) Subrata Saha said the "loudest message" from the visit was that India is not going to back-off in eastern Ladakh and that it will handle the situation with a "firm hand". He also talked about Modi paying glowing tributes to 20 Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clashes and sought to contrast it with China's refusal to even acknowledge its military casualties. "On the Indian side, we have the prime minister going there, literally close to the ground zero, and praise the valiant sacrifice of 20 bravehearts at Galwan and just compare it to the Chinese side. They have not even acknowledged their casualties. Imagine the impact it could have on the minds of a Chinese soldier," Saha said. Strategic affairs expert Dr Laxman Behera said by visiting Ladakh, Modi sent a very clear message to China that India is "resolute and firm" in defending its borders and that it is ready to escalate the cost on China for its "misadventurism". "The prime minister sent a very clear and unequivocal message to China at a time India is getting lot of international support on the border row. China is being marginalised. Major powers have supported India on the issue," he said. Welcoming Modi's visit, Lt Gen (retd) Ashok Mehta said Modi has sent a very strong message to China that India has taken the Chinese action in eastern Ladakh "very seriously". "This message from the visit was that we are taking these intrusions very seriously, unlike previous episodes of border skirmishes in Depsang in 2013, Doklam in 2017 and Chumar in 2013. The message was that the latest actions are highly provocative and we will respond adequately," he said. Behera, a noted defence expert from Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said China will incur significant economic losses because of its latest belligerence in eastern Ladakh, South China Sea as well as in the Indo-Pacifc region after drawing criticism over origin of the COVID-19. "China is being slowly and steadily marginalised in the international community. India should take advantage of it. We should try to sideline China economically in various global fora. That should be the focus of Indian foreign policy," he said. Saha, a member of the National Security Advisory Board, called the prime minister's interaction with the soldiers at a high-altitude forward location "absolutely fascinating and very motivating" from a military point of view. "He spoke about two mothers that he respects. 'One is mother India and the other is the mother who gives birth to valiant soldiers like you'. Line like this is very big for people who are listening to him," he said. The former Deputy Chief of Army Staff also called Modi's message from Ladakh to the rest of the country to work for making India a self-reliant nation. "Standing there, he was telling everybody, that let us become a self reliant country. He was literally speaking on behalf of the soldier and motivating the industry, academia and those involved in research and development that lets become self-reliant. That was a very important message," he said. Modi made a surprise visit to Ladakh on Friday during which he said the era of expansionism is over and that the history is proof that "expansionists" have either lost or perished, in comments were seen as a clear message to China. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. India has been insisting on restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh to restore peace and tranquillity in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strategic-affairs-experts-hail-modis-visit-to-ladakh-say-his-message-to-china-clear-857169.html
04-07-2020||National||IAF ramping up deployment in key bases along border with China||The Indian Air Force is significantly enhancing deployment of its frontline jets, attack helicopters and transport fleet in all its key bases guarding the airspace along the Line of Actual Control in view of heightened border tension with China in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said on Saturday. The IAF has also pressed into service a fleet of C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft as well as C-130J Super Hercules in transporting heavy military equipment and weaponry to several forward bases to further ramp up India's military preparedness in the region. The IAF is also using its Ilyushin-76 fleet to transport troops to various areas along the Line of Actual Control, the 3,500 km de-facto border between India and China, the people cited above said. They said the force has already moved a sizeable number of its frontline Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar, Mirage 2000 aircraft to several key air bases including Leh and Srinagar. It has also deployed Apache attack choppers and Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations. The frontline fighter jets have increased their sorties in Ladakh and nearby areas in the last few days as part of increased alert level, and probably as a response to expanded activities of the Chinese air force, the people said. "We are fully ready to deal with any situation," said a senior official when asked about increasing activities of the IAF in Ladakh and other regions. Last month, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria made a quiet visit to Ladakh and Srinagar air bases to review the Indian Air Force's preparedness to deal with any eventualities in the region. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. India has been insisting on restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh to restore peace and tranquillity in the region. India and China have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region. However, there was no visible sign of end to the standoff though the two sides agreed to initiate disengagement of the forces from the region. India on Thursday said it expected China to ensure expeditious restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas in sync with provisions of relevant bilateral pacts. Following the Galwan Valley clashes, the Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border besides moving in heavy weapons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-ramping-up-deployment-in-key-bases-along-border-with-china-857172.html
04-07-2020||National||NIMHANS releases guidelines for maintaining mental health in Covid-19 times||The NIMHANS has come out with guidelines for general medical and specialised mental health care, noting that the Covid-19 outbreak threatens to weaken the already fragile mental health system across the country. The guidelines by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) said the management and treatment of severe mental disorders should not be interrupted as far as possible and emergency care services must remain functional and be bolstered to handle additional influx of patients anticipated during the situation. The document also advised that online training programmes in tele-psychiatry for the mental health professionals across the country need to be conducted, keeping in mind the framework that professional bodies may have laid down. The NIMHANS said that considering the "mammoth nature" of the pandemic and available meagre resources, there is an immediate need to address a mental health gap in trained personnel who will be able to make simple mental health assessments. The guidelines cover different sections of people. For mental health assessment of Covid-19 patient in healthcare and community settings, the guidelines said psychological issues following the pandemic are likely to be common. "Most affected will require only brief assessments and immediate support. This will require all front-line personnel to be competent in simple psychological assessment of the affected in the community and treatment settings of Covid-19," it said. For mental health issues of those in home quarantine, the document said isolation and social distancing in the times of a raging pandemic can be psychologically distressing for many people. "However, there are simple and effective actions that you can take as a health care provider. Key among them is providing information. As a health care provider, you would be seen as a reliable and trustworthy source of information. Explain the rationale of quarantining and social distancing," it said. "Promote reliable sources of information. Inform patients what symptoms to watch out for and what symptoms not to worry about. Encourage people to remain in touch with each other over virtual means. address stigma. Finally, if you come across anyone having significant distress have them referred to a mental health professional," it said. On handling domestic violence, the guidelines said people in abusive relationships face challenges during lockdown and restrictions in movements (as in COVID-19) as they are likely to be in close confined spaces with the perpetrators and may have difficulties in accessing help. "Frontline personnel need to be aware and if required explore sensitively and offer timely support to the victims," it said. For mental health issues in children and adolescents, the guidelines advise parents to keenly observe for any emotional or behavioral changes in their adolescent kids. "Parents can play a vital role in ensuring that their adolescents maintain their mental health by listening to them, acknowledging their difficulties, clarifying their doubts, reassuring them, generating hope and providing emotional support in resolving issues," it said. For addressing mental health issues among pregnant and postpartum women during Covid-19, the document noted that addressing perinatal mental health issues is critically important for both the mother and the baby. "Given the likelihood that mothers during the Covid-19 outbreak are likely to experience heightened distress, identifying and addressing these should be a high priority for health care providers," it said. On challenges faced by people with disability, it noted that persons with disabilities (PwDs) may face multiple challenges during the Covid-19 pandemic. "Policy makers and health care professionals should ensure continued delivery of vital services, help preserve access to benefits, and guide advocacy to preserve the rights of PwDs," it said. For psychological issues of frontline personnel combating Covid-19, the document said almost all frontline personnel in pandemics like Covid-19 are likely to experience stress to a certain degree. "Steps need to be taken proactively to ensure that it remains in control. Personnel should practise 'self-care'. Team leaders should employ steps to minimize mental health difficulties. Administrators should be aware that the mental health support of personnel is an important part of the Covid-19 response," it said. The document further noted that social stigma increases during infectious disease outbreaks and is often not given the emphasis required. "Steps need to be taken at all levels to ensure that stigmatising behaviours are strongly discouraged. A failure to control stigma will impede and slow disease control response," it said. On suicidality in the context of Covid-19 pandemic, the document said the likelihood of suicide risk may be higher among subjects exposed to the Covid-19 pandemic. "The guidance are envisaged to help frontline personnel to assess those at risk for suicide, determine their risk level and provide appropriate management," it said. The document further said that yogic practices aim at aligning an individual's bio-rhythm with that of nature, thereby improving overall health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nimhans-releases-guidelines-for-maintaining-mental-health-in-covid-19-times-857176.html
04-07-2020||National||PM hails DD News' Sanskrit programme for propagating language on world stage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday hailed Sanskrit News Magazine ‘Vaartavali’ for completing five years of broadcast on DD News and said its contribution in propagating the Indian language on the world stage has been invaluable. Sanskrit News Magazine 'Vaartavali' has completed five years continuous broadcast on DD News and in this journey, 'Vaartavali' has created a special niche for itself among the global audience, projecting India’s culture world over, DD News said in a tweet. Tagging DD News' tweet, Prime Minister Modi said the programme has an invaluable contribution in propagating and popularising the Sanskrit language on the world stage. In a tweet in Sanskrit, he said, "On the completion of its five years, I heartily congratulate all the members and audience associated with the Sanskrit programme."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-hails-dd-news-sanskrit-programme-for-propagating-language-on-world-stage-857179.html
04-07-2020||National||Cabinet Secy holds meet with officials of 15 states, UTs on Unlock 2, COVID-19 situation||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Saturday held a meeting with top officials of 15 States and Union Territories on the Covid-19 situation and the way forward for graded reopening of activities in the 'Unlock 2' phase, officials said. During the meeting with Chief Secretaries and Health Secretaries of the 15 States and UTs, the cabinet secretary is learnt to have stressed on the need for strict implementation of the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs for the 'Unlock 2' phase and strict vigil on the Covid-19 situation in their respective jurisdiction. The cabinet secretary is also learnt to have made it clear that economic activities as allowed under the guidelines should be expedited so that normal life could be resumed, an official privy to the meeting said. Officials of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Telangana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Assam and Jammu and Kashmir attended the meeting. India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 6,48,315 on Saturday, while the death toll rose to 18,655. While issuing guidelines for the 'Unlock 2' phase, the MHA has allowed opening up of more activities in areas outside the containment zones but schools, colleges, cinema and bars will remain shut. The Unlock 2 guidelines came into effect from July 1 and will remain in force for a month. The MHA said the domestic and international (under Vande Bharat mission) flights and passenger trains have already been allowed in a limited manner and their operations will be further expanded in a calibrated manner. The MHA said the night curfew shall continue to remain in force between 10 pm and 5 am, except for essential activities. The MHA said metro rail services, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain shut in the 'Unlock 2' phase. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations are also continue to be prohibited. Dates for opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation, the MHA said. As stipulated in the 'Unlock 1' order and guidelines issued on May 30, certain activities such as places of worship, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services, and shopping malls were allowed from June 8, outside the containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-secy-holds-meet-with-officials-of-15-states-uts-on-unlock-2-covid-19-situation-857181.html
04-07-2020||National||As world battles Covid-19, Buddha's teachings serve as beacon, provide lasting solutions: President, PM||Noting that the teachings of Lord Buddha were as relevant in the current times as they were earlier, both President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that as the world fought extraordinary challenges, his message served like a beacon. Addressing the Dhamma Chakra Day celebrations, organised by the International Buddhist Confederation (IBC) in partnership with Ministry of Culture, Kovind said Lord Buddha's cure for human suffering remains as relevant today as it was over two and half millennia ago.   "There is no doubt that the urgency of abiding by the values that Buddha preached is eternal...Today, as the pandemic ravages human lives and economies across the globe, the Buddha's message serves like a beacon. He advised people to shun greed, hatred, violence, jealousy and many other vices to find happiness," he said. Kovind said that in India, Buddhism is seen as a fresh expression of the sublime truth. "His enlightenment, and the subsequent preaching by him for over four decades, were in line with India's tradition of respect for intellectual liberalism and spiritual diversity," said Kovind. Dhamma Chakra Day is celebrated all over the world to commemorate the first sermon that Gautama Buddha gave to his five ascetic disciples. The PM in his virtual address said that in his first sermon at Sarnath, Lord Buddha referred to hope and purpose. For Lord Buddha, it was the removal of human suffering, the prime minister observed. "We have to rise to the occasion and do whatever we can to increase hope among people," he said. Modi also said that India's start up sector is a great example of how hope, innovation and compassion can remove suffering. "Bright young minds are finding solutions to global problems. India has one of the largest start-up ecosystems," he said. Recalling the eight-fold path of Lord Buddha, Modi said it shows the way towards the well-being of many societies and nations. It highlights the importance of compassion and kindness, he said adding that the teachings of Lord Buddha celebrate simplicity both in thought and action.   "Today the world fights extraordinary challenges. To these challenges, lasting solutions can come from the ideals of Lord Buddha. They were relevant in the past. They are relevant in the present. And, they will remain relevant in the future," Modi said. Buddhism, the prime minister noted, teaches respect. "Respect for people. Respect for the poor. Respect for women. Respect for peace and non-violence. Therefore, the teachings of Buddhism are the means to a sustainable planet." Modi said he is very hopeful about the 21st century. "This hope comes from my young friends, our youth... would urge my young friends to also stay connected with the thoughts of Lord Buddha. They will motivate and show the way ahead," he said. The president inaugurated the Dharma Chakra Day, while the president of Mongolia read out a special address. Also, the Minister of Culture Prahlad Patel and Minister of State for Minorities Affairs Kiren Rijiju addressed the opening ceremony. Patel in his address said that the message of Lord Buddha has permeated globally and it was everyone's responsibility to spread his teachings. The culture minister said his ministry has again presented the copies of 'Mongolian Kanjur' in front of the country and abroad. Patel gave the copies of Mongolian Kanjur to Kovind and Ambassador of Mongolia to India Gonching Ganboid. He said that the ministry has decided to deliver these copies in all the monasteries of Mongolia. Patel added that it has 108 sections and "we are printing five volumes, but it is our resolution that we will take all 108 volumes to them". Mongolian Kanjur, a Buddhist canonical text in 108 volumes, is the most important religious text in Mongolia. In Mongolian language 'Kanjur' means 'Concise Orders' the words of Lord Buddha. Rijiju said that the values and teachings of Buddhism are very much at heart of India's ethos and cultural identity. "The historical legacy of our great land being the land of Buddha's enlightenment and awakening connects us intimately with not only Buddhists but everybody who understand and follows Buddhism and everyone who values love, compassion around the world," he said. Other events included messages from top Buddhist religious leaders, masters and scholars from different parts of the world which was streamed from Sarnath and Bodh Gaya. The rest of the day's celebrations will be streamed from Mulagandha Kuti Vihara, Sarnath and Mahabodhi Temple, Bodh Gaya in association with Mahabodhi Society of India and Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-world-battles-covid-19-buddhas-teachings-serve-as-beacon-provide-lasting-solutions-president-pm-857183.html
04-07-2020||National Politics||Ladakhis raising voice against Chinese intrusion; ignoring warning will cost India: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said patriotic Ladakhis are raising their voice against Chinese intrusion and asked the government to listen to them, asserting that ignoring their warning will cost India dearly. Gandhi also shared a media report which showed some Ladakhis alleging that the Chinese have been occupying Indian territory in Ladakh. "Patriotic Ladakhis are raising their voice against Chinese intrusion. They are screaming a warning. Ignoring their warning will cost India dearly," the former Congress president tweeted. "For India's sake, please listen to them," he said. Gandhi has been attacking the government over the Sino-India standoff in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ladakhis-raising-voice-against-chinese-intrusion-ignoring-warning-will-cost-india-rahul-gandhi-856905.html
04-07-2020||National Politics||West Bengal's unemployment rate at 6.5% in June 'far better' than that of India: Mamata Banerjee||Referring to a report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday that the state's unemployment rate stood at 6.5 per cent in June this year, which was "far better" than that of the country at 11 per cent. She said this is due to the economic strategy adopted by her government to tackle the COVID-19 crisis and the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan. "We've implemented a robust economic strategy to tackle #COVID19 and the devastation caused by Amphan. Proof lies in West Bengal's unemployment rate for the month of June 2020 which stands at 6.5 per cent, far better than that of India at 11 per cent, UP at 9.6 per cent and Haryana at 33.6 per cent, as per CMIE," Banerjee said in a tweet. According to data released by the CMIE on Wednesday, the country's unemployment rate fell to 11 per cent in June from 23.5 per cent in May, as economic activities resumed after the lockdown restrictions were eased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengals-unemployment-rate-at-65-in-june-far-better-than-that-of-india-mamata-banerjee-856924.html
04-07-2020||National Politics||Fast-tracking Covid-19 vaccine for PM Modi's announcement horrendous: Sitaram Yechury||As controversy over the fast-tracking of a potential Covid-19 vaccine rages on, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Saturday accused the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) of forcing medical institutions and hospitals to fast-track production of the indigenous vaccine to enable Prime Minister Narendra Modi make an announcement on Independence Day. In a series of tweets, Yechury said the world is waiting for a safe vaccine, which is universally accessible, but scientific advances "can never be made to order". "Forcing the development of an indigenous vaccine as a cure for Covid-19, bypassing all health and safety norms, to be announced by PM Modi on Independence Day is fraught with horrendous human costs," he said. The ICMR On Friday wrote to medical institutions to fast-track clinical trial approvals for the Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, being developed in collaboration with Bharat Biotech which it plans to release on August 15. The letter raised concerns among scientific and medical communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fast-tracking-covid-19-vaccine-for-pm-modis-announcement-horrendous-sitaram-yechury-856953.html
04-07-2020||National Politics||Coal workers' strike enters 3rd day, 5 trade unions to decide next course of action||The three-day nationwide strike by coal workers, which entered the third day on Saturday, has been "100 percent peaceful," a trade union leader said. Five trade unions, including RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), of Coal India (CIL) have been on strike since Thursday to protest against the government's decision to start commercial coal mining. The five unions have a virtual meeting scheduled on Saturday to decide the next course of action. "The three-day strike has been 100 percent peaceful, which in itself is a success," Nathulal Pandey, president of HMS-affiliated Hind Khadan Mazdoor Federation, said. Stating the protest has been "self-oriented", he said coal mines across the country which were closed on Friday are not functioning on Saturday as well. "The law and order situation is normal," he added. S Q Zama, secretary general of the Indian National Mineworkers' Federation, affiliated to INTUC, said the strike is still continuing. The participation of workers in the strike has been around 80 percent, he said, adding "75-80 percent of the coal production has been hit (this is the position as on the first shift)." At some places, the management is trying to start work through contract/outsourced workers with the help of local police, but activists of the five Central Trade Unions (CTUs) are resisting this and trying to stop contract workers from going to work in a peaceful and democratic manner, he added. Tapan Sen, general secretary of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), said that in comparison to the previous two days, more workers have joined the strike on Saturday. "All trade unions are against commercial mining by private players. We are determined to resist that in the days to come," Sen said. Amid the ongoing strike, CIL had on Friday said it despatched 5.78 lakh tonnes (LT) of coal on Thursday. This is around 42 percent of the normal off-take of 14 LT per day, calculated as the average of 10 days immediately prior to stoppage of operations, Coal India had said in a statement. Coal production was 4.81 LT, which is close to 38 percent of the normal level of 13 LT per day. Average attendance was close to 34 percent on Thursday, which is likely to improve further as some workmen have started resuming their duties, Coal India had said. CIL CMD Pramod Agrawal on Thursday had appealed to the striking workmen to resume their duties. "Considering the Covid-19 situation in the country and the international scenario, Coal India's role assumes all the more importance and I, earnestly appeal to you to resume your duties in the larger interest of the nation," he said in a statement. Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi too had on Thursday urged Coal India workers to end their strike and resume work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coal-workers-strike-enters-3rd-day-5-trade-unions-to-decide-next-course-of-action-856980.html
04-07-2020||National Politics||Considering to replace multi-modal Transportation of Goods Act with national logistics law: Commerce Ministry||The commerce ministry is considering to replace the multi-modal transportation of goods act with a full fledged national logistics law with a view to promote growth of the sector, a senior government official said on Saturday. Special Secretary in the logistics division of the ministry, Pawan Agarwal said a National Logistics Efficiency and Advancement Predictability and Safety Act (NLEAPS) is under consideration and this law tends to define various participants of the logistics space and create a light regulatory ecosystem. "What the logistics sector is all about is not very clear to us as of now and in that direction, we need to clearly define what the logistics sector is and what are the various elements in it. In this direction, there is a thinking and I am just sharing that thinking that the earlier legislation multi-modal transportation of goods act... We are considering to replace it with a full-fledged national logistics law." NLEAPS is under consideration, he said at a webinar organised by industry chamber PHDCCI. Multi-modal transportation includes a combination of more than one mode of movement, such as rail, road or sea, for end-to-end delivery of goods. The Special Secretary sought views of the industry on the new law. He said the logistics division is also working on how to modernise and formalise the logistics services and promoting digitisation in the sector, which is key for the smooth movement of goods. Although the digital transformation of the sector is happening but adoption of technology across the board is still "very poor" particularly in the trucking sector, he said adding work is also going on for the development of a national logistics portal. Agarwal suggested the trucking sector adopt providing electronic proof of delivery, install GPS devices to further improve the services. "We are working towards finalising a national logistics policy. We will be having consultations once the draft is finalised," he added. The move assumes significance as high logistics cost impacts the competitiveness of domestic goods in the international market. Effective implementation of the policy would help provide an impetus to trade, enhance export competitiveness, and improve India's ranking in the Logistics Performance Index. India's logistics sector is highly fragmented and the government aims to reduce the logistics cost from the present 14 percent of GDP (Gross Domestic Product) to less than 10 percent. According to an earlier statement of the ministry, the sector is very complex with more than 20 government agencies, 40 partnering government agencies, 37 export promotion councils, 500 certifications, and 10,000 commodities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/considering-to-replace-multi-modal-transportation-of-goods-act-with-national-logistics-law-commerce-ministry-856985.html
04-07-2020||National Politics||Follow 'raj dharma', tell people about reality of Chinese incursions: Congress to PM Narendra Modi||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Leh and addressed frontline soldiers, the Congress on Saturday said the time has come for him to follow his "raj dharma" and tell the people of the country about the reality of Chinese "incursions". Addressing a virtual press meet, Congress leader Kapil Sibal used satellite images of Ladakh's Pangong Tso from May and June to show Chinese structures in the area and asked the prime minister to at least speak the truth about it. He also asked Modi to stop doing the politics of "illusion and delusion" and showing "red eyes" to China, and protect Indian territory. "The times warrant India to look eye-to-eye at China and unequivocally tell them to retreat from their illegal and brazen occupation of Indian territory. Mr Prime Minister, this is the only 'raj dharma' that you must follow," Sibal said. Posing a set of five questions to the prime minister, he asked Modi to say whether the actual picture of "Chinese occupation of our territory" up to the "Finger 4 Ridge" in the Pangong Tso area depicts the truth on the ground. "They say 'pictures do not lie'. Will the prime minister now tell the nation -- is this Indian territory on which radars, helipad and other structures have been built by the Chinese in a brazen act of transgression? "Have the Chinese occupied our territory in Galwan Valley, including 'Patrol Point 14', where our 20 jawans of the 16 Bihar Regiment made the supreme sacrifice? Has China also occupied Indian territory in Hot Springs?" the Congress leader asked. "Has China occupied our territory up to 'Y-Junction' (18 kms inside the LAC) in the Depsang plains, threatening India's strategic DBO airstrip, which is the lifeline for our military supplies to the Siachen glacier and Karakoram pass?" he asked. On Modi saying this is not the India of 1962 and the era of expansionism is over, the former Union minister said Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of the country, had told China then that India will never accept the Chinese claim-line. According to Sibal, Nehru wrote to China, saying India will never submit to the demand for it to accept the Chinese 1959 line, whatever the consequences and however long and hard the struggle may be. The Congress leader said paradoxically, the Chinese 1959 line clearly depicted the entire Galwan Valley in India and it was only on June 16, 2020, a day after the fatal clashes, that China formally laid claim, for the first time ever, to the entire Galwan Valley. Sibal said former prime ministers Indira Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri had visited forward locations to boost the morale of Indian soldiers and Nehru had also visited soldiers in the forward locations in NEFA in 1962 to boost their morale. "But it appears that our prime minister stayed 230 km away in Nimu, Leh," he said, taking a swipe at Modi's visit. "Isn't it correct that the local councillors of Ladakh, including BJP councillors, submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Modi in February about the capture of our land by China? What action did the prime minister take? Had he acted, wouldn't we have been able to pre-empt the brazen Chinese transgressions?" Sibal asked. In a clear message to China, Modi on Friday said the era of expansionism is over and that India's enemies have seen the "fire and fury" of its armed forces, as he made an unannounced visit to Ladakh, signalling India's firmness in dealing with the border row with the neighbouring country. In an address to troops in Nimu, the prime minister paid glowing tributes to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clashes and said tales of the bravery and valour of the armed forces are echoing in every part of the country. "Bharat Mata's enemies have seen your fire and fury," Modi said, in an apparent reference to the military clashes between the Indian and Chinese troops, and asserted that bravery is a prerequisite for peace and that the weak can never accomplish it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/follow-raj-dharma-tell-people-about-reality-of-chinese-incursions-congress-to-pm-narendra-modi-857018.html
04-07-2020||National Politics||Name China as aggressor, Nehru did so in 1962: Congress tells PM Modi||Congress on Saturday dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look ‘eye-to-eye’ at China and tell them to retreat from their brazen illegal occupation of Indian territory in Ladakh. Seeking to counter BJP’s sustained attack on first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Congress also pointed out that Nehru had rejected China’s incursions in Ladakh rejecting the then Premier Zhou Enlai’s offer to withdraw troops 20 kms from the territories it had claimed in 1959. “There is no sense or meaning in the Chinese offer to withdraw twenty kilometers from what they call ‘line of actual control’. What is this ‘line of control’? Is this the line they have created by aggression since the beginning of September,” Nehru had told his Chinese counterpart after the 1962 war. Congress leader Kapil Sibal quoted extensively from Nehru’s correspondence with Zhou, contending that even the then Prime Minister had told China in unequivocal terms that the conditions set by the aggressor were unacceptable. “The demand for India to accept the Chinese 1959 line is a demand to which India will never submit, whatever the consequences and however long and hard the struggle may be,” Nehru had told Zhou. Sibal said Nehru had stood up to China at a time when India was not a nuclear power nor had a modern army and focussed on feeding its poor and re-distributing land. “We are today a modern nation. We are a warfare machinery. We are a nuclear power,” Sibal said wondering what stopped Modi from standing up to China. “Why is the Prime Minister reluctant to name China as the aggressor? We are with the Prime Minister, he should make clear statements that India will not accept China’s occupation of the Galwan Valley, or at Y-Junction, or at Pangong Tso or at Finger 4 to Finger 8,” Sibal said. While Congress has kept up the attack on the Modi government after violent clashes at Galwan Valley last month left 20 Indian troops dead, BJP has been targeting Nehru for ceding Aksai Chin region to China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/name-china-as-aggressor-nehru-did-so-in-1962-congress-tells-pm-modi-857091.html
04-07-2020||National Politics||BJP gave representation to OBCs, SCs, STs, served the poor: PM Modi||In the face of mounting criticism from the Opposition over his government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis and in particular the plight of migrants, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday highlighted the party’s campaign to serve the poor during the lockdown and flagged the political representation given by BJP to OBCs, SCs and STs. “At a time when everyone in the world is engaged in protecting oneself, we have dedicated ourselves to the service of the poor, ignoring personal concerns. Our karyakartas knew that they were taking risks, but continued to work with full dedication during this pandemic. Some workers even lost their lives while serving the people and the nation,” Modi said addressing a video meeting attended by top Union ministers and party chiefs of seven states affected by the migrant issue. Modi asserted that the BJP has worked to empower deprived and poor sections of the society. He said that it has 52 Schedules Castes, 43 tribal and more than 113 OBC MPs. Notably, most of the migrant population comes from these three sections. Modi’s attempt came amid the campaign by the Opposition over the deaths of hundreds of migrants and poor during the lockdown, with Bihar polls due in October this year and West Bengal polls due in April-May 2021. UP polls are due in 2022. Reviewing BJP’s ‘Seva Hi Sangathan Abhiyan’, party chief J P Nadda claimed to have reached out to 72 lakh party workers through video and audio communications. He added that BJP workers served food kits to 27 crore people and face masks to 5 crore people. Modi, who also spoke in Bhojpuri and Marathi to woo the party workers in Bihar and Maharashtra, said a digital booklet should be published on the efforts by September 25, the birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. Modi had earlier launched an employment scheme ‘Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan’ with an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore for 116 districts of six states with high migrant population. As Corona is gradually becoming a poll issue and the Opposition has managed to build an emotive narrative around the migrant issue, BJP has decided to take it head on, making a pro-farmer, pro poor ;pitch and asking party workers to shed diffidence on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-gave-representation-to-obcs-scs-sts-served-the-poor-pm-modi-857111.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||As Covid-19 numbers rise, Gujarat CM, Dy CM to tour Surat on July 5||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani will visit Surat on Saturday to take stock of the COVID-19 situation there since the diamond hub is emerging as the second outbreak hotspot in the state after Ahmedabad. Over 5,400 Covid-19 cases have been reported so far in Surat, 200 people have succumbed to the infection, and the daily caseload has been rising over the past two weeks. Rupani will be accompanied by deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who is also state health minister, state chief secretary Anil Mukim and CM's chief principal secretary K Kailasnathan. "Rupani will review the condition of public health facilities of Surat when the cases of coronavirus have risen and will review the preparedness of the district administration by conducting various meetings during the day," a CMO statement said. On June 19, Surat had just 93 cases per day, while Ahmedabad's tally of daily infections was 312. On June 25, however, Surat's tally had jumped to 152 while Ahmedabad's daily count had come down to 225. On June 27, Surat accounted for 174 and Ahmedabad 197 of the 600-plus cases reported in the state. On June 30, for the first time since the outbreak, the number of cases per day in Surat overtook that of Ahmedabad, while on Friday, both Ahmedabad and Surat reported 204 cases each. As per officials, the opening of diamond units on June 1 may be a reason for the sharp rise in cases. A total of 570 staff and kin linked to these units have tested positive so far, said Surat Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani. Diamond polishing units were ordered shut from June 30 for one week. The Surat Municipal Corporation has also decided to shut paan shops in Katargaam, Varachha and Sarthana from July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-numbers-rise-gujarat-cm-dy-cm-to-tour-surat-on-july-5-856832.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Over 5.03L Indians returned home after launch of Vande Bharat mission: MEA||Over 5.03 lakh Indians have returned home from 137 countries after the government launched the "Vande Bharat" evacuation mission on May 7 in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday. "Considering that the initial target to bring stranded Indians with compelling reasons was only 2 lakh, this is a significant achievement," it said. The first phase of the mission was carried out from May 7 to 15. The second phase of the evacuation mission was scheduled from May 17 to 22. However, the government had extended it till June 10. The third phase of the evacuation exercise was scheduled from June 11 to July 2. According to the government's policy for evacuation, Indians having "compelling reasons" to return like pregnant women, elderly people, students and those facing the prospect of deportation were being brought back home. In a statement, the MEA said a total of 5,03,990 stranded Indians from 137 countries have returned to India after the commencement of the mega evacuation mission. It said Kerala received a maximum of 94,085 stranded Indians, followed by Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. "The largest number of stranded Indians returned by Vande Bharat Mission flights are from UAE (57,305), followed by Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the US and from Nepal (91,193) have returned through land border check posts," the MEA said. It said the evacuation mission involved 860 Air India flights, 1,256 chartered flights and eight naval ships. Out of the total returnees, 95,220 came back through land border check-posts from neighbouring countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-503l-indians-returned-home-after-launch-of-vande-bharat-mission-mea-856840.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Ram Mandir Trust members to meet on 18 July in Ayodhya||The Ram Mandir Trust, set up in line with the Supreme Court verdict to supervise and facilitate the construction of the Lord Ram temple in Ayodhya, will meet here on July 18 to discuss and tentatively decide on various steps of the project after levelling of the land is over. Secretary Champat Rai of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust told PTI that all members of the Trust will be invited for this meeting on July 18 and they all are likely to attend it. Headed by Mahant Nritya Gopal Das as its president, the members of the trust include former Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister Nirpendra Mishra, additional Union Home Secretary Gyanesh Kumar and Uttar Pradesh government's Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi. The other members of the trust are senior advocate K Parasaran, religious leaders Govind Dev Giri, Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati, Swami Vishwaprasannteerth, Yugpurush Parmanand Giri and Mahant Dinendra Das of Nirmohi Akhara besides RSS leader Anil Mishra, VHP leader Kameshwar Chaupal and secretary Champat Rai. Indicating the agenda of the meeting, Rai said decisions to lay the foundation stones for the pillars of the temple to be built is likely to be taken in the meeting. Earlier on Friday, Rai along with trust member Anil Mishra met the team of architects engaged for the construction of the temple and the team members of the company engaged to clean the carved stones at the Ram Mandir Nirman Karyashala. Ashish Sompura, the son of Chandrakant Sompura, the main architect of the Ram Mandir model too was present in the meeting. "I have inspected the process of cleaning of carved stones at Karyashala, I came here to get the first-hand information on whether the cleaning work is going satisfactory,” said Ashish Sompura. Talking about various works as precursors to start the construction, Sompura said the ground levelling work has already been completed to and it is to be decided whether the land should be left to soak in a few showers of rains during coming days so that it settles better.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-mandir-trust-members-to-meet-on-18-july-in-ayodhya-856844.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi: Authorities begin process of conducting rapid antigen tests outside Covid-19 containment zones||Authorities in Delhi on Friday started the process of conducting rapid antigen tests outside the Covid-19 containment zones, a move that will scale up the city's capacity to check the spread of coronavirus in the national capital, officials said. Until now, the rapid antigen test was only being conducted in containment zones. The Delhi government has given the task to every district magistrate in the city to conduct 2,000 rapid antigen tests every day in their respective areas. South Delhi, West Delhi, East Delhi and Shahdara were among the districts where the administration started the process of conducting rapid antigen tests outside containment zones, an official said. Around 25 to 30 teams have been constituted in each district to conduct more antigen tests, he said. With 2,000 rapid antigen tests per day, the testing exercise will be scaled up significantly with 22,000 tests conducted every day across 11 districts in Delhi. The Delhi government had said that it procured six lakh rapid antigen test kits for screening Covid-19 infected persons. The kits, called Standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection, have been developed by South Korean company S D Biosensor. The testing method involves looking for antibodies which are produced when the body is exposed to a pathogen. If a person has antibodies associated with novel coronavirus, it means the person is either Covid-19 positive or has recovered. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, suspected individuals who test negative for Covid-19 in the rapid antigen test should undergo RT-PCR test to rule out the infection. Positive test results should be considered as true positive and do not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-authorities-begin-process-of-conducting-rapid-antigen-tests-outside-covid-19-containment-zones-856855.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Lord Buddha's ideals have lasting solutions to challenges world faces today: PM Modi||As the world fights extraordinary challenges, their lasting solutions can come from the ideals of Lord Buddha, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. Addressing the Dhamma Chakra Day event, the prime minister also said that in his first sermon at Sarnath, Lord Buddha referred to hope and purpose. For Lord Buddha, it was the removal of human suffering, the prime minister observed. "We have to rise to the occasion and do whatever we can to increase hope among people," he said in his virtual address. He said India's start up sector is a great example of how hope, innovation and compassion can remove suffering. "Bright young minds are finding solutions to global problems. India has one of the largest start-up ecosystems," he said. Recalling the eight-fold path of Lord Buddha, Modi said it shows the way towards the well-being of many societies and nations. It highlights the importance of compassion and kindness, he said adding that the teachings of Lord Buddha celebrate simplicity both in thought and action. "Today the world fights extraordinary challenges. To these challenges, lasting solutions can come from the ideals of Lord Buddha. They were relevant in the past. They are relevant in the present. And, they will remain relevant in the future," Modi said. Buddhism, the prime minister noted, teaches respect. "Respect for people. Respect for the poor. Respect for women. Respect for peace and non-violence. Therefore, the teachings of Buddhism are the means to a sustainable planet." Modi said he is very hopeful about the 21st century. "This hope comes from my young friends -- our youth... would urge my young friends to also stay connected with the thoughts of Lord Buddha. They will motivate and show the way ahead," he said. At times, the thoughts of Lord Buddha will even calm you down or cheer you up, he said. "In fact, Lord Buddha's teaching that 'be your own guiding light' is a wonderful management lesson," he pointed out. The need of the hour, Modi said, is to connect more and more people with Buddhist heritage sites. "We in India have many such sites. You know how people also know my parliamentary constituency of Varanasi? As the home to Sarnath," he said. Recently, the Union Cabinet announced that Kushinagar airport will be an international one, he pointed out. "This would bring so many people, pilgrims and tourists. It would also generate economic opportunities for many," he said. The Dhamma or Dharma Chakra day is observed on Asadha Poornima.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lord-buddhas-ideals-have-lasting-solutions-to-challenges-world-faces-today-pm-modi-856911.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||UP minister and his wife test positive for Covid-19, admitted to hospital||Uttar Pradesh Rural Development Minister, Rajendra Pratap Singh (Moti Singh) and his wife have been admitted to the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences after they tested positive for Covid-19. Asked about his health, Singh told PTI on Saturday, "I am fine." Asked how long he is expected to stay in the hospital, he said, "I came here only on Friday. I will follow the doctors' advice." Singh is a four-time MLA from Patti in Pratapgarh district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-minister-and-his-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-hospital-856934.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Board 10th Result 2020 declared: How to check results||The Madhya Pradesh Board has announced the class 10th board exam results today. The merit list has also been announced online today. This year over 11 lakh students have taken the MP Board 10th examinations. At least, 62.84 percent students have passed the Class 10 exam this year. The result is available on the official website of Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education. Last year 61.32 percent students had qualified the exam. MP Board MPBSE 10th Result 2020: How to check result via website Step 2: Click on the ‘result link’ flashing on the homepage Step 3: Enter the roll number on the box Step 4: Results will appear on the screen Step 5: Download it, and take a print out for further reference. How to check result via SMS The MP Board 10th result 2020 can be checked via SMS by following the following procedure: To check MPBSE Class 10 Result 2020, the students need to type: MPBSE10<ROLLNUMBER> and send it to 56263||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-board-10th-result-2020-declared-how-to-check-results-856939.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Pragya Thakur 'threat' letter: Cops get 7 days to furnish case diary||The Madhya Pradesh High Court has granted one week's time to the state police to furnish the case diary of the man arrested from Maharashtra for allegedly writing a threat letter to BJP MP from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur. A single judge bench of Justice Sujoy Paul on Friday granted seven days to the police after they sought more time to furnish the case diary of Dr Sayed Abdul Rehman, a resident of Maharashtra's Nanded district, his counsel Neeraj Jain said. The accused has sought bail stating that he was the sole breadwinner of his family, and his wife and two minor children were dependent on him, he added. Rehman is accused of writing a threat letter to Thakur after she won the last Lok Sabha election, Jain said. Thakur had defeated senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh with a huge margin. Rehman had moved the high court for relief after the lower court at Bhopal rejected his bail application on March 19. The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) police station in Bhopal had charged Rehman and others for sending threatening letter to Thakur in an envelope, which allegedly also contained some chemical powder. The ATS Bhopal had arrested Rehman in Nanded on January 17. He has been booked under IPC sections 326-B, 507, 182, 506, Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pragya-thakur-threat-letter-cops-get-7-days-to-furnish-case-diary-856961.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Day after eight cops were gunned down, over 25 Uttar Pradesh Police teams formed to nab history-sheeter Vikas Dubey||More than 25 teams have been formed by the UP Police to nab history-sheeter Vikas Dubey who was yet to be apprehended 36 hours after eight police personnel were gunned down by criminals during an attempt to arrest him. Inspector General of Police, Kanpur, Mohit Agarwal on Saturday told PTI, "To nab Vikas Dubey and his accomplices, as many as 25 teams have been formed which are conducting raids in different districts of the state and other states as well." Police officials also said the surveillance team was scanning over 500 mobile phones and efforts were on to retrieve information pertaining to Dubey, who has faced about 60 criminal cases. The Special Task Force of UP Police has also been roped in. Agarwal said a cash reward of Rs 50,000 has been announced for providing information about Dubey and the identity of the information provider will be kept secret. He also said seven policemen, who were injured in the encounter, have been admitted to a private hospital where their condition is stable. Police had late on Friday night raided Dubey's house in Krishnanagar area of Lucknow. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath rushed to Kanpur on Friday to meet the family members of the slain policemen and announced financial assistance of Rs one crore each to the bereaved families. Eight police personnel, including a DSP, were gunned down in a village near the city by the henchmen of a criminal who lost two of them in a firefight later, officials said. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack from a rooftop on a police team after it entered Bikru village past Thursday midnight to arrest Dubey. The attackers fled, snatching weapons from the dead and the wounded policemen. Promising that those behind the heinous crime will not be let off, the chief minister said a government job would be given to a member of each of the bereaved families besides extraordinary pension. Stressing that the government was with the families, Adityanath said it would work to ensure that justice was done and those behind the crime were punished as per the law. "Some of the weapons which the miscreants had fled with have been recovered. None of those responsible for this heinous act will be let off and the sacrifice of the slain policemen will not be allowed to go in vain. The brave jawans were killed while they had gone for carrying out a raid as part of their duty," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-after-eight-cops-were-gunned-down-over-25-uttar-pradesh-police-teams-formed-to-nab-history-sheeter-vikas-dubey-856962.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Terrorist hideout busted in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||A terrorist hideout was busted in a remote village in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, leading to the recovery of a huge cache of arms and ammunition, officials said. The hideout was unearthed during the course of a joint search operation by police and the Rashtriya Rifles in Dardasan village of the Thanamandi area, the officials said. They said the recoveries made from the hideout included two Chinese pistols with two magazines, an Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) with 11 rifle grenades, 14 magazines of the AK assault rifle with 920 rounds and a Chinese hand grenade. A large quantity of material used in the making of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), including batteries and wires, was also seized from the hideout, the officials said. However, no one was arrested in connection with the recovery so far, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-hideout-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-856972.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Militant killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Kulgam||Two unidentified militants were killed and an Army man was injured during an encounter between the ultras and security forces in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Arrah area of Kulgam district of south Kashmir on Saturday based on specific information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting searches in the area, militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, ensuing a gunfight in which two militants were killed, the official said. During the operation, an Army man was injured and he has been rushed to a hospital, he added. He said the operation was going on till last reports came in and further details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-kulgam-856979.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Fresh 'unlock 2' guidelines in Jammu and Kashmir; religious places to remain closed||Fresh guidelines under the "unlock 2" phase came into effect in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday with the Union Territory administration deciding against opening religious places and educational institutions, but allowing hotels to operate with full capacity. There will be no inter-state and inter-district movement except for those carrying valid passes, while the night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will continue to remain in force till further orders. The new guidelines were issued on Friday night by Jammu and Kashmir Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam and will be applicable till July 31. Prior to it, the administration issued a fresh classification of the districts in "red", "orange" and "green" categories for a successful implementation of the instructions aimed at containing the spread of Covid-19. Except Bandipora, the nine remaining districts in Kashmir, including Srinagar, and Ramban in the Jammu region have been classified as "red" zones, along with Lakhanpur town of Kathua -- the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir bordering Punjab. Bandipora and seven other districts in the Jammu region, including Jammu district, have been classified as "orange" zones, while Doda and Kishtwar continued to be in the "green" zone. Continuing with the protocol for those returning from outside the Union Territory, the order said they would have to compulsorily undergo a Covid-19 RTPCR test, following which they will be under a 14-day administrative quarantine till their reports come. "Those testing negative will be released for home quarantine while the positive persons will be sent to Covid hospitals for treatment," it said. Restaurants, including those in hotels, which were earlier permitted to operate for home delivery and take away services, have been allowed dine-in with up to 50 per cent capacity, while hotels and hospitality services can now operate with 100 per cent capacity. The administration has also permitted the intra-district taxis and maxi-cabs to operate in the entire Union Territory. However, the order said "there shall be no inter-province and inter-state/UT movement of individuals except after obtaining permission or in permitted public transport, after following prescribed health protocols". The intra-district public passenger transport vehicles running on fixed routes, including buses and mini-buses, have been allowed to operate with up to a two-thirds seating capacity (for buses) and 50 per cent seating capacity (for mini-buses) on the routes to be notified by the transport department. "Inter-district public passenger transport vehicles (buses and mini-buses only and not maxi-cabs) can be operated with up to 2/3rd seating capacity for buses and 50 per cent for mini-buses by SRTC only on the routes notified by the Transport Department," the order said. It added that religious places would continue to remain closed to the public till further orders, while the ban on large gatherings and congregations, besides social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions, would continue. The administration has also decided to keep all educational institutions, training and coaching institutions, including anganwadi centres, closed except the training institutions run by the central and state governments, but permitted online and distance learning. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will stay closed, the order said. It said those above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years should stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements or health purposes. All shopping malls can open except in the "red" districts, where only 50 per cent shops will operate on a daily basis, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-unlock-2-guidelines-in-jammu-and-kashmir-religious-places-to-remain-closed-856982.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Over 2.75 lakh Covid-19 tests, 17k per day since rapid-antigen testing began in Delhi||More than 45 per cent of the over 5.96 lakh Covid-19 tests in Delhi were conducted in the last 16 days after the government started testing through the rapid-antigen methodology in and around containment zones of the national capital. Rapid-antigen tests started in the city on June 18. Since then a total of 2,75,396 tests through the RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) and rapid-antigen methods have been conducted in Delhi with around 17,000 tests per day. Of this, around 1.5 lakh people have been tested through rapid-antigen kits, according to the Delhi government's health bulletins. Till June 18, health authorities conducted 3,21,302 tests for the disease using the "expensive but gold standard" RT-PCR method. The number of tests per day has also seen an around four-fold increase from 4,190 tests per day in the first week of June to 15,863 tests per day in the last week of the month. On Friday alone, more than 24,000 tests -- 10,577 RT-PCR tests and 13,588 rapid-antigen tests -- were conducted in the city, a massive jump from 6,538 tests conducted a month ago on June 3. In the last one month, from June 3 to July 3, as many as 3.66 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19, which is 12,218 tests daily. So far, 5,96,698 tests have been conducted through RT-PCR and rapid-antigen methods. On Friday, the government expanded rapid-antigen testing, earlier limited to containment zones, to other areas in all 11 districts of the national capital. Now, state-run and private hospitals in the capital have also begun testing for Covid-19 using this method following the nod of the government. According to health authorities, rapid-antigen testing is an easy and cheaper method as compared to the RT-PCR test . Each testing kit costs Rs 450 and can provide results within 30 minutes as compared to RT-PCR test that takes three to four hours. The kits, called Standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection, have been developed by South Korean company S D Biosensor. The testing method involves looking for antibodies which are produced when the body is exposed to a pathogen. If a person has antibodies associated with novel coronavirus, it means the person is either Covid-19 positive or has recovered. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, suspected individuals who test negative for Covid-19 in rapid-antigen test should undergo RT-PCR to rule out the infection. While positive test results should be considered as true positive and do not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test, it said. Rapid-antigen testing requires a prescription and an ICMR form filled by a registered doctor, and a government identity proof, same as that for RT-PCR test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-275-lakh-covid-19-tests-17k-per-day-since-rapid-antigen-testing-began-in-delhi-857012.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records 24 more Covid-19 deaths, 757 fresh cases||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh reached 773 on Saturday with 24 more fatalities, while the total number of cases in the state mounted to 26,554 as 757 fresh infections were reported in the last 24 hours, an official said. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said there are 7,627 active cases in the state. So far, 18,154 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease. The state has a recovery rate of 68.36 percent, he said. Prasad said the testing capacity in Uttar Pradesh has crossed 25,000 tests per day and 26,061 samples were tested on Friday. Over 8.34 lakh tests have been done in the state so far, he added. Referring to the targeted random sampling going on in the state, Prasad said it was done among frontline healthcare workers and those working in chemist shops and pharmacies in all 75 districts of the state. "Among the 12,299 samples collected, only 72 positive cases were found in 26 districts and these figures reaffirm that the infection is under control in a vast state like Uttar Pradesh," he said. He also requested people to contribute to checking the spread of the infection by acting responsibly and taking all necessary precautions to keep themselves and others safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-24-more-covid-19-deaths-757-fresh-cases-857031.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: 51 booked for holding cricket match in Greater Noida||Fifty-one people have been booked for holding a cricket match in Greater Noida in violation of the administration's Covid-19 guidelines, police said on Saturday. Challans have also been issued to owners of 17 cars which were used by the participants of the match held on Friday, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said. Those booked include two Delhi-based organisers of the event and they have been identified as Deepak Aggarwal and Nagik Khurana. Several participants too hailed from the national capital, the police said. "The cricket match was held in the Knowledge Park police station area without permission, with its lead organisers being Deepak Aggarwal and Nagik Khurana. Due to Covid-19, it is well known that everyone has to maintain social distancing and it has been made mandatory to wear masks," Singh said. He said a lot of people had gathered for the event without following social distancing norms. Fifty-one people have been booked and an FIR has been registered at the Knowledge Park police station, the DCP said. The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), the police said. Provisions under the Epidemic Diseases Act have also been invoked in the case, they added. Gautam Buddh Nagar police had recently renewed CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four people at a place, till July 31 in view of the pandemic across Noida and Greater Noida. The district police had also extended the ban on social, political, cultural or sports gatherings among others, and warned action against offenders. Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, has so far recorded 2,569 Covid-19 cases and 23 deaths, according to official figures till Friday. The number of active cases stood at 1,005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-51-booked-for-holding-cricket-match-in-greater-noida-857032.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi praises Uttar Pradesh govt, BJP unit for welfare work during coronavirus lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday heaped praise on the Uttar Pradesh government and the BJP state unit for their welfare activities during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. At a review of the BJP's "Seva hi Sangathan" campaign in seven states via video conference, Modi said the state government and the party unit need to be congratulated for their work. "Being the MP from Kashi (Varanasi), I have been talking to the people of Kashi regularly. Because of this I continuously get information about what type of work (is being done) and how it is being done. I am also in touch with the people in the government," he said. Suggesting that a digital booklet with details of the work done, people's experience and their interviews be brought out at the divisional level, he said people have composed songs during this time and written poetry. "Later we can bring out a digital booklet of every district, then of every state and subsequently of the entire country," he said. "These are the things which would inspire people in future. Let us decide that by September 25, on the birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, we launch a digital booklet of divisions, districts, states and the entire country," he said. "I would like that at the centre and state levels, an editorial board be set up and things are collected very minutely. This is a very major happening in the history of mankind," he said.  The prime minister said the booklet can be in three languages -- Hindi, English and the language of the state concerned. Modi said that a sense of service has given strength to this fight against the novel coronavirus and as members of a political party, the work done by partymen needed to be praised. All organisations and the civil society also need to be congratulated, he said. Earlier, giving a presentation of the work done by the party organisation, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh said that booth presidents, sector in-charges, divisional presidents, district-level teams, regional teams and people's representatives have done exemplary work. He gave details of food packets, ration kits and masks distributed among the needy by party workers. More than two crore people of the state have also been linked to Arogya Setu app with the help of party workers, he said. BJP workers have also helped in ensuring that food and ration reached remote areas, Singh said. When lakhs of migrant workers returned to the state because of the neglect of Rajasthan, Delhi and Maharashtra governments, party workers organised kitchens for 50 to 70 days in bordering districts of Jhansi, Noida, Mathura and Agra and also distributed masks and footwear to them, he said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma attended the video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-praises-uttar-pradesh-govt-bjp-unit-for-welfare-work-during-coronavirus-lockdown-857061.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Day after ambush, Uttar Pradesh Police suspends station officer, razes criminal Vikas Dubey’s hideout||Uttar Pradesh Police on Saturday suspended a station officer for his alleged connivance in the killing of eight of his colleagues, ambushed in his police station area Chaubeypur while they were going to arrest notorious local criminal Vikas Dubey. As the eight policemen, who walked into a trap set by Dubey and fell to a hail of bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on Friday, were given a tearful farewell, police began demolishing the criminal’s lavish hideout in Bikru village, the scene of the bloody crime. Swinging into action after the brutal deaths of the men, 25 police teams fanned out across Uttar Pradesh and other states to hunt down Dubey, wanted in 60 criminal cases, and his associates, officials said. The attackers had fled, snatching weapons from the dead and the wounded policemen. Police officials also said a surveillance team was scanning over 500 mobile phones and frantic efforts were on to retrieve information from the devices. The needle of suspicion swivelled to Vinay Tiwari, the SO of the Chaubeypur Police Station, about 40 km from Kanpur city, under which Bikru falls. "In view of the allegations levelled against SO, he has been suspended and all the allegations are being thoroughly looked into," IG Kanpur Range Mohit Agarwal told reporters. "If his involvement or that of any other personnel of the police is found in this incident, they will be sacked from the department and also sent to jail," he said. The officer, however, did not disclose the nature of allegations against Tiwari. He also refused to divulge details of how many people have been detained and which other states the police was focussing on in its hunt for Dubey. "Operational and strategic things are not revealed by the police," he said. An official indicated that about 30 people were detained for questioning. Another said there was a possibility that Dubey may have fled to Nepal or taken shelter in a neighbouring state. The eight men killed in the line of duty, mostly in their 20s and 30s, included Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra (54). The others are Mahesh Kumar Yadav (42), Sub-Inspector Anoop Kumar Singh (32), Sub-Inspector Nebu Lal (48) and Constables Jitendra Pal (26), Sultan Singh (34), Bablu Kumar (23) and Rahul Kumar (24). Their bodies were taken back to their homes where senior police officers attended their last rites, Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack that took place in the dead of night on Thursday. Hours earlier, Rahul Tiwari of Jadepur Gharsa village nearby had lodged an FIR alleging an attempt to murder against Dubey and four others with the Chaubeypur police station. Recapping the events of Thursday night that unfolded like a gangster film, sources said Vinay Tiwari initially led a small police team to Dubey's house in a bid to persuade him to settle the issue with Rahul Tiwari. However, Dubey is believed to have thrashed and threatened the SO in his den. Vinay Tiwari then informed DSP Mishra, who reached Bikru with a team drawn from three police stations in the vicinity to arrest Dubey. But they were caught by surprise instead. Dubey’s henchmen put up roadblocks to stop policemen from reaching their hideout. As they got off from their vehicles at one hurdle, there were caught by a hail of gunfire. Later, police sealed the entire area and began a combing operation, which led to another encounter with Dubey’s men in Nivada village in which two people were killed. Vinay Tiwari told reporters in a video widely circulated on Saturday that the team went to Dubey’s house only to arrest him and did not anticipate the ambush. He is also seen getting angry when questioned by reporters if he was lagging behind deliberately. "Do you think that this could have happened. It is the jurisdiction of my police station area, and I will be the person to lag behind others? Some people are floating this theory only to benefit Dubey," he said. Minutes after the video appeared on local news channels, IG Mohit Agarwal ordered his suspension. Bikru village appeared like a war zone. The place was deserted with many houses locked. And the centre of activity was Dubey’s house. Police personnel stood on guard and some passer-by watched as a bulldozer razed the boundary wall before bringing down the house. TV channels also showed visuals of luxury cars in the complex being crushed by the giant machines. It was the same earthmover that was used to block the way of the policemen when they went for the raid. “Most of the villagers said Dubey has grabbed people's land using muscle power, and built his house. He used to extort money from people. It was a hub of crime. There was anger among the local people, and there was a feeling of vengeance among them," Agarwal said. The Kanpur Range IG added that family members of the criminals could have been attacked by the local people, but the situation did not go out of control due to police presence. Local police sources also said Dubey, who was accused in 2001 of killing a senior BJP leader, maintains a private 'army' and recruits mostly local youth. He also provides them with weapons. A senior police official in Lucknow ruled out "intelligence failure" on part of the police. Late on Friday night, police also raided Dubey's house in the state capital’s Krishnanagar area. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had rushed to Kanpur on Friday to meet the family members of the slain policemen and announced financial assistance of Rs 1 crore each to the bereaved families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-after-ambush-uttar-pradesh-police-suspends-station-officer-razes-criminal-vikas-dubey-s-hideout-857072.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Killing of eight cops: Police inspector tipped history-sheeter of raid||An Uttar Pradesh Police inspector was on Saturday suspended and taken into custody on suspicion of tipping history-sheeter Vikas Dubey off about the raid during which eight cops, including a circle officer (CO), were killed in the state's Kanpur district on Friday. Vinay Tewari, who was also the SHO of the nearby Chaubepur police station and part of the team, that had raided Dubey's residence at Bikaru village, was detained and quizzed by the special task force (STF) sleuths. Sources said that Tewari had visited Dubey's residence on Friday in connection with a case. Sources also said that the call details of the history-sheeter had revealed that he had cell numbers of many police personnel, including Tewari. "The way the raiding police team came under fire from different sides clearly reveals that Vikas had prior information about the raid and that he was ready," said a senior police official in Kanpur on Saturday. Meanwhile, 25 police teams had been formed the nab the history-sheeter, who continued to be at large after Friday's encounter. Police teams conducted raids at several places to nab him though without success. The police had also demolished the gangster's ancestral house at the village after suspicion that there could be some underground construction there. The incident could not have come at a worse time for chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was already under attack from the Opposition parties over alleged mishandling of the migrant workers' crisis and the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/killing-of-eight-cops-police-inspector-tipped-history-sheeter-of-raid-857079.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||No one safe in Uttar Pradesh's jungle raj, says Priyanka Gandhi; Congress to launch e-campaign against crime||There is a “jungle raj” prevailing in Uttar Pradesh where no one, including police, is safe, Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Saturday, a day after eight policemen were killed in an encounter with criminals in Kanpur. In a video conference with party’s senior leaders in the state, Gandhi also accused the ruling BJP leaders and government officials of having nexus with criminals, as the party decided to launch an ‘e-campaign’ through various social media platforms against the “worsening law and order situation” in the state. Quoting Gandhi as making the allegations during the conference, party’s state media convener Lallan Kumar said the leaders discussed the prevailing law and order situation in the state in detail. During the conference, Gandhi said “there is a jungle raj prevailing in UP where even policemen are not safe”, said Kumar. She said the state’s law and order situation has been demolished due to the nexus of ruling party leaders and government officials with criminals, said Kumar. “The criminals’ morale has been boosted due to the government’s patronage to them,” Kumar quoted Gandhi as saying. He said the party decided to launch a campaign against the “bad shape of law and order” and “jungle raj” in the state and expose criminals and the leaders extending patronage to them. The party will run an online campaign with party leaders and workers going live on Facebook on Sunday afternoon, he said, adding that an appeal will be made to people to post their messages on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram against the rising crime graph in the state. The party will also reach out to the people and ask them to write to party leaders and workers if they had any problem regarding the law and order situation. The party will send their messages to the state governor and the National Human Rights Commissions, he said. In the videoconference, the party also discussed its strategy for the coming UP Panchayat elections with leaders, said Kumar. Those present in the video meet included UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, CLP leader Aradhana Misra, former Union ministers Jitin Prasad and Pradip Jain Aditya and MLC Dipak Singh among others. After the Friday encounter in Kanpur, Priyanka Gandhi had tweeted, “Eight policemen were martyred while they went to nab criminals. I pay my condolence to the family of the martyrs. In UP, law and order has become very bad and criminals have no fear. From common man to policemen, no one is safe," she said. "The responsibility of law and order is with the chief minister. He should initiate strict action and there should be no laxity in it," she had added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-one-safe-in-uttar-pradeshs-jungle-raj-says-priyanka-gandhi-congress-to-launch-e-campaign-against-crime-857083.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||2,505 fresh coronavirus cases in Delhi take tally to over 97,000; death toll crosses 3,000-mark||Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the tally in the city to over 97,000, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,004, authorities said. Fifty-five fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department said in a bulletin. It also said that 26 earlier deaths have been included in the cumulative figure. The bulletin said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 3,004, and the total number of cases mounted to 97,200.  On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 2,923 on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2505-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-take-tally-to-over-97000-death-toll-crosses-3000-mark-857104.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||ED files fresh chargesheet in Rajasthan fraud medical claim PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a fresh case charge sheet against a Jaipur-based man for allegedly claiming fake medical reimbursement worth Rs 2.65 crore from the government, the agency said on Saturday. This is a supplementary prosecution complaint (chargesheet) field in the case against main accused Shiv Narayan Joshi and his associates Lokesh Paliwal and K L Kumawat, it said. The charge sheet been filed before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Rajasthan's capital city of Jaipur, the central probe agency said in a statement. The first charge sheet in this case was filed in March 2018. A probe found that "Joshi had created forged, fabricated and manipulated documents on the basis of which he claimed reimbursement for medical expenses incurred for the treatment of his son". "This way, he cheated the government to the tune of Rs 2.65 crore," the ED alleged. Joshi, the ED said, after retaining some portion of the proceeds of the crime, transferred some amount to the other accused, Paliwal and Kumawat.  Assets worth over Rs 1.13 crore of the accused have been attached in the past by the agency in this case, which it took cognisance of some years ago after going through a Jaipur police FIR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-files-fresh-chargesheet-in-rajasthan-fraud-medical-claim-pmla-case-857122.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||7 Dera followers arrested for theft of 'bir' of Guru Granth Sahib||The Punjab police SIT, probing sacrilege incidents, on Saturday arrested seven followers of Dera Sacha Sauda in Faridkot district for their alleged involvement in a 2015 Guru Granth Sahib theft case. “We have arrested seven persons who are Dera Sacha Sauda followers,” said Deputy Inspector General of Police (Jalandhar Range) Ranbir Singh Khatra, who is leading the Special Investigation Team. The seven accused were allegedly involved in the theft of a 'bir' (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara in Faridkot in 2015, as per police investigation. They were later presented before a local court in Faridkot where five of them were sent to two-day police remand while two were let off when their counsels claimed they had already secured bail in this same case. A SIT of the Punjab police has been probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents after the state government withdrew these cases from the Central Bureau of Investigation. The three sacrilege cases were -- theft of a 'bir' of the holy book of Sikhism from the gurdwara on June 1, 2015; putting up hand-written sacrilegious posters in Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on September 25 and torn pages of the holy book being found at Bargari on October 12, 2015, in Faridkot. Another Punjab police SIT, led by Inspector General Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, is probing firing incidents of 2015 in Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-dera-followers-arrested-for-theft-of-bir-of-guru-granth-sahib-857130.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir admin plans to undertake 'restricted' Amarnath yatra this year||Asserting that the upcoming annual Amarnath Yatra would have to be undertaken in a "restricted manner" due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday said only 500 pilgrims would be allowed per day by road from Jammu to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine. It also said the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for testing of persons entering the Union Territory would also be applicable to the intending Amarnath pilgrims. "The yatra this year will have to be undertaken in a restricted manner so that the SoPs for Covid-19 are strictly adhered to during the conduct of the yatra… a maximum of 500 yatris only could be allowed per day by road from Jammu," Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam said. He was chairing a meeting of the sub-committee constituted by the Supreme Court for the yatra here. In the meeting, he reviewed the arrangements, including security for the pilgrimage, an official spokesman said. The 42-day yatra was scheduled to commence from the twin tracks of Pahalgam in Anantnag and Baltal in Ganderbal on June 23 but was delayed due to the outbreak of the pandemic. According to sources, the Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) is planning to undertake the yatra in the last week of July for a short duration of 15 days. While reviewing the preparations for the Yatra 2020, the chief secretary said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the State Executive Committee constituted under the Disaster Management Act has issued SoPs which, interalia, prescribe 100 per cent RTPCR test for all persons travelling into J-K. "All entrants into J&K will have to be sampled, tested and quarantined till they are reported to be negative," he said, adding the camping facilities earlier utilised for yatris, especially at entry points are currently being utilised as quarantine centres. He emphasised that SoPs for testing of persons entering J-K would apply to yatris as well. During the meeting, the chief secretary was briefed by the departments concerned with regard to status of works, including upgradation and improvement along the track from Baltal to the Cave shrine at Kali Mata and emergency exit track from Sangam, installation of railings along critical stretches of the track, construction of additional helipads at Lower Holy Cave and construction of sanitisation tunnels at Neelgrath Helipad, Baltal and Domel. He also reviewed strengthening of footbridges and routine works viz installation of bailey bridges, the spokesman said. Financial Commissioner, Health, Atal Dulloo also gave a brief with regard to healthcare. He said adequate stock of drugs, consumable items, sleeping bags, besides PPE kits and masks are being made available to the doctors and paramedical staff being deployed for yatra duty. Dulloo apprised that two base hospitals are also being established along Baltal route. However, he was concerned about the stress in the medical system because of the yatra. "Nine out of 10 Kashmir districts are Red and the entire medical system is fully stretched in handling the challenge. No doctors will be available from outside J&K for the Yatra this year," he said. "Covid and high altitude sickness symptoms are quite similar and all cases will have to be treated as deemed Covid positive in case of an emergency. Also, special arrangements will have to be made for handling dead bodies," he said. With regard to the security arrangements, the chief secretary asked the police department to ensure effective regulation of the yatra at access control gates. He emphasised that all deployments in relation to security, rescue and fire and emergency need to be in place well in time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-admin-plans-to-undertake-restricted-amarnath-yatra-this-year-857160.html
04-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP reorganisation process begins; 35 teams formed to shortlist names for block unit presidents||The process of reorganisation of Delhi BJP has begun with the formation of 35 teams to shortlist names of local leaders to be appointed as presidents of the party's block units. The 35 teams, each comprising two senior leaders, will shortlist by July 9 the names of potential block-level workers to be appointed as presidents. The shortlisting process will begin from July 6, said a senior Delhi BJP leader. The party has decided to keep the upper age limit for block presidents to 45 years in order to groom young leadership at the local level. There are 280 block units of the BJP in Delhi. The party leader said reorganisation of Delhi BJP was to start immediately after the appointment of Adesh Gupta as its new president last month. It has been delayed due to preoccupations with coronavirus-related work and recent developments in the country, he said. Appointments of district presidents and new office bearers in the state team will also begin shortly. The process may take at least a month, after which all the names will be announced simultaneously, he added. The reorganisation work was discussed in a meeting of Delhi BJP's core group last week. The meeting was also attended by central observers for supervising restructuring of the Delhi unit, including national general secretary Arun Singh and BJP Mahila Morcha president Vijaya Rahatkar. The names of potential candidates for the posts of block and district presidents will be shortlisted after consultation with the present and former presidents, MPs and councilors and state office bearers in respective blocks and districts, said a core group member present in the meeting. The central observers had guided the state leaders to ensure that only "deserving" leaders with "good connect" in the field were included in the new team of Delhi BJP, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-reorganisation-process-begins-35-teams-formed-to-shortlist-names-for-block-unit-presidents-857167.html
04-07-2020||Opinion||Reading Orwell for the Fourth of July||This Fourth of July, it’s worth taking stock of the state of freedom — and of our attitudes toward it — at home and around the world. In Russia, Vladimir Putin just won a “plebiscite” ratifying his right to stay in power until the year 2036. In Hong Kong, a new security law came into effect, effectively putting an end to the right of peaceful protest. In Poland, a runoff election will decide if the country continues its slide toward illiberalism. In the United States, these stories barely make a dent on public consciousness. Conservatives and liberals alike have ceased to care very much about the denial of freedom to others. We also have our own problems with freedom. For once, the main problem isn’t Donald Trump. The president may be an instinctual fascist, a wannabe autocrat. But, after nearly four years in power, he’s been unmasked as an incompetent one. Trump may have privately praised Xi Jinping for building concentration camps for Uighurs. Congress still passed legislation to impose sanctions on China for them. He may want to bring Russia back to the Group of 7. The other six won’t let him. He may have sought to abolish Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals for the Dreamers. John Roberts decided otherwise. He may call the press an “enemy of the American people.” That enemy still operates without restraint when it comes to slamming him. To adapt the Lloyd Bentsen line, Donald John Trump, you’re no Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The more serious problem today comes from the left: from liberal elites who, when tested, lack the courage of their liberal convictions; from so-called progressives whose core convictions were never liberal to begin with; from administrative types at nonprofits and corporations who, with only vague convictions of their own, don’t want to be on the wrong side of a PR headache. This has been the great cultural story of the last few years. It is typified by incidents such as The New Yorker’s David Remnick thinking it would be a good idea to interview Steve Bannon for the magazine’s annual festival — until a Twitter mob and some members of his own staff decided otherwise. Or by The Washington Post devoting 3,000 words to destroying the life of a private person of no particular note because in 2018 she wore blackface, with ironic intent, at a Halloween party. Or by big corporations pulling ads from Facebook while demanding the company do more to censor forms of speech they deem impermissible. These stories matter because an idea is at risk. That’s the idea that people who cannot speak freely will not be able to think clearly and that no society can long flourish when contrarians are treated as heretics. That idea, old as Socrates, formerly had powerful institutional defenders, especially in the form of universities, news media, book publishers, free-speech groups and major philanthropies. But those defenders are, on account of one excuse or another, capitulating to people who claim free speech for themselves (but not for others), who believe all the old patriarchal hierarchies must go (so that new “intersectional” hierarchies may arise), who are in a perpetual fervour to rewrite the past (all the better to control the future), and who demand cringing public apologies from those who have sinned against an ever-more radical ideological standard (while those apologies won’t save them from being fired). As in so much else, George Orwell was here before us. In connection to the recent vandalism of monuments and destruction of statues, a line from “1984” has been making the rounds — “every book has been rewritten, every picture has been repainted, every statue and street and building has been renamed, every date has been altered.” But the Orwell essay to which I keep returning is a little jewel from 1946, “The Prevention of Literature.” Orwell’s concern then was not just with Russian totalitarianism but with the arguments used by much of the Western intelligentsia to justify repression. “What is sinister,” he wrote, “is that the conscious enemies of liberty are those to whom liberty ought to mean most.” He was particularly calling out Western scientists who admired the Soviet Union for its technical prowess and were utterly indifferent to Josef Stalin’s persecution of writers and artists. “They do not see that any attack on intellectual liberty, and on the concept of objective truth, threatens, in the long run, every department of thought.” Every department of thought. Right now, all the Twitter furores, the angry rows over publication decisions, the cancelled speeches and books, the semantic battles about which words take an uppercase and which don’t, may seem remote to those who care about more tangible issues: depression, disease, police abuse, urban decline. Yet the issue that counts the most is whether the institutions that are supposed to champion liberal ideals will muster the moral confidence to survive. On this July 4, it’s very much in doubt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/reading-orwell-for-the-fourth-of-july-856908.html
04-07-2020||Opinion||Just a Lucknow address for Priyanka won’t do the trick||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is emerging as a key Opposition figure in Uttar Pradesh although it is early to say if she will become a rallying point against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state’s fractious and fractured polity. As the general secretary in-charge of UP, where the Congress lost power in 1989 and has not since returned, she took her remit fairly earnestly from the start although the results have not started showing so far. If she relocates, it will confirm a growing political trend that an inherited surname, a legacy and a sense of entitlement no longer guarantee success. Being grounded and remaining accessible to the party workers might well be the stepping stones to rejuvenating the Congress, that’s in a semi-comatose state in UP. Priyanka’s spurts of activism began in August 2019 with a proposed visit to Umbha village in the Sonbhadra district where 10 Gond tribals were killed or injured in police firing when they protested their land usurpation by the upper caste Rajputs. She was detained by the administration before she entered Umbha but the arrest marked the first agitation by the state Congress in a long time. Priyanka also raised the issue of the dismal conditions prevailing at a Kanpur shelter home, where two young girls were discovered pregnant. The UP government has served a show-cause notice to her over her Facebook post. UP Congress missing in action The indifference to an episode that ought to have been lauded as a first reflected two features: One, the absence of an organisation working at the grassroots, vital to galvanise the activists and two, the resentment against Lallu’s appointment. The Congress’s fief in UP is long since gone but there are enough overlords who imagine they reign supreme over non-existent principalities to countenance an Ajay Lallu. If Priyanka is unlikely to become the nucleus of Opposition politics in UP, a major reason would be the Congress has not found a niche in the state’s identity-drawn politics. The domain, demarcated by religion and castes, is more or less carved up between the BJP, SP and BSP with smaller entities jousting for the little spaces that remain uninhabited. The Congress’ rainbow coalition of the Brahmins, Dalits and Muslims is verily El Dorado. If the party woos back the Muslims, the BJP promptly throws the “appeasement” bogey at it. Whenever the Brahmins feel uncomfortable in the BJP, their go-to habitat since 1989, the Congress figures as an option but where is the old caste regrouping, they ask? In the quicksand of caste and religious equations, the BJP managed to gain pre-eminence through calibrated strategies undergirded by the Hindutva ideology that gave a sense of identity and empowerment, if only false, to large groupings of the backward castes and Dalits in addition to the upper castes. The SP and the BSP have reasons to worry over their vote depletion by the BJP. Therefore, Priyanka’s crusades against the Adityanath dispensation, noteworthy as these are, cannot exist in a political vacuum and filling that void will be a tough grind for Congress. (Radhika Ramaseshan is a Delhi-based political analyst and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/just-a-lucknow-address-for-priyanka-won-t-do-the-trick-856910.html
04-07-2020||South||Malayali nurse, two kids who returned from Bengaluru refused shelter by family in Kerala||A woman and her two kids who returned from Bengaluru were alleged denied shelter even by her family at Kottayam in Kerala even after they completed 14-day quarantine. Finally, a NGO provided them shelter following intervention of the district administration. The woman, aged 38, and her two kids, a seven year old girl and four year old boy, returned from Bengaluru two weeks back. She was working as a nurse in Bengaluru and had to return as the hospital she was working was closed. On reaching Kerala, they were under 14 days quarantine at a government quarantine facility in Kottayam district. On Thursday as they reached her home at Kurumulloor, about 15 kilometres for the town, they were denied shelter. But the house was locked and her mother could not be reached over phone. When she contacted her brother, he allegedly asked her to stay away. Her husband refused to take her to his house. Later the woman sought the help of a NGO which took up the woman's plight with the district administration and a shelter provided to her at a NGO run shelter home. Annie Babu of Santhwanam Charitable Trust that came to the help of the hapless woman and kids told DH that her husband was not taking proper care of her over quite some time. The woman and kids were denied shelter at her house citing that her mother was suffering from breathing ailments. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that such incidents were a shame for Kerala society. Several instances of those coming from other states and abroad facing hostility from local people were reported. Stringent action would be taken in such instances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayali-nurse-two-kids-who-returned-from-bengaluru-refused-shelter-by-family-in-kerala-856857.html
04-07-2020||South||Kerala awaits Karnataka’s nod for Thalasserry-Mysuru rail tunnel amid ecological concerns||While the Kerala government’s fresh proposal for Thalasserry-Mysuru rail line with tunnels through Bandipur and Nagarhole forest areas have not gone down well with environmentalists of Wayanad, the state government is of the view that it is one of the best options with least ecological impact. Kerala Transport Principal Secretary K R Jyothilal said that the state has already finished the survey and was expecting a positive response from Karnataka for conducting the survey. It is the fourth such project proposal, beginning with the decades-old Nilambur-Nanjangud line, followed by another through Bandipur and another through Kodagu. All these faced resistance from environmentalists who raised concerns over felling trees and disturbing wildlife ecology, prompting Kerala to moot underground railway lines. Wayanad Nature Protection Group president N Badusha told DH that apart from disturbing the ecology of the forest areas, the proposed line may also pose a threat to the Kottiyoor-Periya elephant corridor. He questioned the need to construct such a rail line by disturbing the forest ecology. Jyothilal said the proposed tunnel would be at least 30 metres below the ground and would not disturb the forest ecosystem, as the area identified was not a protected forest. Citing the Kolkata metro’s tunnel under Hoogly river, he said there was adequate technology to construct the tunnel line without disturbing the ecology. He said the Kerala Rail Development Corporation would initiate further steps like preparation of detailed project report, once Karnataka government agrees to conduct the survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-awaits-karnataka-s-nod-for-thalasserry-mysuru-rail-tunnel-amid-ecological-concerns-856889.html
04-07-2020||South||Man dies of Covid-19 in Puducherry; tally rises to 904||Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar told PTI on Saturday that the patient, a chain smoker, from this town died of the illness at the Indira Gandhi government medical college hospital here. "The man had respiratory trouble also although he had no other complications such as diabetics and blood pressure. He tested positive for infection. His condition worsened and he died on Friday," he said. A medical bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfare pointed out that 80 fresh cases were identified during the last 24 hours ending 10:00 am on Saturday at the end of testing of 480 samples, pushing tally to 904. While there were 485 active cases, 405 patients were treated and discharged so far.  With the death of one person, the total fatalities rose to 14. Of the fresh cases, 40 were men and the women accounted for the remaining 40 cases. The bulletin said while four patients were less than 18 years, 12 patients were above 60. The remaining 64 patients were in the age group of 18 to 60 years. While 76 of the 80 patients were admitted to IGGMC hospital (66) and JIPMER (10), Karaikal and Yanam had two active cases each. 18 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours, it said. Of the 19,560 samples tested so far, 18,375 samples were negative and results of the examination of the remaining samples were awaited, the report said. The 80 positive cases reported now is the second biggest number after 87 tested positive for the virus on June 27, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters here. Rao reiterated that the people should extend their cooperation as the Health Department alone could not play any role without the participation of the public. "Unless people's cooperation is available the number of cases would keep increasing. We would not be able to arrest the surge in the absence of the proactive role of the public. There should be strict adherence to norms of wearing masks, social distancing, and using sanitiser," he said.  The government had ramped up tests of samples for the last few days to zero in on the prevalence of the infection. Mobile units have been pressed into service in rural areas to collect samples for examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-dies-of-covid-19-in-puducherry-tally-rises-to-904-856948.html
04-07-2020||South||Covid-19 spread in Andhra Pradesh at 'manageable' level now: Govt||Coronavirus cases may have shot up by a whopping 14,000 in just over a month in Andhra Pradesh, but the state government said the pandemic spread is at a "manageable" level right now. 'R naught', which indicates the scale of transmission of an infection in AP is now 1.2 to 1.3, indicating that the "numbers are under control." "It becomes uncontrollable if R naught crosses 2," Special Chief Secretary (Health), K S Jawahar Reddy said. About 60-70 per cent of the Covid-19 positive cases being reported now were asymptomatic, he pointed out. The spurt in cases since June 1 was attributed to the "opening up" post-lockdown. "There has been movement of people, from other states as well as abroad. That has led to the escalation of cases," the Special Chief Secretary said. The state government has now tied up with UNICEF to launch the Risk Communication and Community Engagement programme to reach out to about 1.3 crore households across AP and check the infection. This was intended to inculcate "Covid-appropriate behaviour" among people. "We have to respect Covid-19. We have to live with it, so we should have appropriate behaviour like wearing facial masks, maintaining physical distance, washing hands regularly and avoiding crowds," the Special CS said. Jawahar Reddy said the number of positive cases was high in high-risk categories like the 60+ and 40+ age groups with comorbidities. "We are conducting specific screening and testing of such persons and, depending on the severity, moving the patients to Covid Care Centres and Covid Hospitals. Other cases with mild symptoms are being kept in home isolation," he said. Of the 9,000-odd active cases in the state now, over 600 patients were in home isolation. The Special CS said they have been adopting two strategies in testing, with one focusing on surveillance to detect how the virus was spreading. Construction workers, agricultural labour, shopkeepers, vegetable and fruit vendors and healthcare workers were being tested at random. "In malls, the positivity rate is found to be 2.83 per cent, among migrant workers 1.11 per cent, healthcare workers 1.19 per cent, in temples 1.16 per cent. Among Aarogya Setu App users, the positivity rate (of coronavirus infection) was 2.7 per cent, out of the 15,000 samples tested," he pointed out. The second strategy in testing was to reduce mortality, he said. "Early detection of the infection could save deaths. Each (Covid-19) death is indicative of 666 positive cases," Jawahar Reddy noted. In Kurnool and Krishna districts in the state, the mortality rate was found to be 4.2 and 3.26 per cent respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-spread-in-andhra-pradesh-at-manageable-level-now-govt-856970.html
04-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 tally crosses one lakh-mark; more tests result in early detection, says government||Tamil Nadu may have breached the grim benchmark of one lakh Covid-19 infections, racing to second place in the country behind Maharashtra, but the government says ramped-up testing and early detection are among the factors leading to reporting of such high numbers. The southern state's numbers as on Friday clocked a total of 1,02,721 with 1,385 deaths, while recoveries stood at 58,378. The recovery rate is 57 percent. Around 12.70 lakh samples have been tested so far, the numbers being 35,028 on Friday. The state's fatality rate is 1.3 percent. Among the many infected include state Higher Education Minister K P Anbalagan. DMK legislator J Anbazhagan, who had tested positive for the deadly virus, died early in June. When health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar took to Twitter to announce the first coronavirus case in Tamil Nadu on March 7, an engineer from Kancheepuram with a travel history to Oman, little did people imagine the state would register over one lakh cases in a little less than four months. Tamil Nadu seemed comfortable then as neighbouring states like Kerala saw a spike in coronavirus cases. Though the state reported lower daily increase initially, with the government having high hopes of reversing the trend soon, things changed and the numbers started galloping after two clusters---the Tablighi Jamaat members, and the Koyambedu wholesale market, started redrawing the Covid-19 situation in the state. The government said many cases were imported from other states and countries too. Though initially, Chennai with its medical infrastructure and size of the population contributed to the high caseloads, other parts in Tamil Nadu too started reporting cases since June. Incidentally, Chennai tops the virus chart with 64,689 cases so far. The government has said the density of population is an important factor for the rapid spread of the pandemic in the city. At present, Chennai has 158 containment zones, 50 of which are in Tondiarpet and 43 in Anna Nagar, two of the worst affected areas in the city. Tamil Culture minister K Pandiarajan, entrusted to oversee the work in Tondiarpet, told PTI that "the 2,200 strong field team and the mantra of the Chief Minister (K Palaniswami) to align five Ts - Trace, Track, Test, Treat and Tech-- have helped to increase the recovery rate and brought down the fatalities (in the city)." Chennai's neighbouring districts--Kancheepuram, Chengalpetand Tiruvallur, besides Madurai, are the other districts with high virus caseloads. These districts are presently under intense lockdown to curb the spread of the contagion, although curbs will continue with some relaxations from July 6. Though the state has been reporting high daily tally for the past many days, the government insists that there is no need for panic. "The spike in cases should not make one panic and Chennai's slums need not be compared with those in Mumbai," (another high prevalent zone), according to Health secretary J Radhakrishnan. "The chief minister's strategy of aggressive and increased testing has led to an increase in cases. The state's focus is to reduce its fatalities. Tamil Nadu has a fatality rate of 1.3 per cent, which is low compared to the national average of 2.9 percent," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-covid-19-tally-crosses-one-lakh-mark-more-tests-result-in-early-detection-says-government-857007.html
04-07-2020||South||Amavarathi movement enters 200th day; NRIs from Andhra Pradesh back move||As the protest seeking Amaravati as the capital of Andhra Pradesh enters its 200th day, around one lakh non-resident people of Andhra living around the world on Saturday expressed solidarity with agitating farmers for Amaravati amid the Covid-19 crisis. On the occasion, former president of Telugu Association of North America (TANA) Jayaram Komati said the NRIs are participating in a candlelight vigil in almost 300 cities across the world for 'One State, One Capital'. "As the farmers' protest in Andhra Pradesh reached 200 days, we, as NRIs, want to show our solidarity with the farmers...Amaravati should be our capital. More than 250 cities voluntarily came forward to hold the candlelight vigil," he said in a statement. Around one lakh NRIs, all hailing from Andhra Pradesh, across the world participated in the protest rallies, which were held in full adherence to Covid-19 rules, he said. The NRIs joined the rallies as per the rules of the local governments. Due to Covid-19 concerns, the NRIs participated in the event in small groups of 15-20 people, while many of them participated from their homes virtually, he added. According to the statement, the NRIs have promised to help the agitating farmers of Amaravati financially and morally to help them fight a legal battle against the decision to shift the capital. More than 24,000 farmers of Amaravati capital region have been on the warpath ever since the YSR Congress Party government in the state announced on December 17 last about creating three capitals executive capital at Visakhapatnam, legislative capital at Amaravati and judicial capital at Kurnool. The farmers, belonging to 29 villages, who gave away nearly 34,000 acres of their fertile land to the capital city during the previous Telugu Desam Party regime in 2015, resisted the move, asserting that they had sacrificed their livelihood in anticipation of the development of a world-class capital city in Amaravati. "For the last 200 days, these farmers have been waging a relentless battle demanding that the capital Amaravati be retained. They took out rallies, held relay hunger strikes, blocked the national highways and braved arrests and lathicharge from the police. Some of the farmers died of heart attacks due to psychological pressure, said Komati, who was former special representative of Andhra Pradesh government for North America. Besides the US, Telugu NRIs from the UK, Ireland, Kuwait, South Africa, France, Germany, Austria, Canada, Saudi Arabia, and other countries have come forward to voice their solidarity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amavarathi-movement-enters-200th-day-nris-from-andhra-pradesh-back-move-857028.html
04-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh reports 765 fresh Covid-19 cases; 12 deaths take toll to 218||Andhra Pradesh reported 765 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the overall tally of infections in the state to 17,699, the government said. The state also saw 12 coronavirus-related deaths, taking the toll to 218. The 12 deaths were the highest in a day in the state so far. According to a government bulletin, the day saw 311 discharges taking the number of recoveries to 8,008. Kurnool and Srikakulam reported three coronavirus deaths each, Visakhapatnam and Chittoor two each and Kadapa and Vizianagaram one each, the latest bulletin said. Kurnool, which leads the state in the number of positive cases (2,354), also tops with regard to the toll at 76 and interestingly, in the number of recoveries (1,147) as well. Anantapuramu became the second district in AP to register over 2,000 Covid-19 positive cases with a total of 2,099. It is also second in terms of discharges with 1,139. The number of active cases across the state has now risen to 9,473.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-reports-765-fresh-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-take-toll-to-218-857036.html
04-07-2020||South||17 Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams staff test positive for coronavirus||As many as 17 staff members of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that governs the shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala, near here, have tested positive for Covid-19, a top functionary of the TTD board said. After holding an emergency meeting on the hills, TTD board chairman YV Subba Reddy told reporters that an 'archaka' (assistant priest), some musicians and security staff were among those infected in recent times. The best treatment was now being provided to the affected staff, and that the TTD would not compromise on the health, safety and security of the employees. After the Covid-19 spread, the shrine was closed and was re-opened for the devotees on June 11, allowing only 6,000 of them per day. All precautions have been taken, he said. Keeping in mind the spike in the cases of coronavirus in the country, TTD has determined that under any circumstance not more than 12,000 devotees would be allowed into the ancient shrine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/17-tirumala-tirupati-devasthanams-staff-test-positive-for-coronavirus-857042.html
04-07-2020||South||Hyderabad civic body to build 3,000 public toilets||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation is the process of constructing as many as 3,000 toilets under the build-operate-transfer (BOT) model to be completed before August 15. Minister KT Rama Rao ordered the civic body to construct 500 toilets each in every zone under GHMC limits, an official press release said. Accordingly, suitable places have been identified in LB Nagar, Kukatpally, Charminar, Serilingampally and Khairatabad zones, it said. GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar ordered the officials concerned to regularly monitor the progress to achieve the desired target, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-civic-body-to-build-3000-public-toilets-857046.html
04-07-2020||South||Kerala's Covid-19 tally crosses 5,000 as concerns of local spread rise||With 240 more persons in Kerala testing Covid-19 positive on Saturday, which is the highest single-day fresh cases in the state, the Covid tally of Kerala crossed 5,000 to reach 5,204. However, the state could heave a sigh of relief as the number of persons getting recovered from Covid-19 is also on a higher side with 209 on Saturday. The number of Covid-19 active cases now was 2,129. Raising suspicions of community spread, the number of fresh cases through local contact and un-linked cases were on a rise in Kerala. On Saturday 17 persons who tested positive got infected through local contacts. Four more CISF personnel of a camp in Kannur were also tested positive taking the total CISF personnel of the camp tested positive so far to over 50. Eleven personnel of Defence Security Corps in Kannur and four of BSF camp in Thrissur were also tested positive. A tight vigil was being maintained in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi cities were fresh infection through local contact were found at people in markets and shopping complexes and police personnel. Meanwhile, a police case was registered against a resort in Idukki district for organising a dance party flouting the social distancing norms. The dance party was reportedly held on June 28 in connection with the inauguration of the resort near Udumbanchola. Many known persons of the locality allegedly took part in the event,which became controversial after the videos of the party appeared on the social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-tally-crosses-5000-as-concerns-of-local-spread-rise-857075.html
04-07-2020||South||Kerala reports highest single day spike of 240 Covid-19 cases, tally breaches 5000 mark||Kerala's Covid-19 tally breached the 5,000 mark on Saturdaywith 240 fresh cases being reported, the highest single day surge so far. Of the positive cases, 152 had come from abroad and 52 from other states, Health minister K K Shailaja said in a press release here. With the addition of the fresh cases, the infection count has touched 5,204. According to the release, there have been 209recoveries today. About 1.77 lakh people are under observation in various districts. Malappuram reported 37 cases, Kannur 35, Palakkad 29, Pathnamthitta 22, Alappuzha and Thrissur 20 each, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam 16 each, Kasaragod 14, Ernakulam 13, Kozhikode eight, Kottayam six, and Idukki and Wayanad two each. The hotspots as of today have touched 135. In Malappuram, where over 36,000 people are under observation, the number of coronavirus cases have gone up to 278.Kannur has 246 cases and over 22,000 people are under observation. Police have registered 1099 cases today and arrested 1104 people for lockdown violations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-240-covid-19-cases-tally-breaches-5000-mark-857080.html
04-07-2020||South||On Guru Purnima eve, M Venkaiah Naidu expresses gratitude towards his gurus, including LK Advani||On the eve of 'Guru Purnima', Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday expressed gratitude towards his gurus, including BJP veteran L K Advani, in shaping his perspective and life. In a Facebook post, he recalled the mentoring and counselling received from 57 gurus including late Tenneti Viswanadham, a freedom fighter and a leading politician, during his early political life, and later by Advani. Naidu, who lost his mother when he was just 15 months old, described his grandparents as his first gurus and recalled by name another 55 teachers who influenced him during his school, college and university days. Underlining the role of gurus in the holistic development of shishyas (students), Naidu urged teachers to impart education with a personal touch in the era of technology. He stressed that teachers have an important role in nation building through moulding of well-rounded individuals imbibed with right kind of values and perspectives. The vice president stressed that the Internet can never be a substitute to the guru. “Internet may provide you with a world of information, but a teacher alone can instil the power of analysing and evaluating skills which are deemed as higher order skills, which help in navigating through difficult times," he said. Naidu recalled the inspiring saga of Guru-Shishya relationship between Ramakrishna Paramahamsa and Swami Vivekananda, who had different perspectives to begin with and how in due course Vivekananda came to attribute every bit of his being to the guru. Tracing the meaning of 'Guru' from Sanskrit roots as one who dispels darkness, Naidu wrote that “life without a guru is like a path without illumination." Naidu urged all to recall the contributions of their gurus at various stages of their lives and express gratitude for the same on the occasion of 'Guru Purnima' on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/on-guru-purnima-eve-m-venkaiah-naidu-expresses-gratitude-towards-his-gurus-including-lk-advani-857084.html
04-07-2020||South||A new Rs 200 crore Karnataka choultries complex in Tirumala soon||An agreement between the Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka governments has cleared the way for the construction of an expansive guest house in Tirumala for devotees from Karnataka. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams would build a modern pilgrim accommodation complex with amenities like a Kalyana Mandapam on a 7.5-acre plot at a cost of Rs 200 crore to be funded by the Karnataka government. On Friday, TTD Chairman YV Subba Reddy met Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa in Bangalore to resolve the long pending issue over the Karnataka choultries. “While constructions would be on five-acre extent, about two acres facing the back Mada (temple car) street would be left open or could be used for landscaping or parking like purposes. This space is to help evacuate devotees to safety in case of any contingency during mega events like the Brahmotsavams,” Reddy told DH. Located in a prime spot on the hill, at the backside of the Lord Venkateshwara temple, the Karnataka choultries is a landmark. But the old buildings are allegedly not being managed properly for some time. A plan to build a new complex has been stuck for many years because of legal hurdles, TTD officials said. “But the 15-year-old pending issue has now ended with the initiatives of our CM Jaganmohan Reddy and Karnataka CM. The Karnataka government would soon submit a building plan, according to their requirements, for the TTD Board approval. Thereafter, Karnataka would deposit Rs 200 crore with the TTD to take up the construction works,” Reddy said. During the coming Sravana maasam (August), Karnataka CM Yediyurappa will attend the foundation stone laying ceremony for which he would invite AP CM Reddy, TTD chairman said. The 7.5-acre land is on lease to Karnataka. “For transparency in allotting sites for the construction of rest houses in Tirumala, we will enable an online bidding process soon,” Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-new-rs-200-crore-karnataka-choultries-complex-in-tirumala-soon-857088.html
04-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami eases curbs in Chennai from July 6, extends restrictions in Madurai||After 17 days of intense lockdown in the state capital and suburban areas,Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday announced relaxations for Chennai while extending curbs for Madurai and nearby regions till July 12. Chennai, which is under tightened restrictions from June 19 to July 5 to help fight rising Covid-19 cases, would see easing of curbs from Monday. Effective July 6, vegetable shops and groceries could function from 6 am to 6 pm from the present 6 am to 2 pm in Chennai and suburban areas under the jurisdiction of Greater Chennai Police, Palaniswami said in a statement. Tea shops could resume functioning and operate from 6 am to 6 pm though only takeaway services would be permitted. Similarly, restaurants shall continue with takeaway services alone as is the norm now though they could now work till 9 pm from the present 2 pm. Barring malls, all kinds of showrooms and other businesses including textiles and jewellery can be back in business and work from 10 am to 6 pm, he said. The restrictions and relaxations applicable prior to June 19 shall come into force again, he said. Till June 18, businesses and commercial establishments were allowed to function by following safety measures including social distancing to help prevent spread of coronavirus. The intense lockdown clamped from June 24 in Madurai city and several nearby areas,including Paravai Town Panchayat and a number of village panchayats, would continue to be on till July 12, he said. Only essential services would be allowed to function in these regions and no kind of activities shall be permitted in containment zones, the chief minister added. Besides Chennai and Madurai, several relaxations as part of Unlock-2 are applicable in other parts of Tamil Nadu. Palaniswami appealed to the people to extend their cooperation for the government's efforts to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. Days ago, the government announced that there will be a complete shutdown on all the four Sundays in July throughout Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-eases-curbs-in-chennai-from-july-6-extends-restrictions-in-madurai-857092.html
04-07-2020||South||Police quiz Kerala NDA convener Tushar Vellappally||NDA convener in Kerala and BDJS state president Tushar Vellapally was quizzed by the police on Saturday in connection with the recent suicide of a local leader of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam (SNDP) at Alappuzha in Kerala. Tushar, who was NDA candidate against Congress leader Rahul Gandhu at Wayanad, and his father Vellappally Natesan, who is general secretary of SNDP, an outfit representing the prominent Hindu Ezhava community Kerala, faced allegation of abetting suicide of SNDP local leader K K Maheshan. Natesan was quizzed by the police on Friday. Some letters, purported to be suicide notes of Mahesan, said that he was being made scapegoat in an ongoing Crime Branch probe into a cheating case pertaining to a micro-finance scheme of the SNDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-quiz-kerala-nda-convener-tushar-vellappally-857108.html
04-07-2020||South||YSRCP Leader’s Murder Case: Arrests of two former TDP ministers within a month by Jagan's government; Chandrababu Naidu cries foul||The Andhra Pradesh Police on Saturday arrested TDP leader and former minister Kollu Ravindra in connection with the murder of YSRCP leader Moka Bhaskar Rao last month. According to M Ravindranath Babu, Krishna district Superintendent of Police, Kollu was part of a plan hatched by a few others to eliminate Rao, a close aide of YSRCP minister Perni Venkataramaiah. The murder took place at the Machilipatnam fish market on June 29. Five persons, including a local TDP leader Nanchariah, were arrested earlier in the case.   “Technical data (like phone calls), circumstantial evidence etc, shows Kollu’s involvement. When a police team went to serve notices yesterday, it was found that Kollu escaped, following which search parties were formed. He was finally detained near Tuni, along with a few associates. He was brought to Machilipatnam last night; the arrest was made today,” said Babu. Kollu, who was the backward class welfare minister, has been booked in the case registered under IPC sections including 302 (murder). This is the second arrest of a TDP minister from the previous Chandrababu Naidu regime, within a month’s time. On June 12, the Andhra Pradesh anti-corruption bureau arrested former minister and senior TDP leader Kinjarapu Atchannaidu for his alleged role in a multi-crore scam in procurement of medicines, surgical equipment for use in the ESI hospitals.  The scam took place when he was the labour and employment minister between 2014 and 2019. The swindled amount is about Rs 150 crore out of a total procurement allocation of Rs 988 crore. Three more former TDP ministers — Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, Nimmakayala Chinarajappa and Ch Ayyanna Patrudu — are facing the arrest threat in cases booked against them under the SC/ST (Atrocities Prevention) Act. Naidu cries foul TDP chief Naidu has accused Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy of resorting to “vengeful” arrests of party’s backward class leaders to damage the TDP. Backward class are considered TDP’s strong voter base. “These many atrocities of foisting false cases, arrests were not witnessed even during the emergency. The cases on Atchannaidu, Kollu, Yanamala, Ayyannapatrudu is proof of YSRCP’s retribution on the Backward Classes,” Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysrcp-leader-s-murder-case-arrests-of-two-former-tdp-ministers-within-a-month-by-jagans-government-chandrababu-naidu-cries-foul-857124.html
04-07-2020||South||Not enhancing pilgrim numbers as Covid-19 cases are surging, says TTD; 17 employees test positive till now||The Tirupati temple board has decided not to enhance the pilgrim footfalls in the Lord Venkateshwara temple till the end of July, as Covid-19 cases continue to surge in alarming numbers especially in the four southern states. On Saturday, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams board chairman YV Subba Reddy said that 17 TTD employees have tested positive till now. “However, none of the devotees has tested positive. But, as the Covid-19 cases are increasing across the country especially in states like neighboring Tamil Nadu, we are not enhancing the pilgrim numbers for darshan till July end,” Reddy said after an emergency, virtual meeting of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams board on Saturday. Pilgrims from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka form the vast majority of the devotees visiting the hill shrine. Stating that the 17 employees got affected by the virus in their respective places and not in Tirumala, Reddy said that they are applying more measures to arrest the virus spread. “In place of one-week shift, one-week break for the employees now, we are contemplating a two-week shift and two-week break to ensure safety. Every employee will be allowed to attend duties, only after the Coronavirus tests. The affected staff are being given the best treatment,” the chairman said.     The temple has resumed darshans for pilgrims from June 8, after a gap of about 80 days because of the government enforced lockdown to control the Covid-19 pandemic. Against the about 75,000 pilgrims having darshan daily before, TTD is now allowing 12,000 devotees per day, 9000 of them booking time slot darshans online. Darshans had resumed in June initially with 6000 pilgrims.   Devotees are following TTD’s Covid-19 guidelines with utmost discipline and are having hassle free darshan, the chairman said while reiterating his appeal to people to avoid pilgrimage if they are in Red or Containment Zones. The kalyanam is being telecasted live every day on SVBC. The priests will read out the Gotra namams of devotees who book the Kalyanotsavam tickets online. We are also planning to send prasadams through the postal department, Reddy said.  Kalyanakatta barbers are being provided with gloves, PPE kits; they have to change the hand gloves after tonsuring every pilgrim. Vahanam bearers should wear masks and gloves and vahanams will be sanitized at regular intervals. Similar measures are taken at prasadam centres and all local temples, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-enhancing-pilgrim-numbers-as-covid-19-cases-are-surging-says-ttd-17-employees-test-positive-till-now-857145.html
04-07-2020||South||Telangana has ramped up testing facilities, working on containment measures: Chief Secretary||Telangana has ramped up testing facilities and is taking other measures to check the spread of COVID-19, State Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said on Saturday. Kumar said this in a video conference held by Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba. "Chief Secretary Shri Somesh Kumar IAS, informed that the state has ramped up testing facilities and working on enforcing surveillance in containment zones after the visit of the central team to the state," an official release said here. It said issues pertaining to strict enforcement of lockdown measures in containment zones, increasing testing capacities and utilizing technology for tracing, testing and other measures were discussed in the video conference. The cabinet secretary underlined that the focus should be on keeping the number of deaths as low as possible, among others, according to therelease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-has-ramped-up-testing-facilities-working-on-containment-measures-chief-secretary-857182.html
04-07-2020||State||Mysuru's K G Koppal sealed as resident tests Covid-19 positive||The authorities of Mysuru City Corporation sealed  K G Koppal Main Road after a resident tested positive on Saturday The person had arrived at his house in K G Koppal from Hyderabad. All shops were closed and the workers were sanitising the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysurus-k-g-koppal-sealed-as-resident-tests-covid-19-positive-856965.html
04-07-2020||State||KIMS staffer tests Covid-19 positive; blames faulty PPE kits, shortage of N-95 masks||The Karnataka Medical Association on Facebook wrote, "Amulya C Gowda is a frontline worker who risks her life every single day. Last week she raised an alarm about faulty PPE kits and shortage of N-95 masks. But the Administrative Medical Officer (AMO) at KIMS, shunned and chastised her for raising this issue. Ever since, she has been buying her own N-95 masks. Today, she tested positive for Covid-19 and appealed to the Hospital authorities and raised her genuine concerns over the faulty protective gear, but she was again harassed and humiliated for raising the issue."    Dr DH Ashwath Narayana, Medical Superintendent, KIMS Hospital, said that all PPE kits at KIMS were certified by SITRA (South India Textiles Research Association), Coimbatore and that they had purchased N-95 masks available in the market. "One cannot claim faulty PPEs are the reason for testing positive. We have purchased whatever PPE kits are available in the market. Healthcare workers across hospitals, private and government, and policemen are also getting infected." As the new rules by the state government allow healthcare workers home isolation, Narayana said the doctor is recuperating at home and that she is doing fine. Medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted, "Doctors are our frontline warriors battling the pandemic. Government has taken all necessary measures to ensure safety of our doctors. I have taken note of supply of defective masks and PPE kits to KIMS doctors and ordered an enquiry. Management will be held responsible if found guilty." Narayana, however, told DH that nobody had contacted him or the KIMS management so far. "We are open to scrutiny," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kims-staffer-tests-covid-19-positive-blames-faulty-ppe-kits-shortage-of-n-95-masks-856984.html
04-07-2020||State||Karnataka Govt issues official guidelines on home isolation for Covid-19 positive patients||Karnataka Government finally issues official circular/guidelines for home isolation of Covid-19 positive patients. Only those who are asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic shall be allowed to be in isolation at home. The government has tweaked age criteria from less than 50 to less than 60 years. Now anybody who is not a senior citizen can be home quarantined if positive for Covid-19    More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-issues-official-guidelines-on-home-isolation-for-covid-19-positive-patients-857076.html
04-07-2020||State||Deficit rains in M-K region in June 2nd half||After the 'Nisarga' cyclone, which strengthened pre-monsoon showers and brought early monsoon-like situation at the end of May and initial days of June, it is now showing a negative impact in several parts of the State, especially to some districts in Mumbai-Karnataka region, as monsoon has become little weak since over two weeks as sea temperature has come down after the cyclone. According to experts, monsoon started losing its strength from June 10 itself, and only scattered rainfall especially in North Karnataka region was received till the end of June. Farmers who enthusiastically started sowing when good rains came, are now waiting for further rains for the seedlings to grow well. In entire North Karnataka region, which also includes Kalyana-Karnataka, maximum deficit rainfall is in Haveri district with 14% less rainfall compared to the normal rainfall in June, followed by Gadag (9% less), and Dharwad and Uttara Kannada (7% less), which are in Mumbai-Karnataka region. The Agriculture Department officials say that prevailing cloudy weather and occasional drizzling would not dry up moisture, and seedlings would not be affected much. Less in M-K region According to data from June 1 to 30, by the Agricultural Meteorological Department of Dharwad-based University of Agriculture Sciences (UAS) which is associated with Indian Meteorological Department, rainfall in June is excess in all the districts of Kalyana-Karnataka region, but not in many districts of Mumbai-Karnataka region. "Only Belagavi (10% excess), Bagalkot (33% excess), and Vijayapur (34% excess) had more rainfall than the normal. Coastal, Western Ghats, and Malnad regions are getting sporadic light to moderate rains, said department Head R H Patil. "The second half of June witnessed poor monsoon in the region than expected, but was excess earlier. For next couple of days also, scattered light rainfall is expected in interior region. We can expect better rainfall later in July," he added. Deficit in Dharwad district For Dharwad district, June month as a whole has brought deficit rainfall, though nearly 75% of sowing was completed due to initial good rains. As per the Agriculture Department, Dharwad taluk received 10 mm less rainfall than the normal in the month of June, while this deficit is 28 mm in Hubballi Rural taluk, 10 mm in Hubballi Urban taluk, 22 mm in Kalghatagi taluk, 2 mm in Kundgol taluk, 5 mm in Navalgund taluk, 131 mm in Alnavar taluk, and 13 mm deficit in Annigeri taluk.  Out of 2.46 lakh hectare of targetted sowing area in the district, sowing has taken place in 1.82 lakh hectare. Minimum sowing has taken place in paddy crop (50% less), followed by groundnut (46.3% less), cotton (40.4% less), soybean (12.2% less), and maize (10.8% less), at present. Greengram, a short-term crop, is grown in more land in district i.e, 53,000 hectare, and the sowing so far has been completed in 43,000 hectares (18.8% less). "Sowing of some crops like cotton, maize, and groundnut can be done till July 15 also," said Agriculture Joint Director Rajashekhar Bijapur. Fortunately, rainfall is improving in the initial days of July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/deficit-rains-in-m-k-region-in-june-2nd-half-857120.html
04-07-2020||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa re-allocates Covid-19 related work to Ministers||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday re-allocated Covid-19 related responsibilities to his cabinet colleagues for better management of the pandemic in the state. At the Covid-19 task force meeting chaired by him, the Chief Minister ordered stringent sealing measures at areas of Bengaluru that have reported more number of positive cases, as several Ministers expressed opposition to re- imposition of lockdown for now. "We are working as a team and we have to work like that. We have a Covid-19 task force committee, along with that Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Chief Minister's Political Secretary S R Vishwanath have been given the responsibility of ensuring availability of beds at private hospitals," Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, he said, "While Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan has been given the responsibility of Covid-19 care centres and has been asked to increase their numbers; I have been directed to take care of policy-making, guidelines, war rooms and the responsibility of briefing the media regarding the virus- related matters." The task force committee consists of Health Minister Sriramulu, Home Minister S R Bommai, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Minister Sudhakar besides the Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar. Stating that there was also discussion about the lockdown at the task force meeting, Sudhakar said, "A few of us (him, Narayan and a few officials) suggested that it was not a permanent solution and for no cost it should be implemented." He said the Chief Minister has directed that areas that have more number of cases in Bengaluru have to be sealed to control the spread, and also sought to ensure more tests to those in market areas, street vendors among others. As lockdown on Sundays has been announced by the Chief Minister, it will continue, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-re-allocates-covid-19-related-work-to-ministers-857146.html
04-07-2020||State||Now dial 1912 anytime of the day if a hospital denies bed||Karnataka Government got into damage-control mode after Covid patients died in Bengaluru while waiting for ambulances. Now, one needs to dial 108 for ambulance and 1912 if admission is denied by a hospital.After bitter backlash by the people, the state also brought about a mechanism to shift patients and inform them about bed allocation. As the number of cases in and around the city rises, shifting of Covid-19 positive cases, serious Covid suspects who have given their swabs but are awaiting results and SARI cases to appropriate medical facilities and ensuring that they are admitted and treated properly is of paramount importance.There should not be any more unfortunate cases of denial of treatment. 108-Arogya Kavacha is responsible for shifting patients in distress. This will include shifting to Covid Care Centers (CCC) and hospitals (except shifting between two private facilities). They are also responsible for receiving distress calls with respect to Covid or SARI (breathlessness).The Covid positive patient or Covid suspect should be shifted (using sample referral form (SRF) lD, provided by ICMR) in consultation with BBMP's bed allocation team. The 108 ambulance should shift such patients using an Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulance with adequate manpower and personal protective equipment.However if the patient is breathless (may be due to Covid or due to other conditions like COPD, asthma, ILI etc) and has not undergone Covid test, he/she should be immediately shifted to a Covid-19 hospital assuming that it can be a Covid-19 case. The patient shall be admitted in the hospital and treated. As per testing protocol forCovid-19, compulsory Covid tests should be done on such patients. After the test, if patients turn out Covid positive, he/she should be shifted from isolation to Covid-section and treated as per Covid treatment protocol. However, if such a patient is Covid-negative, then from the isolation ward, he/she should be shifted to non-Covid section and treated accordingly. The cost of medical treatment for non- COVID patients will be according toAyushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka scheme, other insurance schemes, cash etc.It is likely that a Covid-19 patient who is asymptomatic with no underlying medical condition calls 108. All such calls can be transferred to BBMP's bed allocation team for necessary transportation and bed allocation. The 24/7 toll free call centre -- 1912 should receive grievances related to denial of admission in hospitals/Covid Care Centres for Covid-19 patients or SARI patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-dial-1912-anytime-of-the-day-if-a-hospital-denies-bed-857156.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka task force to set up booth-level committees||Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the city, the Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force has decided to set up booth-level committees across the state including 8,800 here for effective monitoring and surveillance. The task force also released detailed guidelines for home isolation for asymptomatic cases including 17 days 'home isolation' for patients below 50 years of age. It also warned legal action against those health workers for disrespect to the bodies. Briefing reporters after the meeting on Friday, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the local management will be strengthened for effective monitoring and surveillance of Covid-19 cases. "There will be booth-level task force committees throughout the state right from the village to Bengaluru. These task force committees will act at the ultra-local level. The task force will act as a structural and functional unit of Covid-19 dealing with monitoring, surveillance, checking of all the ILI cases, ambulances and hospitals," he added. He also said the committees will comprise one member each from the health department, police department, municipalities or Panchayat, volunteers, valveman. The committee will have five to six members. The principal secretary in the Village Development and Panchayat Raj department L K Ateeq has been appointed as the nodal officer to manage the task force in the rural areas whereas in the urban areas, the Urban Development secretary, the municipal administration directors and the municipal commissioner will form the local task force. "In Bengaluru alone 8,800 teams will be formed, which will be coterminous with the 8,800 booths in the city. They will provide real-time data. They will be imparted training," the minister added. Noting that there were about 8,800 electoral booths in Bengaluru city and each booth will have a task force committee, he said a nodal officer has been appointed to oversee this. The state level task force also came out with a slew of conditions.   As far as home isolation is concerned, it would apply for patients who are below 50 years and have no symptoms of any other disease, and their homes should have a toilet and have an attendant. He also said home isolation duration has been increased from 14 to 17 days. "People should not get fever in the next three days after completing 14 days, else they will be quarantined for another seven days. If they don't get fever then they will be freed to perform their personal activities," Sudhakar said. Those who are above 50 years and have comorbidities, will be treated at the Covid care centres only and they will be under medical supervision and be subjected to regular tests. The state is also making arrangements for telecommunication for those who are asymptomatic but wish to speak to a doctor. It was also decided to have at least two ambulances in each of the 198 wards of Bengaluru. The minister said the additional commissioner of police (traffic) will be the nodal officer to coordinate the movement of ambulances. The task force has also appointed a nodal officer to manage the hospitals based on the availability of beds and ventilators. The officer will provide real-time information about beds. "We want to make sure that no one has to run from one hospital to another," Sudhakar said. On the cremation of the bodies, Sudhakar said guidelines have been issued on how to handle bodies at mortuaries, taking them in the ambulances, human treatment to the deceased while performing the last rites and fumigation of the bed. "Legal action will be taken against those who treat bodies in an inhuman way," Sudhakar said.  The state-level task force has also decided to arrange for test reports within 24 hours. It has also been decided to increase the testing capacity from the existing 15,000 a day to 25,000. In view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases, the task force also recommended antigen tests in crowded areas to check whether there was community spread. To a question on closing down the border, the minister said there is no question of lockdown. "We cannot hide from this disease. It is not a solution. We have to live with it now, yet maintain a distance from it," he added. Sudhakar, who is a doctor himself, said Covid-19 is not as deadly a virus as those he had seen in the past and asked people not to be scared of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-task-force-to-set-up-booth-level-committees-856935.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three more succumb to Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada||Three more Covid-19 fatalities were recorded in Dakshina Kannada, thus taking the tally to 22. A retired teacher from Sullia, who was suffering breathlessness died en route to the hospital. The throat swab collected from her tested positive for Covid-19. A 65-year-old woman from Kuloor and a 67-year-old man from Kodikkal in Mangaluru too were suffering from breathlessness and died en route to the hospital. The throat swab samples of both the patients tested positive for Covid-19, said sources in district administration. “All three died en route to the hospital for treatment. The throat swabs of all three tested positive. The last rites will be performed as per the guidelines of the government,” said DC Sindhu B Rupesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-dakshina-kannada-856986.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rains continue to lash Dakshina Kannada||Heavy intermittent rain continued to lash across Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday (July 4). Owing to lack of stormwater drains, waterlogging of the roads inconvenienced the motorists at KS Rao Road, Pumpwell, Bejai, and other areas. The water -level in River Nethravathi, Phalguni, and Kumaradhara too has increased. With the increase in the inflow of water in the Phalguni river, Maravoor vented dam is full and water is released into the river. The district administration has warned the people living on the banks of the river to remain cautious. The Met department sounded a warning for fishermen not to venture into the sea observing that strong winds with speed reaching 50-60 kmph are likely to prevail over Southwest and West Central Arabian sea till July 5. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) forecast high waves in the range of 1.5-3.4 meters on Saturday along the coast of Karnataka from Mangaluru to Karwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rains-continue-to-lash-dakshina-kannada-856997.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to build Rs 200 crore pilgrim complexes at Tirumala||The Karnataka government will soon build a massive pilgrim amenities complex and marriage hall at Tirumala, the hill abode of Lord Venkateswara, at an estimated cost of Rs 200 crore, a temple official said here on Saturday. The state would soon submit a blueprint for the construction of the Rs 200 crore mega complexes to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that governs the hill shrine, the official told PTI. Consequently, based on the designs, TTD would construct the complexes with the given fund and after completion, they would be handed over to the Karnataka government, he said. Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa would lay the foundation stone for the mammoth complexes on the hills sometime next month, he said Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is likely to take part in the programme, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-build-rs-200-crore-pilgrim-complexes-at-tirumala-857077.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Check for primary contacts who attended SSLC exam: Siddaramaiah||While the government is celebrating the conclusion of the Class 10 SSLC exams, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday raised concerns over possible infection among the lakhs of students who attended the exams.  Over 7.5 lakh students wrote the SSLC exams that ended Friday.  “(Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa) seems to be motivated & overconfident to conduct more exams after 'assuming' that SSLC exams were conducted safely. I, too, hope that everybody are safe. But we will have to wait for 15 days to know the exact outcome (sic),” Siddaramaiah said in a tweet.  “My strong suggestion to the government is to collect data from all Covid-19 positive patients...between 15th June to 20th July to check if any of their primary contacts wrote SSLC exams,” he said. “This will help the government to evaluate if at all exams can be conducted safely," he added. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader HK Patil came down heavily on the BJP government over its Covid-19 management, and demanded an all-party meeting. “There’s a shortage of nurses, doctors and health workers. You’re asking people not to come to hospitals saying there are no beds. You’re asking people to stay home,” Patil said, urging the government to take up “emergency special recruitment” of nurses, health workers, doctors and pourakarmikas.  He also hit out at the government over the shortage of ambulances. “People are having to wait 12-24 hours for an ambulance. Why can’t the government make use of public buses that are lying idle,” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/check-for-primary-contacts-who-attended-sslc-exam-siddaramaiah-857105.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||14 potential routes in state for pvt players to ply trains||Having started the process of allowing private players to operate passengers trains in its network, by inviting Request for Qualification (RFP), the Indian Railways has identified 14 potential routes in Karnataka.  Bengaluru-Patna ( 5 days a week), Bengaluru-Gorakhpur (Bi-Weekly), Bengaluru-Prayagraj (Bi-Weekly), Bengaluru-Visakhapatnam (Tri-Weekly), Bengaluru-Jaipur (Weekly), Chennai-Mangaluru (Weekly), Guwahati-Bengaluru (Tri-Weekly), Mysuru-Guwahati (Tri-Weekly), Mysuru-Bhubaneshwar (Daily), Bengaluru-Delhi (Daily), Bengaluru-Howrah (Daily), Ranchi-Bengaluru (Bi-Weekly), Kalaburagi-Mumbai (6 days a week), Mangaluru-Mysuru (6 days a week) are the routes identified in the state. Private players can bid to operate trains on 109 pairs of routes across the country, through the introduction of 151 modern trains. Out of 106 pairs of routes, the railways identified 14 routes connecting major cities in Karnataka to other places where demand for passengers trains is high. These trains will be in addition to existing ones on these routes, said an official in the railways. Earlier, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said the private operators are allowed to bring their own train sets and maintain by them. Private train operations are likely to begin by April 2023. All coaches will be procured under Make in India policy. The concession period for the project will be 35 years and the private entity is responsible for financing, procuring, operation and maintenance of the trains.  The trains are to be designed for a maximum speed of 160 kmph. The private companies, which bag the tender to operate the trains, have to pay lease charges and haulage charges (or freight charges for using infrastructure) to Indian Railways. Apart from fixing fare, the private companies have to provide services like catering, cleaning and supply of blankets to passengers. Fares in private trains will be competitive and prices on other modes of transport like airlines, buses will be kept in mind. With several companies including Indigo, Vistara, SpiceJet, RK Catering and MakeMyTrip showing interest to participate in operating private trains, the ministry is keen on starting the project soon. During pre-lockdown period, IRCTC, a catering and ticketing arm of railways operated three trains: New Delhi-Lucknow, Mumbai -Ahmedabad and Ujjain-Varanasi. Since all the three trains operated successfully with occupancy more than 70 %, the railways plans to hand over some routes to private companies, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/14-potential-routes-in-state-for-pvt-players-to-ply-trains-857132.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Countdown for CET begins as KEA remains headless||The countdown for Common Entrance Test (CET) 2020 has begun, even as the Union Ministry for Human Resource Development (HRD) has postponed National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE). Meanwhile, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA), which has remained headless, is yet to take a decision. Considering the spike in Covid-19 cases across the nation the MHRD postponed NEET and JEE and announced fresh dates for the tests. The CET is scheduled for July 30 and 31. However, the Authority is not in a position to arrive at a decision as the state government recently transferred its executive director, who was an IAS officer. In addition, the director of pre-university education for whom the concurrent charge was given, is yet to assume office. Sources said that as the director was busy with preparing PU results and had refused to take charge of the KEA. “The director has communicated to the government saying that she cannot take charge as she was busy with evaluation work and results preparations,” said a source close to PUE director. M Kanagavalli, Director, PUE department, refused to comment on the issue. Meanwhile, the officer had already been relieved and the post is lying vacant. Meanwhile, the students who have enrolled for CET-2020 are in a confusion. With the deferring of NEET and JEE, they are approaching the Authority seeking clarity about test dates. The CET has already been deferred once in the wake of nationwide lockdown. Sources in the higher education department said discussions were going on at the government level to postpone test. “Looking at the current scenario, it is suggested to postpone the CET dates and discussions are in progress,” said a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/countdown-for-cet-begins-as-kea-remains-headless-857133.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC declares 2k acres of land in 3 Mysuru villages as pvt property||The Karnataka High Court has ruled that around 2,000 acres of land in three villages in Mysuru are private properties. The High Court set aside the orders of the then Mysuru deputy commissioner that declared the land in three villages -- Kurubarahalli, Alanahalli and Chowdanahalli - as ‘B’ kharab government land. The court held that the power to adjudicate the title over a property is the sole domain of courts. The bench stated that though the Karnataka Land Revenue Act traces its source of power to the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, it does not confer powers relating to adjudication of the title disputes. After a detailed hearing on the petitions filed by various land owners, Justice S Sunil Dutt Yadav passed the order directing the authorities to delete the entry of 'B' kharab wherever found in the revenue records of the respective land owners. Background: Three deputy commissioners of Mysore from 2011 to 2015 had passed separate orders pertaining to the lands in Kurubarahalli, Alanahalli and Chowdanahalli villages in Mysuru. The first order was passed in 2011 by the then DC Harsha Gupta declaring the lands as 'B' kharab. The next year his successor P S Vastrad reversed the order but classified the land as 'A' kharab. However, Vastrad later withdrew his own order. In 2015, the then DC C Shikha passed a fresh order declaring the entire extent of land as 'B' kharab. The owners of the land, including Pramoda Devi Wodeyar, wife of Srikanta Datta Narasimharaja Wodeyar, moved the High Court challenging the order of the deputy commissioner. All the petitioners traced their title to the Maharaja of Mysore through registered deeds of conveyance. The petitioners relied upon the Instrument of Accession entered into between the Maharaja of Mysore and the Dominion of India. The subsequent agreement entered into between the Governor General of India and the Maharaja of Mysore in 1950 had the list of immovable properties held by the latter. The petitioners contended that the lands classified as 'B' kharab government lands by the deputy commissioner in 2015 were the very lands held by the Maharaja of Mysore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-declares-2k-acres-of-land-in-3-mysuru-villages-as-pvt-property-857134.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid deaths went up by 58 in just 16 days in Kalyana Karataka region||The Kalyana Karnataka region, with six districts, stands second in the state in Covid-19 deaths, after Bengaluru.  Co-morbid conditions, late reporting to the hospital, concealing travel history and easing of lockdown are leading to a steady spike in deaths here. Covid deaths which were just 26 in the six districts zoomed up to 84 in just 16 days (from June 18 to July 3). Ballari Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul told DH that co-morbid conditions like kidney failure, brain tumour, bypass surgery and others are the main causes for Covid deaths in the district so far. A majority of fatalities are reported from Ballari and Sandur taluks of the district. House-to-house survey is being conducted by Asha workers, using oximeters and thermometers in Sandur, to check the spread of the virus. Kalaburagi deputy commissioner B Sharat said the people are neither revealing their travel history nor are visiting fever clinics on their own for check-up if they develop mild symptoms like fever, cold or cough. They report to the hospital at the eleventh hour, making their survival difficult, despite best efforts by the doctors. After the lockdown relaxations, people are behaving irresponsibly without maintaining social distancing and wearing mask. They are roaming around carelessly. Elders with co-morbidities who stay indoors are catching infections due to the irresponsible family members, he explained.  In a few deaths reported in Kalaburagi district, the patients have neither travel history nor have come in contact with infected persons. Their family members spread the virus to them. The people should be extra cautious, if they have elders at home. They should wear masks and face shields to protect family members, the DC said. The three deaths reported from Bidar district occurred due to heart attack as Covid causes blood clot and oxygen saturates fast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-deaths-went-up-by-58-in-just-16-days-in-kalyana-karataka-region-857135.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Plaint against newlywed man for violating Covid rules||The Bagalkot district administration has lodged a police complaint against a newlywed man and his family from Kaladagi for violating the Covid-19 rules during the wedding and reception held on June 12. According to the complaint lodged with Kaladagi police, the groom, an Excise department staffer in Haveri, had tested positive for novel coronavirus on June 17. Subsequently, more than 30 people, who attended the wedding in Bagalkot and reception in Kaladagi, contracted the virus. The complaint stated, more than the stipulated 50 guests attended both the functions. Hence, a complaint was lodged against the groom and his family under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act-2005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/plaint-against-newlywed-man-for-violating-covid-rules-857136.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Govt ready to issue White Paper on Covid purchases'||The state government is prepared to bring out a White Paper on the purchase of equipment for Covid-19 treatment, Health Minister B Sriramulu has said. Reacting to the allegations made by Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah about misuse of funds in the purchases, Sriramulu said that the government had maintained account for every purchase and the charges were baseless. "Siddaramaiah has served as chief minister and he has vast political experience. It is unbecoming of such a leader to level frivolous charges," Srira mulu said. He added that that government was prepared for a probe by any agency in this regard. Sriramulu said that Congress workers had not involved themselves in any activity relating to Covid-19 containment and the party was making allegations for the sake of publicity. Replying to a question, the minister said that there was no plan to enforce a statewide lockdown again. "Instead, we are thinking of lockdown in hot spots."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-ready-to-issue-white-paper-on-covid-purchases-857137.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Check for primary contacts who wrote SSLC exam: Siddaramaiah||While the government is celebrating the conclusion of the Class 10 SSLC exams, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday raised concerns over possible contagion among the lakhs of students who wrote them.  Over 7.5 lakh students wrote the SSLC exams that ended Friday.  “(Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa) seems to be motivated & overconfident to conduct more exams after ‘assuming’ that SSLC exams were conducted safely. I, too, hope that everybody are safe. But we will have to wait for 15 days to know the exact outcome (sic),” Siddaramaiah said in a tweet.  “My strong suggestion to the government is to collect data from all Covid-19 positive patients...between 15th June to 20th July to check if any of their primary contacts wrote SSLC exams,” he said. “This will help the government to evaluate if at all exams can be conducted safely.” Meanwhile, senior Congress leader H K Patil came down heavily on the BJP government over its Covid-19 management, and demanded an all-party meeting. “There’s a shortage of nurses, doctors and health workers. You are asking people not to come to hospitals saying there are no beds,” Patil said, urging the government to take up “emergency special recruitment” of nurses, health workers, doctors and pourakarmikas.  He also hit out at the government over the shortage of ambulances. “People are waiting 12-24 hours for an ambulance. Why can’t the government make use of public buses that are lying idle,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/check-for-primary-contacts-who-wrote-sslc-exam-siddaramaiah-857138.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC cancels earned leave encashment facility||The financial difficulties exacerbated by the raging pandemic has forced KSRTC to cancel the scheme to encash the earned leave. In a communication to its employees, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) invoked the provision of the May 5 Government Order to cancel the encashment of leave. "Due to Covid-19, the Corporation is facing serious financial constraints," a circular from the managing director said, but noted that the employees retiring between April 2020 and March 2021 are eligible to encash their leave during the month of their retirement. Even before the Covid crisis, the KSRTC and other state transport service providers had been facing financial difficulties due to the rise in fuel prices. After the lockdown halted the revenue generation, the state government had to provide grants to the Corporations to pay the salaries of employees. With pressure mounting to keep its revenue flowing amid pandemic, the Corporation has tightened its purse strings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-cancels-earned-leave-encashment-facility-857144.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||A new Rs 200-cr K'taka complex in Tirumala soon||An agreement between the Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka governments has cleared the way for the construction of an expansive guesthouse in Tirumala for the devotees from Karnataka. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams would build a modern pilgrim accommodation complex with amenities like a Kalyana Mantapam on a 7.5-acre plot at a cost of Rs 200 crore to be funded by the Karnataka government. On Friday, TTD Chairman Y V Subba Reddy met Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in Bengaluru to resolve the long pending-issue over the Karnataka choultries. “While constructions would be on five-acre extent, about two acres facing the back Mada (temple car) street would be left open or could be used for landscaping or parking like purposes. This space is to help evacuate devotees to safety in case of any contingency during mega events like the Brahmotsavams,” Reddy told DH. Located at a prime spot on the hill -  backside of the Lord Venkateshwara temple - the Karnataka choultries is a landmark. But the old buildings are allegedly not being managed properly for some time. A plan to build a new complex has been stuck for many years because of legal hurdles, TTD officials said. “But the issue pending for 15 years has now ended with the initiatives of our CM Jaganmohan Reddy and Karnataka CM. The Karnataka government would soon submit a building plan, according to their requirements, for the approval of TTD Board. Thereafter, Karnataka would deposit Rs 200 crore with the TTD to take up the construction,” Reddy said. During the coming Sravana maasam (August), Chief Minister Yediyurappa will attend the foundation stone laying ceremony for which he would invite Andhra Pradesh chief minister, the TTD chairman said. The 7.5-acre land is on lease to Karnataka. “For transparency in allotting sites for the construction of rest houses in Tirumala, we will enable an online bidding process soon,” Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/a-new-rs-200-cr-ktaka-complex-in-tirumala-soon-857147.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Top firms show interest in govt's virtual job fair||The virtual job fair to be organised by the state government has attracted top employers.  Firms such as Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), Barbeque Nation, Arvind Mills, Sivayu Aerospace, electronic device manufacturer UMLAUT are among the participants. The list of companies include food chain groups, e-commerce giants and health care companies, officials in Karnataka Skill Development Corporation (KSDC) said. There were about 2,000 job applicants already and the number was likely to increase over the week. A significant number of jobs available include sales, construction and hospitality sector. Job-seekers include those who have recently graduated and those with prior work experience, officials added. Speaking to DH, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also the Skill Development Minister, said the government hoped this job fair would help both job-seekers and the companies to restart the economy slowed down by the pandemic. “We are happy to notice that Skill Connect is attracting many corporates across sectors to post their requirement. Job-seekers are requested to register and apply.” The virtual interviews will be conducted on an in-house platform developed by the KSDC. On Friday, KDSC held a webinar with some of the companies interested in participating in the job fair, apprising them of the process. KSDC Managing Director Ashwin Gowda said while the corporation had conducted several job fairs earlier, this is the first time they were conducting a virtual job fair.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/top-firms-show-interest-in-govts-virtual-job-fair-857149.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ex-MLC Puttanna contracts virus; infections swell in districts||Former Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Puttanna on Saturday became the second high-profile politician from the state to contract novel coronavirus. On Thursday, Mangalore North MLA Y Bharath Shetty had tested positive for Covid-19. Puttanna, whose term ended on June 21, 2020, took to Facebook to confirm that he has tested positive for the virus. “I had fever and hence got tested for Covid-19 on Thursday. My report came back positive on Friday. I am undergoing treatment at a hospital. With God’s grace and your wishes, I am confident that I will recover soon...,” Puttanna,  wrote on his Facebook page. Magadi MLA A Manjunath can breathe easy as his throat swab sample has returned negative for Covid-19. He went into self-quarantine three days back after his personal assistant tested positive. Meanwhile, Ballari continued to remain the worst-hit district after Bengaluru Urban.  The district reported 50 fresh infections in the last 24 hours. Saturday’s cases took the Ballari’s Covid tally to 1,168. Of which, the Toranagallu-based Jindal steel plant (JSW) cluster alone has accounted for more than 400 cases. A health department staff was among those tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Virus hits VIMS staff The designated Covid hospital, Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), was sanitised on Saturday after as many as 19 medical and health staff, including doctors, staff nurse, lab technicians and PG medical students, tested positive for the virus in the last four days.More than 20 VIMS staff have been placed under quarantine. Dakshina Kannada saw yet another spike in infections with 75 cases on Saturday.  Among the new cases are a newborn (10-day-old) and an 86-year-old man. A total of 29 people with influenza-like illness, 11 foreign returnees, six SARI patients and 24 contacts of the Covid-19 patients among others have tested positive for the virus, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Roopesh told reporters. Covid warriors face heat The number of corona warriors catching the infection is increasing with each passing day. A doctor with the community healthcare centre (CHC) at Nidagundi in Vijayapura tested positive for the virus on Saturday. Tahsildar Shivalinga Prabhu has ordered to seal down the CHC. Basavana Bagewadi and Kudgi police stations in the district were sealed after a cop each tested positive for Covid-19. The policemen were deputed for Covid-19 duty at the containment zone and the designated hospital, SP Anupam Agarwal told reporters. Five civic workers of KR Pet TMC were among the 35 fresh infections reported from Mandya district on Saturday. Meanwhile, the death of a 32-year-old man, a bakery owner in Holenarasipura has sparked concern among the Hassan district administration. The baker was shifted to the government hospital after he collapsed at his house on Friday night. He died a while later and tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. A policeman from Channarayapatna, and two KSRTC conductors from Hassan and Arasikere depots also tested positive for Covid-19. On Saturday, as many as 19 districts reported infections in double digits with 14 of them recording more than 25 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ex-mlc-puttanna-contracts-virus-infections-swell-in-districts-857150.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt banks on community involvement to fight pandemic||The state government has formed a dedicated group of officers to involve citizens in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, especially in the urban areas.  Senior IAS officer L K Atheeq has been made the head of the committee responsible for community involvement.  “The idea is to involve community-level monitoring of Covid-19, guiding patients to basic healthcare, taking them to fever clinics, home quarantine, hospitalization of symptomatic and serious cases, general outreach,” Atheeq said.  Atheeq will have two IAS officers - C Shikha and B B Cauvery - and IPS officer P S Harsha in the committee.  “More importantly, we want to monitor the ILI and SARI cases,” Atheeq said.  The committee will ensure there is one task force in every ward. “As per law, there are already ward committees, but their performance is sketchy. We will activate them and train them using online courses,” Atheeq said.  Also, booth-level committees will be set up as part of the fight against the pandemic. “There are over 60,000 booths in the state, with over 8,000 in Bengaluru. We want to have booth-level committees because one ward has a population of 45,000 with around 10,000 households. One committee can’t possibly cover them,” he explained. One booth will have some 400 houses. The booth-level officers appointed by the Election Commission will be activated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-banks-on-community-involvement-to-fight-pandemic-857151.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Won't rest till virus is vanquished, say Victoria's waste-handling staff||The Covid-19 wards in Victoria Hospital are high-strung and engulfed in a flurry of activity. The hospital has changed so much in a span of four months. One of the most visible changes for Infection Control Nurse A H Saraswathy is that her colleagues now don personal protective equipment (PPE). The wards are full of anxious patients, but Saraswathy sister, as she is affectionately known, has a singular focus.  She is in charge of collecting, handling biomedical waste, including the material that has come in contact with Covid-19 patients. She also tracks the movements of doctors and healthcare workers who treat infected patients and makes sure that each surface is disinfected after they leave. “When people think of a nurse, they do not often think about this work, but preventing further infection is an integral part of the recovery process even in non-Covid times,” she says.  When Covid-19 cases started in the city in the beginning of March, Saraswathy knew it was only a matter of time before there would be an explosion in the number of cases. As the number started to balloon, wary of the close contact with Covid-19 patients, her two daughters, one an MBA graduate and another a BBA student, urged her to avail of leave. Saraswathy says the oath that she took rings in her ears. “We took an oath to serve, protect and help when we can. Now is the time that the city needs us,” she says. But then she pauses and in a moment of vulnerability admits, “even I have my anxieties, I live with my family. It is scary, but I have a responsibility”. She takes every precaution possible. As soon as she reaches home, she changes out of her clothes and heads for a bath and isolates herself in a room.  Besides, she assures, with 23 years of nursing experience under her belt, and having confronted other outbreaks in the past, she feels  handling Covid-19 is not out of her reach.  Saraswathy works with a team of six. Each ward has separate colour-coded bins for general, food, PPE, syringe, vials. These are carried in closed trolleys by the housekeeping staff. The team was aware of the 2016 general disposal protocol, so it was not difficult for Saraswathy to train them to deal with Covid-19 waste. Members of the housekeeping staff, like Ravikumar, who predominantly handle segregation, packing and handing over colour-coded bags of waste to a biomedical waste agency that ensures its safe disposal, are given two sets of gloves. For the 36-year-old, Covid-19 feels like any other illness. “I have been doing this job for two years, this does not feel strange,” he says with resolve. Ravikumar does not feel scared, he is happy with the knowledge that his work is contributing to keeping people safe, “but I get a little sad when people who have known me for years avoid me.”  He particularly admires Saraswathy sister for her unending support for her team. “Even in her busy schedule, she calls up everyone to check if we’ve eaten and if we are wearing our gear properly,” he smiles.  “In fearful situations like this, it is important to keep your peers happy, they should feel supported,” Saraswathy says. Two of her colleagues tested positive this month for the virus, “they were anxious, but we keep in constant communication with them, sending them positive WhatsApp messages and listening to them,” she says. As cases continue to pour in, Saraswathy says, “This is our agnipariksha (trial by fire), and we will not give up until the city, the state and the country are Corona free.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wont-rest-till-virus-is-vanquished-say-victorias-waste-handling-staff-857152.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru-based PG med student is Assam's 1st plasma donor||A 26-year-old doctor from Mysuru won many hearts in Assam after he became the first person in the state to donate plasma, on Friday, for treating Covid patients. Lithikesh D S, who is doing his third year post graduation in medicine in Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), turned up to donate his plasma two weeks after recovering from Covid -19. He had tested positive at GMCH on May 7. “I said yes as soon as our pathology department contacted me for plasma through my professor. After all, plasma can save someone’s life,” Lithikesh told DH.  The Assam health department on Friday opened its first plasma bank at GMCH. Plasma therapy involves transfusion of plasma from a convalescent patient to a critical patient. This comes when Assam, particularly the capital city Guwahati is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. “By donating plasma, you may be saving the life of someone’s mother, sister, father, husband, wife or the only earning member of a family. So, if you are a recovered patient, please come forward to donate plasma,” he said.  Lithikesh joined GMCH in 2018 after doing MBBS from Mysore Medical College and Research Institute.  Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and junior health minister Pijush Hazarika lauded Lithikesh’s gesture. “Glad to share that we’ve started a plasma bank today and the first convalescent donor is a doctor, a Covid-19 patient himself. Many gratitude to Dr Lithikesh. I encourage other patients to come forward and donate,” Sarma tweeted. This was shared by many on social media and many appreciated the doctor’s gesture. Lithikesh said, “If you remove cellular components of blood such as RBC, WBC, platelet, the remaining part is plasma. It contains antibodies to many infectious diseases. Antibodies are required to fight against infection.”  He said it is similar to blood donation, but here cellular components are removed to filter the plasma. “It takes about one hour to complete the procedure. Doctors and nurses remain with the donor during the process and there are no side effects or complications,” Likhitesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-based-pg-med-student-is-assams-1st-plasma-donor-857153.html
04-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Now patients can get Covid-19 test reports directly||The state health department withdrew its controversial order prohibiting labs from sharing Covid-19 test reports with patients. Several hospitals had denied admission to patients in the absence of a test report and patients died halfway. Now patients can get Covid-19 test reports directly from testing labs via email, SMS, or get a physical copy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-patients-can-get-covid-19-test-reports-directly-857162.html
04-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Goa reports 2nd highest single-day spike of 94 cases||Goa reported the second-highest single-day surge in the number of COVID-19 patients so far on Friday with 94 new cases, taking its tally beyond the 1,500- mark, the state health department said. On Thursday, the state had reported 95 cases, its highest single-day spike so far. The number of cases in the state now stands at 1,576, of which 800 are active ones, the department said. It added that 38 people recovered from the infection during the day. Of the 3,320 samples tested on Friday, 2,609 were found negative, while the results of 617 others are awaited, the bulletin reads. Mangor Hill locality, a COVID-19 hotspot in Vasco town, which has been declared as a containment zone, has so far reported 245 positive cases. Sada, Baina, New Vaddem, Zuarinagar and Kharewada areas located around Vasco town also reported fresh cases. Goa's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 1576, new cases: 94, deaths: four, discharged: 772, active cases: 800, samples tested till date: 72,691.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-reports-2nd-highest-single-day-spike-of-94-cases-856846.html
04-07-2020||West||Extremely heavy rain possible, IMD issues red alert for Mumbai||The IMD late Friday evening issued a red alert for Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri over the next 24 hours, stating that heavy to very heavy rainfall was likely on Saturday in many places in Palghar, Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts. Earlier, IMD said the metropolis and surrounding areas could get intermittent moderate to heavy rain with "possibility of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places" on Saturday. "For the next 24 hours, that is between July 3 and 4, red alert has been issued for Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri. At some places, there is a possibility of extremely heavy rainfall," an IMD official said late Friday night. "On July 4, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at many places in Palghar, Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts. At some places extremely heavy rainfall is possible," he added. According to India Meteorological Department's Mumbai centre, the Colaba weather bureau reported 161.4 mm rainfall between 8:30 am and 8:30 pm on Friday. During this period, the Santacruz weather station in the city recorded 102.7 mm rainfall. The IMD had, on Thursday, predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in Mumbai and adjoining coastal districts, and issued an orange alert for Friday and Saturday. "Mumbai & around rainfall in last 12 hrs at 8.30 pm, shows all pink spots(>40 mm). Most of them towards city & western sub side r more than 100 mm. Widespread hvy & very hvy rains occurred; A much awaited Mumbai Monsoon. More tonight!" KS Hosalikar, Deputy Director General of IMD, Mumbai tweeted in the evening. The IMD said Harnai weather bureau in coastal Ratnagiri district recorded 30.2 mm rainfall from 8:30 am to 5:30 pm, while Ratnagiri weather station recorded 11.8 mm rainfall during this period. The Nanded weather bureau, in Marathwada, recorded 20 mm rainfall during the span.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/extremely-heavy-rain-possible-imd-issues-red-alert-for-mumbai-856853.html
04-07-2020||West||Elderly woman dies of Covid-19 in Goa, toll rises to 5||A 74-year-old woman became the fifth person to succumb to Covid-19 in Goa, which has so far reported more than 1,500 positive cases, a senior official of the state health department said on Saturday. The woman from Salcette tehsil in South Goa, who was admitted to ESI hospital after testing coronavirus positive, died on Friday night, the official said. "She is the fifth person in the state to succumb to Covid-19," he said. Goa had reported its second highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Friday after 94 more people were found infected. It pushed the state's tally beyond the 1,500-mark, the health department had said. The number of positive cases in the state stood at 1,576 till Friday night, of which 800 were active ones. They are undergoing treatment at different Covid Care centres in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elderly-woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-goa-toll-rises-to-5-856906.html
04-07-2020||West||Heavy rains to persist in Mumbai, coastal Maharashtra on Satuday: IMD||Heavy rains will continue to lash Mumbai and the coastal districts of Maharashtra for the second consecutive day on Saturday, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The IMD had issued a red alert late on Friday for Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri. It had predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall on Saturday in many places in Palghar, Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts. Widespread heavy rainfall was witnessed across Mumbai in the last 24 hours, IMD Mumbai's deputy director general K S Hosalikar tweeted on Saturday. The showers on Friday morning moved from the city to the suburban areas as the day progressed, he said. "Another heavy RF day for Mumbai & west coast today," he said on Twitter. After 8.30 am on Saturday, the city and its surrounding areas recorded moderate rainfall of 25 mm to 30 mm, Hosalikar added. As per the IMD's data, Mumbai's Colaba weather bureau recorded 169 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, while the Santacruz weather station reported 157 mm rainfall in the same period. Meanwhile, the Ratnagiri bureau recorded 69.3 mm rainfall and the Harnai weather station registered 165.2 mm rains since Friday. In the arid regions of Marathwada, Nanded district received 22 mm rains during the span, the IMD said. The Alibaug bureau in Raigad district recorded 18 mm rains during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-to-persist-in-mumbai-coastal-maharashtra-on-satuday-imd-856921.html
04-07-2020||West||Man held for killing brother in Maharashtra's Thane||A 45-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his elder brother over a dispute in Kopri area of Maharashtra's Thane city, police said on Saturday. The police on Friday nabbed Anil Chawla and two others for killing the former's brother Mahesh (48) at their shop on July 2, the station house officer of Kopri police station said. The Chawla brothers owned a shop in Kopri and frequently quarrelled over petty issues, he said. The situation came to a head on July 2, when the accused allegedly attacked the victim with a heavy object and killed him on the spot, the official said. The accused had taken the help of two workers in the shop to kill the victim, he added. A case of murder has been registered against the three accused, he said, adding that further probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-killing-brother-in-maharashtras-thane-856922.html
04-07-2020||West||Settle Forest Rights Claims within three months: Maharashtra Governor||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has asked senior government officials to settle the pending claims of forest rights within three months and to conduct the GPS mapping of scheduled areas in the State. The review meeting held at Raj Bhavan was attended by senior government officers and representatives of various non-governmental organizations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/settle-forest-rights-claims-within-three-months-maharashtra-governor-856940.html
04-07-2020||West||As COVID-19 cases rise, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani visits Surat to assess measures||Concerned over the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in Surat, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel arrived in the city on Saturday to take stock of preparedness to tackle the pandemic. Surat has seen a worrisome rise in coronavirus cases over the last few days, with several persons testing positive at Katargam, Varachha and Sarthana localities, which are home to diamond polishing units and workers. Rupani and Patel, who is also the state health minister, will hold a meeting with the district collector, city civic chief and health officials to take stock of the outbreak and steps being taken to contain the spread. The chief minister is accompanied by chief secretary Anil Mukim and chief secretary to the chief minister K Kailasanathan.  The diamond polishing units in the city have been hit by the outbreak, as they were ordered to remain shut for a week starting June 30 after 570 workers and their relatives tested positive for the infection in a month. On Friday, the Surat Municipal Corporation also ordered the closure of paan shops in affected localities in its effort to contain the viral spread. Surat has so far reported 5,461 Covid-19 cases, of which 198 persons have succumbed to the infection and 1,803 patients are currently undergoing treatment at various hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-covid-19-cases-rise-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-visits-surat-to-assess-measures-856963.html
04-07-2020||West||Doctor heading Goa's dedicated Covid-19 hospital returns home after 98 days||The doctor in charge of treatment at Goa's dedicated Covid-19 hospital, Dr Edwin Gomes has returned home after completing 98 days of uninterrupted duty, a senior health department official said on Saturday. Gomes received a hero's welcome as he returned to his home on the outskirts of Panaji on Friday, with people applauding and offering him flowers for his service. A video of the rousing welcome has gone viral on social media.     Attached to the Goa Medical College and Hospital, Gomes heads a team of doctors posted at the ESI Hospital, the state's dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility. According to a senior official from the health department, Gomes has returned home after 98 days of uninterrupted duty. "Gomes has been working tirelessly right from the time the outbreak happened and a dedicated facility was set up at ESI Hospital," he said. Gomes has treated around 333 patients in the facility, of which 153 have recovered from the deadly infection, the official said. The doctor, however, was unavailable for comment. As on Friday, Goa has reported 1,576 Covid-19 cases, of which five patients have succumbed to the infection and 800 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctor-heading-goas-dedicated-covid-19-hospital-returns-home-after-98-days-856978.html
04-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: NCP corporator from Pimpri Chinchwad dies of Covid-19||An NCP corporator from Pimpri Chinchwad in Maharashtra's Pune district, who had tested coronavirus positive, died during treatment at a hospital on Saturday, a senior official said. He was found to have been infected by Covid-19 recently, the official said. "He was being treated at a private hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad. He was also suffering from some other ailments," he said. The NCP leader was actively involved in relief work in the industrial township during the pandemic, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ncp-corporator-from-pimpri-chinchwad-dies-of-covid-19-856991.html
04-07-2020||West||Rains continue in Mumbai, adjoining parts for second day||Rains continued to lash Mumbai and its adjoining areas for the second consecutive day on Saturday. However, the intensity of rainfall witnessed so far on Saturday was moderate as compared to Friday, officials said. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Colaba weather bureau reported 39.4 mm rainfall between 8.30 am and 2.30 pm on Saturday, while the Santacruz weather station recorded 52 mm rainfall during the same span. "The rainfall till now has been moderate as compared to what was witnessed on Friday. Water-logging was reported in low-lying areas like Sion and Milan Subway. But there has been no complaint of major water-logging so far," an official of the disaster management cell of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. There have been 19 complaints of tree/branches falling, but nobody was injured in the incidents, he said. As per the IMD's data, Mumbai's Colaba weather bureau recorded 169 mm rainfall during 24 hours from 8.30 am on Friday, while the Santacruz weather station reported 157 mm rainfall in the same period. Late on Friday, the IMD had issued a red alert for Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri for Saturday as it predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at many places in Palghar, Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts. Widespread heavy rainfall was witnessed across Mumbai in the last 24 hours, IMD Mumbai's deputy director general K S Hosalikar tweeted on Saturday morning. "Another heavy RF day for Mumbai & west coast today," he said on Twitter. Meanwhile, the Ratnagiri bureau recorded 69.3 mm rainfall and the Harnai weather station in that district registered 165.2 mm rains since Friday. In the arid regions of Marathwada, Nanded district received 22 mm rains during the span, the IMD said. The Alibaug bureau in Raigad district recorded 18 mm rains during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rains-continue-in-mumbai-adjoining-parts-for-second-day-857016.html
04-07-2020||West||Lack of coordination in Maharashtra govt over Covid-19, says Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday alleged that there was lack of coordination among the three constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and also between Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his cabinet in the fight against Covid-19. Fadnavis also said that the MVA constituents keep saying that they stand with the chief minister, but their actions do not reflect so. The Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly also called for coordinated efforts and single- command decision-making while facing the pandemic. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress had formed the MVA last year after the Assembly election to form the government in the state. Fadnavis made the remarks while replying to queries from journalists about Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde allegedly being in the dark about the transfers of some municipal commissioners in the district. Fadnavis was also asked about a meeting between Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar that took place on Friday. Thackeray and Pawar met on Friday in the wake of reports of some NCP and Congress ministers not being happy with the chief minister over the extension of lockdown in the state till July 31. "I have been saying this right from day one that coordination is not visible in the Aghadi. There is no coordination in the government too. "There is lack of coordination among the ministers and also between the Cabinet and the chief minister. Coordination has to be there," Fadnavis told reporters in Navi Mumbai. The former chief minister further said a decision like extending lockdown should be "broadly thought about". "I am not of the view that there should be no lockdown. But we are in unlock now, we can think of partial lockdown in a certain area. We can think of lockdown on a bigger scale if the situation really goes out of hand. "But if we lockdown the policy, we will never be able to get out of this. Hence, we need to do alternative thinking and consider collective wisdom," he added. Fadnavis also dismissed questions that some of the senior BJP leaders were not happy over the party' new executive committee that was announced on Friday. Fadnavis said he himself, Union minister Nitin Gadkari, other senior leaders like Eknath Khadse, Vinod Tawde, Pankaj Munde and Sudhir Mungantiwar are among the special invitees of the executive. "I am a worker of the party. So, whoever is running the working executive, is mine and I am theirs. This is a working executive thought out by all. "The central BJP has sought some names for the central executive. We have given some names to them. One name you know, there are two-three more names," he added. He also urged the government to increase Covid-19 tests in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lack-of-coordination-in-maharashtra-govt-over-covid-19-says-devendra-fadnavis-857026.html
04-07-2020||West||Allow 14-foot tall Ganpati idol: Mumbai GSB Seva Mandal to CM Uddhav Thackeray||The GSB Seva Mandal based in King's Circle area of Mumbai has asked Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for permission to retain the height of its Ganesh idol at the traditional 14 feet. Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations are scheduled to begin on August 22. Amid the coronavirus outbreak, the state has asked organisations that install such idols to curtail the height to four feet and scale down celebrations so as to adhere to social distancing norms and lockdown orders. In a statement, GSB Seva Mandal trustee RG Bhat said the change in height would create hurdles as the eco-friendly idol is adorned with pre-moulded gold and silver jewellery. The statement said there would be no immersion of the idol this time and darshan for devotees would be online while prasad distribution would be through e-commerce platforms. The idol is made of pure clay at the venue itself and the immersion will be in an artificial pond, with "minimum or negligible involvement of people", he said. All social distancing standards will be maintained, and no crowd or darshan will be allowed, he added. He said a letter has been sent to CM Thackeray with a request to allow the idol to be 14 feet tall. Organisers of Lalbaugcha Raja, arguably the city's most famous Ganeshotsav festivity, have already announced that they would be cancelling celebrations this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic while Wadala's GSB Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samiti has postponed it for February next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/allow-14-foot-tall-ganpati-idol-mumbai-gsb-seva-mandal-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray-857030.html
04-07-2020||West||'Government's Covid-19 death figure of Surat city is authentic,' claims Gujarat CM Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday brushed aside reports suggesting that the actual number of deaths from Covid-19 was much higher than the figure being released by the government in Surat which is emerging as a new hotspot for coronavirus infection. The Chief Minister, who visited the city along with his deputy Nitin Patel and several IAS officers to check the city's preparedness to tackle the infection, said that the government's data was authentic.  Local reports on Saturday had suggested that last rites of 625 dead bodies were performed as per Covid-19 guidelines but the actual number of deaths in government news bullet was much less. While addressing the media after holding meetings with officers supervising the situation, the Chief Minister said that he was aware of such a report. "I only want to say that the government figure on the number of deaths is genuine," he said while adding that "the rest of the patients were Covid-19 suspected cases which, after the last rites, turned out to be negative. Such precaution is being taken so that the virus doesn't spread."  The report claimed that since July 2, last rites of over 625 dead bodies were performed as per the Covid-19 protocol but the number of deaths shown was only 195. A senior IAS officer, who is supervising the pandemic in Surat, told DH, "These were all suspected cases who died before their test results could arrive. Once we get the result we update the data. There is no question of hiding death figures." The Chief Minister, meanwhile, said that the rise in cases in Surat was mainly due to workers employed in diamond and textile factories. He denied imposing fresh restrictions in the city but said that if social distancing norms are found to be violative, the factories will be closed. Rupani also announced that 200 ventilators will be sent to Surat in coming days. The city has 5,461 positive cases out of which 198 have succumbed to the infection. For the past four days, the city is witnessing over 200 positive cases per day. Rupani announced that two under construction hospitals will be completed within a month which will be turned into a Covid-19 hospital. Besides, Rupani also claimed that the situation in Ahmedabad is improving as the number of new cases and casualties are decreasing. He said that now the focus of the government is to check the infection in Surat and other districts where the cases are rising. Meanwhile, Gujarat reported 712 new covid-19 cases on Saturday, its biggest single-day spike till date which took the total caseload to 35, 398. The death toll rose to 1927 with the death of 21 more patients. Number of discharged persons rose to 25,414 while total tests conducted till Saturday stood at 4,04,354. Surat topped the list with 201 cases in urban limits while 52 cases in the district. Ahmedabad, on the other hand, recorded its lowest 164 in the city and 7 cases in the district.  The state government in its evening news bulletin stated that "For the past three days, over 20,000 cases are being reported in the country everyday. The numbers are increasing in states such as Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Talangana, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. "Compare to these seven states of India, Gujarat has reported lowest cases." However, the comparison doesn't mention the number of testing done in all these states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/governments-covid-19-death-figure-of-surat-city-is-authentic-claims-gujarat-cm-rupani-857093.html
04-07-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Maharashtra okays purchase of official car for minister BJP objects||The Maharashtra government has sanctioned Rs 22.83 lakh for the purchase of an official vehicle for state minister Varsha Gaikwad, drawing flak from the opposition BJP, which questioned the Shiv Sena-led dispensation over its priorities amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A Government Resolution (GR) issued on July 3 said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the vehicle review committee of the state finance department approved the proposal to purchase a seven-seater multi-utility vehicle for Gaikwad, who is the Education Minister, as a special case. The total amount of Rs 22,83,086 for the vehicle includes the vehicle cost, GST, registration charges and accessories, it said. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, however, questioned the government's move. "How can purchasing vehicles for ministers be the priority of the government in the present scenario?" he asked. He was talking to reporters in Navi Mumbai in response to a query on proposal of purchasing new vehicles for some ministers. "Buying vehicles cannot be the priority of the government at a time when it is allegedly deferring salaries of employees including health workers due to the COVID-19 crisis," he said. "In such a situation, vehicles are being purchased. So, this leads to a question- 'what is the government's priority'. In such a situation, the chief minister and finance minister should follow strict policy," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-okays-purchase-of-official-car-for-minister-bjp-objects-857100.html
04-07-2020||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally crosses 2 lakh-mark||With a big spike over the week, Maharashtra crossed two lakh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 7,074 positive cases and 295 deaths were recorded, the highest in a day's time since the outbreak of the pandemic in Maharashtra. The total number of cases now stand at 2,00,064 and deaths 8,671, according to the data of the Public Health department. There are a total of 83,295 active cases in the state. In last 24 hours, 3,395 patients discharged - taking the total to 1,08,082 who have been treated.  The recovery rate in the state is 54.02%. On Saturday, 295 Covid-19 deaths reported in the state - out of these, 124 deaths occurred in  the last 48 hours and rest 171 are before that.Case fatality rate in the state is 4.33%. Out of 10,80,975 laboratory samples, 2,00,064 (18.51%) have been tested positive for Covid-19. Currently, 5,96,038 people are in home quarantine and 41,566 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-lakh-mark-857116.html
04-07-2020||West||Devendra Fadnavis releases book on PM's Rs 20 lakh crore package||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday released a book penned by him on the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The book, titled "Atmanirbhar Maharashtra-Atmanirbhar Bharat", analyses the package which benefits the poor and industries which have been hit hard due to the coronavirus- induced lockdown, he said in a release. It also details how Maharashtra can benefit from it, said the former chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/devendra-fadnavis-releases-book-on-pms-rs-20-lakh-crore-package-857128.html
04-07-2020||West||With record spike of over 7,000 new cases, Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally crosses 2 lakh-mark||Maharashtra's coronavirus case count on Saturday rose to 2,00,064 with a record single-day spike of 7,074. With 295 deaths, the death toll due to the pandemic in the state rose to 8,671, said the health department. 3,395 patients were discharged, taking the number of recovered patients to 1,08,082. There are 83,311 active cases in the state now while 10,80,975 people have been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-record-spike-of-over-7000-new-cases-maharashtras-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-lakh-mark-857140.html
04-07-2020||West||Gujarat sees record rise of 712 in coronavirus cases, 21 dead||Gujarat on Saturday reported its highest single-day spike of 712 coronavirus cases, taking the tally of Covid-19 cases in the state to 35,398, the state health department said. For the first time, a single-day increase in the number of patients crossed the 700-mark. The death toll due to the pandemic rose to 1,927 with 21 new fatalities. Surat again reported the highest increase in patients in the state at 253, taking the case tally in the district to 5,714. Surat city reported 201 new cases while the remaining part of the district reported 52 cases. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday visited Surat and announced that 200 additional ventilators will be provided to the hospitals and Rs 100 crore would be made available to convert two hospitals into dedicated COVID hospitals. Ahmedabad reported 172 new cases, taking its total to 21,715. Death toll in Ahmedabad rose to 1,475 with nine more cases. The number of recovered patients in Ahmedabad rose to 16,613 with 228 more patients getting discharged on Saturday. Vadodara reported 61 new cases, taking its total to 2,499. Among other districts, Rajkot reported 47 new cases, Valsad 19, Bharuch 15, Navsari 11, Bhavnagar 20, Gandhinagar 15, Junagadh, Banaskantha and Kheda ten each. Surat and Rajkot reported deaths of four coronavirus patients each on Saturday, while Mehsana, Aravalli, Kutch and Valsad reported the death of one patient each,the health department said in itsrelease. The state also reported recovery of 473 patients, taking the number of recovered cases to 25,414, the department said. There are now 8,057 active cases in the state, with as many as 68 patients being on ventilator. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 35,398, new cases 712, deaths 1,927, discharged 25,414, active cases 8,057 and people tested so far 4,04,354.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-sees-record-rise-of-712-in-coronavirus-cases-21-dead-857155.html
04-07-2020||West||Rajasthan's coronavirus count nears 20,000 with record spike of 480 cases||Rajasthan reported 480 infections, its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases so far, on Saturday, taking the virus count to 19,532 in the state, according to an official report. Seven more people died due to the infection in the state, raising the death toll to 447, the report said. While three new deaths were reported from Dholpur, one each were reported from Bharatpur, Jhunjhunu and Sikar. A novel coronavirus patient from another state also died. With this, the number of fatalities due to the coronavirus in the state has reached to 447. A maximum of 54 coronavirus cases were reported from Alwar on Saturday, followed by 46 in Bikaner, 43 in Barmer, 42 in Jalore, 40 in Jaipur, 39 in Dholpur and 30 in Bharatpur. Jodhpur reported 29 fresh cases, Nagaur (26), Pali (22), Udaipur (20), Sikar (16), Kota (14), Dungarpur (13), Jhunjhunu (11), Sirohi (8), Ajmer (7), Dausa (4), Karauli (3), Rajsamand and Tonk (2 each), and one each in Bhilwara, Ganganagar, Hanumangarh and Sawaimadhopur. Four patients from other states and one BSF personnel were also tested positive for the coronavirus, according to the report. Of the total Covid-19 cases, 15,640 have recovered and 15,325 of them have been discharged from hospitals. The number of active coronavirus cases in the state now stands at 3,445.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthans-coronavirus-count-nears-20000-with-record-spike-of-480-cases-857159.html
04-07-2020||West||Minister says cops will look into Akshay Kumar's air trip to Nashik||Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar's helicopter trip to Nashik in north Maharashtra during lockdown has sparked a controversy. Maharashtra minister Chhagan Bhujbal said on Saturday that he will order inquiry into the special permission which the actor reportedly obtained for the air travel and stay at a resort in Nashik during the visit earlier this week. While the actor's spokespersons did not offer any comment immediately, sources said he flew to Nashik with a special permission to see a doctor. "I read about his visit to Nashik in newspapers today. I have no idea when he came and left. I will have to check," Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bhujbal, who is also the `guardian minister' of the district, told reporters in Nashik. "I will have to check, where he lived etc. I have received complaints about how he could be allowed to stay in a resort (amid coronavirus outbreak). We will ask the police to look into it. I have no idea who gave him the permission, why it was given. Officials will be questioned if something wrong has happened," the senior NCP leader added. Sources close to the actor said that he had flown to Nashik in a helicopter with special permission "to see a doctor".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/minister-says-cops-will-look-into-akshay-kumars-air-trip-to-nashik-857165.html
04-07-2020||West||Magic Bus joins hands with Maharashtra govt, pvt sectors to provide relief||Non-profit organisation Magic Bus on Saturday said it has joined hands with the Maharashtra government to provide relief to vulnerable families across Mumbai amid the coronavirus outbreak and the ongoing lockdown. Magic Bus India Foundation has partnered with both private and government organisations to ensure that the ongoing city-wide food and hygiene relief distribution efforts remain data-led, aligned and focused, it said in a statement. The initiative will enable concerned Mumbaikars to support food and hygiene relief efforts. Their individual donations will be matched 5X by Milkar's corporate partners Godrej & Boyce, RPG Foundation and ATE Chandra Foundation. “We are very thankful to be a part of this initiative to engage with Mumbaikars and civic society to encourage online donations on - funding platform Ketto to help vulnerable communities across the city. "The fact that it is supported by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and the Maharashtra Chief Minister, enhances our continuous efforts to do our utmost for the underprivileged during the ongoing lockdown,” Magic Bus Global CEO Jayant Rastogi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/magic-bus-joins-hands-with-maharashtra-govt-pvt-sectors-to-provide-relief-857171.html
