05-07-2020||First Edit||Be humane while disposing of bodies||The inhuman manner in which the bodies of some of those who succumbed to Covid-19 are disposed of sans any dignity in Karnataka, is repulsive. Two recent videos – one, of eight bodies literally being thrown into a pit in Ballari, and another, of a deceased being dragged on the ground at Yadgir for a considerable distance before being buried – led to outrage over the complete lack of respect for the dead. While losing a loved one is traumatic enough for the relatives who are not even allowed to be present during the funeral or perform the last rites, the insensitivity displayed by the authorities leaves them shattered and in complete distress. Though the final word has not yet been said on whether coronavirus can spread from dead bodies, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has said such chances are remote as long as standard safety precautions are followed. However, the stigma attached to Covid-19 and the misinformation surrounding the disease seem to be reason behind the coldness displayed by the health workers. Such inconsiderateness in the disposal of bodies is not limited to Karnataka alone. In the initial days when bodies were being handed over to relatives, there were several cases where they remained unclaimed forcing the hospital authorities to perform the last rites. At least two high courts, Bombay and Calcutta, have taken cognizance of the disrespectful treatment of bodies, following which the governments in Maharashtra and West Bengal amended protocols to make them more humane. Now, in Kolkata, the ashes of the victim can be given to the relatives who can also participate in the funeral from a distance. While some countries have banned relatives and friends from attending the funeral, the WHO says such a bar is not necessary if adequate precautions are followed, insisting that “even in this difficult period, the families of those dead should find someplace to express their grief”. At a time when there are several instances of the public opposing the last rites of Covid-19 affected at common burial grounds, the health workers cannot be entirely blamed as they too, like the rest of the society, are prone to certain myths and fears. The need of the hour is to sensitise both the public and the health workers (and their higher-ups) so that certain misconceptions can be erased. Karnataka could also follow the Kolkata model and enable relatives to have some role in the final journey of their family members or friends, without compromising on safety guidelines. However, the least that the government can do is to ensure that the dead are not robbed of their dignity. There can be nothing more heartless than that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/be-humane-while-disposing-of-bodies-857473.html
05-07-2020||In Perspective||Covid-19: Rethinking urban planning strategies||What are the implications of the dense concentration of populations as urban centres have grown unfettered and governance systems – local and national – promote the ‘smart city’ initiative by investing in infrastructure assuming there will be an increase in GDP?  The consequences of such initiatives have been brought to sharp focus during the Covid-19 pandemic and maybe the same for disasters such as earthquakes and floods. The prime consequence involves curtailing the movement of people to limit and arrest the spread of Covid-19 or the evacuation of populations in the event of a flood or an earthquake.  A central point to understand is how to systematically facilitate the growth of urban centres and simultaneously consider optimal sizes of settlements in ways that mitigate the spread of infectious diseases such as Covid or allow for evacuation, if needed.  Urban planners who study settlements recognise the relevance of finding a happy medium in allowing the growth of urban centres in organised ways and at the same time be attentive to a realistic set of norms for population concentration. As an architect who studies urban planning, I have witnessed the unfettered growth of urban centres across India. Arguing for modifying the current model, I outline the following strategies for policymaking taking into account the interconnectedness of settlement planning and governance.  The first strategy is to deter high-density concentrations of large populations as well as the formation of slums by adopting a multi-spatial growth model in the planning of settlements. This approach should emphasise the plan for the growth of all types of settlements - villages, small towns, and the large urban centres.  People in urban centres with high-density concentrations of population and large numbers of slums are experiencing the most severe restrictions on movement and activities during this lockdown. This has resulted in the dislocation of people, disruption of daily wages, and the underutilisation of large-scale infrastructure.  Therefore, as a measure to maintain access to basic needs and allow some movement of people in a settlement in instances of a calamity or a health hazard, there is a need to deglamorise large cities as engines of growth.  Concurrently, new planning policies should emphasise on the development of small towns and villages. This will enable dispersing of populations and maintaining continuity of activities when ‘isolation’ is required because only smaller pockets of the population may be impacted.   The second strategy relates to developing villages and smaller towns. This will require the planners to envision manageable smaller settlements. This alternative approach to spatial development is important because India has over six lakh villages and over 7,000 small towns.  According to the 2011 Census, 68.4% of the population live in villages which is sizeable. Moreover, valuing an environment-friendly approach is key for both spatial planning and governance of settlements. This approach includes preserving natural water systems, protecting forests and fragile ecosystems among others.  Accomplishing the above requires capacity building of both planners and personnel of local bodies, engaging with people and using local knowledge to improve basic services such as conserving and replenishing local water resources and opting for new technologies such as decentralised waste water treatment systems where possible.  It means a less consumerist lifestyle to reduce waste, its treatment and its negative impact on the ecosystem and human health. Other examples are: systematically replacing use of synthetic polluting materials with natural materials, promoting renewable energy (solar or wind energy), and aiding non-motorised means of mobility within settlements.   Continuous learning by planners, personnel of local bodies, and the general population should be mandated to implement, sustain, and build communities with environment- friendly values and lifestyles.    Social infrastructure Additionally, planners must address planning of social infrastructure in the areas of education, healthcare, disaster management and entertainment to create opportunities for livelihoods, education and entertainment in villages and small towns.  This approach requires the development of high-speed transport systems between clusters of villages and towns to avail specialised services, if needed. Proximity to basic services and social infrastructure will enhance and ease everyday life and can, in turn, open new arenas for livelihoods and earnings and minimise migration. The accent till date has been on boosting cities with a singular aim of raising the GDP of large cities. The paradigm shift as suggested above may appear unreal or not doable within the embedded approach of prioritising the urban centres.  However, the Covid-19 pandemic clearly indicates that while the economy is important for human survival, we need to be cognizant about and value other aspects of human life, for human life itself to survive and thrive.  Two obvious questions loom large in our face at this juncture. One, whether we continue with the present pattern where people go in search of livelihoods and a better life; and the other, whether we choose a new untrodden path where livelihoods and a better life reach people?  The choice, I note, must be the untrodden path. Rethinking strategies for settlement planning as outlined above is crucial to ease, somewhat, the lives of ordinary people.     (The writer is Associate Professor and former Officiating Head, Department of Architecture and former Associate Director, Master of Urban and Regional Planning Programme, The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-rethinking-urban-planning-strategies-857476.html
05-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sunday lockdown observed strictly in Mysuru||The Sunday lockdown announced by the state government to contain spread of Covid-19, evoked a good response in the Mysuru district. No unnecessary movements were allowed across the district, including the city. Police were closely monitoring teh situation. However, essential and emergency services were not affected. Milk parlours and essential shops were allowed to open for a while. No buses, taxi and autorickshaw have been allowed to ply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sunday-lockdown-observed-strictly-in-mysuru-857261.html
05-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sunday lockdown sees deserted streets in Karnataka's Shivamogga||The Sunday lockdown reintroduced by state government in the wake of rise in number of Covid-19 cases, received good response in Shivamogga. But people thronging hotels for food parcels was visible in some parts of the city. Though hotels in major commercial areas including BH, Nehru, Balaraj Urs roads remained closed, hotels in residential areas made brisk business. Majority of customers in such hotels did not follow government guidelines of the government. Social distancing was not visible. Barring this, rest parts of the city wore deserted look as KSRTC buses, private city buses, taxis, city buses stayed off the road since morning in the city. But some autorickshaws, cars, and two-wheelers plied as usual. Business establishments remained closed. Police personnel who were on duty in major circles warned autorickshaw drivers and people who stepped out of their homes to follow guidelines of the government strictly.  Following the rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the local authorities have instructed owners of business establishments to close down their shops at 6:00pm everyday. The district recorded 253 cases so far and four deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sunday-lockdown-sees-deserted-streets-in-karnatakas-shivamogga-857311.html
05-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police check veracity of video that shows lockdown norms being flouted during marriage||The police are checking veracity of the video of a group dance during a marriage ceremony at Ammunje in Bantwal taluk. The video of a large number of youth dancing for DJ ,by violating safety norms issued by the government including wearing masks and maintaining social distance, has gone viral on social media.  The video clip claimed that the marriage function had taken place on July 2. SP B M Laxmi Prasad said that Bantwal Rural Police Station Sub Inspector has initiated a probe. The organisers of the marriage function had taken permission from the local pachayat for organising the ceremony with 50 guests. The police are verifying whether the video clip that is being circulated in social media is from the same marriage function. If it is proved that they violated lockdown rules, stringent action will be initiated against those who flouted the rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-check-veracity-of-video-that-shows-lockdown-norms-being-flouted-during-marriage-857320.html
05-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man suspected of Covid-19 dies in Karnataka's Haveri, body covered in PPE: report||This was a day after a 65-year-old man infected by Covid-19 was found lying on the road in South Bengaluru. According to the report, officials involved in conducting last rites wrapped the body in a PPE kit publicly and left for three hours. Only after an outrage on social media, did the staff take away the body in an ambulance to perform last rites.  The patient reportedly had fever for a week and went to the Ranebennur taluk hospital for treatment, his swab results were awaited. Deputy Commissioner S Yogishwar told TOI that he was not aware of the incident but would order a thorough inquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-suspected-of-covid-19-dies-in-karnatakas-haveri-body-covered-in-ppe-report-857355.html
05-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Davangere Mayor flouts lockdown norms||City corporation Mayor BG Ajay Kumar of BJP has allegedly flouted lockdown guidelines of the government by celebrating his birthday in the office, on Sunday.  The images of the birthday celebration that went viral on social media show that corporators and his followers, who greeted him on his birthday, did not wear face mask and did not maintain social distancing and thus, flouted the norms.  The mayor's birthday celebration has run into controversy as first citizen of the city allegedly flouted lockdown norms of the government. Reacting to it, Superintdent of Police, Hanumantaraya told DH that he is collecting more information on the incident. He would initiate action if norms are flouted, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-mayor-flouts-lockdown-norms-857381.html
05-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Family denied final rites of man as Covid-19 reports delayed||Family members of a 62-year-old man, who died on July 1 at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, of suspected Covid-19, expressed their displeasure for not being able to perform the final rites of the man while his medical report turned negative on Saturday. The deceased Hazarath Sab M Pattanakari, a resident of Janath Nagar in Old Hubballi, was admitted to the intensive care unit at KIMS, the district Covid-19 centre, on June 30, with high fever and other Covid-19 symptoms. His swab sample was also collected on the same day. However, on July 1, he died. As Hazarath Sab showed Covid-19 symptoms, the district administration, as per the protocol, decided to perform the final rites of him, instead of handing over the body to the family. Five members of the family were allowed to witness the inter of Hazarath Sab’s body at a graveyard in Hubballi. On July 4, the medical reports of the deceased came negative. Speaking to DH, Hazarath Sab’s son Azijulla said, "The district administration should expedite issuing of medical reports of deceased persons. Because of the delay by the administration, we could not perform his final rites and majority of the family members could not see him for the one final time. This would hurt us all through our lives,” he said. KIMS Medical Superintendent Arun Kumar said, "The institute performed the final rites of the deceased, as per the protocol issued by the government, as he showed symptoms. “If the family members had asked us to wait till the medical report is released, we would have done so, and handed over the body to them after the reports,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/family-denied-final-rites-of-man-as-covid-19-reports-delayed-857432.html
05-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka records 1,925 fresh Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Sunday witnessed its biggest single-day spike in coronavirus cases with 1,925 additions and 37 related fatalities, taking the aggregate in the state to 23,474, the health department said. The total cases reported include 9,847 discharges and 13,251 active cases, the department said in its bulletin adding that among the active cases, 243 are admitted to the Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru continued to remain the single largest contributor of coronavirus cases in the state reporting a whopping 1,235 cases, 16 deaths and 302 discharges. As on Sunday, there were 8,167 active cases in the city. Among the districts with highest number of cases were Dakshina Kannada with 147, Ballari 90 and Vijayapura reporting 51 new cases. A report from Mangaluru said the total number of cases in Dakshina Kannada district rose to 1,242 with 147 more people testing positive for the virus. The active cases stood at 666 while the death remained 22. Senior Congress leader and former union minister B Janardhana Poojary tested positive for Covid19 and has been admitted to a private hospital in Mangaluru for treatment, his family said. The 83-year-old leader has been asymptomatic and "there is no cause for worry," his elder son Santhosh J Poojary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-records-1925-fresh-covid-19-cases-857490.html
05-07-2020||Main Article||Social Stock Exchange: Financing NGOs||The Government of India took the lead in proactively announcing the creation of a Social Stock Exchange (SSE) a year ago in July, 2019.  This is expected to produce a major shift in how social sector projects get funded and can prove to be a gamechanger for the sector, especially considering the post-Covid scenario.   While the current crisis has reaffirmed the need and relevance of NGOs, it has also exposed the survival challenges that many of them are facing as their funding sources are drying up.    A functioning SSE is an opportunity for NGOs for scaling up social action while at the same time ensuring a reasonably stable financial pipeline with integrated accountability frameworks.    What are such exchanges and why do we need them? The SSEs are trading platforms that allow social businesses to raise capital by attracting ethical investors willing to invest in businesses that have a dual corporate and social mission.   India has chosen to have this embedded within the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Several countries have attempted full-scale SSEs or equivalents of them with differential levels of success.     The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) estimates that India needs $1 trillion per annum to meet the UN Sustainable Development Goals by 2030, and the financial funding gap estimated is $560 billion per annum.  The growing momentum around social entrepreneurship and innovation provides a perfect opportunity to consider social enterprises as a key tool to enable sustainable development and reach the SDG goals.  Keeping in mind the reduced ability of the government to spend on social development in a sluggish economy, it may be imperative to enlist the support of the private sector while the SSEs could serve as a platform to facilitate their participation.    Existing challenges: Any social trading platform needs a robust demand-side ecosystem - the social organisations, a robust supply-side ecosystem – the investors, and infrastructure - SSE and its intermediaries.  Currently, the country is not fully ready on any of these three key building blocks and there is preparatory work that is required across all stakeholders, with the government having the key role of the market maker and influencer.   Both for investors and stock exchanges, finding the right investment and instrument is a complex task.  Our legal and regulatory frameworks need considerable tweaking as they currently discourage stakeholders from engaging in social financing on one hand, and NGOs from generating profits on the other.  A listing of social enterprises will essentially operate at the intersection of finance and philanthropy, the hybridity does present a regulatory challenge and policymakers will have to design a platform that bridges this regulatory gap.  The road ahead for NGOs: The NGOs in India are either trusts, societies or non-profit (Sec 8) companies.  While they are bundled together under the common name of NGOs, each has a different kind of structure, tax and legal framework governing them.  A Trust operates differently from a Society or a Section 8 company or a voluntary organisation. This is further complicated by the fact that no legal definition of a social enterprise has been framed under any of the existing laws.    Having a common definition and bringing them all under common law for the purpose of an SSE will be the critical first step.   India can draw inspiration from laws from other countries and learn from their experiences too.  The law closest to the Indian context is that of Britain and it defines a social enterprise as “a business with primarily social objectives whose surpluses are principally reinvested for that purpose in the business or in the community, rather than being driven by the need to maximise profit for shareholders and owners.”    The NGOs, irrespective of the laws under which they were created need to be provided with a clear roadmap to transition themselves into a social enterprise.   They also need a different kind of talent pool to enable them to operate with an expanded mindset of doing social good and generating profits for their investors.   More importantly, they need a new regulatory structure to enable them to hybridize themselves and learn to operate as social enterprises. Clear processes to identify social enterprises and distinguish them from conventional businesses operating within ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) guidelines also needs to be put in place.   Consistent taxation applicable across all organisations under the definition of social enterprises and ideally across all states and Union Territories will be the next step.   Internal capacity The SEBI should be appropriately enabled to govern the social enterprises and will need to build its internal capacity to differentiate them from other for-profit companies.  Though NGOs undertake several pioneering social initiatives, many are generally reluctant to define and measure the impact that they are creating.   Accountability, transparency, consistent measurement and reporting of results will be crucial to ensure and encourage effective investment in them.  Setting standardised data collection, measurement and reporting frameworks that will help investors assess the short-term efficacy of their investment based on outcomes, financial and operational indicators and the final long-term developmental impact achieved is existential to the success of the SSE.  If India has to ensure investments on human capital stay a priority in the post-Covid era, it needs the various stakeholders - government, investors, businesses, financial intermediaries, regulators, philanthropic organisations, and NGOs to partner, collaborate and co-invest.   And this can happen when the SSE, which is on paper today, becomes a fully functional exchange as early as possible.   (The writer is a development activist and Chairman of the public policy think tank, GRAAM)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/social-stock-exchange-financing-ngos-857474.html
05-07-2020||National||DH Toon | 'We've enough for every nation in the world!'||To curb import from China in the power sector, the Centre is planning a number of measures including custom duty on solar modules, malware checking on Chinese products, and increase domestic production of electrical equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-weve-enough-for-every-nation-in-the-world-857208.html
05-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 5||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 6.74 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  While Covid-19 has impacted the US, Brazil and Russia the worst, India has already felt the hit to its economy. Covid-19 has also spread to far-flung regions of the country. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 6,96,876 as of July 5 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 19,693   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 3,92,403 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-5-857209.html
05-07-2020||National||Fact-check | PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Leh Army Hospital wasn’t a manufactured photo-op||During his two-day visit to Eastern Ladakh, Army Chief General MM Naravane had visited soldiers in the same ward as PM Modi on June 23.   A video of General Naravane’s visit is posted below.    Visuals clues which suggest that the ward is the same have been highlighted. 1. Blue arrow – same curtains 2. Red box – same photo frame 3. Green box – wall hook on the left of the photo frame  Another framed picture of a helicopter can also be seen in images from both visits.  1. Blue arrow – door 2. Green arrow – piping 3. Red arrow – power board 4. Yellow arrow – photo frame    Photographs of identical interiors of the ward in June prove that it was not set up for PM Modi’s recent visit. Responding to the claim that the patients seen in the photographs are not “real” because they don’t seem injured and are sitting in an upright position, Major Navdeep Singh wrote, “The soldiers are not there for major physical injuries but for recuperation cum debriefing, a standard process.” Several members of the Congress party and critics of Prime Minister Modi shared photographs of his visit to soldiers recuperating in a hospital ward in Leh. These were accompanied with false claims suggesting that the ward was ‘set-up’ for the cameras.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-pm-narendra-modi-s-visit-to-leh-army-hospital-wasn-t-a-manufactured-photo-op-857210.html
05-07-2020||National||India's first transgender woman working on tele-medicine wins praise from Ravi Shankar Prasad||Zoya Khan, India's first transgender woman to operate a Common Service Centre for tele-medicine consultation in Gujarat, has won the praise of Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. Prasad said that Khan is India's first transgender operator of Common Service Centre from Vadodara district of Gujarat and is working with a vision to support the transgender community in making them digitally literate & give them better opportunities. The Common Service Centre is a special vehicle of the Ministry of Electronics and IT, and features a host of services that can be accessed remotely including social welfare, healthcare, agriculture and more. It falls under the ambit of the 'Digital India' programme.  Under the tele-medicine services, patients can get remote consultation via video conference from a nearby centre, with Zoya Khan manning one such centre in Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-transgender-woman-working-on-tele-medicine-wins-praise-from-ravi-shankar-prasad-857225.html
05-07-2020||National||Indian Academy of Sciences pulls up ICMR for its Covid-19 vaccine rollout timeframe||Indian Academy of Sciences, a top science body in the country, on Sunday strongly criticised the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for setting up a target of 42 days to roll out the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine from the preclinical stage. "Any hasty solution that may compromise rigorous scientific processes and standards will likely have long-term adverse impacts of unforeseen magnitude on citizens of India," IASc said in a press statement.  The Academy said it issued the public statement as it believed that the announced timeline was unreasonable and without precedent. On behalf of the Academy, the statement was issued by its president Partha P Majumder, a veteran population geneticist who was the founder director of the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics at Kalyani. The statement from the Bengaluru-based Academy is unprecedented because science institutes in India rarely issue public statements criticising government efforts or scienctific agencies. Taking a note of the July 2 letter by the ICMR director general Balaram Bhargava to the doctors in 12 hospitals involved in the Covid-19 vaccine trial, the Academy said while development of an indigenous vaccine was welcome, the time-line set up by the ICMR was simply unrealistic. Bhargava wrote that the hospitals have to complete the volunteer recruitment process by July 7 and would have to accord the “highest priority” to the project that was being monitored at the “topmost level in government” eyeing a public launch on August 15.  A day later it issued a clarification saying that the letter was meant to cut red tapes and patient safety would be the council's priority. "As a body of scientists – including many who are engaged in vaccine development – IASc strongly believes that the announced timeline is unfeasible.  This timeline has raised unrealistic hope and expectations in the minds of our citizens," it said. While there is an unquestioned urgent need, vaccine development for use in humans requires scientifically executed clinical trials   in a phased manner.   These trials involve evaluation of safety (Phase 1 trial), efficacy and side effects at different dose levels (Phase 2 trial) and confirmation of safety and efficacy in thousands of healthy people (Phase 3 trial) before its release for public use.   Clinical trials for a candidate vaccine require participation of healthy human volunteers.   Therefore, many ethical and regulatory approvals need to be obtained prior to the initiation of the trials.   "While administrative approvals can be expedited, the scientific processes of experimentation and data collection have a natural time span that cannot be hastened without compromising standards of scientific rigour.  For example, immune responses usually take several weeks to develop and relevant data should not be collected earlier," it said. Moreover, data collected in one phase must be adequately analysed before the next phase can be initiated.   If the data of any phase are unacceptable then the clinical trial is required to be immediately aborted. For example, if the data collected from Phase 1 of the clinical trial show that the vaccine is not adequately safe, then Phase 2 cannot be initiated and the candidate vaccine must be discarded. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech manufactured the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine using a strain isolated by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. IASc is one of the three leading science academies of India, the other two being Indian National Science Academy, Delhi and National Science Academy, Allahabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-academy-of-sciences-pulls-up-icmr-for-its-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-timeframe-857241.html
05-07-2020||National||PM Modi greets Ram Vilas Paswan on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party leader Ram Vilas Paswan on his birthday on Sunday, saying his administrative experience and insight on key policy issues are a major asset for the government. "Best wishes to my senior Cabinet colleague Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. Paswan Ji's administrative experience and insight on key policy issues are a major asset for our Government," Modi wrote on Twitter. "His contribution towards social justice is immense. Praying for his long and healthy life," the prime minister said. Paswan was born on this day in 1946 in Bihar's Khagaria.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-ram-vilas-paswan-on-birthday-857244.html
05-07-2020||National||Record single-day spike of 24,850 Covid-19 cases, 613 deaths in India||With a record single-day surge of 24,850 coronavirus infections and 613 fatalities, India's Covid-19 caseload zoomed to 6,73,165, while the death toll climbed to 19,268 on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  Recording over 20,000 coronavirus infections for the third consecutive day, India is set to overtake Russia's tally. According to the Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world, India is behind Russia with 399 cases. India is currently the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia and is at the eighth position in terms of the death toll. Maharashtra crossed the grim milestone of two lakh Covid-19 cases, recording a single-day increase of 7,074 infections, the Health Ministry's updated data at 8 am showed. Tamil Nadu registered 4,280 cases in the past 24 hours, while Delhi, Telangana, Karnataka, Assam and Bihar added a total of 7,935 Covid-19 cases in a day. These seven states have contributed to around 78 per cent of the singe-day spike. With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 4,09,082 while one patient has migrated. There are 2,44,814 active cases of coronavirus infections presently in the country, the data showed. "Thus, around 60.77 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 97,89,066 samples have been tested up to July 4 with 2,48,934 samples being tested on Saturday.  Of the 613 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 295 are from Maharashtra, 81 from Delhi, 65 from Tamil Nadu, 42 from Karnataka, 24 from Uttar Pradesh, 21  from Gujarat, 19 from West Bengal, 12 from Andhra Pradesh, nine from Bihar, eight from Jammu and Kashmir, seven from Rajasthan, five each in Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab and Telangana, two each from Goa and Jharkhand and one from Himachal Pradesh.  Of the total 19,268 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 8,671 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,004 deaths, Gujarat with 1,925, Tamil Nadu with 1,450, Uttar Pradesh with 773, West Bengal with 736, Madhya Pradesh with 598, Rajasthan with 447 and Karnataka with 335. The Covid-19 death toll reached 288 in Telangana, 260 in Haryana, 218 in Andhra Pradesh, 162 in Punjab, 127 in Jammu and Kashmir, 89 in Bihar, 42 in Uttarakhand, 34 in Odisha and 25 in Kerala. Jharkhand has registered 17 deaths, Chhattisgarh and Assam 14 each, Puducherry 12, Himachal Pradesh 11, Chandigarh and Goa six each and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 2,00,064 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,07,001, Delhi at 97,200, Gujarat at 35,312, Uttar Pradesh at 26,554, Telangana at  22,312 and Karnataka at 21,549, according to the ministry data. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 21,231 in West Bengal, 19,532 in Rajasthan, 17,699 in Andhra Pradesh, 16,548 in Haryana and 14,604 in Madhya Pradesh. It has risen to 11,700 in Bihar, 10,668 in Assam, 8,601 in Odisha and 8,246 in Jammu and Kashmir. Punjab has reported 6,109 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 5,204 cases. A total of 3,161 have been infected by the virus in Chhattisgarh,3,093 in Uttarakhand, 2,739 in Jharkhand, 1,684 in Goa, 1,546 in Tripura, 1,325 in Manipur, 1,046 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,005 in Ladakh. Puducherry has recorded 802 Covid-19 cases, Nagaland 563, Chandigarh 460 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 271 Covid-19 cases. Arunachal Pradesh reported 259 cases, Mizoram has 164 cases, Andaman and Nicobar Islands has 119, Sikkim has registered 103 infections so far, while Meghalaya has recorded 62 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 4,629 cases are being reassigned to states.   State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-single-day-spike-of-24850-covid-19-cases-613-deaths-in-india-857271.html
05-07-2020||National||Kanpur effect: Crackdown begins on mafia in Noida, properties, cars worth crores attached||The Gautam Buddh Nagar Police has attached illegal properties, including land and luxury cars worth crores, of dreaded gangsters Sundar Bhati and Anil Dujana and their associates in a crackdown on regional mafia, officials said on Sunday. The crackdown began in Greater Noida on Saturday on the instructions of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to reign in the gangsters, a day after eight policemen were killed in Kanpur by henchmen of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey. “In line with the chief minister's instructions, Police Commissioner Alok Singh ordered the attachment of properties worth Rs 7 crore which includes land and cars," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said. "Land of water bodies illegally occupied by these gangs got reclaimed today (Saturday), illegal fences razed down. The action would continue unabated and illegal properties would be attached,” he said. The clampdown is being carried out chiefly under Section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act, which allows attachment of illegal properties, in order to effectively curb gangsters, mafias and criminals and their associates, the officials said. DCP, Central Noida, Harish Chander said properties of Anil Dujana gang member Chandrapal have been attached and his vehicles impounded, while properties of Divya Sangwan, wife of another gang member Robin Tyagi, were also attached. The seized cars include models of luxury brands like Audi and BMW, the officer said. This is the first action taken by the Commissioner of Police under the Gangster Act for attachment of property under the commissionerate system of police in the district which started in January this year, a police spokesperson said.   “The action will continue against criminals and mafias involved in criminal activities in future,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanpur-effect-crackdown-begins-on-mafia-in-noida-properties-cars-worth-crores-attached-857299.html
05-07-2020||National||'Atma Nirbhar Bharat' aimed to boost India's economic potential, help country capitalise on its strengths: Naidu||The call for a self-reliant India is not aimed at encouraging "protectionism or isolationism", but for adopting a pragmatic development strategy to enable the country recognise and capitalise on its inherent strengths, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Sunday. Speaking at the virtual launch of 'Elyments' mobile app, Naidu said the "Atma Nirbhar Bharat" campaign was aimed at giving a new boost to the economic potential of the country by strengthening infrastructure, using modern technologies, enriching human resource, and creating robust supply chains. Naidu said it was quite appropriate that  Prime Minister Narendra Modi  announced the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge' on Saturday as it would encourage Indian IT specialists to prepare apps for various uses to enhance quality of life. The vice president noted that more than a thousand IT professionals, who are also the volunteers of the Art of Living, have together created the app. Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar was also part of the virtual launch. On the the YouTube link of the launch event, the developers said on Elyments, "People will be able to connect globally and shop locally". Data of users is stored in India and user's data will never be shared with a third party without user's consent, the write up said. It allows free audio-video calls and a private chat connection. The vice president said such initiatives by the Indian tech industry and professionals were truly praiseworthy as they not only demonstrated India's prowess in technology but also were a step towards a self-reliant India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atma-nirbhar-bharat-aimed-to-boost-indias-economic-potential-help-country-capitalise-on-its-strengths-naidu-857302.html
05-07-2020||National||Covid-19 recovery rate in 21 states, Union Territories higher than national average of 60.77%: Health Ministry||Twenty-one states and UTs, including Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, have a Covid-19 recovery rate higher than the national average of 60.77 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday as India's case count mounted to 6.73 lakh and the death toll rose to 19,268. Collective and focused efforts for containment and management of Covid-19 by the government of India along with the states and union territories have led to the number of recovered Covid-19 patients to rise to 4,09,082 so far, it said. Presently, there are 2,44,814 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The recovered cases exceeded the active cases by 1,64,268 as of Sunday, the ministry said. During the last 24 hours, a total of 14,856 Covid-19 patients have been cured. "This takes the national recovery rate amongst Covid-19 patients to 60.77 per cent," the ministry said. "There are 21 states and UTs with a recovery rate more than the national average," it stated. These 21 states and UTs are Chandigarh (85.9 per cent), Ladakh (82.2 per cent), Uttarakhand (80.9 per cent), Chhattisgarh (80.6 per cent), Rajasthan (80.1 per cent), Mizoram (79.3 per cent), Tripura (77.7 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (76.9 per cent), Jharkhand (74.3 per cent), Bihar (74.2 per cent), Haryana (74.1 per cent), Gujarat (71.9 per cent), Punjab (70.5 per cent), Delhi (70.2 per cent), Meghalaya (69.4 per cent), Odisha (69.0 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (68.4 per cent), Himachal Pradesh (67.3 per cent), West Bengal (66.7 per cent), Assam (62.4 per cent), and Jammu and Kashmir (62.4 per cent).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-21-states-union-territories-higher-than-national-average-of-6077-health-ministry-857339.html
05-07-2020||National||"This is now routine in our country" NGO volunteers in Delhi allegedly attacked by mob while helping strays||Members of a Delhi-based NGO were allegedly attacked by a mob whilst picking up stray dogs for sterilization on Friday. Ayesha Christina, founder of the Delhi-based NGO Neighbourhood 'Woof', was attacked along with other members of the organisation on the evening of July 3rd in Rani Bagh, North-West Delhi. “We are supposed to shut up and take this nonsense all the time. So when we decide to stand up and for our voice to be heard, this is what is done to us,” Ayesha said in the video pointing to her clothes and mask which were covered in blood. She went out to highlight the condition of her colleagues Vipin, Abhishek, Deepak, who looked visibly harassed with their clothes torn. Their car was severly damaged as well.  In the video, she also alleged that their complaints were not taken seriously by Delhi Police.  However, on Twitter, the Delhi police handle claimed that an FIR had been filed at the Rani Bagh police station and “immediate medical assistance” was provided to the injured at the BJRM hospital.  The Delhi Commission of Women and its Chairperson, Swati Maliwal took cognizance of the matter and promised support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-is-now-routine-in-our-country-ngo-volunteers-in-delhi-allegedly-attacked-by-mob-while-helping-strays-857346.html
05-07-2020||National||Maruti Suzuki chairman pens book on industrialising India||The tasks of making India a country where manufacturing becomes globally competitive, and creating a socially just society, are very difficult, argues Maruti Suzuki chairman R C Bhargava. The problems have been compounded by losing almost seven decades after Independence without becoming a competitive industrialised country, he says, adding during this period, the gap between the rich and poor grew wider and various conditions developed that are inconsistent with competitive manufacturing and a socially just society. Manufacturing, at present, is far from competitive and contributes only 15 per cent of the GDP. As a result, removing the wide socioeconomic disparities remains a distant dream. But Bhargava is optimistic. "Despite the difficulties, it is still possible and necessary to achieve the objectives that have eluded us for so long, provided we exhibit a strong will to change and jointly work for the development of the country," he writes in his book "Getting Competitive: A Practitioner's Guide for India". "What needs to be done to industrialize India and to create an equitable society? Becoming competitive is a task in which everyone in the nation has a role and needs to contribute to the full extent. The government or industry alone is insufficient." In this book, published by HarperCollins India, Bhargava draws upon his experience of more than 60 years as a policymaker and industry leader to give practical suggestions. "Getting Competitive" is the "cumulative result of interacting with all those who, during my entire life, have been enablers in my journey of learning", he says. According to the author, it is necessary to build trust with the political system, governments, bureaucracy, judiciary and industrial leaders. "Each has to play an important role in this task, but the top industrial leadership has to take the lead in creating widespread confidence in itself. Private-sector industry will now have the responsibility for the most important area of national development, and the ability to successfully do this will require the people's trust," he suggests. Policymakers also have to recognise their role in making manufacturing competitive, he says, adding the ministries concerned, including those in the states, need to develop greater expertise in framing and implementing policies that are concerned with the establishment and operation of manufacturing industries. Bhargava suggests that socialistic industry-related policies should be replaced with those that would promote competitive manufacturing, and western management culture substituted with that of the East to create trust with citizens and partnership relations with industrialists, workers and the government. He says that becoming a competitive manufacturing nation requires special attention towards building a strong supply chain. Equally important would be the possibility of attracting global component manufacturers to India. "Changes for making manufacturing highly competitive may take some time. Meanwhile, these component manufacturers need to be attracted to invest in India and export a substantial part of their production. Possibly a special, flexible scheme could be evolved for this purpose," he suggests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maruti-suzuki-chairman-pens-book-on-industrialising-india-857356.html
05-07-2020||National||Spouse can't claim carte blanche to install recording device in bedroom: Delhi High Court||A spouse cannot claim carte blanche to install a recording device in bedroom and other private space to collect evidence in matrimonial disputes, as it would spell doom for family relationship and create havoc in their personal lives and in society, the Delhi High Court has said. Justice Anup J Bhambhani said that it is not uncommon for spouses to continue living together, even in matrimonial strife, for years on-end. So the beneficent statutory provision allowing a spouse to collect evidence must not be taken as a licence to resort to illegal means. The court, however, upheld a family court's order allowing a man to produce as evidence a CD containing conversation of his wife with another woman where she purportedly spoke in a derogatory and defamatory manner about him and his family. This, he claimed, constituted as cruelty enabling him to seek divorce. The wife, for her part, claimed that a secretly recorded conversation was a breach of her fundamental right to privacy. The court did not agree entirely to her contention. "While a litigating party certainly has a right to privacy, that right must yield to the right of an opposing party to bring evidence it considers relevant to court, to prove its case. It is a critical part of the hallowed concept of fair trial," it said.   The court also said since no fundamental right under the Constitution is absolute, in the event of conflict between two -- the right to privacy and the right to fair trial, both of which arise under the expansive Article 21--- the right to privacy may have to yield to the right to fair trial.  The court cited Section 14 of the Family Courts Act, to point out that it permitted the presiding judge to receive evidence, whether collected legitimately or otherwise, if the same would assist in effectively deciding the dispute.  For the family court, the test of admissibility of evidence is only its relevancy. The family court is thereby, freed of all rigours and restrictions of the law of evidence, the court said. "No purpose would therefore, be served by emasculating the salutary provisions of Section 14 of the Family Courts Act by citing breach of privacy," it said. However, the court said, "If the right to adduce evidence, collected by surreptitious means in a marital or family relationship, is available without any qualification or consequences, it could potentially create havoc in people’s personal and family lives and thereby, in the society at large."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spouse-cant-claim-carte-blanche-to-install-recording-device-in-bedroom-delhi-high-court-857359.html
05-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Indian Academy of Sciences criticises ICMR, Vikas Dubey's aide arrested||In today's episode, The Indian Academy of Sciences has strongly criticised the Indian Council of Medical Research's Covid-19 vaccine target, the main aide of notorious gangster Vikas Dubey arrested, Kanye West to run for US presidency and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu launches  Elyments App.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-indian-academy-of-sciences-criticises-icmr-vikas-dubeys-aide-arrested-857373.html
05-07-2020||National||Parents, teachers scramble for ways to teach as e-learning remains a dream in rural India||In a newly acquired daily ritual, students in Haryana’s Jhamri village open their textbooks at the sight of the cart that arrives near their homes, filling the vacuum left by closure of schools due to the lockdown and lack of digital infrastructure such as feeble internet connectivity. To maintain social distancing, the students take notes from their homes as a teacher imparts lessons using the loudspeaker attached to the cart. The innovative way to ensure that students catch up with the syllabus they have missed since classes were suspended has been initiated by Satyanarayan Sharma, who runs a school in the village in the state’s Jhajjar district. "The bigger issue is not the effect on students' learning levels but that they should not drop out,” Sharma told PTI. “I have arranged for a loudspeaker system on a cart. The teachers are asked to turn-wise go with the cart and park it at a feasible location and impart lessons from there. It cannot match up to classroom learning but will ensure some learning," he said. This strange new way of educating school students is not uncommon in the country's rural parts. The lockdown induced by Covid-19 in March prompted schools and colleges to move to the virtual world for teaching and learning activities. But weak internet penetration has turned e-education into a distant dream for many children in the rural areas. As per official statistics, there are over 35 crore students in the country. But it is not clear how many of them have access to digital devices and the internet. Ghanshyambhai, a teacher in Janan village, Gujarat, has started using the public announcement system of the village panchayat to share stories, songs, guidelines for parents on how to deal with children during the lockdown period, importance of exercising and much more. "During this challenging time, we can't expect students to just grab their parents' smartphones and start attending classes,” he told PTI.   He said while it is not possible to explain complex subjects like mathematical problems through loudspeakers, the method is at least ensuring that learning is not totally disrupted. "I also announce when I'll be at Panchayat Bhawan so students or parents who want to clear any doubts or to interact can see me there, while maintaining social distancing," he added.  In Maharashtra's Bhadole village, teachers have identified students who have access to smartphones and have formed groups clubbing them with students without any access. "It works if one among ten students has access to a phone and lives near the other students' homes," said Shano Devi, one of the teachers in the group. The teachers send lessons on the phones of the parents who have phones. The other students note down the lessons from the phones of their friends’ parents, complete assignments at their homes and send them back using the same device. The teachers have directed students to not gather at once at the homes of those with phones but in slots to ensure social distancing, Devi said. "We teachers have also pooled in money to get data recharges for parents who are enabling the group to study so they are not discouraged because of the expense," said Devi. Experts say the digital divide in the country may turn online classes into an operational nightmare. Anindit Roy Choudhary, director of programmes and policy impact, Save the Children (India), said India has a clear digital divide and rural areas are far beyond the digital outreach. "Education and learning are very clearly related to the environment the child is in. When a child is in school, a learning environment is created. That environment permits the child to learn," he said. Noting that many households either may not have a smartphone or children don't have access to digital devices. "The phone is owned by the man of the house. A father or older brother may not handover the phone to the child to learn...The problem with digitisation that we are taking for granted, is that a certain group of children will be missed out," he said. Choudhary said there is a need to build a campaign to bring back children in a learning environment . "Even if schools are not operational, the anganwadi centres can be functional in a multi-time way. Coronavirus is here to stay. We need to create opportunities for these children to come into a learning environment where they can maintain physical distance from each other, wear masks, have sanitised hands and sit in the learning environment to learn," he said. In many other parts of the country, teachers and parents are still scrambling to look for ways for the students to continue their studies. Imran Khan, a farmer, has started spending his evenings teaching his 12-year-old son. With low internet accessibility in his Khair village in UP, he has to go near the panchayat office where internet connectivity is better. Khan, who has studied till class 10 and had to drop out of school to help his father at the farm, said he downloads pdfs of various subjects and learns from them during the day to teach his son in the evenings. "I want my son to become an engineer. With this pandemic I can't let his studies get affected," he said. While Khan's ordeal is not uncommon, the real question is how many parents in the rural parts have the capacity to turn into teachers for their children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parents-teachers-scramble-for-ways-to-teach-as-e-learning-remains-a-dream-in-rural-india-857374.html
05-07-2020||National||MHA panel starts online consultation of experts on criminal law review||The online consultation with experts is spread over 83 days, which started on July 4 and ending on September 25. The MHA had set up the Committee for Reforms in Criminal Laws, headed by National Law University Vice-Chancellor Dr Ranbir Singh with leading lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani among others as its members, in May this year to undertake a review of criminal laws. The panel is tasked with recsxommending reforms in a "principled, effective, and efficient manner which ensures the safety and security of the individual, the community and nation and which prioritises the constitutional values of justice, dignity and the inherent worth of the individual". There will be two each consultation process spreading across days on substantive criminal law, procedural criminal law and Law of Evidence during which experts will be provided with questionnaires online and they will respond in a specific period. The first expert consultation is on substantive criminal law with regard to changes to be made in the IPC. It started on July 4 and will end this month-end. Amid a debate over the existence of colonial-era sedition law, one of the questions posed to the experts is about Section 124A (sedition) and whether there is any need for deleting it from the IPC or tone it down. The committee will also be looking into the introduction of new forms of punishments including principles of restorative justice and applying the revised punishment framework to the offences, reviewing the amounts of fine, identifying offences requiring an addition to the IPC and identifying redundant offences and if possible, studying the feasibility of amending these provisions to increase their relevance among others. It will also look into aligning provisions of the IPC with SC judgements. Experts have been asked about the possibility of reducing the minimum age for criminal responsibility from 18 years. At present, a juvenile above the age of 16 years is treated as an adult for rape. With regard to CrPC, committee will be looking into restructuring the Code with the preferred model of criminal process (due-process/crime-control) that not only protects rights of both the victim and accused but simultaneously ensures public safety and revising foundational definitions and classifications in order to bring the CrPC in line with modern legal developments. The panel will also look into strengthening the legislative foundations of criminal justice institutions in order to enhance their efficacy and effectiveness while simultaneously limiting abuse of powers, including discretionary powers and reforming provisions pertaining to arrest and bail so as to ensure better regulation of these powers, protection of the due process rights of the accused and the victim and public safety. Streamlining the trial process, including appeals, such that it ensures the disposal of cases in a time-bound manner while having due regard to the rights of all stakeholders is another area, which the committee will be looking for inputs. The panel is tasked to provide recommendations to modernise, update and reform the law of evidence to address contemporary and future challenges. The committee will be addressing divergence of legal opinions on evidence law doctrines such as "fruits of the poisonous tree" and "sealed cover" in light of recent judicial developments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-panel-starts-online-consultation-of-experts-on-criminal-law-review-857390.html
05-07-2020||National||Narendra Modi's Ladakh visit underscored India’s resolve to beat back Chinese aggression: Brahma Chellaney||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Ladakh underscored India’s resolve to beat back Chinese aggression and he delivered a clear message there to the neighbouring country with his reference to “expansionism”, strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney said on Sunday. Modi's visit and the speech were morale boosters for the troops and his reference to “expansionism” echoed the mounting international concern over China’s "imperial overreach under Xi Jinping, who has simultaneously opened multiple fronts", he said. "Modi’s visit to the Ladakh front underscored India’s resolve to beat back China’s aggression and encroachments," Chellaney told PTI Bhasha. "After weeks of concerted government effort to downplay the Himalayan border confrontation and obscure China’s encroachments, Modi’s visit to Ladakh helped shine a spotlight on the war-like situation India confronts," the strategic affairs expert said. Asserting that China has sought to take advantage of the world’s preoccupation with the Covid-19 pandemic, Chellaney said Xi has been pushing the limits, be it breaking Beijing’s binding commitment to Hong Kong’s autonomy, attempting to police the waters off the Japanese-controlled Senkaku Islands or picking up a border fight with India by encroaching on its territory. President Xi's actions are shifting attention from China’s culpability in the global spread of Covid-19 to the threat his authoritarian regime poses to international security, the professor of strategic studies at the Centre for Policy Research said. "Xi’s ambition, coupled with the concentration camps he has set up and the cult of personality around him, has led some to compare him with other expansionist despots of modern history. US National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien recently said that 'Xi sees himself as Joseph Stalin’s successor'," Chellaney said. "Some, however, have compared Xi with Adolf Hitler. Like Hitler’s expansionism, Xi has opened multiple fronts. And, what Xi’s regime is doing to the Muslims of Xinjiang appears to be a reprise of what the Nazis did to the Jews. In fact, Xi has earned the social-media nickname of 'Xitler'," he said. Chellaney said without naming China, Modi delivered a clear message to the country and this was apparent from Beijing’s reaction to the prime minister's speech. "If a message can be conveyed without naming the country, is there any need to mention the country by name?" he asked. Two weeks before he went to Ladakh, Modi had created confusion with a speech at an all-party meeting, but with his remarks in Ladakh, Modi has made amends for the June 19 speech, the strategic affairs expert said. Modi made a surprise visit to Ladakh on Friday during which he said the era of expansionism is over and that the history is proof that "expansionists" have either lost or perished, in comments seen as a clear message to China. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. India has been insisting on restoring status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh to restore peace and tranquillity in the region. Asked about India's move to ban 59 Chinese mobile applications and the strategy of creating trade barriers to deal with an aggressive China, Chellaney said India must fight China’s aggression on all fronts, including economic and diplomatic. "It must wage a diplomatic offensive globally to highlight China’s aggression and to shame China. Unfortunately, India’s statement on Hong Kong has been very weak," the geostrategist said. India should leverage its buying power to correct the trade imbalance with China and impose costs on Beijing for its belligerence, Chellaney said. On whether India can depend on the US or some other allies against China, he said India can expect some diplomatic support but no military support from the West. "India is a strategic partner of the US, not a military alliance partner. But even if India had a military alliance with the US, it may make little difference. In 2012, the US looked the other way when China snatched the Scarborough Shoal from the Philippines, despite America’s military alliance pact with the Philippines," he said. Talking about the options for resolving the border crisis, Chellaney said China has changed the territorial status quo through incursions into Ladakh and India wants to restore status quo ante. "China is unlikely to peacefully vacate its encroachments," he said. Against this background, India must use its economic and diplomatic cards to raise China’s costs, Chellaney said. It must prolong the military standoff to put the international spotlight on the Chinese aggression, he said, adding that India must also end its one-China policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modis-ladakh-visit-underscored-india-s-resolve-to-beat-back-chinese-aggression-brahma-chellaney-857404.html
05-07-2020||National||NHRC sets up panel to assess Covid-19 impact on human rights||The National Commission for Human Rights (NHRC) has set up an 11-member expert committee, including Public Health Foundation of India President Dr K S Reddy and rights activist Maja Daruwala, to assess the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on human rights, especially those of marginalised and vulnerable sections of the society. The move comes against the backdrop of a series of interventions by the NHRC during the Covid-19 pandemic and national lockdown, which included taking strong note of the plight of migrant workers and nudging authorities to act. The NHRC issued an office memorandum about the setting up of the committee of experts on July 4. The NHRC will take into account the recommendations of the committee to issue "necessary advisory to the central and state governments". According to the Terms of Reference, the committee will identify the best practices in dealing with the human rights situation in any part of the country or abroad. Taking into account the Covid-19 pandemic, the panel will be meeting on virtual platforms. Officials of central government ministries will also be associated with the committee in order to get first-hand information about the steps being taken by the authorities to deal with the situation. Besides Reddy and Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative board members and NHRC Special Monitor (Police and Prisons Reforms), the other members of the committee include Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences Director Dr Nimesh G Desai, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan national convenor Abhay Shukla, NHRC Special Monitor (Rights of Persons with Disabilities) Rajive Raturi and Agewell Chairman Himanshu Rath. Other members are SAMA: Resource Group for Women and Health Director N B Sarojini, HAQ: Centre for Child Rights co-founder Enakshi Ganguly, Right Food Campaign's Dr Dipa Sinha, Action Aid Association Executive Director Dr Sandeep Chachra and business and human rights expert Viraf Mehta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-sets-up-panel-to-assess-covid-19-impact-on-human-rights-857405.html
05-07-2020||National||Locust menace: United Nations FAO asks India to be on high alert for next 4 weeks||India, which is tackling the worst locust attack in 26 years for the last three months, should remain on "high alert" during the next four weeks, according to the UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). Meanwhile, the Indian government has stepped up efforts and is using latest technology and equipment like drones and Bell helicopters for control of the menace. Rajasthan is the most affected state in the country. The other affected states are Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar. In its latest update, the FAO said that spring-bred locust swarms that migrated to Indo-Pakistan border and travelled east to northern states, are expected to return back to Rajasthan with the start of the monsoon in coming days. These swarms will return to Rajasthan to join other swarms still arriving from Iran and Pakistan, which is expected to be supplemented by swarms from the Horn of Africa in about mid-July, it added. "Early breeding has already occurred along the Indo-Pakistan border where substantial hatching and band formation will take place in July that will cause the first-generation summer swarms to form in mid-August," FAO said. India and Pakistan as well as Sudan, Ethiopia, South Sudan and Somalia should remain on "high alert during the next four weeks," it noted. According to the Union Agriculture Ministry, swarms of immature pink locusts and adult yellow locusts are active in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Dausa, and Bharatpur of Rajasthan, and Jhansi and Mahoba districts of Uttar Pradesh. However the government is continuing the control operations to check damage to crops from locust attacks. On July 4, a Bell Helicopter took its first sortie in Jaisalmer district of Rajasthan and completed its mission of chemical spraying in targeted areas, thereby augmenting the locust control efforts. In the intervening night of July 3-4, control operations were carried out at 25 places in six districts (Jaisalmer, Barmer, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Nagaur, and Dausa) of Rajasthan and two places in Jhansi district of Uttar Pradesh by the Locust Circle Offices (LCOs), it said. Besides this, State Agriculture Departments also carried out control operations at four places in Jhansi and Mahoba districts of Uttar Pradesh and at two places in Bharatpur district of Rajasthan against small groups and scattered population of locusts. So far, locust control operations have been done in a total 1,35,207 hectares area in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana by the Locust Circle Offices (LCOs). The state governments have also taken control measures in 1,13,215.5 hectares area in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar. "No significant crop losses have been reported in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Haryana. However, some minor crop losses have been reported in some districts of Rajasthan," the ministry said. Presently, 60 control teams with spray vehicles are deployed in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. More than 200 central government personnel are engaged in locust control operations. Besides, five companies with 12 drones are deployed at Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Nagaur and Phalodi in Rajasthan for effective control of locusts on tall trees and in inaccessible areas through spraying of pesticides. India is the first country which is using drones for locust control, the ministry said. Weekly virtual meetings on desert locust of South-West Asian countries (Afghanistan, India, Iran and Pakistan) is being organised by the FAO. So far, 15 virtual meetings of the technical officers of these countries have taken place, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locust-menace-united-nations-fao-asks-india-to-be-on-high-alert-for-next-4-weeks-857408.html
05-07-2020||National||Parliament panel to discuss preparedness to fight Covid-19 and future pandemics||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change will meet on July 10 to discuss Covid-19 situation in the country, research and development and the preparedness to fight pandemics in the future. The multi-party panel, headed by senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh, will be the first Parliamentary Standing Committee to discuss Covid-19, as an earlier attempt by a similar panel on Home Affairs slated for June 3 had to be cancelled after some MPs expressed their inability to attend the meeting on account of quarantine in different states. A meeting of the Standing Committee on Labour scheduled for June 10 was also earlier cancelled. The Ramesh-led panel will discuss "preparedness to deal with Covid-19 and other pandemics in future". "The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science & Technology is meeting on July 10th to discuss research and development issues relating to Covid-19, and what more we can do to deal with future pandemics. Your suggestions are welcome. Please email them to rsc-st@sansad.nic.in," Ramesh tweeted. With physical distancing norms in place due to the pandemic, the Parliament is making extra efforts to ensure that committee rooms with adequate space are allotted for such meetings. Earlier, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had reviewed the preparedness for holding such meetings. Both the Rajya Sabha Chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker had directed that the participation of officials from both the secretariats and the ministries appearing before the committees would be kept to bear minimum to comply with social distancing norm. There have been demands for holding the Parliamentary Standing Committee meetings through video conference but it did not go forward as the Parliament had to pass a resolution in this regard. Also, questions about confidentiality of proceedings were also raised. While no other meetings of Standing Committees under Rajya Sabha have been scheduled, three committees under Lok Sabha have set dates for meeting this month. The first one would be that of the Standing Committee on Petroleum on July 7, during which the officials of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas as well as Public Sector Units in the oil sector would brief the MPs about the National Gas Grid. On July 10, the Public Accounts Committee headed by leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will meet to select subjects for examination during 2020-21. On July 14, the Standing Committee on Information Technology under senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor will take oral evidence from the officials of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on data security and privacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-to-discuss-preparedness-to-fight-covid-19-and-future-pandemics-857412.html
05-07-2020||National||SC comes out with fresh SOP for hearing through video-conferencing, listing of cases||As per the SOP, hearing of matters by the benches of the apex court shall continue through video-conferencing. It said fresh matters lying in the pool, which could not be listed earlier, may be listed before the virtual court in the week commencing July 6. "In order to contain the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19), considering the prevailing situation, and taking into account the suggestions received from various quarters and the guidelines issued by the Government of India and Government of NCT of Delhi from time to time, the Chief Justice of India has been pleased to direct the constitution of the bench(es) for hearing of matters through virtual courts with effect from July 6, 2020," the SOP uploaded on the apex court website said. It said that from July 13, subject to availability of matters and also the requirement, the miscellaneous cases may be listed for hearing on Monday and Friday. "On non-miscellaneous days i.e. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, miscellaneous matters including final hearing matters and regular matters may be listed, giving preference to part heard matters," it said. "Parties may kindly note that, for the present, the matters shall be heard by the bench through web-based video-conferencing system on the VIDYO platform hosted on the servers of National Data Centre of National Informatics Centre, Govt of India and in case the video conferencing is not functional, through tele-conferencing," it said. The apex court said that during hearing through video-conferencing, the parties may kindly keep in mind that "they are participating in court proceedings, and hence it is expected that they would not resort to any indecorous conduct or dress or comment…." Earlier, the apex court, which has been hearing matters through video-conferencing amid the coronavirus pandemic, had decided on May 15 to postpone its summer vacation by five weeks and declared that it would remain functional from May 18 to June 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-comes-out-with-fresh-sop-for-hearing-through-video-conferencing-listing-of-cases-857413.html
05-07-2020||National||Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, sowing for kharif crops pick up||Farm operations have picked pace in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic with farmers taking to sowing for summer crops with gusto, having covered 432.97 lakh hectares of arable land, almost double the area that was brought under cultivation the same time last year. Aided by a good rainfall, increased 88% to 432.97 lakh hectares till July 3 as against 230 lakh hectares for the corresponding period the previous year, with oilseeds and pulses recording the highest increase. Arhar, soybean and bajra appear to be favourites among farmers besides the main kharif crop of paddy as acreage for these have increased significantly over the previous year. Farmers had sowed arhar on 16.56 lakh hectares as against just 2.79 lakh last year, while the acreage for soybean was 81.81 lakh hectares as against 16.43 lakh hectares last year. In coarse cereals, the acreage for bajra has increased to 17.90 lakh hectares as against 7.85 lakh hectares last year. Jowar too has been sown on 4.55 lakh hectares as against 1.7 lakh hectares acreage achieved at this time last year. Paddy has been sown on 68.08 lakh hectares of farm land as against 49.23 lakh hectares last year. The sale of fertilisers too has seen a spike this year, indicating that farm operations are on track in the times of Covid-19. Between April and June, farmers across the country bought 111.61 lakh tonnes of fertilisers, which is 82.81% higher than the sales for the previous year. The government had allowed operations of fertiliser plants throughout the lockdown period to ensure that agriculture operations do not suffer on account of Covid-19 restrictions. Planting of cotton has witnessed a 100% increase with 91.7 lakh hectares of farmland brought under cultivation, while maize has seen 96% increase in acreage to 45.58 lakh hectares as against 23.27 lakh hectare the previous year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-the-covid-19-pandemic-sowing-for-kharif-crops-pick-up-857414.html
05-07-2020||National||Govt blocks 40 pro-Khalistani websites seeking separate Sikh homeland||The government has blocked 40 websites of 'Sikhs for Justice', a banned Khalistani outfit that is running a campaign 'Referendum 2020' seeking a separate homeland for the Sikhs.An official spokesperson said on Sunday that the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeiTY) has issued orders under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act for blocking 40 websites of Sikhs for Justice following a recommendation from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).The outfit, which was set up in 2007, was banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 in July last year. The government's move comes a day after the Sikhs for Justice launched an online campaign for registering voters for its 'Referendum 2020'.Reports claimed that Sikhs For Justice launched its much-publicised online voter registration for ''Referendum 2020'' on Saturday for people in Punjab through a Russian portal (http://www.punjabfree.ru/). It had appealed to people in Punjab and aged 18 or above from any religion as well as the Sikhs living anywhere in India to register their votes for participation in the non-governmental Punjab Independence Referendum.While www.punjabfree.ru could not be accessed, another website www.referendum2020.org was online at the time of reporting. On July 1, the government had designated US-based Sikhs for Justice's Gurpatwant Singh Pannun as a terrorist under UAPA. Pannun is the "attorney, law and legal advisor" of the outfit.The government has said that Pannun is spearheading the 'Referendum 2020' and has been "found actively" in touch with UK-based Babbar Khalsa operative Paramjit Singh, Canada-based Khalistan Tiger Force's Hardeep Singh and International Sikh Youth Federation's Malkit Singh Fauji besides Punjab-based "hardliners".It has said Pannun has been issuing appeals through social media to "Punjab-based gangsters and youth to fight for the cause of the independent state of Khalistan, challenging the sovereignty, integrity and security of the country He has demanded and advocating a separate State Khalistan".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-blocks-40-pro-khalistani-websites-seeking-separate-sikh-homeland-857421.html
05-07-2020||National||Space policy, Space Activities Bill in final stages: ISRO chairman K Sivan||The space policy and the Space Activities Bill are in the final stages, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Chairman K Sivan said, days after the government opened up the space sector for private players. A dedicated policy for space and legislation on space activities has been under works for some time now. But with the government allowing the private sector, these have now got traction. When asked whether the government is coming up with a space law, Sivan, who is also secretary, Department of Space, said, “Yes, we definitely have to do that also.” “There are two aspects. One is space policy and (the other) Space Activities Bill... both are final stages,” Sivan told PTI. Last month, the government announced a major reform in India's space arena by allowing the private sector to carry out space activities like building rockets, satellites and providing launch services. The ISRO chairman said very soon a system will be put in place for approval that will enable these activities to happen without any hindrance. The space policy and the Space Activities Bill will help address legal issues in this strategic sector. Last month, during an online briefing, Sivan had said a new Navigation Policy is also being proposed and suitable changes in Remote Sensing Data Policy, as well as SATCOM policy, are also on the anvil. These changes are aimed at aligning these policies to an open and inclusive space sector, Sivan had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/space-policy-space-activities-bill-in-final-stages-isro-chairman-k-sivan-857428.html
05-07-2020||National||PM Modi calls on President Kovind as India-China military stand-off enters third month||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday – amid the continuing military stand-off along India-China disputed border in eastern Ladakh. PM Modi briefed Kovind “on the issues of national and international importance”, Rashtrapati Bhavan posted on Twitter, but refrained from divulging further details. The meeting between the Prime Minister and the President, who is the supreme commander of the Indian Army, Air Force and Navy, is significant, as the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between India and China in western sector – entered into the third month. The Prime Minister called on the President two days after he visited Ladakh – closer to the scene of the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) – and took a subtle dig at China, stating that the era of expansionism was over and the history had witnessed that expansionist forces had always been defeated. Beijing reacted sharply, warned New Delhi against “strategic miscalculation” and dismissed the “expansionist” jibe as “groundless” claiming that China already settled its boundary with 12 of its 14 neighbours.       A source told the DH that the Prime Minister had briefed the President about his visit to Ladakh, the situation along the LAC and the status of the talks between the diplomats and the senior military officials of India and China to resolve the stand-off and defuse tension. He also briefed the President about the continuous unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan Army along the Line of Control as well as the undisputed stretch of border between India and the western neighbouring country, said the source. New Delhi is continuing talks with Beijing to resolve the stand-off in eastern Ladakh, but it also stepped up preparedness to deal with any flashpoint in middle and eastern sectors of the India-China disputed boundary, Modi is learnt to have conveyed to Kovind. The two-month-long stand-off took New Delhi’s relations with Beijing to a new low, particularly after the violent clash between the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the violent face-off. The Prime Minister seems to have also briefed the President about China’s military assertiveness elsewhere too – in South China Sea, East China Sea and Taiwan Strait. He also conveyed to the President that India was continuing diplomatic contacts with the United States, Russia, Japan, Australia and France and other like-minded friendly nations in the Indo-Pacific region, which were at the receiving end of the aggression of the communist country.    Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, had yet another marathon meeting with his counterpart Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on June 30. It was the third meeting between them after transgressions by the Chinese PLA in multiple locations across the LAC in eastern Ladakh and build-ups as well as the Indian Army’s countermeasures escalated tension along India-China disputed boundary. They earlier had similar meetings on June 6 and June 22.   The senior diplomats of India and China also had video-conferences on June 5 and June 22, with the last one being held within the framework of the “Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on Border Affairs, which was instituted in 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-on-president-kovind-as-india-china-military-stand-off-enters-third-month-857431.html
05-07-2020||National||3 more test positive for Covid-19 in Meghalaya, total active cases 28||Three more persons, including a BSF personnel, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Meghalaya, raising the number of active cases in the state to 28, a senior health official said. The two others, who tested positive in the past 24 hours, are in Ri-Bhoi district, he said. While one person is a high-risk contact of a Covid-19 patient, another is a returnee from Bihar who tested positive at Umroi town, the official said. As many as 12 persons from the BSF have so far contracted the virus in Meghalaya. Health authorities in the state have asked the Border Security Force to get their personnel posted at Lyngkhat village along the Indo-Bangla border tested for Covid-19 after four jawans tested positive since Friday, officials said. The four BSF jawans have been admitted at the BSF Hospital here. "We have issued an advisory to the BSF hospital to take samples of all the BSF personnel at the Lyngkhat border outpost," Director of Health Services (MI) Dr Aman War told PTI. Since the detection of the first patient on April 13, a total of 72 Covid-19 cases have been registered in the state. One person has succumbed to the disease so far, and 43 others have recovered. Meanwhile, officials in Ri Bhoi said, the 48-hour curfew clamped on a few villages in the district, along the Meghalaya-Assam border, will continue to remain in force till 9pm on Sunday. The curfew has been imposed as part of the government's measures to curb the spread of the disease in the state, the officials said. The night curfew imposed from 10 pm till 5 am across the state has been extended till July 13, a senior home official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-meghalaya-total-active-cases-28-857435.html
05-07-2020||National||India becomes third worst affected country by coronavirus, overtakes Russia||India on Sunday edged past Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the Covid-19 pandemic, powered by a surge in new infections in southern states of Karnataka and Telangana which have reported a jump in fresh cases over the past few days. On Sunday morning, India had 6,73,165 confirmed cases of Covid-19, of which 4,09,083 had recovered and had been discharged from hospitals, while 19,268 had succumbed to the disease. As many as 2,44,814 patients were under active medical supervision. “The national recovery rate now is at 60.77 per cent,” the health ministry said. Maharashtra continued to report the highest number of Covid-19 cases as it added 6,555 new infections on Sunday evening, as against the 7,074 cases reported on Saturday. Karnataka reported 1,925 cases on Sunday, slightly higher than the 1,839 new infections it had reported on Saturday. Tamil Nadu reported 4,150 cases on Sunday as against 4,280 cases on Saturday, while Kerala, which has a low caseload, too has been adding new infections at a faster pace. Kerala had reported 240 new infections on Saturday, while it added 225 cases on Sunday.    Telangana too has been reporting higher number of patients – 1,850 on Saturday. Delhi’s Covid-19 count inched closer to one lakh-mark as 2,244 cases were reported on Sunday. The national capital now has 99,444 confirmed cases of the infectious disease, while 63 fatalities pushed the total deaths to 3,067. On the testing front, India has tested 2,48,934 samples for Covid-19 on Saturday across its network of 1,100 laboratories that include 786 state-run facilities and 314 private laboratories. The total number of samples tested so far is 97.89 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-becomes-third-worst-affected-country-by-coronavirus-overtakes-russia-857442.html
05-07-2020||National||50-year-old man accused of raping two minor girls in Nizamabad||A 50-year-old man has been accused of raping two minor girls in Nizamabad district by luring them with chocolates, police said on Sunday. Based on a complaint, the police said the accused took the girls, aged 7 and 8, to a secluded place at Yedapally four days ago and allegedly raped them. The man is absconding, the police said adding that a case under sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-year-old-man-accused-of-raping-two-minor-girls-in-nizamabad-857444.html
05-07-2020||National||Covid-19 vaccine row: Confusion on PIB article written by Science Ministry official||A popular science article on Covid-19 vaccine research by a government official that appeared in a government publication created much confusion on Sunday with a section of the media and twitter users declaring it as an official counter to the ICMR’s controversial target of public rolling out of the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by August 15. In the article that appeared first in India Science Wire – published by Vigyan Prasar under the Department of Science and Technology – DST official T V Venkateswaran wrote that with the DCGI granting the permission for Phase-I and II trials for the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine (Covaxin), it would take 15-18 months before licenses are issued for commercial production of the vaccine. This is based on the presumption that all the trials proceeded smoothly with positive results. When the same article was reproduced by the Press Information Bureau with some editing, it initially said that two home-grown vaccines – Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and ZyCov-D Vaccine by Zydus Cadila – are unlikely to be ready for mass use by 2021 (albeit the English used in the original PIB article was wrong). This led to a series of posting and reports in social and online media adding fuel to the already simmering ICMR vaccine trial row even though the PIB dropped the article within minutes and uploaded a revised version with no reference to the year. A spokesperson from the Science Ministry clarified to DH that the article was not an official statement of the ministry on the Covid-19 vaccine controversy. “The nod given by the Drug Controller General of India for the conduct of the human trial for the vaccines, marks the beginning of the end,” says the revised article uploaded by the PIB.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-row-confusion-on-pib-article-written-by-science-ministry-official-857461.html
05-07-2020||National||PM to unveil Asia's largest solar plant in MP on July 10: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate to the nation Asia's largest 750 MW Rewa ultra mega solar plant in Madhya Pradesh via video conferencing on July 10, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said in Delhi on Sunday. A state government release also quoted that Chouhan has met Union minister of state for energy R K Singh at his residence in the national capital and urged him to attend the inauguration programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-unveil-asias-largest-solar-plant-in-mp-on-july-10-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-857465.html
05-07-2020||National||Minor girl allegedly raped, murdered for stealing mangoes in Bihar||In a gruesome incident, a 14-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped and murdered for stealing mangoes from the orchard of an ex-army officer in Darbhanga, located 139 kilometres from Patna in northern Bihar. This triggered massive anger among the localites, who went on a rampage as the house was ransacked by a mob after the incident came to light. While the accused ex-army officer, Arjun Mishra is currently absconding, his wife was attacked by the mob, before being rescued and arrested by the police. An FIR has been filed against Mishra, his wife, and a young man who lived in their house. The girl had left her home at 6 am in the morning and when she did not return for approximately two hours, her family members started searching for her. Subsequently, her body  was discovered in an orchard near Mishra’s house with ligature marks on her neck, according to SHO Jaja Ali. The alleged rape and murder of the minor triggered an outrage on social media as well as and the hashtag #JusticeForJyoti began to trend on Twitter.  There was a social media rumour that Jyoti Paswan, a 15-year-old girl who cycled 1,200 kilometres to take her father home from Delhi amidst a nationwide lockdown, was actually the victim here. The rumour has been debunked. While both belonged to Darbhanga, the victim here is not the “cycle-girl” whose story garnered international attention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minor-girl-allegedly-raped-murdered-for-stealing-mangoes-in-bihar-857471.html
05-07-2020||National||Off the record: July 5, 2020||Exposing Hurriyat  Senior separatist leader, Syed Ali Geelani’s resignation from Hurriyat conference is more than his divorce to the separatist politics. His two-page resignation endorses in detail that the Hurriyat leaders had been resorting to financial irregularities and other corruption only to mint personal fortunes. Well from building mansions for personal living to sending kids aboard for a better future, the Hurriyat leaders have been living a princely life. But from where would this money come? This question used to be a mystery until Geelani recently spilt the beans. But then, a majority of Hurriyat leaders including Geelani’s rival Mirwaiz Umar Farooq have been silent over the allegations. Was Hurriyat another name for business? Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar Weakened Chouhan  As Madhya Pradesh chief minister for 14 long years, Shivraj Singh Chouhan had never looked so undermined by the BJP high command as he is today, thanks to Jyotiraditya Scindia.  In his three terms in the past, Chouhan had had smooth sailing in choosing his team of ministers. But in the cabinet expansion on Thursday, he was denied permission to induct his trusted aides of the past while Scindia supporters have dominated the ministry.  In department allocation too, Chouhan is under tremendous pressure. Scindia wants all important portfolios for his acolytes.  The high command is reported to have told the chief minister to oblige the turncoat politician whose revolt against the Congress-led to the fall of the Kamal Nath government in March.   Rakesh Dixit, Bhopal   Mamata’s way For politicians, especially those who are sitting MLAs and MPs of the ruling party, a state a review meeting called by the party supremo is almost always a cause for concern. With a political career spanning over decades, West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee knows better than anyone else. She struck the right chord at a recent meeting with MLAs. She started the meeting by asking MLAs who wanted to contest the next Assembly elections in 2021 to raise their hands. The MLAs were a bit taken aback but promptly raised their hands. Except for one of them. “Don’t you want to contest elections anymore?” came a question from Mamata. Immediately that MLA raised his hand, visibly embarrassed. TMC sources said Mamata wanted to remind her MLAs that without performance they will not get the party ticket.   Soumya Das, Kolkata  Word wars  When Prime Minister Narendra Modi landed in Leh on a surprise visit on July 3, his supporters were gushing with praise on how the 69-year-old leader effortlessly went about the day-long visit at 11,000 feet where oxygen levels are low. Perhaps, it was for the first time any reference was made to the age of the Prime Minister. As Modi’s supporters went gaga over his trip to Ladakh and a powerful address to the soldiers, Congress tried to spoil the party by flooding social networking platforms with the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s visit to Siachen glacier in 2005, located at a much higher altitude than Leh. The reports also highlighted that Singh was the first prime minister to visit Siachen, that too at the age of 73 and after having undergone a heart procedure a couple of years back. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Election prep Lok Janashakti Party patron and Union Minister Ramvilas Paswan was the toast of the political class on Sunday when he turned 74. Prime Minister Narendra Modi described him as a major asset for the Government on account of his administrative experience and insight on key policy issues. BJP leaders showered praise on the veteran leader who has been a minister in every government since 1996. The latest overtures of the BJP to Paswan come ahead of the Bihar assembly elections later this year where LJP may have to cede ground to JD(U) the senior alliance partner of the BJP in the state. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/off-the-record-july-5-2020-857480.html
05-07-2020||National Politics||Congress leader P Chidambaram shares photo collage of PM Modi, Manmohan's visits to injured soldiers||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday tweeted a photo collage drawing comparisons between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his predecessor Manmohan Singh while meeting injured soldiers, and said "pictures worth a million words". His tweet came after the Indian Army termed as "malicious and unsubstantiated" criticism in some quarters about a medical facility in a military hospital in Leh where Prime Minister Modi interacted with soldiers injured in the Galwan Valley clashes with Chinese troops. In a statement, the Army said "it is unfortunate that aspersions are being cast on how our brave Armed Forces are treated. The armed forces give the best possible treatment to their personnel." Following release of photographs of Modi's interaction with the injured soldiers, there were comments on Twitter that the facility did not look like a hospital as there were no medicine cabinets, I V (intravenous) stand, and other medical equipment. Earlier, when Congress leader Kapil Sibal was asked about Modi's visit to the hospital, he said, "What is happening in the last six years is marketing. The truth is different and something else is being shown." "I laud them as this is their strong point -- of showing dreams and hiding the truth. That is the truth and this is their politics," Sibal said, referring to the ruling BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-p-chidambaram-shares-photo-collage-of-pm-modi-manmohans-visits-to-injured-soldiers-857185.html
05-07-2020||National Politics||Morale of armed forces very high, ready to sacrifice lives for country: ITBP chief S S Deswal||The morale of the Indian armed forces is "very high" and the troops are ready to sacrifice their lives for the nation like in the past, ITBP chief S S Deswal said on Sunday as the military standoff with China continued in Ladakh. The ITBP Director General (DG) said the recent visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Ladakh and his address to troops in Nimu "have raised the morale of all the forces at the border". "The complete national leadership, political leadership and the forces and jawans...they are dedicated to the nation. They are dedicated to border security and the morale of all forces, be it the Indian Army, Air Force or ITBP, is very high," Deswal told reporters on the sidelines of an event to inaugurate an over-10,000-bed Covid care centre here. Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal inaugurated the facility for which the mountain-warfare trained force is the nodal agency. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the national capital and volunteers of the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas have joined hands to run the "Sardar Patel Covid care centre" located in south Delhi's Chattarpur area. Deswal said armed forces personnel have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty in the past and they are ready to dedicate their lives to the nation in the future as well. Talking about the facility, he said the team of doctors and paramedics of the force is "capable" of handling a large number of patients as it has the experience of running the country's first coronavirus quarantine centre created by the ITBP in the Chhawla area of the national capital as also of treating police personnel infected with the virus at the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) referral hospital in Greater Noida. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is primarily tasked with guarding the 3,488-kilometres Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China on the country's eastern flank and its troops are present, along with the Army, to counter the Chinese forces during the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh's Galwan valley area and other locations. The force has inducted about 30 fresh companies (around 3,000 personnel) to bolster its numbers at various locations along the LAC in view of the standoff with the People's Liberation Army (PLA) of China||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/morale-of-armed-forces-very-high-ready-to-sacrifice-lives-for-country-itbp-chief-s-s-deswal-857272.html
05-07-2020||National Politics||PM Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind discuss 'issues of national and international importance': Rashtrapati Bhavan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called on President Ram Nath Kovind and the two leaders discussed issues of national and international importance, Rashtrapati Bhavan officials said. The meeting comes after the Prime Minister had visited Leh earlier this week and addressed soldiers following the June 15 clashes in the higher reaches of that region with Chinese troops in which 20 army personnel sacrificed their lives for the nation. After the meeting, the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted, "Prime Minister @narendramodi called on President Kovind and briefed him on the issues of national and international importance...".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-president-ram-nath-kovind-discuss-issues-of-national-and-international-importance-rashtrapati-bhavan-857286.html
05-07-2020||National Politics||Large projects on to augment India's border infrastructure: Nitin Gadkari||To augment India's border infrastructure, a large number of highway projects are underway including in Jammu and Kashmir, Arunachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, both by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) as well as NHIDCL, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said. Work is also progressing on 17 strategic highway-cum-airstrips, three of which have been completed, he said. Besides, work is on in full swing on the Rs 12,000 crore ambitious Chardham project for providing all-weather connectivity to Gangotri, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Badrinath. The BRO has achieved a major milestone in the project by successfully digging a 440-metre long tunnel below the busy Chamba town on the Rishikesh-Dharasu national highway, he said. "We have completed three of the 17 strategic projects where highway stretches can double up as airstrips, mostly in border areas. Work on others is progressing fast," the road transport and highways minister told PTI. The projects, in collaboration with the defence ministry, will enable highway stretches to double up as airstrips when needed in border areas where there are no airports in 300-400 km vicinity, he said. The minister said traffic operations on such strips, which are already minimal as they are in remote areas, would be controlled via railway type electronic gates in case of need for airplanes to land or take off. Earlier, a committee was constituted comprising officials of both the highways and defence ministries to come out with specifications for such highway stretches. "In addition, we have taken up a large number of projects to boost infrastructure in border areas to develop the same under Bharatmala. These include Rajasthan border, Jammu and Kashmir borders, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and the northeast including Arunachal Pradesh. The intention is all round development of such areas, to boost industries there and create employment," the minister said. A large number of these projects are being executed by BRO and the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL), he said. A total of about 34,800 kms are being considered in Phase I of the Bharatmala Pariyojna at an estimated cost of Rs 5.35 lakh crore. "Sound infrastructure brings industries and employment. Simultaneously, it will boost the value of the agriculture and other produce in the border areas," Gadkari said. Much work has been done on the Rs 12,000 crore Chardham project to ensure all-year connectivity to Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri. The latest Austrian technology has been used in Chamba tunnel, a major link of Chardham project, he said, adding the tunnel will be opened for traffic by October 2020, three months ahead of its scheduled date of completion of January 2021. BRO has been working in some of the most difficult terrains and ensuring implementation of critical projects, he said. It has been entrusted with 251 kms of the Chardham project and this consists of 17 packages out of which 10 projects of 151 km have been sanctioned. He said BRO recently completed a strategically crucial road from Dharchula to Lipulekh, popularly known as Kailash Mansarovar Yatra route. The newly built 80-km road connects the Lipulekh pass at a height of 17,000 feet along the border with China in Uttarakhand with Dharchula. With the completion of this project, the arduous trek through the treacherous high-altitude terrain can now be avoided by the pilgrims of Kailash Mansarovar Yatra and the period of journey will be reduced by many days. At present, the travel to Kailash Mansarovar takes around two to three weeks through Sikkim or Nepal routes. The Darchula - Lipulekh road is an extension of the Pithoragarh-Tawaghat-Ghatiabagarh road. It originates from Ghatiabagarh and terminates at Lipulekh Pass, the gateway to Kailash Mansarovar. In this 80 km road, the altitude rises from 6,000 feet to 17,060 feet. BRO had lost many lives in the construction of this road and 25 equipment were also badly damaged after they fell into Kali Nadi. But despite all odds, in the last two years, BRO could increase its output by 20 times by creating multiple attack points and inducting modern technology equipment. Helicopters were also extensively used to induct hundreds of tonnes of equipment into this sector, the government had said. The minister also suggested converting old defence aircraft into cargo carriers to boost cargo transportation from remote areas and thereby spur the economy of these regions. "There is need to explore the possibility of converting old defence and airlines aircraft into cargo carriers," he said, adding that pilots can be employed on contract basis. The minister also said the government is constructing 22 green expressways to augment the country's overall infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/large-projects-on-to-augment-indias-border-infrastructure-nitin-gadkari-857297.html
05-07-2020||National Politics||Former MLA, convict in 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, dies of Covid-19||A former MLA serving jail sentence in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case died due to Covid-19 at a hospital in New Delhi, the second inmate of Mandoli prison to have succumbed to the infection, officials said on Sunday. Mahender Yadav (70) was a former MLA from Palam constituency. He was lodged in Jail no. 14 of Mandoli prison, where he was undergoing a sentence of 10 years, and had been hospitalised on June 26, they said. Another convict Kanwar Singh, who died last month and had tested positive for coronavirus, was also lodged in Jail no. 14. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said that Yadav complained of uneasiness and some heart related problems on June 26. He was taken to DDU hospital, from where he was referred to LNJP hospital the same day and admitted there. Later, on his family's request, he was allowed to be shifted under police guard to a private hospital in Dwarka on June 30. "We received information that Mahender Yadav expired in Akash hospital on July 4 evening," he added. Yadav was lodged in jail since December 2018, according to officials. Kanwar Singh died on June 15 in his sleep. A Covid-19 test had turned out to be positive, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-mla-convict-in-1984-anti-sikh-riots-case-dies-of-covid-19-857348.html
05-07-2020||National Politics||Govt allots Priyanka Gandhi's Lutyens bungalow to BJP MP Anil Baluni||Days after cancelling the allotment of a government bungalow to Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in the national capital,  the Centre has alloted same house to  BJP Rajya Sabha MP and spokesperson Anil Baluni. Baluni, who is also the BJP national media head is currently staying at 20, Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Road, a Type 6 bungalow. Earlier, he had requested the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry to change his Gurudwara Ganj Road on health grounds, said an offical in the Urban Development Ministry. The government on July 1 served a notice to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asking to vacate the Type 6 B bunglow  35, Lodhi Estate by August 1. The government cancelled allotment of government accomodation to Vadra citing she is no longer a SPG protectee and having only Z+ security. Z+ protectees are not entitled for a government bunglow in the national capital unless the government decides on alloting it to them only after the Ministry of Home Affairs recommendation based on  threat perception. "Though MPs are eligible for Type V bunglow, sometimes the government alloted Type 6A or 6B bunglow also," said an official. The government allotted a bungalow to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in 1997 when she was a Special Protection Group (SPG) protectee. However, the Centre removed the SPG protection to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, and her children- the party's General Secretaries Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi- in December 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-allots-priyanka-gandhis-lutyens-bungalow-to-bjp-mp-anil-baluni-857447.html
05-07-2020||National Politics||Opacity in PM Cares Fund putting lives at risk: Rahul Gandhi||The Congress on Sunday accused the government of "wasting" the lockdown by not ramping up health infrastructure and procuring "substandard" ventilators that are crucial for critical COVID-19 patients, with Rahul Gandhi charging that "opacity" in the PM Cares Fund is putting lives of Indians at risk. Using the hashtag "BJPfailsCoronaFight", Gandhi tweeted, "PMCares opacity is: 1. Putting Indian lives at risk. 2. Ensuring public money is used to buy sub-standard products." He also tagged a news report about a private firm providing substandard ventilators, procured using the PM Cares Fund. The Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund was set up in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged a "scam" in the purchase of ventilators. "The 'Ventilators' Scam! Out of Rs 2,000 crore allocated for 50,000 ventilators, only 1,340 ventilators delivered till 23rd June. No open tendering. Inferior Quality. Purchase Price of Rs 4 Lakh instead of the quoted price of Rs 1.5 Lakh per ventilator," he said in a tweet. Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh questioned the government why only 1,340 ventilators could be procured till June 22 whereas it had placed order for 50,000 on March 31. At a virtual press conference, he expressed concern over the rise in coronavirus infections in the country and accused the government of "wasting time" by not utilising the lockdown period to ramp up the health infrastructure. He said the actual procurement is against the claim made by BJP president J P Nadda that the country will have 60,000 ventilators by June-end. Vallabh also alleged "confusion and delay" in ordering ventilators, "financial impropriety" and lack of transparency in spending PM Cares Fund, and supply of "substandard" ventilators. With a record single-day surge of 24,850 coronavirus infections and 613 fatalities, India's Covid-19 case load zoomed to 6,73,165, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 19,268 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry. With this, the country has recorded over 20,000 cases of the infection for the third consecutive day. According to Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world, India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia and at the eighth position in terms of the death toll due to the disease. "The way the corona cases in the country are rising, it is worrisome. I pray that the peak comes soon and this country is freed from the virus," the Congress spokesperson said. "Lockdown was a pause button and it should have been used to ramp up health infrastructure. But the government has wasted time and has indulged in mismanagement in procuring ventilators. "As per the government, only 1,340 ventilators have been procured till June 22, whereas the BJP chief claimed in a virtual rally that the country will have 60,000 ventilators by June-end. Why so few ventilators have been procured in more than 2.5 months. Who is responsible," he asked. The Congress leader also said Rs 2,000 crore was allocated from the PM Cares Fund for procuring 50,000 ventilators with each costing around Rs 4 lakh, whereas a company is supplying ventilators to the government at Rs 1.5 lakh only. "Does the PM Cares order of 50,000 ventilators include 40,000 ordered by the government earlier. Where has the PM-CARES money gone and why is there an abnormal delay in procuring them.... Has PM Cares opted for open tendering to ensure transparency in government procurement. The PM Cares funds are also public funds," he said. Alleging that substandard material and ventilators are being procured by the government from some private players, Vallabh asked, "Why the government is compromising with the health of people by bringing substandard material." He said in the interest of people of our country who are struggling to get out of these challenging and difficult times, the Congress would like to know the answers of questions which are directly related to the well being of citizens of our country. The opposition leader said in the interest of people who are struggling for their health, the government should answer the questions raised by the Congress party. He said neither is the government answering questions on the border tussle with China nor is it coming out with facts on the coronavirus pandemic. "The Prime Minister and the Health Minister should reply to these questions raised by us in the interest of the health of the people of the country," he said. Vallabh hoped the government would look into the concerns raised by the party. "We can't tolerate the iota of confusion, corruption and mistake at these critical times when the number of Covid-19 patients are every day breaking the record of the last day," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opacity-in-pm-cares-fund-putting-lives-at-risk-rahul-gandhi-857483.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: As average daily cases come down, experts say Delhi may go past peak in August||With a drop in average fresh cases reported per day in Delhi over the past one week, experts have claimed that the city may go past the Covid-19 peak in early August. However, they cautioned that before making any conclusion, the trend of cases should be watched over the next week or so. Besides, the experts have warned that if social distancing and hygiene norms prescribed by authorities are not adhered to by people, then there could be a surge again. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases. The city continued to see over 3,000 cases per day till June 26, when it reported 3,460 infections. From June 27 to July 3, the average fresh cases per day stands at about 2,494 compared to 3,446 cases per day the previous week. AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said, "If the number of cases in Delhi continues to be static or decreases over the next few weeks, and the decline is at a sustained pace, then we can say that we may pass the peak in August." But that can only happen if people continue to maintain social distancing and take prescribed precautions and there is a strict implementation of containment measures even as the lockdown gets lifted.  "In some cities there was a decline in trend, but once the lockdown was lifted people did not follow the dos and dont's and this led to a surge in cases. So, there is no space for complacency, a lapse on someone's part somewhere and that could lead to a spike," he said. Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the tally in the city to over 97,000, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,004, authorities said. However, in the last few days, the number of fresh cases have oscillated, not showing a particular trend in figures. The number of cases reported from June 27-July 3 are - June 27 (2,948), June 28 (2,889), June 29 (2,084), June 30 (2,199) and July 1 (2,442), July 2 (2,373) with a steady rise in death figures. Mahesh Verma, head of a Delhi government committee tasked with strengthening the preparedness of hospitals to battle the outbreak, said, "I think what we seeing in terms of cases in the last one week, is a very positive trend. Things seem to be looking up." "We would perhaps need a fresh forecasting, and hopefully we would not need as many beds as earlier projected," he said. "If things look brighter from here on and the consistent trend we seeing here continues we might see flattening of the curve in August," he added. Verma on Wednesday had said that the Covid-19 tally in the city may not reach the estimated number of 5.5 lakh cases by July end but one needs to see how the virus behaves during the monsoon.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said, the recovery rate in the city had crossed 70 per cent, while his deputy Manish Sisodia tweeted that the positivity rate has "dipped to 10.58 per cent from 36.94 per cent earlier". Noted lung surgeon Dr Arvind Kumar, concurred that average fresh cases reported per day and the positivity rate had come down. "However, I would like to sound a note of caution here. The trend needs to be watched for the next 7-10 days. It is too early to make any conclusion about whether the city will go past the peak in August," he told PTI. Dr Vikas Maurya, Director & Head, Department of Pulmonology & Sleep Disorders, Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh, here also said, cases in Delhi haven't risen as projected earlier, so there is a chance it will soon be past the peak, say in August. "But, again, it's a novel virus, and we don't know its behaviour. So, we don't know how it will behave. Anyway, a pandemic lasts for a year or so, therefore as a society we must be prepared," he said. Maurya, however, warned that the city could see a "second wave of the viral attack" in August or September, given its fickle nature. Various previous predictions on number of cases in Delhi and on peaking period have proven wrong, as the virus is novel, he said. "Only thing we can do to continue, to ensure less cases occur, is by practising social distancing, adhering to hygiene and other norms prescribed by government authorities. Otherwise, all our gains will be lost, and we might see again a spike in cases," Maurya said. But, in the last one week, cases reported per day being lesser than the week before it, positivity rate coming down and beds being empty in various hospitals, indicates flattening of the curve, he argued. According to the Saturday health bulletin, 68,256 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while number of active cases stood at 25,940, while 6,20,368 tests have been conducted. The number of containment zones in the city on Saturday stood at 448.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-as-average-daily-cases-come-down-experts-say-delhi-may-go-past-peak-in-august-857202.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Rain, high-velocity winds lash Delhi; more expected||A fresh bout of rain and high-velocity winds lashed the national capital overnight, bringing the mercury down by several notches on Sunday morning. Light rain and generally cloudy weather is expected during the day. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for Delhi, recorded 33.6 mm rainfall till 5:30 am. The Palam station gauged 43.4 mm precipitation, the weatherman said. Rainfall recorded below 15mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate, and above 64.5mm is heavy, according to the India Meteorological Department. Humidity levels also shot up to 100 per cent. More rain is expected over the next three to four days, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. The maximum temperature is expected to drop to 34 degrees Celsius by Wednesday. The monsoon reached Delhi on June 25. Normal rainfall is predicted in the national capital during the season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rain-high-velocity-winds-lash-delhi-more-expected-857221.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||CRPF personnel injured in IED blast in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama||A CRPF personnel was injured in a low-intensity IED blast in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, police said. The blast took place at Gongoo area of Pulwama in South Kashmir this morning as security forces were passing through the area, a police official said. He said a CRPF personnel suffered injuries in his hands due to the blast, but his condition is stated to be stable. The security forces fired few shots in the air after the blast, the official said, adding further details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-personnel-injured-in-ied-blast-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-857226.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Notices to 30 more schools, residential societies, others for structural audit reports: SDMC||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has slapped notices to the authorities of 30 more schools, residential group housing societies and institutions to submit the structural audit reports to check their seismic stability. Prior to this, the SDMC had issued notices to the authorities of 77 schools, residential group housing societies and institutions for the same purpose. The move came on Saturday, a day after Delhi was hit by a tremor of moderate intensity. "While intensifying action, we have issued notices to (authorities of) 30 more residential group housing societies, educational institutions, schools and asked them to submit a structure audit report within 30 days to ensure seismic stability of the buildings," the SDMC said in a statement. The building owners are responding to the notices and six of them have already started the process of engaging structural consultants and consulting engineers of the SDMC, the civic body said. So far, the SDMC has identified and issued notices to 103 such buildings, the statement said. The SDMC has been conducting a survey to identify the high-rise buildings and structures under its jurisdiction to examine their seismic stability, and urging RWAs and housing societies to approach it for proper consultation and advice, it added. The civic body has also identified 27 municipal buildings for a structural audit and has started engaging structural consultants for retrofitting work.  Prior to this, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation had said on June 20 that the authorities of 22 schools and 44 residential group housing societies were issued notices to submit structural audit reports.  Seeking to ensure seismic stability of high-rise buildings, the NDMC too has started identifying such structures and has issued 115 notices to many groups and institutions for structural audit reports, the civic body had said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/notices-to-30-more-schools-residential-societies-others-for-structural-audit-reports-sdmc-857233.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||New Delhi LG inaugurates 'world's largest' Covid care centre, roughly the size of 20 football fields||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal inaugurated the 10,000-bed Sardar Patel Covid care centre, one of the "largest" such facilities in the world, at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas on Sunday, saying it will play a crucial role in the fight against the pandemic. Baijal reviewed the availability of beds, oxygen cylinders, concentrators, ventilators, ICUs and medical staff at the centre set up in Chhatarpur. He also congratulated the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on taking over the facility. While the Delhi government has provided administrative support, the ITBP is the nodal agency operating the Centre under the name "Operation Corona Warriors". With the guidance and support of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Delhi now has one of the largest Covid-care facilities in the world, which will play a crucial role in the fight against the pandemic, Baijal said. "Advised to keep special focus on severely ill patients and if required, shift them to dedicated Covid hospitals. Instructed SDMC to ensure cleanliness and sanitation at the centre. Management of Covid centre by ITBP is greatly appreciated," he said in a tweet.  At least 20 patients are expected to reach the facility on Sunday, a senior ITBP official said. The centre is 1,700 feet long and 700 feet wide -- roughly the size of 20 football fields -- and has 200 enclosures with 50 beds each.  "The total bed capacity at the centre may go up to 10,200, making it the largest Covid-19 care facility in India so far," the ITBP said in a statement, adding that it is also the "largest such facility envisaged worldwide". It has two segments -- a Covid Care Centre (CCC), where asymptomatic positive coronavirus cases will be treated and a Dedicated Covid Health Care (DCHC), which will treat symptomatic cases and have an oxygen support system. The CCC will have 90 per cent of the beds, while the DCHC will have the rest.   More than 1,000 doctors, nurses and paramedics of the ITBP and other Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), and another 1,000 paramedics, assistants and security staff have been deployed at the facility for its smooth operation. ITBP Director General SS Deswal, who attended the inauguration ceremony, said a team of counsellors and psychiatrists will also be present at the facility to help those who are stressed or traumatised due to the coronavirus outbreak. The force has made adequate arrangements at the centre, including for security, a reception, a call centre, nursing stations, command control stores, maintenance staff etc. A robust admission and monitoring system has been prepared as an "e-hospital", wherein details of patients such as the ambulances that brought them in, symptoms, dates of admission etc. will be collected, shared and monitored digitally, the ITBP said.  E-vehicles and ambulances have also been deployed for facilitating the movement of patients inside the centre. Apart from peripheral and close-camp security, a special "Quick Reaction Team" is also deployed at the centre to attend to sudden security requirements. Volunteers from the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas will also help run the centre. The home minister had inspected the facility on June 27 and motivated the ITBP staff deployed there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-delhi-lg-inaugurates-worlds-largest-covid-care-centre-roughly-the-size-of-20-football-fields-857253.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Drunk man hits 55-yr-old woman with his car in Delhi, arrested||A 55-year-old woman was injured when a man in an inebriated condition hit her with his car and then ran over her as passers-by tried to pull her to safety when she fell on the ground in east Delhi's Chilla village, police said on Saturday. The incident, which took place on Friday evening, was recorded in a CCTV camera. The video footage shows the woman, identified as Hajiran, falling off the bonnet of the car after being knocked down in a narrow lane. While passers-by were trying to pull the woman from under the vehicle, the car's driver took a left turn in an attempt to flee and ran over her. The car dragged her for a few metres before it was blocked by the passers-by. Police said the accused, identified as Bhanu, was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident. The video of the incident has gone viral on social media. An FIR was registered against Bhanu and he was arrested, Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Jasmeet Singh said. According to police, the accused used to supply drinking water in the area. Waseem Khan (25), the son-in-law of the woman, said, "She left home to buy vegetables around 6.30 pm. After the accident, we took her to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital. Luckily, she only sustained injuries on her knees and there was no fracture. She has been discharged from the hospital."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drunk-man-hits-55-yr-old-woman-with-his-car-in-delhi-arrested-857263.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh visit newly-created 1,000-bed Covid-19 hospital||Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited a newly-created temporary hospital with 1,000 beds, including 250 in the ICU, which will treat Covid-19 patients, here on Sunday, officials said. The facility has been constructed in just 11 days near the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport on a piece of land belonging to the Ministry of Defence. "Visiting the 1000 Bed Sardar Patel COVID Hospital with 250 ICU Beds built in record time by DRDO & Tata Sons along with Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh ji," Shah said in a tweet. The armed forces personnel will man the hospital, a home ministry official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-rajnath-singh-visit-newly-created-1000-bed-covid-19-hospital-857275.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath commences 'Van Mahotsav' amid Covid-19, says events can be held while adhering to protocol||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said big events can be held while adhering to the protocol pertaining to Covid-19 and the "Van Mahotsav" will be a witness to this. "Pre-Covid, during Covid and post-Covid are three categories, which the world will be able to clearly see. These will say what was the situation of the world before the Covid-19 outbreak, what was the condition during the outbreak and what will be the changes in the world after Covid," he said at the commencement of the "Van Mahotsav" here on Sunday. The Uttar Pradesh government has set a target of planting 25 crore saplings during the "Van Mahotsav". Adityanath said, "At the same time, we have to fight the global pandemic as well. During this plantation programme, adherence to social distancing can be clearly seen. This is a good effort and all of us can organise big events while adhering to social distancing. This event is a witness to this. By following the treatment and prevention protocol during this global pandemic, we can be a part of the Van Mahotsav." He added that so far, over 5.30 crore saplings have been planted in the state and the number is increasing. "The Van Mahotsav has set a target of planting 25 crore saplings in the state. Last year, a target of planting 22 crore saplings was fixed. After that, each plant was geo-tagged, so that it could remain safe...," Adityanath said. The chief minister also said the forest department had grown 35 crore saplings in its own nursery or by motivating farmers. "We will link them to plantation," he said. Adityanath said if an uninterrupted flow of the Ganga and Yamuna has to be maintained, then trees will have to be planted on the banks of the rivers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-commences-van-mahotsav-amid-covid-19-says-events-can-be-held-while-adhering-to-protocol-857277.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Taj Mahal set to reopen with mandatory face masks, social distancing, and a limit of 5,000 visitors a day||Visitors to the Taj Mahal will have to wear masks at all times, keep their distance and not touch its glistening marble surfaces when India's 17th-century monument of love reopens on Monday after a three-month Covid-19 shutdown. Only 5,000 tourists will be allowed in a day, split into two groups, a far cry from peak levels of 80,000 a day who would swarm the mausoleum built in the northern city of Agra by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan for his wife, in a 22-year effort. "All centrally protected monuments & sites shall be bound by the protocols like sanitisation, social distancing & other health protocols," the federal tourism ministry said in a tweet. Authorities are reopening the Taj and other monuments, such as New Delhi's historic Red Fort, just as India's coronavirus infections are rising at the fastest pace in three months. But the government has been lifting a vast lockdown of India's 130 crore people that has left tens of thousands without work and shuttered businesses. While international flights remain suspended, domestic travel has been opened up, and the government is hoping visitors will start to trickle back to some popular destinations. Agra, one of India's first big clusters of the virus, remains the worst-affected city in Uttar Pradesh, the country's most populous state. "All around the Taj are containment zones," said a local district administration official, requesting anonymity, ahead of the monument's planned reopening. Containment zones, areas identified as most affected by the virus, remain under strict lockdown, with restricted access and movement of only essential goods and services. "We don't expect visitors here because clusters around the Taj, including shops and hotels are closed," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/taj-mahal-set-to-reopen-with-mandatory-face-masks-social-distancing-and-a-limit-of-5000-visitors-a-day-857284.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||St Stephen's College registration process between July 7-18; Interviews to be conducted online||Delhi University's St Stephen's College will commence its registration process on Tuesday and will conduct online interviews in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the college said on Sunday. The registration process will commence on July 7 and end on July 18. The students will first have to register on the Delhi University's website to be eligible to apply for admission to St Stephen's College, it said. The college uploaded its prospectus online on Sunday and gave details of the admission process. The interview will have three components -- academic, co-curricular and general awareness and sense of values. Candidates appearing for the interview will have to keep a printout of the interview call letter, and original copies of the certificate of the date of birth (the Secondary School Certificate) and marksheet of the qualifying examination. Candidates from the Christian category will have to submit a copy of certificate of Baptism/Certificate of Confirmation (valid from at least two years prior to the last date fixed for receipt of application). If the candidate belongs to a Church which practices Adult Baptism, a Certificate of Dedication of the candidate at childhood is required, the prospectus said. The Christian candidates will also have to submit a letter of recommendation from the Parish Priest, duly endorsed by the Bishop of the Chruch or a person of equivalent/higher authority, a letter of membership of the candidate in a church and a letter of membership of both of the parents in a church. "Owing to the ongoing pandemic situation, interviews will be conducted online," it said. Delhi University has six minority colleges -- two Christian and four Sikh -- where seats are reserved. For admission to Christian minority colleges -- Jesus and Mary College and St. Stephen's College -- candidates have to first fill the university registration form and then fill the respective college form available on the college website with the details already filled in the university form.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/st-stephens-college-registration-process-between-july-7-18-interviews-to-be-conducted-online-857287.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Three more Covid-19 deaths take Jammu and Kashmir's toll to 130||With three deaths on Sunday, the Covid-19 mortality in Jammu and Kashmir reached 130. Most fatalities were elderly with comorbidities. Kashmir valley accounts for 116 Covid-19 deaths, while 14 deaths have taken place in Jammu region. Among districts, Srinagar has been the worst hit, recording 30 deaths followed by Baramulla with 22. On Saturday Jammu and Kashmir recorded 227 new cases of Covid-19, which included 43 security and police personnel. In the past two weeks, more than 2,400 new cases have been recorded in the UT. While the total number of cases was 5,834 in J&K on 20 June, 14 days later, on Saturday, the number of cases is 8,246. The districts which have been witnessing a steep rise in the number of cases are Srinagar, Baramulla, Pulwama and Kulgam. However, the proportion of cases among the new ones is much higher from Srinagar and Baramulla. In the past two weeks, the number of cases in Srinagar has increased from 675 to 1,091 (566 new cases added). During the same time, the number of cases in Baramulla district has increased from 582 to 1,006 (424 new cases added). Meanwhile, fresh guidelines under the “Unlock 2” phase came into effect in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday with the Union Territory administration deciding against opening religious places and educational institutions, but allowing hotels to operate with full capacity. There will be no inter-state and inter-district movement except for those carrying valid passes, while the night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will continue to remain in force till further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-covid-19-deaths-take-jammu-and-kashmirs-toll-to-130-857289.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey's main aide arrested, was present during Kanpur firing that killed 8 cops||The main aide of notorious gangster Vikas Dubey involved in the attack in which eight police personnel were killed was arrested in a pre-dawn encounter in Kanpur, a senior police official said on Sunday. The aide, Dayashankar Agnihotri, was injured in his leg in retaliatory firing by police after he tried to attack them and flee, the official said, adding that no police personnel was hurt. Police have also taken into custody the sub-divisional officer (SDO) and another employee of the power sub-station from where electricity supply was interrupted on the intervening night of Thursday-Friday at the time of the police raid at Dubey’s house in Bikru village. Police also questioned the man responsible for disconnecting the power supply, a senior police official said, adding that the man confessed to having snapped the power lines on instructions of a caller who claimed that he was calling from the nearby Chaubeypur police station in Kanpur district. According to sources, the phone number from which the line worker was contacted belongs to the Chaubeypur police station. However, police have not given any information on who ordered the power supply interruption during the raid. After being taken into custody, Agnihotri told reporters that Dubey had got a call from someone in the police department informing him about his imminent arrest, and after that he called his men for a face-to-face confrontation with the police. Allegations had earlier surfaced against Vinay Tiwari, Station Officer of Chaubeypur police station in whose jurisdiction the incident took place, following which he was suspended on Saturday. It was alleged that Tiwari had alerted Dubey that a police team was on the way to his house to arrest him, following which the gangster and his men attacked the police personnel resulting in the slaying of eight of them. Dubey is absconding over two days after the incident. Police sources said Dubey had disabled all the cameras before fleeing the crime scene and took the Digital Video Recorder (DVR) with him. More than 25 police teams mostly headed by senior officials have carried out raids at hundreds of locations in various districts, police said, adding that they also carried out searches near the border with Nepal and in other states. Dubey's last location was traced to Auraiya in UP and police have suspected that he has fled either to Nepal or Madhya Pradesh, a police official said. Police also said that on Saturday, it lodged an FIR against 21 people whose identities have been established and they are mostly residents of Bikru village, and 50-60 other unidentified people in connection with the killing of the eight personnel. "Dayashankar Agnihotri alias Kallu, the main aide of Dubey, has been arrested during an encounter. Agnihotri always used to accompany Dubey and was staying at Dubey's house," Inspector General, Kanpur Range, Mohit Agarwal told PTI. "Agnihotri was carrying a cash reward of Rs 25,000. He was named accused in the firing incident on the policemen. In the encounter, he got bullet injuries on his leg,” Agarwal said. Additional Director General of Police, Kanpur, J N Singh told PTI that the encounter took place at around 4.30 am in Kalyanpur area of Kanpur. Agnihotri was admitted to the Lala Lajpat Rai hospital and police recovered a country-made pistol and two cartridges from his possession, said Superintendent of Police (west) Anil Kumar. In the early hours of Sunday, police got a tip-off and tried to stop Agnihotri on the Kalyanpur-Shivli road when he opened fire at them. While no police personnel was hurt, Agnihotri got bullet injuries on his leg in retaliatory firing. IG Agarwal said the cash reward on Dubey’s arrest has been increased to Rs 1 lakh from Rs 50,000. Agarwal said SO Tiwari has been sent to Police Lines. “He has not been detained. Investigations are going on. If any evidence is found which suggests that Tiwari was part of the conspiracy, then he will be detained,” he said. On the demolition by police of Dubey's house on Saturday, the IG said police had information that Dubey had hidden a lot of arms and ammunition in a bunker and in the walls of the house. “The walls were broken in order to search for the weapons, and the roof collapsed. Large amount of ammunition was recovered in the digging,” the IG said Shortly after midnight on Friday, eight policemen had walked into a trap set by Dubey and fell to a hail of bullets fired from rooftops. They were given a tearful farewell on Saturday as police began demolishing the criminal’s lavish hideout in Bikru village, the scene of the bloody crime. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack that took place in the early hours of Friday. Later, police sealed the entire area and began a combing operation, which led to another encounter with Dubey’s men in Nivada village in which two of them were killed. The eight men killed in the line of duty, mostly in their 20s and 30s, included Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra (54). The others are Mahesh Kumar Yadav (42), Sub-Inspector Anoop Kumar Singh (32), Sub-Inspector Nebu Lal (48) and Constables Jitendra Pal (26), Sultan Singh (34), Bablu Kumar (23) and Rahul Kumar (24). Their bodies were taken back to their homes where senior police officers attended their last rites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubeys-main-aide-arrested-was-present-during-kanpur-firing-that-killed-8-cops-857309.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Cycling Her Way to Excellence: MP girl cycles 24 km to school everyday, scores 98.75% in Class 10 exams||A 15-year-old girl's determination to pursue her studies by cycling 24 km every day to and from her school in a Madhya Pradesh village has paid off as she has secured 98.75 percent marks in her Class 10 exams. Roshani Bhadoriya, encouraged by her marks, now aims higher and wants to a pursue a career in civil services. The girl's father, a farmer, said he is proud of her achievement and would now arrange a transport facility for her to go to school. The teenager, a resident of Ajnol village in Bhind district of Chambal region, secured 98.75 percent marks and 8th rank in the merit list of the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education's Class 10 exams, the results of which were declared on Saturday. Her father Purushottam Bhadoriya told PTI that till Class 8 his daughter studied in another school where bus facility was available. But after that, she shifted to a government school in Mehgaon, located around 12 km from Ajnol, where transport facility was not available, he said. "Since Roshani got enrolled in Class 9 of Mehgaons Government Girls' School two years back, she had to cycle to reach school on several days due to unavailability of other modes of transport like taxis," he said. Bhadoriya said he will now make some other transport arrangement for her to go to school. The farmer, who also has two sons, said everybody in Ajnol is happy with her daughter's feat as none from the village attained such academic success. When asked about her school journey experience, Roshani said, "It was difficult to go to school on a bicycle. Though I didn't count, I cycled for about 60 to 70 days a year to reach the school. My father also took me to school on his motorcycle whenever he had time." The girl said after returning home, she used to study for seven to eight hours every day. Roshani said her aim is to clear the civil service exams and become an IAS officer. Mehgaon Government Girls' School principal Harishchandra Sharma appreciated the girl's achievement and determination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cycling-her-way-to-excellence-mp-girl-cycles-24-km-to-school-everyday-scores-9875-in-class-10-exams-857319.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||'Covid-19 War Room' to come up in New Delhi to keep eye on city's fight against virus: Officials||The Delhi government will set up a 'Covid-19 War Room', which will 24x7 monitor the city's fight against the novel coronavirus, and suggest measures to effectively deal with the prevailing situation, officials said on Sunday. The 'Covid-19 War Room', which is being set up at the Delhi Secretariat, will be manned by around 25 experts. It is expected to become operational in the next few days. According to the plan, the new strategic facility will cover all aspects such as testing, bed strength, medical equipment, ambulance infrastructure and containment zones. It will represent a snapshot of the city's position when it comes to tackling the Covid-19 situation, the officials said, adding that Chief Secretary Vijay Dev has directed officials to set up the same as soon as possible. Officials said that the 'Covid-19 War Room' will also flag discrepancies in those areas wherein authorities can take steps to prepare a robust system. "The 'Covid-19 War Room' will closely monitor measures being taken by the authorities. It will also project the future requirements of medical infrastructure to deal with surging coronavirus cases. "For instance, if there is a shortage of ambulance in the city, it will inform authorities about it," he said. Another official noted that the district administration has been taking steps in their respective areas and that the war room will operate in a centralised manner for better coordination among the districts. "An IAS officer has been given the charge of this war room for better coordination with higher authorities in the government. The Covid-19 War Room will have 20-25 experts who will work round-the-clock," the official said. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the city to over 97,000, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,004. Fifty-five fatalities were recorded on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-war-room-to-come-up-in-new-delhi-to-keep-eye-on-citys-fight-against-virus-officials-857322.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh cabinet expansion: BJP MLA writes to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, says people upset||Resentment over Thursday's expansion of the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh continued with ruling party MLA Ajay Vishnoi shooting off a letter to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Vishnoi's letter sent on Saturday, claimed there was resentment among the people of Jabalpur and Rewa divisions. Vishnoi (68) is a former state minister and four-time MLA, currently representing Jabalpur's Patan seat. "I can understand your difficulties but people can't," he said in the letter to the CM, apparently a reference to Congressman-turned-BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia whose loyalists managed to corner a sizable share of the berths. "I request you (Chouhan) to take charge (as guardian minister) of the two divisions to calm down the people. For your information, (Congress leader) Digvijaya Singh, while he was MP chief minister, acted as in charge (guardian) minister of Jabalpur. Hope you will accept my request," he said in the letter. Vishnoi is an old party loyalist and, in 1983, was Madhya Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president, and Chouhan served as the wing's state secretary. When contacted, Vishnoi refused to comment. Meanwhile, senior journalist Jairam Shukla said people in the Vindh area are upset over the non-inclusion of MLA Rajendra Shukla, whose clout in the region ensured the Congress could not open its account in Rewa, Singrauli and Shahdol districts. On Thursday, a supporter of Indore BJP MLA Ramesh Mendola tried to immolate himself after the cabinet expansion. Mendola, a loyalist of BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, was not given a ministerial berth in the expansion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cabinet-expansion-bjp-mla-writes-to-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-says-people-upset-857325.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: 6 fresh fatalities in Rajasthan, toll at 453||Rajasthan reported six Covid-19 deaths and 224 cases of coronavirus infection on Sunday, according to an official report. The fatalities were reported from Jodhpur (4), Kota (1) and Udaipur (1), taking the death toll to 453. The total number of coronavirus cases in the state has increased to 19,756. Of the total 224 fresh cases, maximum of 48 cases were reported from Pratapgarh.  Ajmer reported 7 cases, Alwar 23, Baran 4, Bharatpur 8, Bhilwara 3, Bikaner 12, Churu 1, Dausa 7, Dungarpur 1, Jaipur 31, Jalore 18, Jhalawar 3, Kota 5, Pali 33, Rajsamand 6, Tonk 3, Udaipur 4 and Jhunjhunu 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-6-fresh-fatalities-in-rajasthan-toll-at-453-857331.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh police begin search for notorious criminal Harish Baliyan||After the Kanpur encounter in which eight policemen were killed, the Muzaffarnagar district police has initiated a search for notorious criminal Harish Baliyan carrying a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head, officials said on Sunday. A team of police officials of Bhorakala police station in the district are on the lookout for him. According to Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav, the criminal is wanted in more than 30 cases, including murder and loot and has been absconding for many years. Meanwhile, the district police have opened history sheets of 40 criminals, 14 accused booked under the UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act and 39 persons booked under the UP Control of Goondas Act in the district last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-police-begin-search-for-notorious-criminal-harish-baliyan-857333.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Hours ahead of her wedding, woman killed in Ratlam||A 25-year-old woman was stabbed to death by a man in a beauty parlour in Jaora in Madhya Pradesh's Ratlam district on Sunday, hours ahead of her wedding ceremony in the evening, police said. The man fled from the spot and a hunt was on for him as investigators have got some clues, said Superintendent of Police Gaurav Tiwari. "The victim and her sister were at the beauty parlour in the morning when a man entered and stabbed her in the neck and fled. She was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared her dead on arrival," the SP said. "We have got clues about the accused and the case will be solved soon. The woman and her family are from Shajapur and she was to get married on Sunday evening to a man from Nagda," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-hours-ahead-of-her-wedding-woman-killed-in-ratlam-857341.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Bike-borne men fire at two transgender women in Delhi||An alert Delhi Police constable came to the rescue of two transgender women after bike-borne assailants opened fire at them, an official said on Sunday. The two accused, Mukesh (24) and Kapil (21), both residents of Madangir in south Delhi were arrested from Ambedkar Nagar on Saturday, police said. According to the police, the accused were hired to kill the transgender women and were offered Rs 5 lakh for the job. They said another transgender woman had given the contract to take revenge for the murder of her friend last year. The incident took place on Saturday when constable Kamal Prakash was conducting an enquiry into the murder case. He noticed two men opening fire at the transgenders near Bhatia Kalan village on Chhatarpur Road here. The policeman immediately rushed to control the situation. The accused also targeted the policeman, but he pushed the bike of the accused following which they fell on the road. The assailants then jumped into an auto and fled from the spot, police said. The constable immediately alerted his team and they chased the assailants following which the two were arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said a countrymade pistol and another pistol with live cartridges were seized from their possession. A motorcycle used in the commission of crime has been seized, while one used cartridge and a fired bullet was recovered from the spot, he said. During interrogation, the accused said that they were hired by Pinky to eliminate the victims--Shalu and Aaliya. They were offered Rs 5 lakh to kill the transgender women and had received advance payment of Rs 20,000 for the job, he said. The official added that Shalu was arrested last year for allegedly killing Pinky’s friend, Ganesh. Shalu was released from jail on April 30 on interim bail for 30 days. The bail got extended for 45 more days owing to coronavirus-induced lockdown. On April 20 last year, Ganesh was killed near the Maulana Azad Medical College, while Pinky and her driver Deepak sustained bullet injuries in the incident, the DCP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bike-borne-men-fire-at-two-transgender-women-in-delhi-857344.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi's 1st female plasma donor says more women should come forward; no reason to hesitate||The first female plasma donor in the national capital on Sunday asked more women to donate their ‘antibody rich’ plasma and contribute towards the fight against coronavirus pandemic. Bhumika Kohli (20), a journalism student and resident of Rohini in north west Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus on May 30. Her brother Arpit Kohli was diagnosed on May 25. The brother-sister duo donated their plasma at the country’s first plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences here on Saturday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had inaugurated the facility on Thursday to ease access to plasma being used as a trial to treat coronavirus patients. The bank coordinates with patients who have recovered from the disease, and are eligible to donate plasma. Bhumika said AAP MLA Raghav Chadha inspired her and her brother to donate plasma. "We were given pick up and drop option. It was completely hassle-free. A few tests were conducted to ascertain if we were fit to donate plasma. The entire process took only 45 minutes," Arpit said. The doctors at the facility are very helpful and listen to you patiently, he said. Bhumika was pleasantly surprised when she got to know that she was the first female plasma donor in the national capital. "The doctors gave me an appreciation certificate and asked me to record a video message to motivate others," she said. "Many women hesitate to participate in such exercises. There is nothing to worry about and there should be no stigma. They should come forward to help the authorities fight the pandemic. They have an important role to play," she said. Bhumika also convinced one of her friends, Shrishti, a Covid-19 survivor, to donate her plasma. She said those affected by the disease should stay strong and remain connected with people and family through technology. "More than the body, diseases affect the mind. The isolation period of 14 days can be emotionally challenging. In such times, one should not give up hope," she said. The journalism student also suggested people to be aware of the disease and have a plan ready to deal with emergencies. "We were not well prepared. We did not know what to do during home isolation. So, it was frightening in the beginning," she said. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha lauded Bhumika, saying she is a “hero” as her benevolence will help save many lives.   "We want more and more people who have recovered from coronavirus to come forward and donate their plasma. We are personally reaching out to such people, and also through video messages and social media," Chadha said. "We arrange pick up and drop facilities for donors. It is a hassle-free and painless process. It takes only 40 minutes. We have a great team of doctors who address the concerns of donors regarding the process," he said, adding Kejriwal is himself looking after every aspect of the plasma donation. Chadha added that women who have conceived children cannot donate plasma and that is the reason, women donors are lesser in numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-1st-female-plasma-donor-says-more-women-should-come-forward-no-reason-to-hesitate-857347.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Six women, 16-year-old boy killed and 4 injured in explosion at Ghaziabad factory||Six women and a 16-year-old boy were killed Sunday when a fire ripped through a candle-manufacturing factory where they worked, officials said. Four other workers were injured in the blaze at the Modi Nagar unit in Ghaziabad (UP) which stocked highly inflammatory material. Several fire tenders and policemen rushed to Bakhrwa village in Modi Nagar when the fire was reported around 3 pm. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed condolences on the deaths and sought a report from Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani. It was not immediately clear if the factory operated legally. The in-charge of police post in the area was suspended for alleged dereliction of duty. Authorities said the factory made sparkling birthday candles. Explosive substances used for this apparently caught fire. The administration has announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each for the families of the seven dead workers. The injured will be given Rs 50,000 each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-women-16-year-old-boy-killed-and-4-injured-in-explosion-at-ghaziabad-factory-857363.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Survivor of Spanish Flu, a 106-year-old man recovers from Covid-19||A centenarian man from Delhi, who was four years old during the 1918 Spanish Flu, has survived Covid-19 and recovered faster than his son, in his 70s, at a dedicated coronavirus facility here, doctors said. The 106-year-old patient was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) recently after recovering, where his wife, son and another family member also recuperated after contracting the novel coronavirus infection, they said. "Perhaps, he is the first reported case of Covid-19 in Delhi who also went through the dreaded Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918 which like Covid-19 had also ravaged the world. And, he not only recovered from Covid-19, he recovered faster than his son, who is also very old," a senior doctor. Spanish Flu was a pandemic which hit the world 102 years ago, and affected nearly one-third of the global population at that time. "The 1918 influenza pandemic was the most severe pandemic in recent history. It was caused by an H1N1 virus with genes of avian origin. Although there is not universal consensus regarding where the virus originated, it spread worldwide during 1918-1919," according to the Centre for Diseases Control (CDC) in the US. In the US, it was first identified in military personnel in spring 1918. It is estimated that about 6,75,000 deaths occurred in America, it said. According to a World Health Organisation (WHO) report, the pandemic of 1918-1919 called the Spanish Flu was particularly virulent, and killed an estimated 40 million people worldwide. In India, the disease is believed to have been brought in by the soldiers returning from World War I conflicts. The first cases of Spanish Flu were reported in areas which are major ports of entry, such as Mumbai (then Bombay), Kolkata (Calcutta), Delhi and Chennai (Madras), where a large number of people returned from abroad. The casualty count in India from the Spanish Flu is believed to be nearly one-fifth of the entire fatalities in the world, though the statistics for mortality in India are too wide-ranging and debatable. Doctors at the RGSSH, a dedicated Covid-19 facility were amazed to see the recovery of this centenarian patient from the novel coronavirus, even though he was highly vulnerable to the infection. "We don't know whether he was affected by the Spanish Flu or not. We haven't seen much documentation on the situation back then as far as Delhi is concerned, but very few hospitals were there at that time. It is amazing this 106-year-old showed the will power to survive," a senior doctor, who monitored his situation, said. But, what is more interesting is that he recovered faster than his son, who is in his 70s. So, he lived through the Spanish Flu and now survived Covid-19, hence, he lived through two pandemics, he said. Besides, his wife and another family member also had contracted Covid-19, and all four have successfully recovered and were discharged about a month-and-a-half ago, the doctor said. The RGSSH has treated 1,000 Covid-19 patients so fare, and on Monday it is marking the milestone with a symbolic event where Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Heath Minister Satyendar Jain are slated to participate. Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the tally in the city to over 97,000-mark, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,004, authorities said. The national capital, at present is the worst-hit city in the country, from the pandemic. According to the bulletin, 68,256 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/survivor-of-spanish-flu-a-106-year-old-man-recovers-from-covid-19-857368.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: 2 Hizbul terrorists killed in Kulgam encounter test positive for Covid-19||Two Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists, including a foreigner, who were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district on Saturday have tested positive for Covid-19, police said. The samples of the two terrorists were taken for Covid-19 test during medico-legal formalities and their reports came back positive on Sunday, they said. The terrorists were killed in an encounter in Arrah area of Kulgam. An Army man also suffered injuries during the gunfight. "While carrying out the medico-legal formalities, the samples of the slain terrorists were taken and sent for Covid-19 test. Today, the test reports were received from CD Hospital, Srinagar and both the killed terrorists were confirmed as coronavirus positive," a police spokesperson said on Sunday. The bodies of the terrorists would be taken in protective care ambulance and buried strictly as per the Covid-19 protocol in Baramulla, he said. According to police, one of the two terrorists was a foreigner and identified as Ali Bhai alias Hyder. The identity of the second terrorist hasn't yet been ascertained. The spokesperson said since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the burials of militants are carried out at designated places to minimise the risk of people contracting the infection. Medico-legal formalities, which include post-mortem, DNA and Covid-19 tests, are strictly followed in respect of such slain militants, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-2-hizbul-terrorists-killed-in-kulgam-encounter-test-positive-for-covid-19-857380.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||UP reports record one-day spike of 1,153 Covid-19 cases; 12 more die in state||Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest single-day jump of 1,153 coronavirus cases on Sunday, pushing the infection tally to 27,707, while the death toll in the state reached 785 with 12 fresh fatalities, officials said. A total of 18,761 Covid-19 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals, Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said. There are now 8,161 active cases in the state, he added. As many as 29,117 samples were tested for coronavirus on Friday, Awasthi said. In Lucknow, samples were tested at King George Medical University and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences. Tests were also done at Institute of Medical Sciences - Banaras Hindu University in Varanasi, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College in Meerut, Baba Raghav Das Medical College in Gorakhpur, Moti Lal Nehru Medical College in Prayagraj, RML hospital in Lucknow, National Institute of Biologicals in Noida and Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Medical College in Kanpur, he said. Besides, as many as 2,703 antigen tests were done, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-reports-record-one-day-spike-of-1153-covid-19-cases-12-more-die-in-state-857386.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Separatists' recommendations for Jammu and Kashmir students highlighted their role in stirs against forces: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has accessed various recommendation letters by separatists for Pakistani visas for students from Jammu and Kashmir whereby their contributions in the stir against the security forces were highlighted, officials have said. The NIA had earlier red-flagged admissions to medical institutions in Pakistan on the recommendations of separatists in Jammu and Kashmir and termed them as an "alternative mechanism" for funding of terror groups. In 2017, the NIA had registered a case to probe the terror funding and arrested over a dozen people in this connection including Altaf Ahmad Shah alias 'Fantoosh', son-in-law of pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani who last week disassociated himself from politics. The successor of 90-year-old Geelani in Pakistan's chapter of Hurriyat Conference had alleged that the rival faction of the outfit was selling seats to professional courses. Following the NIA probe in the cases, no names were recommended for admissions by the separatist groups from Kashmir last year. For many years, more than 100 students were being annually sent from Jammu and Kashmir to Pakistan for higher studies especially MBBS and the NIA has unearthed the nexus between students, Pakistan High Commission officials and separatists in the Valley, the officials said. They said the separatist leaders used to charge money which was meant for spreading terror and separatist activities in the Kashmir valley after the NIA crackdown on all non-banking channels including 'hawala'. In its charge sheet filed in 2018, the NIA said that during the course of its probe, it was found that students who were proceeding to Pakistan on student visas were either relatives of ex-militants or relatives of families of active militants who had indulged in various anti-national activities and had migrated to Pakistan or they were known to Hurriyat leaders. Further in its probe, the NIA seized recommendation letters from separatists in which links to social media showed the prospective students' participation in anti-national activities, the officials said. The admissions of students became an "alternative mechanism" for funding of terror groups in the Valley, a senior official said. The official, referring to the NIA charge sheet, said the agency had red-flagged the admission schemes offered by Pakistan as there was a nexus wherein the terrorists, the Hurriyat and the Pakistan establishment were "the three vertices and they are ostensibly patronising the Kashmir students in order to prepare a generation of doctors and technocrats in Kashmir who will have leanings towards Pakistan". Besides a host of separatists, the NIA had arrested noted businessman Zahoor Ahmed Watali in connection with the case. All of them have been behind bars for over two years now and have failed in securing bail. Watali had secured bail from the Delhi High Court but the same was reversed by the Supreme Court in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/separatists-recommendations-for-jammu-and-kashmir-students-highlighted-their-role-in-stirs-against-forces-nia-857406.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Rise in coronavirus cases worrisome: Congress||The Congress on Sunday expressed concern over the rise in coronavirus infections in the country and accused the government of "wasting time" by not utilising the lockdown period to ramp up the health infrastructure. At a virtual press conference, Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh also questioned the government why only 1,340 ventilators could be procured till June 22 whereas it had placed order for 50,000 on March 31. He said the actual procurement is against the claim made by BJP president J P Nadda that the country will have 60,000 ventilators by June-end. Vallabh also alleged "confusion and delay" in ordering ventilators, "financial impropriety" and lack of transparency in spending PM-CARES fund, and supply of "substandard" ventilators. With a record single-day surge of 24,850 coronavirus infections and 613 fatalities, India's Covid-19 caseload zoomed to 6,73,165, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 19,268 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry. With this, the country has recorded over 20,000 cases of the infection for the third consecutive day. According to the Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world, India is the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic after the US, Brazil and Russia and at the eighth position in terms of the death toll due to the disease. "The way the corona cases in the country are rising, it is worrisome. I pray that the peak comes soon and this country is freed from the virus," the Congress spokesperson said. "Lockdown was a pause button and it should have been used to ramp up health infrastructure. But the government has wasted time and has indulged in mismanagement in procuring ventilators. "As per the government, only 1,340 ventilators have been procured till June 22, whereas the BJP chief claimed in a virtual rally that the country will have 60,000 ventilators by June-end. Why so few ventilators have been procured in more than 2.5 months. Who is responsible," he asked. The Congress leader also said Rs 2,000 crore was allocated from the PM-CARES fund for procuring 50,000 ventilators with each costing around Rs 4 lakh, whereas a company is supplying ventilators to the government at Rs 1.5 lakh only. "Does the PM-CARES order of 50,000 ventilators include 40,000 ordered by the government earlier. Where has the PM-CARES money gone and why is there an abnormal delay in procuring them.... Has PM-CARES opted for open tendering to ensure transparency in government procurement? The PM-CARES funds are also public funds," he said. Alleging that substandard material and ventilators are being procured by the government from some private players, Vallabh asked, "Why the government is compromising with the health of people by bringing substandard material." The opposition leader said in the interest of people who are struggling for their health, the government should answer the questions raised by the Congress party. He said neither is the government answering questions on the border tussle with China nor is it coming out with facts on the coronavirus pandemic. "The Prime Minister and the Health Minister should reply to these questions raised by us in the interest of the health of the people of the country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rise-in-coronavirus-cases-worrisome-congress-857424.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||IIT professor uses Rajasthani clay as catalyst for converting bio-oil into fuel||An IIT professor here has claimed to have developed a catalytic process using Rajasthani clay for converting bio-oil from organic waste into transport fuel at a considerably lower temperature, paving way for its mass production. The novel catalytic process with the use of Rajasthani clay has been developed by Rakesh Kumar Sharma of IIT, Jodhpur’s Chemistry Department, along with postdoctoral researcher Krishna Priya of the department. A catalyst is a substance which fastens a chemical reaction without taking part in it. “The process of converting organic waste into fuel was not economically viable earlier due to high temperature and energy requirements in the process. But with the help of refined Rajasthan clay, we have developed a system which has brought down the temperature and energy requirement in the process,” said Sharma. “The reaction in this process was extremely fast and took place at just around 250-degree centigrade temperature, far below the temperature in the conventional process, to give the petroleum-grade fuel,” he added. Sharma has developed many Rajasthani clay-based effective catalytic systems for difficult chemical processes under milder temperature conditions. These catalytic systems include solid lubricants for industrial applications, catalytic converters for four-wheelers to reduce pollution and water purification technology. IIT spokesperson Amardeep Sharma said the Institute has applied for patenting the process. The Department of Biotechnology of the Union government has supported this study under its National Bio-Energy Mission, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iit-professor-uses-rajasthani-clay-as-catalyst-for-converting-bio-oil-into-fuel-857425.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi hits out at Uttar Pradesh government over rising crime||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday targeted the Uttar Pradesh government over the deteriorating law and order situation and demanded accountability for the rising number of murders in the state. She said while Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath claims in his campaigns that Uttar Pradesh has become crime-free, but the reality is otherwise. Gandhi also alleged that over 50 murders have taken place in the northern state in the last one week. "There have been about 50 murders in Uttar Pradesh in the last one week. The chief minister’s campaigns claim that Uttar Pradesh has become 'crime free', but the reality is different. "As per statistics, UP is on the top in many crimes in the entire country. Again a brutal murder case came up in Jaunpur today. Enough is enough. Who is accountable?” she said in a tweet in Hindi.  पिछले एक हफ्ते में उप्र में करीब 50 हत्याएं हुईं। सीएम के प्रचार में तो यूपी "अपराधमुक्त" हो चुका है लेकिन सच्चाई कुछ और ही है। आँकड़ों के अनुसार कई अपराधों में यूपी पूरे देश में टॉप पर है। आज फिर जौनपुर में एक नृशंस हत्या का मामला सामने आया। The Congress leader also shared some statistics of various crimes in Uttar Pradesh in a graph along with her tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leader-priyanka-gandhi-hits-out-at-uttar-pradesh-government-over-rising-crime-857427.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi's Covid-19 tally nears one lakh with 2,505 more cases||Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally close to the one lakh mark, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,067, authorities said.      The national capital recorded 63 new fatalities on Sunday, a Delhi health department bulletin said. The bulletin said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 3,067, and the total number of cases mounted to 99,444.      On June 23, the national capital had reported its highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases. However, in the last five days, the number of fresh cases have oscillated. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 3,004 on Saturday.          According to the bulletin, 71,339 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while the number of active cases stood at 25,038. As many as 6,43,504 tests have been conducted so far.      The number of containment zones in the city on Saturday stood at 456.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-covid-19-tally-nears-one-lakh-with-2505-more-cases-857429.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh teacher held for sending obscene messages to teen student||A 27-year old teacher of a private school was arrested on Sunday in Umaria in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly sending obscene messages to a teen student since over a year, police said. Amit Vishwakarma was arrested after the parents of the 17-year-old student filed a complaint, said Kotwali police station in charge Varsha Patel. "He is a teacher at a school in Baderi. He used to call the girl over phone repeatedly as well. He was charged under IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-teacher-held-for-sending-obscene-messages-to-teen-student-857439.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh reports 326 new Covid-19 cases in one day, tally 14,930||Madhya Pradesh on Sunday recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases as 326 people tested positive for novel coronavirus, taking the state's count to 14,930, an official said. The death toll reached 608 as 10 people succumbed to the infection, comprising four in Bhopal, three in Indore and one each in Jabalpur, Sagar and Harda, he added. "Of the new cases, the highest 64 cases were reported from Gwalior, followed by 61 in Bhopal, 36 in Morena and 23 in Indore," officials said. A total of 177 persons were discharged from hospitals during the day. The number of cases in Indore, the worst-hit district in the state, rose by 23 to 4,833 and the death toll to 244, while Bhopal now has 3,045 Covid-19 cases, including 109 deaths. The cases in Morena and Gwalior went up to 654 and 528 respectively. No new coronavirus case was reported from 15 districts since Saturday evening, while two do not have any active case as on Sunday, a health bulletin said. There are 1,062 containment zones in the state at present. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 14,930, active cases 2,911, new cases 326, death toll 608, recovered 11,411, and the total number of tested people is 4,07,882.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-reports-326-new-covid-19-cases-in-one-day-tally-14930-857441.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army shells forward areas along LoC in J&K's Poonch||The Pakistan army on Sunday resorted to unprovoked shelling on forward areas along the Line of Control in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesman said. “At about 19.45 hours, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in Balakote sector. Indian Army is retaliating befittingly,” the spokesman said. He said there was no report of any casualty on the Indian side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-857488.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||Jamaatis responsible for coronavirus infection in MP: Minister||Madhya Pradesh Health Minister Narottam Mishra on Sunday alleged that (Tablighi) Jamaatis and the inaction on part of the erstwhile Congress government was responsible for the spread of coronavirus infection in the state. Addressing a function at Bairad town in Shivpuri district, Mishra said then chief minister Kamal Nath did nothing to stop the spread of the infection. "People who arrived in flights from Dubai and (Tablighi) Jamaatis are responsible for bringing coronavirus to Indore. The infection further spread in other parts of the state from Indore," he said. Nath, however, remained busy with Bollywood actors Jacqueline (Fernandez) and Salman Khan, and didn't hold a single meeting to chalk out a strategy to tackle the spread, alleged Mishra. The health minister was apparently referring to the press conference held by Fernandez, Khan and Nath in Bhopal for announcing IIFA events in Indore and Bhopal. The event was eventually cancelled in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. Madhya Pradesh on Sunday recorded its highest single- day spike in COVID-19 cases as 326 people tested positive for novel coronavirus, taking the state's count to 14,930.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamaatis-responsible-for-coronavirus-infection-in-mp-minister-857491.html
05-07-2020||North and Central||No financial deals involved in fall of Congress govt: MP minister||Madhya Pradesh minister and BJP leader Narottam Mishra said on Sunday that the resignation of rebel Congress MLAs, which led to the fall of the Congress government in the state earlier this year, was a political development and there were no financial deals involved in it. He said this while addressing a function at Bairad town in the district. Before his speech, newly-appointed minister and one of the former Congress MLAs Suresh Dhakad Rathkheda said that some people were accusing him of getting money for the resignation and for joining the BJP. However, Mishra in his address said, "This was a political pact. Rathkheda was associated with Jyotiraditya Scindia (former union minister). This development was a pact between two big politicians." "Rathkheda showed his loyalty to Scindia, who was being humiliated in the Congress. So, they left the Congress and the Kamal Nath government collapsed. This was a political development and not a financial one," the state Home Minister said. Rathkheda was not offered any money for his resignation, he added. The resignation of 22 Congress in March this year has reduced the Congress government to a minority, leading to its collapse. Kamal Nath resigned as the chief minister on March 20, following which the BJP formed the government in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-financial-deals-involved-in-fall-of-congress-govt-mp-minister-857492.html
05-07-2020||Opinion||The old ‘Foot in Mouth’ disease||The oldest law in diplomacy is that words matter. Words have started wars, or prevented them. They have cost nations their territory, or helped preserve it. But words also help win elections – and in India, good politics at home often means bad politics abroad. Take the ongoing tiff between India and China, which has seen the government stumble over its own words. In mid-June, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent standoff with the Chinese in Ladakh. While the Chinese blamed Indian incursions for the brawl, India held Chinese intrusions responsible. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar called up Beijing to complain that China had attempted to erect structures on India’s side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Yet, two days later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi contradicted his Foreign Minister by saying that “Neither has anyone intruded into Indian territory, nor are there any intruders”. The speech was picked up by the Chinese media as a vindication of Beijing’s position. A news producer at CGTN, a Chinese state-owned broadcaster, said that Modi’s statement confirms that the incident happened on Chinese territory. Beijing then went on to claim all of Galwan Valley – located on India’s side of the LAC – since Chinese camps were already pitched there. Modi’s statement that day was just the standard populist message of denial: no one came, nobody attacked. All that the prime minister hoped to do was to point fingers at previous governments and imply that no one would dare attack India now that he is PM. But the collateral effect was to validate China’s narrative – of aggressive Indian soldiers waltzing into Chinese territory and getting themselves killed. In the days that followed, the foreign ministry had to release various clarificatory messages. This isn’t the first time that Indian politicians have had trouble reconciling domestic rhetoric with foreign diplomacy. The list is too long to recount here. But in recent times, domestic politics has increasingly hurt India’s interests overseas. Consider Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement in Parliament last year, which now reads like a preface to the current standoff in Ladakh. After abrogating Article 370, he said that his government would take back Aksai Chin from the Chinese: “We will give our lives for this region.” The Home Minister may have impressed his domestic constituency, but he failed to consult the military and the foreign ministry before shooting off his challenge to China. Beijing immediately protested, and started to prepare. Months later, as soon as the weather allowed them, they were setting up camps on Indian soil. Elsewhere, as India quibbled with Nepal over Kalapani, the Indian Army Chief pish-poshed Nepal’s statements, saying that they were merely acting “at the behest of someone else.” (Imagine Richard Nixon saying that to Indira Gandhi during the 1971 war!) Nepal then promptly redrew its map – with unanimous support from all parties in its parliament – to include the entire disputed region as its own territory. Let’s not even go into India’s public positions on the American presidential elections: There, the prime minister and many members of his party have openly endorsed Donald Trump – and burnt most bridges that existed with the Democrats. In all the above cases, the government has played to the gallery at home – stoking misplaced national pride and jingoism, at the cost of India’s national security and foreign policy interests. Politicians say dangerously careless things because they believe that the voters reward dangerous carelessness – so long as it is what they want to hear. So, the onus is on the voters to tell them otherwise. The next time the Chinese come intruding, don’t blame the prime minister if he is not fully honest with you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-old-foot-in-mouth-disease-857194.html
05-07-2020||Opinion||Might, wit or craft – what’s your formula to win in a conflict?||As if the world acknowledges that people under lockdowns need something to discuss and argue over, an unending number of conflicts have been in the news over the past month. Skirmishes of all kinds have been in the news lately — the clashes between India and China over the border, followed by the banning of apps with links to China; America’s freeze on H-1B visas, and Pakistan referring to Osama bin-Laden as a martyr. Conflict is the foundation stone of any story, and so we have innumerable myths on winning fights — through might, wit, or craft. Everyone knows the four means to resolve conflict —through talks and alliances (sama), through gifts and bribes (dana), through dividing the enemy and causing dissension (bheda), and finally through force or punishment (danda). But there are a zillion variations on these. The Panchatantra tells us the story of a sandpiper bird who outwitted the mighty ocean. When the sandpiper’s wife wasabout to lay eggs, she was considering safe places for a nest for the little ones. The sandpiper dismissed her and argued that their home by the ocean was the perfect spot. When she objected that the ocean could sweep away their eggs with a single wave, the sandpiper claimed to be much stronger than the ocean. Soon enough, the curious ocean swept the eggs away on a whim to see what the sandpiper would do. The sandpiper, determined to fight back, teamed up with the other birds and approached Garuda, the king of all birds and Vishnu’s mount. The sandpiper made it sound like the ocean had personally offended Garuda. “If the ocean dares to commit such an act towards us while we are in your care, Garuda, he thinks we are really weak and cannot fend for ourselves,” the sandpiper argued. Garuda, dejected at the news, promptly poured out his woes to Vishnu, who ordered the ocean very sternly to give back the eggs he had stolen from the sandpiper. Talk about using influence to get out of a scrape! There is also the unfortunate story of the poor camel, Kathanaka. There was once a lion in a forest, who had three followers — a jackal, a leopard, and a crow. The lion, proud as he was, went on a hunt, and his friends ate the leftovers once he was done. This was their usual routine, when a camel from elsewhere ventured into the forest and sought the shelter of the lion. He then joined the group, but of course, he didn’t quite belong yet. Once, the lion got into a fight with a wild elephant and was gravely injured. Unable to hunt, he rested in a cave while he and his followers starved for days. The leopard, jackal, and crow tried to hunt by themselves, but ended up exhausted, with no prey. So, they hit upon a plan — they would eat the camel! Just one problem, though: How could they eat someone who had sought refuge with them? Sticking to the letter of the law, they decided it would not be a crime if he were to offer himself up. But who would ever do that? The wily crow came up with a plan. They each walked up to the lion, and told him, “I cannot bear to see you in this plight. Please accept me as your next meal and save yourself, and I will be freed of my debt of gratitude to you for taking care of me this long”. The lion refused all three, saying they were too small to offer him any sustenance. So, the poor camel decided this was his chance to belong, by offering himself and being refused. Except, no sooner had he offered himself than the animals tore him apart and satisfied themselves. Who is it that finally ends up losing every fight? This popular Sanskrit verse tells us — “It is not the horse, nor the elephant, and certainly not the tiger. It is the goat that ends up being sacrificed, for even fate destroys the underdog.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/might-wit-or-craft-what-s-your-formula-to-win-in-a-conflict-857195.html
05-07-2020||Opinion||The missing forum for farmers’ welfare||In the evening primetime show, following the news of the financial package to revive the Indian economy in mid-May, a news anchor of a major television channel turned to the president of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII): “A voice from India Inc on what the PM has announced. What’s your first reaction?” The guest said: “I’m smiling. I’m relieved. Within the first three weeks after the Covid crisis broke out, the CII asked for a package of roughly Rs 7 or 8 lakh crore. Last week, we upped our demand and asked for roughly Rs 15 lakh crore and that comprised a lot of things that we believed would take the country ahead. But the Rs 20 lakh crore package is way beyond our expectations.” Had any forum placed demands before the government on behalf of rural India? Why didn’t the news anchor feel the need to seek a reaction from a farmers’ representative? The absence of an all-India organisation to clarify to the government and to the country how best to secure the future of rural India, where two thirds of Indians continue to make their lives, must count as a bitter irony. India has indeed seen several powerful farmer movements over the decades. Centred on charismatic leaders such as Mahendra Singh Tikait and MD Nanjundaswamy, these movements dissipated following their demise. Their inability to evolve a second rung of leadership and their decision to enter electoral politics, which made them vulnerable to tough electoral realities, are among the chief causes here. Large mobilisations of farmers continue to be seen periodically. Two years ago, for instance, around 50,000 farmers in Maharashtra marched to Mumbai asking for assured minimum support prices and compensation for crop damage. In the previous year, the Kisan Mukti March saw over one lakh farmers from across the country gather in New Delhi to ask for stable prices for their crops. Usually led by a coalition of farmers groups and political parties and focused on retail demands, such mobilisations have been short-lived. Lobby groups of specific crop growers, like the sugar lobby in Maharashtra or the coffee growers’ lobby in Karnataka, which bargain with the government to secure their sectoral interests, have been around. But a durable, non-partisan platform to articulate the concerns of Indian agriculturists is what is needed: a dedicated forum for understanding the means by which farm-based livelihoods can be sustained and nourished, to ask the government to act as if the welfare of rural India mattered, to make Indians understand the sophisticated knowledge and art that constitute the activity of agriculture and take pride in how farmers enable food security as well the dazzling culinary universe of the country. Such a forum would proactively offer constructive policy proposals to the central and state governments and critically monitor their governance measures aimed at farmers. It would seek innovative solutions with the ideals of farmer autonomy and ecological sanity in view. (From this ethical vantage point, cooperative land cultivation is a wiser solution, for instance, to the problem of low productivity arising from small land-holdings, than contracting the latter out to large corporate companies, which would take away the autonomy of farmers in deciding what to grow or how to treat the soil). It would engage with democratically committed farmer and ecological activists, scholars and policy experts grappling with matters of agriculture across the country and abroad and emerge as an intellectual powerhouse in the world of Indian agriculture. It would build media platforms to help the wider public grasp the historical and contemporary picture of agrarian India. And, staying non-aligned between political parties, it would insulate the livelihood concerns of farmers from the cynical compulsions of party politics. Farmers, of course, are not a monolith community: some of them are landed and some landless; some own large-sized holdings and some small ones; some have dry land and some have access to irrigated water; some grow cash crops and some food crops; some are upper caste and some lower. Internal differences like these, however, do not preclude the pursuit of a common maximum programme for farmers. Building a forum for the welfare of Indian agriculture indeed needs ample financial and infrastructure resources, but a modest start needs to happen with the hope that it will galvanise goodwill and support towards ensuring a future for India’s agriculture. Over 330,000 farmers have taken their lives over the last 25 years. For economists and policymakers, the agricultural sector continues to be an afterthought. And, last month, three ordinances which are said to bring adverse shifts in Indian agriculture were passed by the central government without consultation with any farmer representatives. It cannot go on like this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-missing-forum-for-farmers-welfare-857196.html
05-07-2020||Opinion||From Sadak to Sadak 2: OTT is an idea whose time has come||It was December 1991. Director Mahesh Bhatt’s Sadak, starring Sanjay Dutt and Pooja Bhatt, had just released. I had queued up outside Welfare Cinema in Ranchi, hoping to watch the first day first show. With most tickets being sold in black, tickets at the box-office ran out as soon as it was my turn to buy one. Given that it was the ’90s, and everyone had a lot of time, I came back a couple of hours later to queue up for the second show. A helpful constable who had seen me queue up for the first show, got me the ticket for the second one. Watching the movie turned out to be a miserable experience. The fans were not working. The seats were all broken and infested with bedbugs. And, I found Sadashiv Amrapurkar’s character in the movie extremely repulsive. Cut to 2020, nearly 30 years on, Sadak 2, the sequel, is all set to release on an OTT (over the top) media platform. I can watch the movie lying down on my bed, sipping coffee intermittently. It also means that I don’t have to pay extra for exorbitantly priced popcorn and coffee that multiplexes sell these days. Also, I can watch the movie anytime I want to, and even pause it. And on top of everything else, if I don’t like the movie, I don’t have to watch it completely. Switching the TV off is easier than walking out of a cinema hall after having paid for it. On the flip side, watching anything on a TV cannot be the same as the big screen experience. Over the past few months, as Covid-19 has spread and it has become clear that it isn’t going away any time soon, many movie producers have chosen to release their movies on OTT media platforms. It makes immense sense for them to do so. Making movies is an expensive business. And unless a movie is released, there is no way that a producer can hope to recover the money invested. Also, many producers invest borrowed money into making movies. This money can only be repaid once the movie is released. Every month they don’t repay the money, they need to pay interest on the outstanding debt. Even when big studios are involved, unless a movie releases, the money invested in it remains stuck. This explains why movies of some of the biggest stars are releasing on OTT platforms. For OTT platforms, buying up and releasing new movies make immense sense. Given that they are a new medium, they need to attract more and more people onto their platforms, and movies and cricket remain the easiest way to do so. The strategy that helped private entertainment channels build a huge audience in the 1990s is playing out all over again. Even at that time, it was movie-related content (starting with film songs) that moved people away from Doordarshan to cable TV. This explains why some of the biggest TV entertainment channels have also gotten into the OTT business. The idea is to cannibalise their own business, before someone else does. Of course, in all of this, the theatre owners and the multiplex owners are crying foul. Their monopoly over new movie releases has been broken. And whenever any monopoly is broken, the incumbents are bound to get hurt. A similar thing happened when the first automobiles started to make an appearance, the horse-owners didn’t like it one bit. But we all know how that played out. Any new invention or innovation that offers more choice to the end-consumer should always be welcomed. If an individual wants to watch a movie only in a theatre, he will still be able to, once cinemas re-open post-pandemic. But entertainment is an important part of our daily lives, and right now, the new movie releases on OTT platforms are providing that. Obviously, falling internet charges have made this strategy viable. Up until a few years back, one had to think before watching any video content on the phone, given how expensive internet bandwidth was. As far as new filmmakers are concerned, OTT might just be a better platform for them. The way the film industry has evolved in the last two decades, a bulk of the money made by any movie is made in the first few days of its release. Basically, the first weekend decides which way the movie will go. Will it be a hit or a flop? Hence, the chance for the word of mouth to work its magic is very low. On an OTT platform, once a movie lands (as the OTT platforms like to put it), it remains there. Hence, the movie has a chance to do well over a period of time, if word of mouth works in its favour, unlike in a cinema hall where most movies get pulled down at the end of one or two weeks. Further, there is one area where OTT platforms will have to innovate. Currently, every OTT platform wants consumers to take on a subscription. They need to gradually move to a pay-per-view system. I may want to watch a cricket match on an OTT platform but nothing else they have to offer. Same goes with a movie. With micropayments becoming possible, this shouldn’t be difficult. Let me conclude using a cliché, new movies on OTT platform is an idea whose time has come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/from-sadak-to-sadak-2-ott-is-an-idea-whose-time-has-come-857197.html
05-07-2020||Panorama||Power sector in crisis, reforms a mirage||The special economic and comprehensive package ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, unveiled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in five tranches during May 13 - 17, 2020, has two components that have a crucial bearing on the fledgling power distribution companies – commonly known as discoms. The discoms - mostly owned and controlled by state governments - procure power from independent power producers [IPPs] and public sector undertakings [PSUs] such as the National Thermal Power Corporation [NTPC] besides their own generating stations and sell to consumers.    The first component provides for special loan of Rs 90,000 crore from Rural Electrification Corporation [REC] and Power Finance Corporation [PFC] to discoms to enable them to clear their dues to IPPs and PSUs. But there are riders - discoms bringing in transparency in pricing of electricity supplies to industry and businesses, reducing cross-subsidy [an acronym for charging more from these users to subsidise supplies to farmers and poor households] and implement reforms such as ‘open access’, that is, allowing consumer to draw power from a supplier of his choice and direct benefit transfer [DBT] of subsidy. The second component relates to hike in the borrowing limit of states from existing 3% of the state gross domestic product [SGDP] to 5% [the 2% hike translates to about Rs 4,28,000 crore]. While, the first 0.5% of additional borrowing space is unconditional, the remaining 1.5% will be permitted subject to the state achieving measurable targets in four areas of reforms – one of these being power.     As per an advisory issued to states by the Union Finance Ministry on May 17, 2020, 0.25% of SGDP borrowing space is linked to power sector reforms. Of this, 0.05% is predicated on the state reducing aggregate technical and commercial [AT&C] losses of its discoms, another 0.05% is linked to their reducing the gap between average cost of supply and average revenue realisation [ACS-ARR gap] from sale of electricity. To avail of the remaining 0.15% borrowing window, a state will have to formulate a scheme to roll out DBT to all farmers in lieu of free electricity from 2021-22. The scheme should be implemented in at least one of its districts by December 31, 2020. Based on the progress on the above three parameters, the power ministry will recommend to the expenditure department to release the 0.25% by January 31, 2021.   The benevolence showered by the Centre on beleaguered states and their discoms appears to be sumptuous but it is conditional. In fact, the former wants the latter to show on ground zero that they are serious about implementing reforms; or else why would it require the power ministry to monitor the progress and only thereafter, recommend release of borrowing freedom to each state.  However, the big question is: Will the states do it? Can it be done? Is the Centre really serious? To get to the bottom of these niggling questions, let us look at a few hard facts. Being their sole or dominating owner and controller, the state governments order discoms to do what they should not be doing as a commercial enterprise. They are told to sell power to certain class of consumers - poor households and farmers either at a fraction of the cost of supply or even free. Second, they abet large-scale theft which in jargon is called ‘technical and commercial’ [T&C] losses. Third, under power purchase agreements [PPAs], discoms are made to pay inflated tariff to IPPs using routes such as ‘gold-plating’ [declaring higher investment than actual], over-invoicing of fuel cost, etc. This leads to a terrible situation whereby the ARR from sale of electricity falls short of the ACS. Indeed, this happens despite discoms charging exorbitant tariff from industries and businesses [this can go up to Rs 10 per unit or even higher] against cost of Rs 3-5 per unit. The discoms’ financial position has remained fragile for close to two decades. To keep them afloat, since 2000, the government had given three financial restructuring packages [FRPs] - a fancy nomenclature for condoning their debt. The FRP [2015] involved takeover of 75% of the debt of about Rs 400,000 crore. This was at core of the Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana [UDAY] which ran between November 2015 and March 2019. Each of these packages required states to take steps to reduce T&C losses and ACS-ARR gap. Under UDAY, discoms were required to reduce AT&C losses from 20.7% during 2015-16 to 15% by 2018-19. Further, they were required to reduce the ACS-ARR gap from Rs 0.59 per unit during 2015-16 to ‘zero’ by 2018-19.  The overarching objective behind fixing these milestones was to force discoms set their house in order so that in future, they won’t be need any bail out. But, things have not panned out as planned. During 2019-20, AT&C losses of discoms were 18.9% while ACS-ARR gap stood at Rs 0.42 per unit. After decreasing from Rs 52,000 crore during 2015-16 to Rs 17,000 crore during 2017-18 [courtesy, FRP under UDAY], the discoms loss increased to over Rs 30,000 crore during 2019-20. Concomitantly, their dues to IPP/PSUs went up to about Rs 90,000 crore by February 2020. Now, discoms are in dire need for funds so that they can clear their dues to IPPs/PSUs who, in turn, can continue uninterrupted supply of power. These are crisis times. So, the Modi government has promptly agreed to arrange loans from REC/PFC but made it conditional on their implementing reforms. It has also made additional borrowing   Leeway to states contingent on the latter taking steps to reduce AT&C losses, reducing ACS-ARR gap, DBT etc.       But it is expecting states/discoms to do the impossible. What they could not do over several years, it wants them to do over few months.  Yet, if it has put the riders, this could be merely for public consumption.  Given the crisis situation, while both states and discoms will get the money promised to them, reforms will continue to elude the power sector as always. (The writer is a New Delhi-based policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/power-sector-in-crisis-reforms-a-mirage-857479.html
05-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Covid-19 Effect: Namaste, India!||Press both the palm of your hands against each other and spout “namaskar.” That’s our traditional way of greeting someone. But in recent times amidst the “fashionable” hi’s and hello’s, it had seemingly lost its appeal. Then coronavirus came calling and perhaps it is in vogue again! This novel virus is passed on, particularly, via respiratory droplets of an infected person and the persons or surfaces he comes in close contact with. As the buzz around the precautions to be taken to contain the contagion gains currency and we go into an overreach mode, the old-world namaste has gained traction. As social distancing becomes the new normal, a case can be made against the all-pervasive handshake and the good-old namaskar might come to our rescue. Even President Trump extolling the virtues of namaste remarked that India and Japan (where they bow to greet) were “ahead of the curve.” Even the usual suspects at Page 3 get-togethers, seem to have ditched their air kisses, hugs and handshakes for the “modest” namaste. And it has its benefits, too. Many acupressure points are activated as we press our palms together, the mudra being part of many yogasanas.  Sadly, salutations in this mode have become so alien to us that it is, sometimes, met with weird reactions. It happened to me at least twice. In an election rally a few years back, a chief ministerial candidate was on her campaign spree amidst us. She met my eyes for a fleeting few seconds, in the surging crowd and out of admiration for the firebrand former IPS officer, I folded my palms in an unobtrusive namaskar from a distance while everybody else clamoured to shake hands, hug or garland her. What everybody else did was get in close physical contact, which in these times of Covid-19 is a big “no-no.” Probably surprised, she gave me a warm but hesitant smile. On another occasion, the audience after a play rushed onto the stage to take selfies with the leading lady, almost pressing their cheeks against hers, the act, arguably, violative of her personal space, and again, another instance of body contact, a taboo during such virus outbreaks while I did a graceful namaste, standing way below the podium. And I got an awkward smile.   I usually do a full-bodied namaskar, neta style, by lifting my folded hands up to my face and slightly bow. What a dignified way to acknowledge someone’s presence. As the pandemonium around the pandemic takes time to settle down with little evidence of how this modified virus would behave as its fortunes may see many vicissitudes, I think this beautiful tradition is here to stay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/covid-19-effect-namaste-india-857477.html
05-07-2020||Second Edit||Food grain delivery for migrants shoddy||Reports of the failure of governments to deliver on the promises made to the most indigent sections of people during the lockdown are disturbing, and should cause serious concern. The latest data of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, released last week, shows that only 13% of the 8 lakh metric tonnes of free food grains allocated for returning migrant workers under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package has actually reached the migrants during May and June. The government had announced that 5 kg of food grains and 1 kg of pulses would be distributed free to all migrants, when there was widespread criticism of the lack of government help for them to return to their homes and to support themselves after they reached their homes. Of the 8 crore migrant workers who should have benefited from the programme, only 2.13 crore got the promised subsistence package (1.21 crore in May and 92.44 lakh in June), according to the ministry’s data. The states lifted 80% of the 8 lakh metric tonnes of food grains allocated under the programme, but distributed only 1.07 metric tonnes till June 30. At least 26 states lifted their full allocation but none of them distributed the full quantities to the beneficiaries. Some states like Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu did not distribute even 1% of the food grains. But UP and Bihar could be called the worst performers because most migrants were from these two states. They distributed just above 2% of the grains though both lifted their full entitlement. Rajasthan distributed about 95% of its allocation, and Karnataka, performed well. The figures from most states show the big gap between promises and delivery of help to migrants when they needed it most. They also confirm the widespread complaints from migrants that they have not received any help. Such complaints have often been dismissed as highlighting of stray cases or false and politically motivated charges.  Minister for Consumer Affairs Ram Vilas Paswan has said that the poor performance of most states in the matter is a matter of concern. He indicated that there may be problems in distribution, which is self-evident, and that full data about migrants may not be available. The scheme has now been extended till November 30. It is a programme for which the Central government has claimed much credit. It is its responsibility to ensure that the food grains actually reach the needy. Most migrant workers have no work and are starving, and even a few kgs of grains can make a difference to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/food-grain-delivery-for-migrants-shoddy-857472.html
05-07-2020||South||CB-CID warns against fake news over Tamil Nadu custodial deaths||The CB-CID has warned against fake news and photographs being circulated on the sensational father-son duo death case in the social media and directed removal of such posts or face legal action. Also, the Crime Branch-CID said a summons was being issued to the editor of an online Tamil news portal for inquiry for posting alleged morphed photographs of Jeyaraj and his son Bennicks. The news website falsely showed their bodies to have sustained serious cut injuries on the chest, neck and other parts, according to a CB-CID press release. "When the injuries shown in the picture (in the website) was compared with the injuries noted by the post-mortem doctor, it is seen that they do not tally at all." Hence, these photographs seem to be morphed and published by that portal with an intention to create social unrest among the public, the special probe agency said. "Moreover, such posts with distorted facts seriously hamper the investigation of the case," it said. Based on a complaint, a case has been registered and the matter has been taken up for a probe, it said. "As part of the investigation, summons are being issued to the editor of...for inquiry in this case." Also, some malicious and fake news and photographs were being posted and circulated by vested interests with some ulterior motive, CB-CID said. "Strict action will be taken as per law against all those who are circulating such false information on social media." Authors and publishers of such posts and fake news, whether online or offline, maligning individuals or organisations in this case "are also advised in their own interest to take down those posts or face legal action," the statement warned. The probe agency said investigation was being held in a fair and transparent manner in the father and son death case and five police personnel have been arrested so far. Jeyaraj and his son Bennicks were arrested on June 19 for alleged violation of prohibitory orders in force due to Covid-19 lockdown by keeping their mobile phone shop at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district beyond the allowed time. After being remanded to judicial custody by a magistrate next day, the two were lodged in the Kovilpatti sub-jail. They were admitted to a government hospital in Kovilpatti by jail authorities on June 22 and died in the space of a few hours. The deaths due to alleged police brutality led to nation-wide outrage. While a CBI probe has been ordered by the government, the Madras High Court had directed the CB-CID to handle the case till such time the central agency stepped in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cb-cid-warns-against-fake-news-over-tamil-nadu-custodial-deaths-857251.html
05-07-2020||South||Kerala makes wearing masks and registering entry to state mandatory for a year||With Covid-19 cases in Kerala, especially those through local spread, increasing alarmingly, the Kerala Government has made preventive measures more stringent by making wearing of masks and registration for entering Kerala mandatory under law. Offenders can attract up to two years imprisonment. However a provision for compounding has been included through a fresh amendment in the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. Even as the spike in number of fresh infections due to those returning from other states and abroad were anticipated by the state government, over the last few days the number of fresh infections through local spread showed a sharp increasing trend and the source of many could not be traced. Experts, including the Indian Medical Association, have alerted the government of the chance of community spread. Hence the government decided to make social distancing norms more stringent. According to the fresh amendments, all persons should cover their mouth and nose with the mask or a face cover in all public places, workplaces and whiel commuting in any vehicle. People should maintain social distance of six feet between each other in any public place or congregation. All persons visiting Kerala from other States and abroad must furnish details prescribed on the portal 'COVID-19 Jagratha e-platform' established by the government for contact tracing, ensuring quarantine and other COVID-19 combating measures to minimize the potential of spread of the epidemic. No social gatherings,including dharnas and demonstrations allowed without written permission of the concerned authority. The maximum participants in such social gathering shall not exceed ten persons. Maximum participation at marriages are limited to 50 at a time and for funerals to 20 at a time, said the amended rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-makes-wearing-masks-and-registering-entry-to-state-mandatory-for-a-year-857305.html
05-07-2020||South||82-year-old man dies of Covid-19 in Kerala||One more person died of Covid-19 in Kerala, taking the death toll from the deadly virus in the state to 26. An 82-year-old-man, identified as Muhammed of Chokkadu, living near Vandoor in Malappuram district died late on Saturday night. He returned from Riyadh on June 29 after visiting his son.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/82-year-old-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-kerala-857306.html
05-07-2020||South||AIADMK MLA tests positive for Covid-19||An AIADMK MLA from Coimbatore tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, becoming the fifth ruling party legislator to contract the virus. He has been admitted to the Government ESI Hospital here, a health department official said. The daughter, son-in-law and granddaughter of the MLA were already undergoing treatment at the ESI hospital after contracting the infection, after their return from Madurai a couple of days ago. He had undergone the test three days ago. Earlier, four ruling party MLAs, including Higher Education Minister K P Anbalagan RPT Anbalagan, had contracted the virus. Further, four DMK MLAs, including the deceased J Anbazhagan, had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-857328.html
05-07-2020||South||43 new Covid-19 cases in Puducherry take tally to 946||Forty three new Covid-19 cases were reported in the Union Territory, taking the infection tally to 946 on Sunday, while the death toll remained at 14, the government said. Among them, 30 patients were admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College,10 to the government general hospital at Yanam and three to the centrally administered JIPMER, a government bulletin said, giving details of coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, ended at 10 am. Eleven were in the 18-60 age group and three were aged more than 60 years, it said A total of 442 samples were tested, of which 43 turned out to be positive, taking the total number of cases to 946, it said. The active cases stood at 484, while 448 patients were treated and discharged. The total number of fatalities continued to remain at 14 as no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The bulletin said 18,848 of the total of 20,186 samples tested had turned out to be negative. The results of the other samples were awaited, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/43-new-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry-take-tally-to-946-857334.html
05-07-2020||South||They charge Rs 1.15 lakh for a day: Covid-19-positive govt doctor alleges detainment in private hospital||A private hospital in Hyderabad had allegedly detained a government doctor taking treatment there for Covid-19, for not settling the "exorbitant fees levied".   A selfie-video of Dr Asra Sultana making a fervent appeal “for rescue from the hospital’s exploitation” has put the focus on the mismatch between the rates fixed by Telangana government for Covid-19 treatment in the private sector and the actual bills that the patients are asked to pay. Interestingly, Dr Sultana is an assistant civil surgeon at the state-run Fever Hospital in Hyderabad which is treating Covid-19 suspects. However, she along with her family members who also tested positive got admitted into the private hospital last week. “Due to shortness of breath, I was admitted into Thumbay Hospital, Chaderghat. For one day they are charging Rs 1.15 lakh; I could not pay so much as one-day expenses. My brother paid Rs 1.9 lakh in total and they are not discharging us, they are misbehaving with us,” Dr Sultana says, sobbing in the video. “I am in trouble, please help. I cannot pay them Rs one lakh every day. I want to be discharged right now. I am a Covid-19 warrior,” she says. Dr K Shankar, Fever Hospital superintendent, told DH that Dr Sultana was never put on Covid-19 duties. “In our tests about a week back, she was negative. But later, she sent a message claiming she has tested positive and asked for a 14 day leave to be in quarantine. We were not informed or aware that she was admitted to a private hospital. Availing a private facility is her choice. If she wants, we can put her in NIMS or Gandhi for proper treatment. We even tried to resolve her bill issue,” Dr Shankar said. Chaderghat police said that she got admitted in the private hospital on July 1 and left the hospital for home by Sunday morning. Thumbay Hospital authorities refuted Dr Sultana’s charges as baseless and stated her total bill amount "for almost five days is about Rs 1.5 lakh." She was non-cooperative in treatment and abusive to doctors, other staff, they said, adding that legal action could be taken on her.  The Chandrasekhar Rao government has been claiming best facilities, treatment for Covid-19 patients in the government hospitals. While allowing private hospitals in Covid-19 treatment, Health Minister Etela Rajender had on June 15 announced a ceiling of Rs 7,500 per day without ventilator support and Rs 9,000 with a ventilator. However, several hospitals are reportedly charging 10 times the prescribed rates, subjecting patients to unrequired procedures. In some cases, patients’ records allegedly evade Covid-19 mention to avoid any scrutiny. “We charge around Rs one lakh per day for Covid-19 patients. Government orders are being ignored everywhere, not just at our hospital,” a senior doctor at a corporate hospital in Hyderabad said. Total positive cases in Telangana till Friday is 22,312 with 288 deaths.  “We charge around Rs 1 lakh per day for Covid-19 treatment. Government orders are being ignored everywhere, not just at our hospital,” a senior doctor at a corporate hospital in Hyderabad told DH. The total positive cases in Telangana till Friday is 22,312 with 288 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/they-charge-rs-115-lakh-for-a-day-covid-19-positive-govt-doctor-alleges-detainment-in-private-hospital-857352.html
05-07-2020||South||Thiruvananthapuram Dist is 'sitting on active volcano': Kerala Min K Surendran on rising Covid-19 cases||Thiruvananthapuram district is 'sitting on an active volcano' with rising number of Covid-19 cases and there was no guarantee that there would be no community spread, tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said here on Sunday. He also said that the state government has decided to conduct more antigen tests in the district to check the spread of the virus. "It's like we are sitting on top of an active volcano which can burst anytime. Just because there has been no community spread till now doesn't mean it will not occur," the minister told reporters here. Surendran said the restrictions in force in containment zones would be tightened and food delivery boys would be tested. Recently, a food delivery boy and a policeman in the city tested positive, prompting health department officials to implement a health protocol. Adding to the concern of rising Covid-19 cases in the capital district, two accused lodged at a quarantine centre at nearby Varkala escaped early on Sunday morning. Police said they were nabbed from two different areas and brought to the centre for observation as part of Covid-19 protocol. Police said a search was on to nab them. Kerala's Covid-19 tally breached the 5,000 mark on Saturday with 240 cases being reported, the highest single-day surge, with Thiruvananthapuram reporting 16 cases. The number of cases in Thiruvananthapuram district has risen from 77 on June 25 to 109 at present, while 13,513 people are under observation. A total of 256 people are in isolation wards of various hospitals across the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thiruvananthapuram-dist-is-sitting-on-active-volcano-kerala-min-k-surendran-on-rising-covid-19-cases-857367.html
05-07-2020||South||Kerala issues notification extending enforcement of coronavirus regulations till July 2021||Kerala Health Department has issued notification, extending the enforcement of state's Covid-19 regulations till July 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-issues-notification-extending-enforcement-of-coronavirus-regulations-till-july-2021-857378.html
05-07-2020||South||Gold smuggling under diplomatic cover foiled in Kerala||About 30 kilogram gold was seized on Sunday from the diplomatic cargo addressed to the official of the consulate of a Gulf country in Thiruvananthapuram. It is said to be for the first time that such a modus operandi misusing diplomatic privileges was being detected in the state. The seized gold was worth nearly Rs 15 crore. Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) in Kerala, Sumit Kumar, told DH that the diplomatic baggage was checked following an intelligence input. Prior permission of Ministry of External Affairs was obtained and senior officials carried out the operations considering the sensitivity. He also said that the mission official to whom the baggage was addressed to, disowned the consignment and hence it was suspected that a racket misused the diplomatic route. Some of the members of the racket were already identified and a search for them was on. The mission officials were also cooperating with the probe and hence so far no actions were taken against them. Gold smuggling to Kerala was quite rampant and smugglers were using many modus operandi like smuggling with the help of aircraft cleaning staff and airport staff. Even couple of incidents of gold smuggling by passengers on Vande Bharat mission flights to Kerala were also foiled recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-under-diplomatic-cover-foiled-in-kerala-857411.html
05-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 4,150 new cases; 60 deaths due to Covid-19||Tamil Nadu remained under the grip of coronavirus with over 4,000 fresh cases being reported for the fourth straight day, taking the tally to 1,11,151 on Sunday, the state Health Department said. The state added 4,150 cases while 60 people succumbed to the virus, pushing the toll to 1,510, it said in a bulletin. On the positive side, recoveries climbed to 62,778 with 2,186 people being discharged after treatment from various health care facilities on Sunday. The number of active cases in the state stood at 46,860, the bulletin said. With the focus remaining on ramping up testing, a total of 34,831 samples were examined, taking the overall tally to 13.41 lakh. In the backdrop of aggressive testing, the state has recorded its highest single-day increase of 4,343 cases on Thursday, followed by 4,329 and 4,280 new cases in the last two days. On Sunday, Chennai, which has accounted for a lion's share of the cases in the state, saw a further dip in new infections at 1,713 after 1,842 on Saturday as against over 2,000 in recent days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-4150-new-cases-60-deaths-due-to-covid-19-857416.html
05-07-2020||South||Triple lockdown to be imposed in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram over surge in coronavirus cases||A triple lockdown will be imposed in Thiruvananthapuram city for one week from Monday in view of a spurt in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases through local spread. As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Thiruvananthapuram, the state capital is under heightened vigil. Of the 225 fresh cases reported in Kerala on Sunday, 38 were locally transmitted. Of this, 22 were in Thiruvanthapuram and the source of infection of over ten cases could not be detected yet. It is the highest single-day Covid-19 cases through local spread in the state as well. Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said that it is a very alarming situation in the state capital. State Police Chief Lonath Behera said in a statement said that all roads in the city would be blocked. He said that the public can seek police assistance for all essential purposes. Meanwhile, an octogenarian man identified a Muhammed of Chokkadu near Vandoor in Malappuram district died late on Saturday night. He was tested positive. He returned from Riyadh on June 29 after visiting son and was admitted to Manjeri Medical College hospital on July 1 after he suffered from fever and drowsiness. Later he was tested positive. His condition worsened after developing pneumonia. As many as 126 persons recovered from Covid-19 infection on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/triple-lockdown-to-be-imposed-in-kerala-capital-thiruvananthapuram-over-surge-in-coronavirus-cases-857430.html
05-07-2020||South||7 Army jawans among 225 new COVID-19 cases in Kerala; Tally rises to 5,429||Kerala on Sunday reported second highest single day rise of 225 Covid-19 cases, including seven jawans of an Army unit in the state, taking the total to 5,429, the government said. A day after recording the highest single day surge of 240 cases, the state added 225 cases of whom 117 were overseas returnees, 57 from other states while 38 contracted the disease through contacts. "Other than this, seven Defence Security Corps (DSC) jawans in Kannur, two CISF jawans, two BSF jawans and two ship crew have also contracted the disease," state Health Minister K K Shailaja said in a release here.       Test results of 126 people who were undergoing treatment turned negative on Sunday, taking the cumulative recoveries to 3,174, the release said, adding the active cases stood at 2,228. Of the fresh cases, Palakkad accounted for the highest at 29 followed by Kasaragod (28), Thiruvananthapuram (27), Malappuram (26) and Kannur (25). Thiruvananthapuram district has the most number of cases through contact at 22, forcing the administration to strengthen the implementation of the health protocol. "There are 1,80,939 people under observation in the state out of which 2,944 are in the isolation wards of various hospitals across the state," the release said. A total of 7,461 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 2,68,218 samples. The health department has also declared 24 new hotspots in the state and the total rose to 153. As per the latest medical bulletin, Malappuram has 278 cases, the highest in the state, followed by Kannur with 274 infections. Palakkad (196), Ernakulam (194) and Alappuzha (191) are the other districts with high case load.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/7-army-jawans-among-225-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-tally-rises-to-5429-857436.html
05-07-2020||State||Karnataka records highest daily spike with 1,839 Covid-19 cases||Karnataka reported a new single-day high of 1,839 Covid-19 cases and a record 42 deaths on Saturday, taking the toll to 335. Bengaluru, which accounted for 24 of Saturday’s deaths, also recorded its highest one-day spike of 1,172 cases, making up 63.73% of the state’s numbers. Reacting to the sharp rise in the death toll, head of the critical care support team K V Trilok Chandra clarified that of the 42 deaths added to the bulletin on Saturday, only one died on July 4, while the rest had died between June 23 and July 4. “The deaths can be attributed to late admission to hospitals. Some died within hours of admission, one was brought dead and three died at home. The reason for the late reporting of these deaths may be because the swabs were taken posthumously. According to the rules, we are allowed to take swabs up to six hours after the death,” Chandra told DH.  The number of active cases is 11,966. The total number of positive cases are 21,549. The total number of samples tested decreased from 18,307 on Friday to 17,592 on Saturday. Bengaluru Urban saw 195 recoveries after data on recoveries had stopped coming due to the civic body’s inability to collect  discharge data from various hospitals.   South Zone has 2,062 active cases followed by 1,461 active cases in the West Zone, and 1,518 in the East Zone. RR Nagar, Bommanahalli, Mahadevapura and Yelahanka have active cases in triple figures while Dasarahalli has double figures. An analysis of the cases over the last 10 days shows South constitutes 26% cases, East 23% and West 22% of the cases while RR Nagar and Bommanahalli zones account for 8% each of the cases while Mahadevapura constitutes 6%, Yelahanka has 4% and Dasarahalli 3%. Wardwise, Shantala Nagar saw 44 cases, Gandhi Nagar saw 24 cases, Chickpet 22 and Chamarajpet 21.  Bengaluru’s positivity rate is 6.9%. In all, 124 patients are in the city’s ICUs and 226 all over the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-records-highest-daily-spike-with-1839-covid-19-cases-857188.html
05-07-2020||State||In a first, Karnataka state govt to hold virtual job fair||In the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic and the fear of layoffs lurking everywhere, the state government is holding a first-of-its-kind virtual job fair on July 10, to help people find jobs commensurate with their skill sets. Co-ordinated by the Karnataka Skill Development Corporation (KSDC), the job fair will see participation of more than 40 companies for about 6,000 job openings. A candidate can either directly apply to a company, or await the portal to match their skills with available jobs. There is also a self-evaluation section on the website which will suggest whether a candidate needs to further skill oneself or whether they are eligible for jobs with their current set of skills.  Firms such as Life Insurance Corporation, Barbeque Nation and Arvind Mills are among the participants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/in-a-first-karnataka-state-govt-to-hold-virtual-job-fair-857191.html
05-07-2020||State||Karnataka's 33-hour lockdown: Here's what remains open||Hit by a spike in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka announced a dusk-to-dawn curfew starting June 29 and a total lockdown on all Sundays starting July 5.  Here’s all you need to know: Will the lockdown last the whole day? Yes. The lockdown will be in place from 8 pm on Saturday, July 4 till 5 am on Monday, July 6. For how long will there be lockdowns on Sunday? The curbs will remain in place till at least August 2, unless the authorities decide to call it off earlier or extend it. What activities are allowed under the Sunday curfew? Only movement of essential goods and supplies will be allowed on Sundays. According to the order issued by the state government, “only essential activities will be allowed, including operation of industrial units in multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on national and state highway/major district roads, loading and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes” Will Ola or Uber be operational? Ola and Uber will not run any services during the Sunday lockdown. For medical emergencies, people can call 108 for help What if there is a medical emergency? Do I need a pass? People can book ambulances for medical emergencies by calling 108. No passes will be required. Those using their own vehicles for medical emergencies, must carry relevant documents for verification Will grocery stores and supermarkets remain open? Grocery and medical stores and shops selling vegetables, dairy or meat products will be open. Supermarkets will also remain operational, however, as there are strict curbs on the  movement of people, some stores may only allow home deliveries. Can I order food on Swiggy, Dunzo? Restaurants will not be open for dine-ins. However, home delivery and parcel services will be allowed. Will alcohol shops remain open? Wine and liquor shops will remain closed on Sundays till August 2. What about marriages that were previously scheduled on a Sunday? Marriages already fixed on Sundays will be allowed as per guidelines. The number of guests cannot exceed 50. Will public spaces like malls, parks or theatres be open? Theatres, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls, social/political/sports/entertainment and other such functions or congregations remain prohibited through the week. Will government offices stay open? The government has also notified the closure of all government offices, boards and corporations except those operating and maintaining essential services on all Saturdays/ Sundays till the second week of August. This will be in addition to the existing holidays on 2nd and 4th Saturdays. The 5-day work week for all government employees will start from July 10. Is this lockdown going to be strictly implemented? The Sunday lockdown is going to be just as strict as the one in March. Bengaluru Police have issued repeated warnings against people flouting lockdown norms. Vehicles found violating curbs and out without solid reasons may be confiscated.   The decision to go for a complete Sunday lockdown came in response to the rising Covid-19 cases and pressure from the media and Opposition, according to State Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Karnataka reported a record spike of 1,839 new cases and 42 Covid-19 deaths on Saturday taking the death toll to 335. Bengaluru accounts for 1,172 of these cases which is 63.73%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-33-hour-lockdown-heres-what-remains-open-857224.html
05-07-2020||State||50-year-old woman dies after 12 hospitals refuse admission in Bengaluru||A 50-year-old woman with breathing difficulties died on Saturday after a shortage of beds forced 12 hospitals to refuse admission. Her husband Babu said the family had approached 12 hospitals in three days, including Victoria Hospital and other private facilities, who all slammed their doors on them, citing a shortage of beds. The woman died on Saturday, a few minutes into her admission at KC General Hospital. Second death  A 35-year-old man, Manjunath, also died on Saturday after enduring fever for three days and being refused admission at several hospitals due to a shortage of beds. As his condition worsened, his wife admitted him to a private hospital on Saturday after hours of ordeal. But the man died less than 15 minutes after getting admitted. Hospital authorities took swab samples from the deceased and said the body would be handed over after the test results. BBMP personnel also failed to shift the body of a Covid-19 patient in Kalasipalya almost a day after the death. Despite civic workers disinfecting the place, the neighbours were in a state of panic after the body was kept at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/50-year-old-woman-dies-after-12-hospitals-refuse-admission-in-bengaluru-857238.html
05-07-2020||State||Primary contacts, ILI, SARI cases major contributors to Covid-19 spike in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district||From June 21 to July 3, 165 ILI and SARI cases were infected with Covid-19 in the district. A total of 594 Covid-19 infections had been confirmed during the period and 433 cases among them were related to the ILI and SARI. As many as 180 cases reported were primary and secondary contacts of those already infected during the said period. The contact tracing of 28 persons, who tested positive for Covid-19 during random sample testing in Ullal, is also underway, according to the statistics furnished by the Dakshina Kannada district administration. Initially, Covid-19 cases were fewer in Dakshina Kannada. From March 23 to April 5, only 12 cases were reported and 11 among them had international travel history. There was a sudden rise in the cases in the district in the month of June. Community transmission Looking at the SARI, ILI and contact tracing of cases related to Covid-19, a senior doctor suspected community spread of the infection in the district. Of the 380 random samples collected in the Ullal area, 29 have tested positive (7.63%), said sources. Random samples were collected from 170 people in a camp held near Ullal CMC, 130 at Kodi and 80 at Mastikatte Azad Nagara. The random samples were collected following a rise in Covid-19 cases in Ullal and surrounding areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/primary-contacts-ili-sari-cases-major-contributors-to-covid-19-spike-in-karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-district-857269.html
05-07-2020||State||Dakshina Kannada, Mangaluru observe strict lockdowns||The Sunday lockdown announced by the state government evoked good response with majority of the shops except milk parlours remaining closed in the Dakshina Kannada district. The busy city roads at Pumpwell, Ambedkar Circle, Hampankatta wore a deserted look. KSRTC and private buses, autorickshaws, taxis remained off the road. Even in the interiors, hardly a few vehicles were seen on the road. Fish and vegetable markets too remained closed.  The police had strengthened bandobast in different parts of Mangaluru city and have placed barricades on the roads. Owing to the lockdown, no Sunday prayers were held in churches coming under Mangalore diocese. Even Kukke Subramanya Temple too remained closed for devotees.  City Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash in his tweet had urged the citizens to abide by the guidelines in the interest of all. "Violations will draw strict action. Bandobust has been made all across the city..." he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dakshina-kannada-mangaluru-observe-strict-lockdowns-857291.html
05-07-2020||State||Karnataka education minister denies reports of students getting Covid-19 infection at SSLC exam centres||Karnataka Education minister, Suresh Kumar on Saturday rubbished reports, which claimed that 32 students contracted the novel coronavirus from SSLC exam centers. The Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination was conducted in Karnataka between June 25 and July 3. Many students, who appeared for these examinations and had shown Covid-19 symptoms, were reportedly not allowed to attend the exams. According to reports, the examination was conducted with the necessary precautions being taken, with free travel arrangements made for students in government buses. Thermal screening, sanitisation of hands, social distancing were scrupulously followed at the centers, reports stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-education-minister-denies-reports-of-students-getting-covid-19-infection-at-sslc-exam-centres-857337.html
05-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Specially designed remand court set up||A specially designed remand court for the physical production of accused persons, with transparent partitions, has been set up at Gurunanak Bhavan inVasantnagar. The facility ensures the safe production of the accused persons in compliance with the Covid-19 guidelines partition. “Whenever arrested person/undertrial prisoner is required to be produced in court physically for hearing, designated Chief Metropolitan Magistrate/Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate/Metropolitan Magistrate will hold the sitting in the dedicated remand court and take the physical production,’’ the Registrar General of the high court said in a release. It also stated that all safety measures for the physical production of the arrested persons and undertrials are taken care of.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-specially-designed-remand-court-set-up-857450.html
05-07-2020||State||Road transport minisry shows 'technique' to bend forest rules||In a move that poses threat to forest conservation, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MORTH) has extended to state agencies like PWD an exemption to not hand over compensatory land in lieu of forest land acquired for building roads. The exemption is limited to central projects.  In a letter to state governments and union territories as well as chief engineers of PWD departments in all states, the ministry has advised that state agencies seeking permission for diversion of forest land for development and maintenance of national highway projects should employ the name of the ministry (MORTH).  A PWD official explained that when PWD or other state agencies seek forest land for road laying or other projects, they compensate for it by buying non-forest land based on the value of the forest land being acquired.  However, MORTH and NHAI are exempted from this rule. “A special dispensation has been given for the Central Government Project in departure from the general norms wherein afforestation in degraded forest land is allowed in lieu of the non-forest land,” the letter states. The exemption is meant for national highway projects that are developed and maintained by the central government, but executed by the state agency. ‘ The state agencies have been told to employ the name of MORTH “so that the unnecessary delay in identification, for transfer of non-forest land could be avoided and approval for diversion of forest land could be expedited,” it said. Sources in the forest department said while agencies like PWD may save money, the move will eventually result in reduction of the extent of forest land. “This move will set a precedent for other agencies. Even the state government will introduce such exemptions in the coming days. So far, we have always tried to get compensatory land that helps in reducing the fragmentation of forests to help wildlife movement. Doing away with such rules will have a bad impact on conservation of forests and ecology,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/road-transport-minisry-shows-technique-to-bend-forest-rules-857451.html
05-07-2020||State||Family denied final rites of man as Covid-19 reports delayed||Family members of a 62-year-old man, who died on July 1 at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, of suspected Covid-19, expressed their displeasure for not being able to perform the final rites of the man after his medical report turned negativeon Saturday. The deceased Hazarath Sab M Pattanakari, a resident of Janath Nagar in Old Hubballi, was admitted to the intensive care unit at KIMS, the district Covid-19 centre, on June 30, with high fever and other Covid-19 symptoms. His swab sample was also collected on the same day. However, he died on July 1. Since Hazarath Sab showed Covid-19 symptoms, the district administration, as per the protocol, decided to perform his final rites  instead of handing over the body to the family. Five members of the family were allowed to witness the burial of Hazarath Sab’s last remains at a graveyard inHubballi. On July 4, the medical reports of the deceased came negative. Speaking to DH, Hazarath Sab’s son Azijulla said, the district administration should expedite issue of medical reports of deceased persons. “Because of the delay by the administration, we could not perform his final rites and a majority of the family members could not see him for one lst time. This would hurt us all through our lives,” hesaid. KIMS Medical Superintendent Arun Kumar said that the institute performed the final rites as per the protocol issued by the government. “If the family members had asked us to wait till the medical report was released, we would have done so, and handed over the body to them later,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/family-denied-final-rites-of-man-as-covid-19-reports-delayed-857452.html
05-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Experts' panel may submit report on online classes today||Deciding the future of online teaching in schools across the state amidst the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown, the experts’ committee headed by Prof M K Sridhar is all set to submit its guidelines and recommendations to the government on Monday or Tuesday.  Sources in the Education department told DH that the committee has finalised its report. “The report is almost ready and it will be submitted to the government in a day or two.” According to the members in the committee, the government has been recommended to continue with online teaching as per the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry for Human Resource Development (HRD), “Online teaching cannot be an alternative for the classroom education and it can be allowed until schools are reopened,” explained a member. The member said, “While preparing the guidelines, we have considered the mental health of primary and pre-primary kids. Allowing small children to use mobile phones or computers for long duration in the name of education will affect their health.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-experts-panel-may-submit-report-on-online-classes-today-857454.html
05-07-2020||State||Raitha Sangha leader dies of snake bite||State secretary of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, B S Devaraju, died of a snake bite at his house at Bennayakanahalli on Sunday. In the last two decades, Devaraju spearheaded many farmers’ campaigns and had played a vital role in strengthening the organisation in the district. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. His final rites will be held at his farm in Bennayakanahalli on Monday, family sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/raitha-sangha-leader-dies-of-snake-bite-857463.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients upto 60 years of age can be isolated at home||All Covid-19 patients less than 60 years of age who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic shall be allowed to be in isolation at home.Health team from district health authority/ BBMP/ authorised private institution/agency shall visit the house and assess the suitability of the house for home isolation and also do triage of the person. Dedicated tele-monitoring links shall be established for daily follow-up of the person during the entire period of home isolation.The person shall report to the physician/ health authorities about their health status every day. The person shall have a pulse oximeter, digital thermometer and personal protectiveequipment (facemasks, gloves) to be used during home isolation. The home isolation shall be with the knowledge of the family members, neighbours, treating physician and local health authorities.After receipt of Covid-19 positive report, the person shall isolate himself/herself at home in a separate room. They shall ask regarding following symptoms: Fever, cold, cough, throat pain, difficulty in breathing, etc. The health staff shall assess the following parameters: Thermal scanning for fever, Pulse oximetry for saturated oxygen in blood and pulse rate, Glucometer for random blood sugar, Blood pressure recording using BP apparatus. The person shall be clinically assigned as an asymptomatic/mild case by the treating medical officer/ physician. Such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts. A caregiver should be available to provide care on a 24 x7 basis. A regular communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a pre-requisite for the entire duration of home isolation.Mild fever less than 38 degree celsius, oxygen saturation should be more than 95%, age shall be less than 60 years, if the person has the following comorbidities- Hypertension, diabetes mellitus, obesity, thyroid disease, they should be well managed and under good clinical control as assessed by medical officer/physician. The patient should not have any comorbid conditions like kidney diseases including persons on dialysis, heart diseases, stroke, Tuberculosis, cancer, people living with HlV, immunocompromised, on steroids and immune-suppressants, etc. The person shall provide a signed undertaking on self-isolation and follow guidelines of home isolation.Home isolation shall not be applicable for pregnant women four weeks before the expected date of delivery (EDD). Separate well-ventilated room with a separate toilet for the person in isolation should be there. The person shall stay in the identified room and away from other persons in the home (especially the elderly and those with comorbid conditions like hypertension, cardiovascular disease, renal disease, etc.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/asymptomatic-and-mildly-symptomatic-covid-19-patients-upto-60-years-of-age-can-be-isolated-at-home-857186.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Belagavi hospital conducting Covid-19 vaccine trials says it could go on for 4-5 months||Jeevan Rekha Hospital that has been conducting vaccine trials for Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) in Belagavi for the past three years for different vaccines will now conduct vaccine trials for most ambitious Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. The hospital has identified healthy individuals for the ambitious project and after receipt of protocols will commence them.  It’s the only hospital from Karnataka selected for the vaccine trials and is awaiting another couple of meetings with ICMR officials regarding the guidelines and protocols before commencing them. Healthy individuals have been identified for the trials for the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad and hospital has geared up as per the ICMR norms, said, Director Dr Amit Bhate. Dr Bhate informed DH that about a month back they had information that ICMR will conduct vaccine trials and Jeevan Rekha Hospital could be selected to conduct these trials. Last week the hospital received an official letter that it was shortlisted for vaccine trials. We have been conducting other vaccine trials for ICMR since three years after getting registered with it and track record has led in us being selected. He said, individuals selected for tests will not be admitted in the hospital for trials, but will be monitored on commencement of vaccine trials. Their blood samples will be collected from the zero day or the first day of the vaccine being injected in them and will be followed up periodically. Individuals undergoing trials will stay at home. Vaccine trials will not be conducted on patients being treated for Covid-19. There has been misunderstanding among the people regarding it. Healthy individuals without co-morbidities have been selected for both phase-1 and phase-2 trials, he clarified and dispelled notions that patients could be subjected to trials. The hospital will monitor the health of individuals selected for vaccine trials and they will also send reports on a regular basis. "Trials could go on for four to five months. We have gone through reports that ICMR wants to fast-track trials, but have not received any official communication. As of now no deadline has been set for trials. We will have couple of more meetings with ICMR officials before commencement of trials," Dr Bhate said. Vaccine trials for Covid-19 are like the pulse polio dose given to healthy babies, increasing their immunity against polio. Inactivated antigens are being used for the trials and their reaction in developing antibody for them and improving immunity are part of the tests, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/belagavi-hospital-conducting-covid-19-vaccine-trials-says-it-could-go-on-for-4-5-months-857245.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to rope in private labs to increase coronavirus testing||The Karnataka government will rope in private labs to increase testing capacity in the state, said Medical Education minister K Sudhakar on Sunday. There are 80 state-run labs that are testing samples in Karnataka. Private labs have not taken any testing load. Rules will be formed soon for private labs to test the samples sent by the government, he said. Sudhakar said that the number of cases will rise in the coming days, adding that there is nothing to fear. "More people are killed due to tuberculosis every year," he said. A total of 400 ambulances will be employed in Bengaluru to transport Covid-19 patients alone. A total of 6.5 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 till date, he said, adding that there is no shortage of beds for patients in the city. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai assured more facilities for the benefit of Covid-19 patients in coming days. "We need 500 more ambulances. Two ambulances are deputed per ward now, which has to be increased to four per ward," he said. On reports of people leaving the city over another lockdown rumour, he said that such behaviour would result in increase in cases in rural areas. "Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has already assured that there won't be a lockdown," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-rope-in-private-labs-to-increase-coronavirus-testing-857419.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sunday lockdown: People stay indoors in Karnataka to check coronavirus spread||Roads wore a deserted look, people stayed indoors and all commercial activities came to a grinding halt in Karnataka in response to the first complete Sunday lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. The state government has announced the full shutdown barring essential services on Sundays till August 2 in the backdrop of a steady increase in COVID-19 cases in the past over one month, taking the tally to 21,549 and the toll to 335 as on Saturday. On the first weekly shutdown on Sunday, vehicles remained off roads and most of the shops remained shut except for grocery stores and essential services. By and large, people abiding by the lockdown all over the state, reports from districts received here said. In Bengaluru, the lockdown is being enforced from Saturday 8 pm to Monday 5 am in view of steep rise in fresh cases of the deadly infection. Total cases in the city stood at 8,345 with a single-day record high of 1,172 being added on Saturday alone while there were 129. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao had appealed to the people to stay at home. "Respected Citizens, just stay home and dont ask for exceptions as this is being done in everybody's interest, heavens won't fall if you postpone by a day. Please exercise self-discipline and cooperate. Happy Sunday," he tweeted. Shops, malls, offices and temples remained shut while buses, autorickshaws, cars and two-wheelers did not ply in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sunday-lockdown-people-stay-indoors-in-karnataka-to-check-coronavirus-spread-857422.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Random testing detects 47 cases in Ullal; DK’s single-day tally 147||A flurry of Covid-19 cases in the last few days has raised fears of possible community transmission in Ullal town of Dakshina Kannada. Random testing for Covid-19 in the port town has thrown up 47 fresh cases in the last 24 hours.  After Ullal Kodi, Azad Nagara, Masthikatte and surrounding areas saw a surge in Covid cases, 380 random samples were collected. The Ullal town and surrounding areas have seen more than 150 Covid-19 cases in the last few days. The virus-hit town also saw six employees of private hospitals test positive for novel coronavirus. The news of three women staffers contracting the virus has sparked concerns among more than 200 inmates at Kutthar women’s hostel.  Dakshina Kannada on Sunday reported its highest single-day case tally of 147. The district’s Covid-19 count has shot up to 1,242. Ballari district, another Covid-19 hotspot, saw 139 fresh infections on Sunday. The district has, so far, reported 1,307 cases with Jindal steel plant (JSW) cluster alone accounting for 479. 10 health workers  As many as 10 medical/health staff, including a doctor and D-Group employee of Kuragodu community health centre are among the fresh cases reported from the district. The Chintamani Government Hospital in Chikkaballapur district was sealed after a lady doctor contracted Covid-19. Five family members of the doctor, including a three-year-old boy, also have tested positive for the virus. Koppal Town police station was sealed on Sunday after the throat swab sample of a 25-year-old constable returned positive, Deputy Commissioner Vikas Kishore told reporters.The district has witnessed 22 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. A 30-year-old doctor from Kanavalli, a constable attached with Haveri Town police station and three Asha workers are among the 15 people who have tested positive for the virus in Haveri district on Sunday. As many as nine, including two junior health assistants from Ainapur in Chincholi taluk, Kalaburagi district, tested positive in the random testing on Saturday. A typist of CJM court in Chitradurga, a head constable at Arasikere (Davangere dist), a school teacher and a lawyer from Haveri are among the Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday. The state also reported highest single-day Covid deaths with Bengaluru Urban accounting for 16 of the 37 fatalities. Bidar recorded nine deaths on Sunday, including those of two young women aged 25 and 32. The Kalyana Karnataka district had recorded 15 fatalities in the last 48 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/random-testing-detects-47-cases-in-ullal-dk-s-single-day-tally-147-857455.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||2 children die as houses collapse in landslide near M'luru||Two children died after being buried under 30-foot debris following a landslide at Kaikamba-Banglagudde located on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. The rescue teams, including personnel from NDRF, fire service and police, succeeded in extricating the bodies of Safwan (16) and Sahala (10) after a four-hour-long operation. According to sources, landslides occurred at around 1.15 pm, when the children were sleeping inside the one of the houses that collapsed, after lunch, and elders were outside the house. The heavy rain in the past two days had weakened the soil on the hillock. Before the residents could realise what was happening, the hillock had caved in, bringing down two houses belonging to Mohammed Monu and Ashraf, along with a few coconut trees. Safwan and Sahala were trapped in the debris of Monu’s house. They were his relatives, who had come from Taarikariya in Gurupura. An autorickshaw, a tipper lorry and three bikes too were buried under the soil. It is said that the landslide continued even when the rescue operation was in progress, thus making the rescue operation difficult. A huge number of people had gathered at the spot to assist in the rescue operation. ‘14 houses in danger’ District incharge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, who visited the spot, said two houses were completely damaged and inmates of 14 houses in the vicinity that are vulnerable  will be shifted to safer locations. A few other residents shifted to the houses of their relatives. The minister said residents of all houses will be shifted to safer locations. Houses will be constructed for them in a safer area. A team from NITK, Surathkal was asked to inspect the spot and submit a detailed report. Based on the report, further action will be initiated. “I have already spoken to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who has promised all support,” Poojary informed. State BJP president and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel too visited the spot and promised to make suitable arrangements for the affected families. All families will be provided shelter at relief centres. According to residents, 14 families received permission to construct houses by the district administration here 20 years ago. All of them were working as dailywagers. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, MLA U T Khader, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police Vikash Kumar Vikash visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-children-die-as-houses-collapse-in-landslide-near-mluru-857456.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'108' ambulance drivers dodge coronavirus every step of the way||Avinash (name changed), 34, is having his dinner when he gets an emergency call. He does not finish his meal, for he knows any delay could cost a person’s life. As a ‘108’ ambulance driver, he is always on his toes, but this time there is a lingering fear of contracting the deadly novel coronavirus. He dons the protective gear and rushes to ferry the patient to a Covid-19 designated hospital in Bengaluru. After transporting the patient, he breathes a sigh of relief, not just because he safely dropped the patient but also because he can now remove the suffocating protective gown. After completing his 12-hour-long shift (his workload is increasing with the number of cases), he takes a bath in the hospital premises and gets back into the ambulance, for this is where he will spend the night.  Going back home may prove risky for his family. With a meagre salary of Rs 11,000, he cannot afford to rent a separate room. And he is not sure if he will get one as he has witnessed the stigma associated with Covid-19.   The virus has not just affected his psyche, but his finances too. Since the outbreak of the virus in the country, he claims that he is not receiving salary on time and is not being paid for working overtime, around 80 extra hours every month.  However, he has not raised the issue, for he fears losing his job or being transferred with immediate effect. He also knows everyone is struggling.  “Most of us are managing with the one personal protective equipment (PPE) kit we got in March. We have to wait for days to get even an N95 face mask. We hope that the government addresses these issues on priority,” says Sridhar R, president of ‘108’ ambulance drivers’ union. "I have written to the Additional Director of Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society to supply PPEs. I have told health officers to procure PPEs a week in advance and have them stationed at appropriate points from where the ambulance drivers can collect them. We have also made arrangements for the proper disposal of used PPEs," says Randeep D, Special Commissioner, BBMP. "Sanitisation of the ambulance is the responsibility of the operators. We have instructed that the drivers should be given accommodation within the zones in which they operate," says Randeep. Apart from the lack of enough protective equipment, sanitisation and fumigation facilities, the drivers claim they haven’t been given any special training to handle Covid-19 cases either. "Every ambulance operator is trained to handle communicable diseases be it Covid-19 or any other disease. Also there is adequate awareness regarding this disease now. In case any operator requests for any training we can facilitate it. I haven't received such feedback yet," says Randeep.    Handling patients is one thing, dealing with their relatives is another. The drivers have been instructed to ferry patients to only designated hospitals and this becomes a bone of contention with the patient’s relatives, sometimes. On some occasions, they have to go to multiple hospitals before the patient gets admission. This only adds to the chaos. “We work in a stressed environment. Some ambulance drivers are under quarantine. But testing is done only for those with symptoms. This increases the risk,” says Paramashiva, vice president of the drivers’ union. As a precaution, most of the drivers have sent their families to their native places. “The most difficult part is asking our own children to stay away from us. We only find solace in the fact that we help save people’s lives,” Paramashiva says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/108-ambulance-drivers-dodge-coronavirus-every-step-of-the-way-857457.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Corona warriors continue to face stigma, discrimination||Campaigns highlighting the significance of frontline staff in battling the Covid-19 pandemic appears to have done little, as cases of discrimination against them continue to surface. Gangamma Regan, a nurse serving at KIMS, Hubballi, alleged that her family was isolated by her neighbours following rumours that she had tested positive for Covid. Traumatised by the turn of events, she said that they were forced to remain inside the house as even children of the family were forbidden from interacting with others. This is among the several instances of discrimination faced by frontline health workers in Karnataka. Gangamma, who recorded a video about her plight, told DH that discrimination against her family was brazen since last Sunday when the rumours surfaced. “Two nurses at KIMS had tested positive for Covid. We were all tested soon after and were negative. Yet, due to rumours, the neighbours have stopped interacting with us. I was taken aback by the discrimination and have taken two days leave to sort myself out before resuming duty,” she said, adding that she had served in the Covid ward at Hubballi since the outbreak in March this year. During a recent media-briefing, Revenue Minister R Ashoka had noted that some civilians had prevented doctors who served in ICUs from being quarantined at a private lodge in the city. “These doctors were in the frontline for 14 days and were being sent to quarantine as per norms,” Ashoka had said, assuring action against those involved in suchincidents. When contacted, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said that any such ill-treatment or misbehaviour will have legal consequences and will be treated as a cognizable and non-bailable offence. “People are recognising and respecting corona warriors. In many places, people are organising felicitation ceremonies for them. The government will not tolerate any abuse against front-line health personnel, which include doctors, paramedic and ASHA workers,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/corona-warriors-continue-to-face-stigma-discrimination-857460.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt notifies 'fixed term workman'||Karnataka government has notified the amended Karnataka Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules, 1961 to introduce the term ‘fixed term workman’ - contracted for employment for a fixed period. “...his hours of work, wages, allowances and other benefits shall not be less than that of permanent workers” and “...shall be eligible for all statutory benefits available to permanent workman proportionally according to the period”, the notification dated June 30, read. The amendments will provide flexibility for companies to hire and terminate contracts of employees, and is being considered as an alternative to the contract system. The notification has received mixed reactions, with trade unions dubbing it as another attempt to dilute labour laws in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-notifies-fixed-term-workman-857464.html
05-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Vidhana Soudha to be sanitised today||All staffers in the Vidhana Soudha aged above 50 years have been granted leave on Monday, to facilitate sanitisation of the building. A decision to this effect was taken after a policeman deployed at the first floor of Vidhana Soudha tested positive for Covid on Sunday. All other staff and officials at the secretariat complex will have to report to work at 12 noon, according to Secretary, Legislative Assembly Secretariat. Visiting hours for Vidhana Soudha and Vikasa Soudha were reduced from two hours - from 3.30 pm to 5.30 pm - to one hour, between 4.30 pm and 5.30 pm, following a spike in cases in Bengaluru. Covid-19 cases were also reported among staff at Vikasa Soudha in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vidhana-soudha-to-be-sanitised-today-857466.html
05-07-2020||West||Goa councillor dies of coronavirus infection||A 72-year-old councillor of the Mormugao Municipal Council in Goa died due to Covid-19 in the wee hours on Sunday, a state health department official said. Pascoal D'Souza, who did not belong to any political party, tested positive for coronavirus last month following which he was admitted to Margao-based ESI Hospital, a specially designated facility for Covid-19 patients. He succumbed to the viral infection on Sunday, the official said. D'Souza represented a ward in Mangor Hill area, which has been declared as a containment zone after more than 200 people there tested positive for coronavirus. The municipal council elections in Goa are not fought on party lines. With the councillor's death, the overall toll in the coastal state has reached seven. Till Saturday, the state reported 1,684 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-councillor-dies-of-coronavirus-infection-857240.html
05-07-2020||West||Heavy rains continue in Mumbai; low-lying areas waterlogged||Heavy rains continued to lash Mumbai, Thane and other parts of Konkan Maharashtra for the third consecutive day on Sunday and caused water-logging in some low-lying areas of the metropolis. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast intermittent rains in the city and suburbs "with possibility of heavy falls" at isolated places in the next 24 hours. Heavy rainfall inundated some low-lying areas of the city, including Hindmata in Central Mumbai, and Chembur in eastern suburbs. The Colaba observatory in South Mumbai recorded 129.6 mm rain in the 24 hours ending at 8.30 am on Sunday while the Santacruz weather station in western suburbs recorded 200.8 mm rain during the same period, the IMD said. The neighbouring Thane district and some other areas in Konkan region, including Sindhudurg, also receivedvery heavy rains. Some parts of Vidarbha received moderate rain, the IMD said, adding that thunderstorm with lightning is likely at isolated places in the region. On Saturday, water-logging and traffic jams were reported from some areas in Mumbai and there were 19 complaints of tree/branch falling, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-continue-in-mumbai-low-lying-areas-waterlogged-857268.html
05-07-2020||West||TMC orders audit of Covid-19 treatment charges of hospitals||In a bid to check overcharging by private hospitals, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has ordered an audit of charges levied by hospitals treating Covid-19 patients here, a civic official said on Sunday. Four teams of auditors have been formed to audit bills of 15 hospitals here in Maharashtra, the official said. The order was issued by TMC Commissioner Dr. Vipin Sharma on Saturday after complaints that some hospitals were charging exorbitant amounts from patients, he said. If any hospital is found to be charging more than the permitted charges, then the TMC will issue a show-cause notice to the medical facility and order refund of the excess amount, Deputy Municipal Commissioner Vishwanath Kelkar said. The audit teams have been asked to verify at least 100 bills per day, he said. The civic body will also impose fines on hospitals found to be violating the civic instructions, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmc-orders-audit-of-covid-19-treatment-charges-of-hospitals-857274.html
05-07-2020||West||BMC appeals to people to take part in sero-surveillance||Amid the massive spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, the city's civic body has appealed to the citizens to take part in the sero-surveillance that would help monitor the spread of Covid-19.  The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is conducting the survey along with the NITI Aayog and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). "While RT-PCR is a gold standard as far as Covid-19 detection is concerned, sero-surveillance helps detect presence of antibodies. This is basically done to identity the individuals who have previously been infected by the virus and now have recovered," said Dr Suhas Pingle, chairman, action committee, Indian Medical Council. “The survey is done by collection of blood samples from individuals in randomly selected households. The presence of antibodies in the blood is a sign of exposure to the virus," added Dr Pingle. Three wards - M/West, F/North and R/North - that contribute to over 10 per cent cases in the city, spread over the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban, have been selected. While the F/North ward covers Matunga, Sion and Wadala areas,  M/West includes Chembur and Tilak Nagar, and R/North comprises Dahisar and Mandapeshwar. The selected areas covers slums and high-rises, different demography and diverse geographical locations. The officials said that in slum areas, the response to the survey has been very good but in the other areas, the co-operation was low. There has also been resistance in some places, they said. "The survey was launched last week. A total of 10,000 samples are to be collected but so far only 2,000 samples have been collected," BMC officials said. "It is a scientific study for the common good and people's participation is a must," officials said. "The information gathered from the sero-surveillance will not only provide information about new coronavirus patients, but will also give information about how far the coronavirus infection has spread,” said BMC's additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. According to BMC officials,  the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had urged all states to take up independent sero-surveys in the community to understand the spread of the virus.   "Monitoring the extent of exposure across populations and geographical  locations is critical and hence the study uses scientifically designed  random sampling methods. Our repeat serological survey will be critical for the informed policy decisions and could also provide information about risk factors such as co-morbidities, age and gender specific susceptibility," said Prof Ulhas Kolthur of the TIFR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-appeals-to-people-to-take-part-in-sero-surveillance-857288.html
05-07-2020||West||'Other things are secondary, Maharashtra govt's priority is to tackle Covid-19 crisis': Aaditya Thackeray||Ignoring the opposition's criticism of the Maharashtra government's handling of the Covid-19 crisis, state minister Aaditya Thackeray has said the priority of the government is to tackle the pandemic situation and other things are secondary. The state environment and tourism minister was talking to reporters in Thane on Saturday evening while he was here to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and measures undertaken by civic bodies in the district to contain the disease. Asked about the opposition's criticism that the government was unable to properly tackle the Covid-19 crisis, Thackeray said, "Let them do their work, we will keep on doing our work. Our priority at present is to deal with the Covid-19 situation and break the virus chain, other things are secondary." The Shiv Sena MLA also launched an app developed by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) for online hospital bed allocation and ambulance booking. Addressing a Covid-19 review meeting at the TMC headquarters here, Thackeray stressed on the need for increased contact-tracing and maintenance of good facilities at the quarantine centres.  He asked the civic officials to periodically inspect the quarantine centres and check various facilities, including the food supplied there. He also suggested increasing the testing capacity. The review meeting was attended by Thane Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde, Mayor Naresh Mhaske and other senior leaders from the district. The TMC already has a dashboard providing information about the availability of beds in Thane hospitals and the Covid-19 situation in the city. Till Saturday, Maharashtra reported 2,00,064 Covid-19 cases and 8,671 deaths due to the disease. The Covid-19 tally in Thane district reached 40,542 on Saturday and the death toll rose to 1,221.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/other-things-are-secondary-maharashtra-govts-priority-is-to-tackle-covid-19-crisis-aaditya-thackeray-857290.html
05-07-2020||West||DHFL defaults on NCD repayments of Rs 50 crore; says can't pay due to moratorium restrictions||DHFL has defaulted on payment of Rs 50 crore on bonds, saying the company is not in a position to make payments to the lenders as it is under moratorium since last November. The payment has not been made by the company to the respective investors of the secured NCDs (non-convertible debentures) for a principal amount of Rs 50 crore due on July 3, 2020, DHFL said in a regulatory filing. The company is currently under moratorium under the Code (IBC) since November 29, 2019 and hence, it is not in a position to make payment of interest or principal to any of the lenders of the company, including the NCDs holders, Dewan Housing Finance Corp Ltd (DHFL) said. The payments to the lenders or NCD holders remain in abeyance and will be subject to the outcome of the CIRP process, it added. The board of the crisis-ridden non-banking financial company (NBFC) was superseded by the Reserve Bank on November 20, 2019 due to various financial irregularities and mismanagement and the central bank appointed an administrator for the firm. Further, RBI on November 22 constituted a 3-member advisory committee to assist the administrator of the company to discharge his duties. On November 29, 2019 the RBI filed an application for initiating CIRP against DHFL under the IBC 2016 read with rules of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Insolvency and Liquidation Proceedings of Financial Service, Providers and Application to Adjudication of Authority) Rules, 2019. Subsequently, on December 3, 2019 the National Company Law Tribunal bench at Mumbai commenced the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) against the company, and appointed the administrator to perform all the function of resolution professional to complete the process, DHFL said. The company is alleged to be involved in various corruption charges and has bank loan outstanding of over Rs 97,000 crore. It has been alleged that it siphoned off Rs 31,000 crore out of total bank loans. DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, under arrest, are facing probe from key investigating agencies such as the Enfrocement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and were sent to judicial custody in May this year by a special court in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dhfl-defaults-on-ncd-repayments-of-rs-50-crore-says-cant-pay-due-to-moratorium-restrictions-857308.html
05-07-2020||West||Palghar prohibits movement of people near water bodies||Amid heavy rainfall in parts of Palghar, the district administration on Sunday issues an order prohibiting the movement of people near waterfalls, lakes, dams and the sea shore. The order comes two days after five men drowned while trying to take a selfie at Kalmandvi Waterfalls near Jawhar town here in Maharashtra. District Collector Dr Kailas Shinde said criminal charges will be imposed against those violating the order. As per the order, movement of people, specially picnickers,near waterfalls, lakes, dams, forts, and sea shore has been prohibited in view of the monsoon. There have been cases of mishaps at some of these places and moreover the district is currently facing the Covid-19 pandemic, Shinde noted in the order. If tourists crowd these locations, there is every possibility of violation of the lockdown orders and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, hence the prohibitory order has been issued to ensure safety and health of people, he said. Heavy rains lashed parts of the district in the last couple of days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-prohibits-movement-of-people-near-water-bodies-857321.html
05-07-2020||West||Make cartoons, games more meaningful for kids, to impart lessons: Gujarat minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama||Cartoons and games children watch and play for hours on mobile phones, laptops and other gadgets must be made "meaningful" so that they could impart lessons in "culture, discipline and religion," Gujarat Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said on Sunday. He was responding to a query on online teaching for children of primary schools in view of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Chudasama, along with Minister of State for Primary and Higher Education Vibhavari Dave, and education department officials had on Saturday held a "digital conversation" with pediatricians, psychologists and educators to get views on online education for primary schoolchildren. "Participating in the discussion, I said it is a matter of concern at home that a child watches cartoons and plays games for hours on a phone, tablet or laptop from morning till evening, which does not impart lessons in culture, discipline or religion." "As an alternative to that, I said let us make cartoons that are more meaningful than existing cartoons. Games should also be meaningful, and they should be made in such a way that children like them more than what they see now," said Chudasama, state Minister of Education (Higher and Technical), in a Facebook post. He added that the Gujarat government has blended physical and digital education for the last three months and has achieved "unexpected success" in a very short time. "It seems this method will be set early in older children, but the issue of whether to do it online for the students of Class 1 to 5, and when to do it, is under discussion," he said. The Gujarat High Court had, in a recent order, asked the state government to work out modalities with schools regarding online teaching, and to consider whether it was advisable for very small children. "We are saying so because a child studying in nursery or in the first or second standard may remain exposed for a long time to the screen of the television or laptop or computer. This may affect not only the eyes of the small child, but also his overall health. Experts are also of the view that children below five years of age should not be imparted online education," the High Court had said. The HC also suggested that the government regulatethe timing of such education as a middle class family with three children cannot afford more than one laptop, computer or television, which may deprive other children of the benefits of online teaching.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/make-cartoons-games-more-meaningful-for-kids-to-impart-lessons-gujarat-minister-bhupendrasinh-chudasama-857345.html
05-07-2020||West||Sanjay Raut should worry about Covid-19 patients: Devendra Fadnavis hits back||Hitting back at Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut for his criticism of the BJP over the appointment of 12 Maharashtra Legislative Council members, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said instead of thinking about that issue, he should worry about the coronavirus patients in the state. Fadnavis, who was on a visit to Ulhasnagar to take stock of the healthcare facilities there, said this in response to a query by reporters. "Raut should not bother about the appointment of 12 legislators. He should worry about the coronavirus patients," Fadnavis said. Shiv Sena is helming the three party-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state, which has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country so far. Raut on Sunday slammed the BJP over the issue of appointment of 12 state Legislative Council members from the governor's quota, saying delay in their nomination would amount to a violation of the Constitution and suppression of freedom. In his weekly column 'Rokthok' in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', Raut said despite the Covid-19 pandemic, "politicking hasn't stopped", be it over the border standoff with China or handling of the coronavirus situation. The Rajya Sabha member said there were speculations that the appointment of 12 Legislative Council members from the governor's quota may be put on hold and the "new government" (after ousting the Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi) would make its own appointments after October. Raut alleged that the opposition party does not want MVA-recommended members to be nominated to 12 seats under the governor's quota in the Upper House of Legislature. The Uddhav Thackeray-led government is yet to recommend 12 names to the governor for nomination in the Legislative Council. The term of the 12 governor-nominated appointees ended last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-should-worry-about-covid-19-patients-devendra-fadnavis-hits-back-857384.html
05-07-2020||West||Powai lake overflows due to heavy rain in Mumbai||The Powai lake started overflowing on Sunday noon as heavy rains pounded the financial capital of Mumbai and its neighborhood for the third consecutive day. The entire coastal Konkan belt and other regions of Maharashtra received heavy rainfall over the weekend. The southwest monsoon had set in the first week of June when cyclone Nisarga had hit the west cost - however, there was a long gap before rains lashed Mumbai with full force.  Parts of the Mumbai metropolitan region received between 100 to 200 mm rainfall on an average.  "Mumbai received 70-100 mm rainfall in last 6 hours since morning 8.30 am. But its intensity slightly reduced in next 3 hours. Satellite and radar images indicate possibilities of intermittent heavy showers. Heavy rainfall warnings for Maharashtra coast and Saurashtra in Gujarat has been issued," said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of meteorology, IMD.  According to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, the Powai Lake, that supplies water for industrial uses, started overflowing to the Mithi river and gushing into the Arabian Sea.  After heavy overnight rains, waterlogging was reported form Postal Colony in Chembur and chronic spots of King's Circle, Sion and Hindmata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/powai-lake-overflows-due-to-heavy-rain-in-mumbai-857394.html
05-07-2020||West||Earthquake of 4.2 magnitude hits Gujarat's Kutch district||A 4.2 magnitude earthquake, with its epicentre around 14 kms from Bhachau in Kutch district of Gujarat, was recorded on Sunday evening, an official said. It was preceded by four minor quakes of 1.8, 1.6, 1.7 and 2.1 magnitude between 1.50 am and 4.32 pm, the official said. "A 4.2 magnitude earthquake was felt in Kutch district with its epicentre 14 km north-north-east of Bhachau in Kutch district at 5.11 pm on Sunday," the official of the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said. The same region had on June 14 recorded an earthquake of 5.3 magnitude that was felt across several parts of Saurashtra region, forcing people to rush out of their houses. Kutch district is located in a "very high risk" seismic zone and low intensity earthquakes regularly occur there. The 2001 earthquake, also known as the Bhuj earthquake, was the third largest and second most destructive in India over the last two centuries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/earthquake-of-42-magnitude-hits-gujarats-kutch-district-857396.html
05-07-2020||West||Mumbai: Two pose as 'COVID officers', dupe man of Rs 54,000||A history-sheeter has been arrested for allegedly posing as a "COVID officer" and robbing a man of Rs 54,000 in Chembur area of Mumbai, police said on Sunday. Abdul Sheikh was on his way to Chembur railway station on June 30 when Sohan Waghmare (23) and an accomplice accosted him and introduced themselves as "COVID officers", an official said. "Waghmare and his accomplice searched Sheikh's bag, took out an ATM card from it, managed to get its PIN number, went to an ATM and withdrew Rs 54,000. A search was mounted for the duo after Sheikh filed a complaint," said the Chembur police station official. CCTV footage of the area was scanned and the accused's car number was obtained, after which Waghmare was arrested from his Chunabhatti home on Friday, while his accomplice is still at large, he added. "Waghmare has been charged with cheating under IPC. He has cases against his name in Sion and Nehru Nagar police stations as well," the official said. He said it was probably the first case in the city where someone has taken advantage of the coronavirus outbreak and posed as a "COVID officer" to dupe somebody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-two-pose-as-covid-officers-dupe-man-of-rs-54000-857409.html
05-07-2020||West||Maharashtra police transfers: MVA govt revokes transfer of DCPs||In a surprising development, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on Sunday revoked the transfer order of 10 deputy commissioners of police (DCPs). On Thursday, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had transferred 10 DCPs - in what was a routine transfer. Some of the DCPs have taken the charge as well. The BJP targetted the MVA government, Thackeray, the Maharashtra Chief Minister, Shiv Sena president and questioned the move. "What is happening...in two days, transfer of 10 DCPs of Mumbai police is revoked, in two days transfer of Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner is revoked...in a week the restrictions of two-km radius is revoked," state BJP vice president Kirit Somaiya said and wanted to know if there were political differences between Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. However, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP said that the transfers were revoked. "The chief minister's office and my office have revoked the transfers done by the Mumbai police commissioner,” Deshmukh said in  a  statement without assigning any reason. He added that there is good coordination among the MVA allies and there are no differences. Over the last fortnight, differences have emerged within the alliance on various issues. The Congress was unhappy for making Ajoy Mehta as the principal adviser to Chief Minister, a day after he superannuated. The NCP had also expressed surprise over the restrictions of movement of persons in Mumbai beyond two kms of their residence except for going to work. Thackeray had met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on couple of occasion during the fortnight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-police-transfers-mva-govt-revokes-transfer-of-dcps-857417.html
05-07-2020||West||IAF chopper joins locust control operations in Rajasthan||A Mi-17 helicopter of the Indian Air Force on Sunday sprayed pesticides over large swathes of desert land in Rajasthan, boosting locust control operations as India battles its worst-ever attack of the marauding pests in three decades. A private helicopter, hired by the Agriculture Ministry, had started locust control operations on Saturday carrying out its first sortie in the desert areas of Banda in Jaisalmer. The IAF chopper carried out aerial spraying of pesticides in Jodhpur district on Sunday, the first such instance in the history of the air force, an agriculture ministry official said. India is facing the worst-ever locust attacks in three decades. Swarms of the marauding pests have been witnessed in various districts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. As per the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN, locust swarms that have traveled as far as Nepal are expected to return to Rajasthan and join other swarms coming in from Pakistan and Iran for the breeding season this month. The first generation summer swarms are expected to form mid-August, which will make control operations all the more important. Light to moderate rainfall in the desert areas of Rajasthan has led to favourable conditions for breeding of locusts which travel to India from as far as Somalia, Yemen and Oman traversing the Arabian Sea aided by monsoon winds. Locust swarms had descended in the desert areas of Rajasthan in April this year spread Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, prompting the government to launch massive control operations. However, as the locust attack happened after the rabi harvest, there was no loss to crops. Presently, 60 control teams with spray vehicles and drones were carrying out control operations, chasing the locust swarms across the affected states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iaf-chopper-joins-locust-control-operations-in-rajasthan-857423.html
05-07-2020||West||With record spike of 725, Gujarat COVID-19 tally now 36,123||Gujarat reported its highest single-day spike of 725 new coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, pushing the state's overall tally to 36,123, the health department said. Coronavirus claimed the lives of 18 more patients, taking the death toll in the state to 1,945, it said. With 486 patients getting discharged, the number of recovered cases in the state grew to 25,900.     The state now has 8,278 active cases, of which the condition of 72 patients is critical, the department said in its statement. Gujarat's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 36,123, new cases: 725, deaths: 1,945, discharged: 25,900, active cases: 8,278 and people tested so far: 4,12,124.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-record-spike-of-725-gujarat-covid-19-tally-now-36123-857433.html
05-07-2020||West||Cut down social visits, says Goa CM, as Covid-19 cases spike||A day after a record 108 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, on Sunday, made a public appeal urging people to cut down on unnecessary socialising and to stop visiting friends and neighbours in order to curb the spike in cases. Sawant, while addressing a press conference in Panaji on Sunday, also said that the BJP-led coalition government in the state was under tremendous pressure from the tourism industry stakeholders to restart tourism in the state. "We are used to visiting people's homes. Even in this case, people are being invited for birthdays, other functions. This has to stop for some time. Stop visiting each other's homes, even neighbours. We should not even be attending functions. We should not also not call people home," Sawant said. "You never know when asymptomatic persons can spread virus. It puts the senior citizens and those with co-morbid conditions in the homes at risk of contracting the infection," Sawant also said.  On Saturday, 108 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state -- the highest yet -- taking the total tally of active cases to 853. Sawant also warned of a surge in cases, during the ongoing monsoon season. "We have to take all the precautions, like safe distancing, wearing of masks and using sanitisers to keep ourselves safe. We could see a rise in cases during the monsoons," Sawant said. Sawant, who has been criticised for opening up the state for tourism in the midst of the ongoing spike in cases, said that there was tremendous pressure on his government to restart tourism, but also added that there may not be too many footfalls early on. "There was a big pressure from the tourism industry on the government to start the industry. How many tourists will come (to Goa) or not come, is up to tourists. Perhaps the response will be less," the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cut-down-social-visits-says-goa-cm-as-covid-19-cases-spike-857434.html
05-07-2020||West||6,555 new Covid-19 cases take Maharashtra's count to 2,06,619||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 2,06,619 on Sunday with the single-day spike of 6,555 new cases on Sunday, the state health department said. With the death of 151 more patients, the state's fatality count rose to 8,822, it said.     A total of 3,658 patients were discharged from hospitals post-recovery, which took the number of recovered persons to 1,11,740 so far, the department said in a statement. There are 86,057 active cases in the state at present. So far, 11,12,442 people have been tested across the state, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6555-new-covid-19-cases-take-maharashtras-count-to-206619-857438.html
05-07-2020||West||Gujarat Covid-19 cases see record rise by 725 to 36,123, death toll at 1,945||Gujarat on Sunday reported 725 new coronavirus cases, its highest single-day rise, taking the overall count to 36,123 while the number of fatalities mounted by 18, including 9 in Ahmedabad, to 1,945, Health department said. The infected patients included six staffers of the Gujarat High Court, an official said. With 486 patients getting discharged in the day, the number of the recovered cases in the state has risen to 25,900. The state now has 8,278 active cases, of which the condition of 72 patients is critical, the department said in its evening release. With 254 new cases, Surat replaced Ahmedabad, which reported 177 new patients, as the highest contributor in the state on Sunday. The cumulative case count in Surat now stands at 5,968 against 21,829 in Ahmedabad district, which has reported 1,484 deaths so far, it said. Amid rising number of cases in Surat, Navsari MP CR Patil held a meeting with representatives of textile industry and said there was no need to shut the markets from where several cases have been reported. Patil said utmost precaution will be taken to ensure social distancing. With 64 new cases, Vadodara's Covid-19 tally has risen to 2,563, as per the health department. Of the 18 new deaths, nine were reported from Ahmedabad while six succumbed to the viral infection in Surat, and one each in Jamnagar, Gandhinagar and Kheda, it said. Among other districts, Rajkot reported 42 cases, Valsad 18, Bhavnagar 16, Bharuch 15, Junagadh 13, Kheda 12, Patan and Gandhinagar 11 each, Mehsana nine to name a few. The number of recovered cases in Ahmedabad district rose by 216 to 16,829 in the day. Surat and Vadodara reported recovery of 106 and 53 patients, respectively, it said. A total of 4,12,124 samples have been tested for coronavirus so far in Gujarat, it said. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 36,123, new cases 725, deaths 1,945, discharged 25,900, active cases 8,278 and people tested so far 4,12,124.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-cases-see-record-rise-by-725-to-36123-death-toll-at-1945-857446.html
05-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Bengal registers highest one-day spike with 895 cases; 21 more die||West Bengal on Sunday registered the highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases with 895 new infections, while the death toll due to the disease reached 757 after a record of 21 deaths, the health department said. With the new cases, the state's infection tally reached 22,126. The number of active cases rose to 6,658. Since Saturday, 545 patients recovered from the disease in the state, the health department said in a bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bengal-registers-highest-one-day-spike-with-895-cases-21-more-die-857458.html
05-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: 22 CRPF personnel test Covid-19 positive in Gadchiroli||A total of 22 CRPF personnel tested coronavirus positive on Sunday in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district, around 170 kms from here, an official said. These men had rejoined duty a few days ago and were placed under institutional quarantine, where they were detected with the infection, he said. Around 350-400 CRPF troopers were on leave and began returning to their reporting stations in the last 20-25 days, Gadchiroli Superintendent of Police Shailesh Balkawde told PTI. "Personnel who return are kept in 14-day institutional quarantine and tested for coronavirus after seven to eight days from the date of their return. A total of 22 CRPF personnel tested positive on Sunday," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-22-crpf-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-in-gadchiroli-857467.html
05-07-2020||West||Threat call to Mumbai's Taj Hotel: FIR registered against unidentified person||An FIR has been registered against an unidentified person in connection with a threat call made to Taj Hotel here, police said on Sunday. The caller, claiming himself to be a member of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit, had said he was calling from Karachi and threatened to blow up the hotel in Colaba and Taj Land's End hotel in Bandra, after which security at both the places was beefed up on Tuesday. The FIR was registered on Friday under sections 506 (criminal intimidation) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code, a Colaba police station official said. The Taj hotel was one of the establishments targetted by Pakistani terrorists during the 26/11 terror attack on Mumbai. Police had said that separate threat calls were made on late Monday night. The two hotels, run by the Tata group-promoted Indian Hotel Company Limited (IHCL) are closed for commercial business at present due to the COVID-19 pandemic and serve only select patrons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/threat-call-to-mumbais-taj-hotel-fir-registered-against-unidentified-person-857468.html
05-07-2020||West||Man held for raping four-year-old girl in Nagpur||A 24-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a four-year-old girl at Chacher village in Nagpur district of Maharashtra, police said on Sunday. The accused Durgesh Shende is a neighbour of the victim, an official said. Shende works in a company in Hyderabad, but is currently staying at his home in the village due to the lockdown, he said, adding that the accused is an alcoholic. The accused lured the victim to an isolated place when she was playing with her friends on Saturday and raped her, the official said. A case has been registered against Shende under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-raping-four-year-old-girl-in-nagpur-857475.html
