06-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Karnataka: HDUDA to increase increase maximum limit of height of buildings in Hubballi-Dharwad||The Hubballi-Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) has resolved to increase the maximum limit of height of buildings, in normal cases, from existing 11.5 metre to 15 metre, and to change some other zonal regulations. The HDUDA has taken this (increasing building height) decision considering a demand of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India (CREDAI) and taking a cue from Belagavi model. After attending the HDUDA's annual meeting here on Monday, HDUDA chairman Nagesh Kalburgi and District In-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar confirmed that the proposal in this regard would be submitted to the Urban Development Department in a week. The CREDAI which highlighted the differences in zonal regulations between Hubballi-Dharwad and other cities. "We have also decided to increase the setback height from 11.5 metre to above 15 metre. It is resolved reduce the width of road from existing 12 metre in front of apartments to 9 metre in city area, and 12 metre outside the city limits. However, the meeting rejected the demand to give civic amenities (CA) land to owners' associations on lease. But the HDUDA agreed to use industrial area for commercial activities," Kalburgi told media persons. CA sites, layouts Kalburgi said, there is a rule to leave 10% land as CA site in a layout, but some layouts have scattered CA sites. Now, it is decided to reserve 10% CA site at one place itself. This would made mandatory for 113 newly proposed private layouts, he noted. As many as 57 unauthorised layouts are already identified, and 100 more such layouts are expected to be traced out. They would be demolished. Out of around 350 CA sites allotted, some are misused, and they would be taken back. If CA sites are unused for long time, they would be asked whether sites would be used for the purpose allotted or should be taken back. Survey in this regard is on, Kalburgi said. The revised comprehensive development plan (CDP) was approved last year, and a team is coming to rectify the errors in six months. Master plan implementation would begin within one year, he assured. Jagadish Shettar instructed Kalburgi not to stop unauthorised layout demolition abruptly. It should continue, and all elected representatives would support that. Farmers have not yet come forward to give their land to develop HDUDA layout, he said. Site allotment letters were handed over to kin of martyred soldiers. Basavaraj Horatti was felicitated for completing 40 years as an MLC continuously. MLAs Prasad Abbayya, Arvind Bellad, C M Nimbannavar, MLCs Shrinivas Mane, S V Sakanur, Pradeep Shettar, Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) Commissioner Suresh Itnal, HDUDA Commissioner Ningappa Kummannavar, Town Planning Member (Joint Director) Vivek Karekar and others were present. 'Be alert' In the wake of more people coming from Bengaluru, Large & Medium Scale Industries and District In-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar stated that people themselves should be alert and should follow the guidelines, to prevent Covid-19 infection. He told media persons here on Monday that even private hospitals are prepared for Covid-19 treatment, 6,000 beds are kept ready in the district, and Covid Care Centres are also opened. "I do not agree that Covid-19 has spread to community level in Hubballi, but it is still in cluster level. Due to lack of awareness, some Covid patients move here and there, and their contact tracing becomes very difficult," Shettar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/karnataka-hduda-to-increase-increase-maximum-limit-of-height-of-buildings-in-hubballi-dharwad-857830.html
06-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Covid-19 patients made to wait outside KIMS in Hubballi for 4 hours||A video of two Covid-19 positive patients waiting outside the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, the district Covid-19 centre, for more than four hours to get admission has gone viral on social media here on Monday. According to Meshak, a social worker who recorded the video, the two patients were brought to KIMS at around 6:30 pm. However, till 10:00 pm, the patients were not admitted to the hospital even after repeated requests. Two patients were admitted to Vivekananda Hospital, one of the empanelled hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients, two days ago with symptoms and they turned positive on Monday. The two were shifted to KIMS in an ambulance along with oxygen supply. “The medical staff at KIMS refused to get these two patients admitted stating that there are no beds available,” said Meshak and added that the delay resulted in patients suffering as the oxygen supply in ambulance lasted only for one hour. Charges denied Speaking to DH Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said there is no shortage of beds at KIMS. Of the 250 beds reserved for Covid-19, only 190 have been occupied. Vivekananda Hospital, which is duty bound to treat Covid-19 patients, to distance itself from the responsibilities has ‘created’ this video and circulating it, he said. “When they have treated the patients for two days, what was the need for them to send the patients to KIMS after they turned positive for Covid-19. This violates all the norms set by the government,” he said and added that action would be initiated against the hospital for shunning the patients. Patil claimed that the two patients were admitted to KIMS later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/covid-19-patients-made-to-wait-outside-kims-in-hubballi-for-4-hours-857959.html
06-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Reporter tests positive for Covid-19; Mandya Press Club sealed||According to Association president K C Manjunath, as the reporter has tested positive for Covid-19, the Association has voluntarily sealed down the premises for another month. Accordingly, there will not be any press meets at the club for the next four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reporter-tests-positive-for-covid-19-mandya-press-club-sealed-857619.html
06-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two patients, suspected of Covid-19, die in Mysuru||Two people, suspected of being infected by the coronavirus, died at a hospital in Mysuru.  They were aged 72 and 46. According to the sources, the district administration has performed final rites of the duo as per the protocol. Till Sunday, Mysuru saw five deaths due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-patients-suspected-of-covid-19-die-in-mysuru-857692.html
06-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bengaluru woman cheats man of Rs 12 lakh, promising medical seat||A man from Shantigrama, Hassan taluk, lodged a police complaint alleging that a woman from Bengaluru cheated him to the tune of Rs 12 lakh, promising a seat in a Katnataka medical college for his daughter.  In his complaint, Manjunath alleged that a woman, resident of Jayanagar 9th Block and working with United Medical Consultant Private Limited, Bengaluru, received Rs 12 lakh from him in exchange of an MBBS seat for his daughter last year. However, instead of finding her a seat among state colleges, the woman got his daughter admission into a university in Central America, which did not have permissions and accreditations from the concerned authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bengaluru-woman-cheats-man-of-rs-12-lakh-promising-medical-seat-857706.html
06-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Now, people resort to self-lockdown to keep Covid away||At a time when new Covid hotspots continue to emerge in most parts of the districts and the state government ruling out the possibility of another lockdown, people have understood that self-lockdown is the only way to keep Covid-19 at bay. All restrictions that prevailed during the lockdown were lifted on June 7. Once the rising cases created panic among residents, the state government, which was in a dilemma over reimposing lockdown, however, decided against it and imposed Sunday lockdown and night curfew. As the chances of lockdown being reimposed appeared remote, a few taluks of the districts have imposed self-lockdown, to protect the people from contracting the virus. The people, who once opposed lockdown 1.0 to 5.0, are now demanding for a lockdown, fearing the spread of the pandemic. As the government is not willing for another lockdown, traders in several taluks in Hassan, Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Mysuru have opted for self-lockdown. Members of merchants association and others are downing shutters by noon. A village in Mandya district has banned the entry of people from Bengaluru and has even imposed a fine of Rs 5,000. Anyone, who leaves for Bengaluru has to pay a fine of Rs 5,000, if he wants to return to the village. This was announced in the village in an effort to make the people aware of the risks involved in travelling to Bengaluru. Meanwhile, Soligas at Biligiri Rangana Betta at Yalandur in Chamarajanagar gheraoed a KSRTC bus, which ferried devotees to the temple. They claimed that the movement of people may spread the pandemic to remote villages, where getting medical help is difficult. Traders, shopkeepers and farmer leaders of Gundlupet taluk, which has the most positive cases in Chamarajanagar district, held a meeting with MLA C S Niranjan Kumar and decided for a voluntary lockdown by 3 pm, every day. They claimed that Chamarajanagar, which was Covid-free till recently, reported cases after Unlock 1.0 on June 8. As per the orders of the district administration, truck and goods vehicle drivers travelling to other states are kept under institutional quarantine, after they return. However, it is not applicable to drivers coming from other states. Demanding that they should also be isolated, the people staged a protest, recently. In Hassan too, Holenarasipur went into self-lockdown, as it recorded the highest number of positive cases. Traders have voluntarily decided to close shops by 3 pm, till the situation comes under control. Incidents of villagers not allowing people from Bengaluru, from entering the village, is reported from across the districts. On Sunday, residents of Abbooru in Hunsur taluk, Mysuru district, stopped people from Bengaluru from entering their village.  A group of 15 people, who were staying in Bengaluru since a few years, returned after the Covid outbreak, in March. Staying for a few days, they returned to Bengaluru. However, when the group returned again, they were stopped. Merchants of H D Kote taluk too are observing a self declared lockdown from 2 pm to 6 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/now-people-resort-to-self-lockdown-to-keep-covid-away-857892.html
06-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||DCM denies community spread of infection||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said that there is no community spread of coronavirus, in the state. “Around 90% of the people are getting recovered. When compared to other states, the number of infection is less in Karnataka,” he said. Speaking to reporters, after launching drinking water projects in Mandya on Monday, he said, “Community spread of the virus is not reported in any other state. Hence, it is not possible for a community spread in Karnataka. The number of seriously ill patients is less. In future also, only 5 to 6% of the infected will need hospitalisation.” The Deputy Chief Minister said, “There is no shortage of funds for managing Covid pandemic. It is true that there was a problem due to shortage of beds in Bengaluru. The authorities had to face the problem, as there was a sudden rise in the number of patients. Now, it has been sorted out. Arrangements have been made for 15,000 beds. Additional ambulances are ready. Covid tests too would be expedited.” On imposing lockdown, Ashwath Narayan said, “Lockdown would affect daily wagers and others. It is not right to impose a lockdown at this situation. The government is tackling the situation and the people have to live with the virus.” Reacting to Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah’s statements on misusing Covid funds, he said, he has enough time to question us, on the accounts. “Let him question us in the session. We will give complete details. People are already worried. Everybody should join hands for the people. The government is efficiently handling the issue. Unable to stand it, he is leveling allegations,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dcm-denies-community-spread-of-infection-857893.html
06-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||First in Mysuru, citizen insures road||For the first time in the city, a cab driver, a resident of CFTRI Layout, Bogadi Second Stage, has insured a public road, where his house is situated. The insurance, issued by Oriental Insurance Company Limited, for an amount of Rs 3.23 lakh, is effective from June 26. S Vasu, the concerned citizen, has paid an annual premium of Rs 889 from his own earnings, to insure the 96.8 metre stretch of 5th Cross in CFTRI Layout. As per the conditions, the insurance company will bear the loss, if the road is damaged, due to natural causes or due to the acts of miscreants. Vasu said that he was inspired by a similar gesture by Dr Mruthyunjaya Sindhoor in Hubballi in 2008. “I was taking efforts in this respect, since 2018. Finally, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) agreed to my proposal and the insurance company also came forward. If the road is damaged within the insured period, June 25, next year, it can be repaired with the insurance claim amount,” he said. He said that basically he is a fan of Sudha Murty, chairperson of Infosys Foundation, and wanted to do his mite for the society. “I passed SSLC and did a diploma in printing technology. I read newspapers regularly to enrich my knowledge. Thus, I got this idea to insure the road. Initially, the MCC officials resisted and asked how can I, a private individual, insure a private property. Since 2018, when I initiated the process, over four Commissioners have changed in the MCC. C G Betsurmath and P S Kantharaj were supportive. Finally, Gurudutt Hegde completed the process,” he said. “It is not only the soldiers, who guard our nation. Even inside borders, every citizen should behave like a soldier and safeguard public properties. I am not selfish. If people come forward to share the premium amount from next year, they can contribute. Residents of other streets and areas can take steps to either develop their localities or insure public properties. I will share my experiences and lend a helping hand,” he said. “In Mysuru, for the first-time, a citizen has insured a public road. This is a good gesture. If more citizens come forward, we will permit them to insure more roads,” said Mayor Tasneem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/first-in-mysuru-citizen-insures-road-857895.html
06-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Spurt in Covid positive cases in dists; 100 cases more||There was a spurt in positive cases on Monday, with 100 people testing positive in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts. Hassan reported a highest single day spike of 49 Covid positive cases, which included doctors and paramedical staff, on Monday. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 541. While, 255 have been discharged, there are 278 active cases. Eight deaths have been reported in the district so far. Seven people are being treated in the Intensive care unit. Out of 49 cases, 36 people are from Hassan taluk, six from Channarayapatna, two from Belur, four from Sakleshpur, one from Holenarasipur. Around 13 people, including the doctors and hospital staff, treating P-19864 have contracted the virus. Eleven people have a travel history of inter-district and state, six patients under dialysis, and one prisoner released on bail have tested positive. Three patients’ contact is under tracing and the rest have contact with other patients. Chamarajanagar district reported 12 new cases on Monday, and all are being treated at the Covid designated hospital. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 114. While 24, have been discharged, there are 90 active cases. Out of 12, nine are from Gundlupet taluk, two cases from Kollegal and one from Chamarajanagar taluk. While six have a travel history of Kerala, Bengaluru and Mysuru, five have a contact history with other patients. One person’s contact is under tracing. Mandya reported 39 positive cases on Monday. With this, the total positive cases has increased to 557. While 367 patients have been discharged, there are 180 active cases. Out of 39, 19 people are primary and secondary contacts of other patients, 10 have inter-state and district travel history, eight ILI cases and two SARI cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/spurt-in-covid-positive-cases-in-dists-100-cases-more-857901.html
06-07-2020||Mysuru||K R Nagar Tahsildar in Mysuru tests Covid-19 positive; MLA in self-quarantine||After the Tahsildar tested positive, MLA Sa Ra Mahesh is under self-quarantine at his home. The Tahsildar is undergoing treatment. The authorities are preparing to seal down the taluk office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/k-r-nagar-tahsildar-in-mysuru-tests-covid-19-positive-mla-in-self-quarantine-857633.html
06-07-2020||National||Proposal mooted for Doval-Wang talks on India-China stand-off||India and China are discussing a proposal for talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councilor Wang Yi to resolve the stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations.    Doval and Wang are presently the Special Representatives of India and China for strategic consultations and boundary negotiations. They held the 22nd round of boundary negotiations in New Delhi on December 21. A source in New Delhi told DH that even if India and China agreed to have talks between the Special Representatives, it would not be considered as the 23rd round of boundary negotiation. It would be an engagement to review the progress in talks between the senior military officials and the diplomats to resolve the current stand-off, particularly to assess implementation of the understanding reached between the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) during meetings on June 6, 22 and 30, added the source.   New Delhi underlined during its engagements with Beijing that Chinese PLA’s bid to unilaterally alter the status quo along the disputed boundary “damaged considerable trust” between India and China. Notwithstanding the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley and the casualties on both sides, the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on June 22 and June 30 agreed to implement the understanding they had reached on June 6 for disengagement at the face-off sites along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations. They also agreed on the need for an “expeditious, phased and step wise de-escalation” from the border areas. Doval had also held a meeting with his then counterpart in the Chinese Government, Yang Jiechi, in Beijing in July 2017, when the two sides had been engaged in a military stand-off at Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan. The two Special Representatives had held talks on the sideline of a meeting of the senior security officials of the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) nations.   The Special Representatives of India and China have been holding talks to resolve the boundary dispute since October 2003. They concluded an Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles for the Settlement of the India-China Boundary Question in 2005. They have since been engaged in talks on a framework, albeit without much progress over the past 15 years. Once they finalize the framework for settling the boundary dispute, it would be followed by actual demarcation of the border on the map.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proposal-mooted-for-doval-wang-talks-on-india-china-stand-off-857496.html
06-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 6||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 7.16 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 7,16,976 as of July 6 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 20,151   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 4,36,373 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-6-857522.html
06-07-2020||National||Taj Mahal to remain shut amidst surge in Covid-19 cases||India has withdrawn a planned reopening of the Taj Mahal, citing the risk of new coronavirus infections spreading in Agra from visitors flocking to see the 17th-century monument to love. Local authorities issued a new advisory late on Sunday ordering an extension of lockdown curbs on monuments in and around Agra. The government order did not specify the duration of the lockdown for monuments that have been closed since March. "In the interest of the public, it has been decided that opening monuments in Agra will not be advisable as of now", the district authorities said in a notice published in Hindi. Agra, one of India's first big clusters of the virus, remains the worst-affected city in Uttar Pradesh. It was immediately not clear whether the federal government would scrap its plan to reopen other monuments across the country, such as New Delhi's historic Red Fort.  INFECTIONS AT RECORD HIGH India's coronavirus infections are rising at the fastest pace in three months. On Sunday, the health ministry reported a record single-day spike of 24,850 new cases and more than 600 deaths, pushing the overall tally to 673,165 cases. But the government has been lifting a vast lockdown, which has left tens of thousands without work and shuttered businesses. While international flights remain suspended, domestic travel has been opened up, and the government is hoping visitors will start to trickle back to some popular destinations. Containment zones, areas identified as most affected by the virus, remain under strict lockdown, with restricted access and movement of only essential goods and services. "We don't expect visitors here because clusters around the Taj, including shops and hotels are closed," a local district administration official said in Agra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taj-mahal-to-remain-shut-amidst-surge-in-covid-19-cases-857523.html
06-07-2020||National||ICMR clarifies on 40-day target to roll out Covid-19 vaccine||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-clarifies-on-40-day-target-to-roll-out-covid-19-vaccine-857524.html
06-07-2020||National||DH Podcast | The Lead: DMK MP Kanimozhi on custodial deaths and the Covid-19 situation||In this episode, DH Journalist Ahmed Shariff speaks to Member of Parliament from Thoothukudi, Kanimozhi about custodial deaths, the Covid-19 situation and women's reservation bill.    Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-podcast-the-lead-dmk-mp-kanimozhi-on-custodial-deaths-and-the-covid-19-situation-857569.html
06-07-2020||National||India 'very responsible' player in global fora, can galvanise action as UNSC member: UN General Assembly Prez Tijjani Muhammad||India has been a "very responsible" player in international fora, and as it sits on the UN Security Council, it can galvanise action in various areas and also bring focus on the Sustainable Development Goals, a top UN official has said. India overwhelmingly won its election to the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member last month for a two-year term that will begin in January 2021. It garnered 184 votes out of the 192 ballots cast in the UN General Assembly. Previously, India had been elected as a non-permanent member of the powerful Security Council for the years 1950—1951, 1967—1968, 1972—1973, 1977—1978, 1984—1985, 1991—1992, and most recently in 2011—2012. "India is a very important country in the world in terms of technology, in terms of people, in terms of ideas and it also has been a very strong member of many other international organisations and can bring sensitivities of those organisations to bear in discussions (at the UN and as a Security Council member)," UN General Assembly President Tijjani Muhammad-Bande told PTI in an interview. Responding to a question on expectations from India as it prepares to sit in the Security Council next year, he said India has given a great deal of support to other countries not only in its own region, but also elsewhere. "So, we expect that it will bring some focus to Development Goals (SDG) issues as it will bring some focus to discussions around respect for other countries. "I think its own relationship within the Commonwealth and other fora (like the) Non-Aligned Movement, the G77, you name it. It has been a very responsible player in those fora, so we expect that it will galvanise action in those areas of importance to those organisations as well,” Muhammad-Bande said last week. On a question about what role India can play, together with the UN, to promote access to affordable medicines and vaccines, particularly in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, he said, India can be helpful because it has a “very strong” relationship with its neighbours. “It operates within the Commonwealth, it operates within its region. It also operates at the UN and they are a platform to give further support to the efforts of the global community,” he said. The UN official also said there was a resolution of the General Assembly agreed to by all Member States to give support to the idea of availability of vaccines. "Countries that are able to produce quickly the needed vaccines when developed of course have a responsibility and those who are able to provide some funding to guarantee that this happens. "And then we'll have a mechanism to allow those who really need access. Even before the crisis, many countries were struggling and the situation has become extremely more difficult for many countries," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-very-responsible-player-in-global-fora-can-galvanise-action-as-unsc-member-un-general-assembly-prez-tijjani-muhammad-857576.html
06-07-2020||National||Single-day jump of 24,248 Covid-19 cases pushes India's tally close to 7 lakh-mark||Another big single-day jump of 24,248 Covid-19 cases took India's tally close to the 7-lakh mark on Monday, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 19,693 with 425 new fatalities, according to the Union health ministry. With this, the country has recorded over 20,000 cases of the infection for the fourth consecutive day. India went past Russia on Sunday to become the third worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. Only the US and Brazil are ahead of India in terms of total coronavirus infections. According to the Monday morning update of the Union Health Ministry, a single-day jump of 24,248 Covid-19 cases pushed India's tally to 6,97,413.  With a steady rise, the number of recoveries stands at 4,24,432 in the country, while one patient has migrated. There are 2,53,287 active coronavirus cases in the country, the data showed. "Thus, 60.85 per cent of the patients have recovered so far," the ministry said. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners who tested positive in India. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 99,69,662 samples were tested for the disease in the country till July 5, with 1,80,596 just on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/single-day-jump-of-24248-covid-19-cases-pushes-indias-tally-close-to-7-lakh-mark-857579.html
06-07-2020||National||Vice President Naidu recalls Syama Prasad Mookerjee's contribution on birth anniversary||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday remembered Bharatiya Jan Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his birth anniversary, saying his love for the motherland will always remain an inspiration for every Indian. "He was a great patriot who fought relentlessly to preserve national unity and total integration of Jammu & Kashmir into India. His love for motherland will always remain an inspiration for every Indian," the official Twitter account of the Vice President of India tweeted. Mookerjee was born in 1901 in then Calcutta. Naidu said Mookerjee was an accomplished barrister, philosopher and educationist of great repute. He was the youngest ever vice-chancellor of Calcutta University and served the nation with distinction as Independent India's first Minister of Industry and Supply, the vice president observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-recalls-syama-prasad-mookerjees-contribution-on-birth-anniversary-857580.html
06-07-2020||National||Police headed unprepared into 'darkness' of trap laid by Dubey: Cop who survived ambush||Neither equipped with any arms or ammunition nor anticipating that they would face an "encounter-like" situation in Kanpur’s Bikhru village, police personnel headed unprepared towards the trap laid by gangster Vikas Dubey at his mansion, said a policeman who survived the ambush in which eight of his colleagues were killed. Speaking to reporters, Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, the station officer of Bithoor police station in Kanpur district who was injured in the savage attack on a police team, recalled the events of the intervening night of Thursday-Friday that unfolded like a gangster film. “Dubey’s men were fully prepared. Each of them had weapons. They were using semi-automatic weapons. In single-shot weapons there is a time gap between two shots," he said, adding that there were at least 15-20 people firing at the police team. “On the other hand, all of us did not have 'aslaahaa' (arms and ammunition),” Singh told media persons from the private hospital in Kanpur where he is currently recuperating. The SO said Dubey’s gang had been briefed about the imminent police raid and made preparations, even arranging the lighting in such a manner that the policemen had to “face darkness”. "They had made arrangements in such a way that the focus of the light was on us, and not on them. We could not see them," Singh said. The SO went on to say that his police station had received a phone call and was asked to accompany a raid team from the Chaubeypur police station. “In the matters of neighbouring police stations, we help each other. We left at around 12.30 am and joined SO Chaubeypur. The police team which had gone there comprised Circle Officer Bilhaur, SO Shivrajpur and police force from Bithoor and Chaubeypur police stations. We parked our vehicles almost 200-250 metres from Dubey’s house.” He said when they reached outside Dubey’s house, a JCB was placed as an obstruction in such a way that only one person could move to the other side. “As soon as we crossed the JCB parked near his house, a spray of bullets was unleashed on us. Three persons first got bullet injuries and the rest of us got scattered. Everyone tried to hide wherever they could manage to,” he said.. “We had gone there not anticipating that an encounter-like situation would emerge,” he added. Singh said there were two constables along with him and one of them, Ajay Sengar, got a bullet injury in his stomach. “To save him, we took shelter behind a trolley there and gave cover fire," Singh said and added that he fired 4-5 rounds from his pistol. He said it was difficult for him to ascertain how the bullet hit him as “indiscriminate firing” was going on. He also said he came to know later when he saw visuals of the attack on social media that the firing was going on from three sides and that at the place where Circle Officer, Bilhaur, was hiding, firing was done from right above him. To a specific question on Vinay Tiwari, station officer of Chaubeypur police station who was suspended on Saturday, allegedly deliberately lagging behind the police team, Singh said, "It is wrong to say so, as we were moving in a single line." The eight policemen killed in the line of duty, mostly in their 20s and 30s, included Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra (54).   The others are Mahesh Kumar Yadav (42), Sub-Inspector Anoop Kumar Singh (32), Sub-Inspector Nebu Lal (48) and Constables Jitendra Pal (26), Sultan Singh (34), Bablu Kumar (23) and Rahul Kumar (24). Their bodies were taken back to their homes where senior police officers attended their last rites. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack that took place in the in the early hours of Friday. The injured civilian is a helper of SO Chaubeypur, Singh said. Allegations had earlier surfaced against Vinay Tiwari, Station Officer of Chaubeypur police station in whose jurisdiction the incident took place, following which he was suspended on Saturday. It was alleged that Tiwari had alerted Dubey that a police team was on the way to his house to arrest him, following which the gangster and his men attacked the police personnel resulting in the slaying of eight of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-headed-unprepared-into-darkness-of-trap-laid-by-dubey-cop-who-survived-ambush-857584.html
06-07-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi does not attend Parliament's committee meetings on defence but 'demoralises' armed forces: JP Nadda||Launching a fresh attack on Rahul Gandhi, BJP president J P Nadda said on Monday that the Congress leader "has not attended" a single meeting of Parliament's standing committee on defence but continues to "demoralise" the nation and question the valour of armed forces. Nadda's tweets came following reports that Gandhi has attended none of the committee's meetings so far. There was no immediate reaction from the Congress to Nadda's attack. "Rahul Gandhi does not attend a single meeting of the Standing Committee on Defence. But sadly, he continues to demoralise the nation, question the valour of our armed forces and do everything that a responsible opposition leader should not do," the BJP president said. He added, "Rahul Gandhi belongs to that glorious dynastic tradition where as far as defence is concerned, committees don’t matter, only commissions do. Congress has many deserving members who understand parliamentary matters but one dynasty will never let such leaders grow. Really sad." Gandhi has been leading his party's sharp criticism of the central government over a host of issues, including the continuing standoff between Indian and Chinese armies. The BJP has, in turn, accused him of lowering the morale of armed forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-does-not-attend-parliaments-committee-meetings-on-defence-but-demoralises-armed-forces-jp-nadda-857594.html
06-07-2020||National||China withdraws troops, tents in Galwan Valley||India and China on Monday began the process of troop disengagement at least from three sites in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh that witnessed a tense stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops for more than two months. "The process of disengagement has commenced in Galwan. Structures in the area of Patrol Point 14 have been removed," Army sources said. As per a mutually agreed protocol, senior commanders from both sides will verify the extent of the disengagement in the next 72 hours before the next course of action is taken. Besides removal of tents and structures at PP-14, withdrawal movements of vehicles and troops have also been noticed at Gogra Post and Hot Spring areas too. This is the first sign of withdrawal of the troops by the People's Liberation Army that comes in the wake of three rounds of meetings between military commanders from both sides. Sources said few persons and vehicles were also withdrawn from the controversial Finger Complex on the northern banks of the Pangong lake where the PLA had blocked the Indian Army at Finger 4,which is nearly 8 km before India’s traditional patrolling point at Finger 8. Indian Army, however, has not lowered its guard even a bit because of an air of mistrust that hangs over the bilateral agenda ever since the stand-off began in April. The pull back comes a week after the third round of talks between senior level military commanders from the Indian Army and PLA in which the two sides agreed upon an “expeditious, phased and stepwise deescalation of troops as a priority” along the Line of Actual Control, the disputed border between the two neighbours. Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Ladakh last week where without mentioning China he asserted that the era of expansionism was over while interacting with the soldiers. For more than two months, the troops from India and China are locked in a tense face-off at multiple locations in eastern Ladakh including Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso and Depsang Bulge. The face-off led to a violent clash on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers including their commanding officer and a significant number of Chinese troops were killed. India has been insisting on restoration of status quo in all areas of eastern Ladakh to restore peace and tranquillity in the region. The two countries held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-withdraws-troops-tents-in-galwan-valley-857607.html
06-07-2020||National||Not President or PM, but Heads of Governments in India's territories coveted by China greet Dalai Lama on his 85th birthday||The heads of the local governments of India's two territories at the centre of its boundary dispute with China greeted Dalai Lama, as the global icon of the struggle against Chinese People's Liberation Army's 1950-51 occupation of Tibet turned 85 on Monday. Amid continuing military standoff along the disputed India-China boundary in Ladakh, the Lieutenant Governor of the newest Union Territory of India, R K Mathur, used his official account on Twitter to greet the Dalai Lama. So did Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Pema Khandu.  "This day marks the 85th birth anniversary of His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama @DalaiLama.  I pray for his good health and #longevity. In these difficult times, his spiritual leadership gives strength," tweeted Mathur.   "A very warm birthday wishes to His Holiness the 14th #DalaiLama. On this special auspicious day of your 85th birthday, me and my family joins millions of followers across the globe, to rejoice and offer our prayers for your excellent health, happiness and long life," Khandu posted on Twitter.     China claims nearly 90,000 sq kms of areas in Arunachal Pradesh of India. The communist country is also illegally occupying about 38,000 sq kms of India's territory in Aksai Chin in east of Ladakh. Pakistan also illegally ceded 5180 sq kms of India's territory to China in 1963.  Ram Madhav, national general secretary of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, also greeted Dalai Lama on his birthday. So did United States' envoy to India, Ken Juster. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi however refrained from publicly greeting the octogenarian monk. Any official interaction or engagement with Dalai Lama by India has been said to rile China. Dalai Lama has been living in India ever since he fled the Potala Palace in Lhasa in March, 1959, to escape the Chinese PLA, which had by then occupied Tibet. He has been a staunch advocate for non-violence and freedom, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989. He has been demanding “genuine autonomy” – not independence from Chinese Government’s rule – for Tibet. Beijing, however, still calls him a “separatist” and accuses him of running a campaign to split China. His visit to Rashtrapati Bhavan on an invitation from the then President Pranab Mukherjee in December 2016 triggered a strong protest from China. So did New Delhi’s decisions in 2009 and 2017 to allow him to visit Arunachal Pradesh. China last year sent some civilians and soldiers to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at Demchok in Ladakh in order to protest celebration of the 84th birthday of Dalai Lama by people in a border village in India. New Delhi, however, always dismissed the protests from Beijing, underlining that the Dalai Lama was an honoured guest of India and he was always free to visit any part of the country. But just two months before Modi had an “informal summit” with Chinese President Xi Jinping at Wuhan in central China on April 27 and 28, 2018, the cabinet secretariat issued an advisory in New Delhi asking “senior leaders” and “government functionaries” in the states as well as at the Centre to stay away from events attended by Dalai Lama. New Delhi’s move was obviously intended to avoid irking Beijing ahead of Modi-Xi “informal summit”, which India had hoped would bring back on track its relation with China after it had reached its nadir over the 72-day-long military face-off between the two nations in Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan the previous year. The official and public greetings by Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh and Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh on Dalai Lama's birthday once again signalled a U-turn in New Delhi's approach on engagement with the spiritual leader and exiled Tibetans in India - a move aimed at sending out a message to Beijing as the tense stand-off between the two nations on India and China's disputed boundary continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-president-or-pm-but-heads-of-governments-in-indias-territories-coveted-by-china-greet-dalai-lama-on-his-85th-birthday-857617.html
06-07-2020||National||Coronavirus tests in India cross one-crore mark; 1,105 testing labs in the country||The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 crossed the one-crore mark in India on Monday, an ICMR official said. A single-day jump of 24,248 Covid-19 cases took India's tally close to the 7-lakh mark on Monday, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 19,693 with 425 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry. "A cumulative total of 1,00,04,101 samples have been tested till 11 am on Monday with 1,80,596 samples being tested on July 5," Scientist and media coordinator at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Lokesh Sharma said. There are now 1,105 testing labs in the country comprising 788 in the public sector and 317 private labs. The per day testing capacity is also fast growing, Sharma said. Around 2,00,000 samples have been tested on an average daily for the last 14 days, he said. India had crossed the nine million-mark on July 1. "The per day testing capacity which was around 1.5 lakh on May 25 is more than three lakh per day now," Sharma said. Starting with one single laboratory at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and then expanding to 100 laboratories in the beginning of the lockdown, the ICMR on June 23 validated the 1000th testing laboratory. Various steps taken by the central government have paved the way for enhanced testing for Covid-19, the health ministry had said earlier. The Centre has strongly advised states and UTs to take immediate steps to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private practitioners, to prescribe COVID test to any individual fulfilling the criteria for testing as per the ICMR guidelines.  Reiterating that 'Test-Track-Treat' is the key strategy for early detection and containment of the outbreak, the Centre last week advised them to take all possible steps to ensure full capacity utilization of all Covid-19 testing laboratories.  States were also asked to facilitate testing in a big way by adoption of 'campaign mode' by organizing testing camps, using mobile vans etc.  This shall effectively take Covid-19 tests to the people's doorsteps in high incidence areas to collect samples of all symptomatic individuals as well as their contacts, and get those samples tested by using rapid antigen tests, the ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-tests-in-india-cross-one-crore-mark-1105-testing-labs-in-the-country-857623.html
06-07-2020||National||MP Chief Minister Chouhan calls on VP Venkaiah Naidu||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who was in the national capital, on Monday called on Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu. Chouhan, who had recently inducted 28 ministers in his council of ministers, has been meeting the central leadership of the BJP. Though there has been no official comment, the issue of allocation of portfolios to the newly-inducted ministers has been the focus of the meetings. "Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh called on the Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu in New Delhi today," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-chief-minister-chouhan-calls-on-vp-venkaiah-naidu-857634.html
06-07-2020||National||HC grants bail to man in gang rape case of mentally unfit minor girl||An accused in the gang rape of a mentally unfit minor girl, who was threatened to remain silent about the incident, has been granted bail by the Delhi High Court which said that key witnesses in the case have been examined by the trial court. The high court directed the accused, who has been in jail for over three years, not to influence any witness or tamper with the evidence directly or indirectly. “It is not in dispute that the victim and her mother have already been examined on oath. Thus, material witnesses have been examined... However, in view of the submission made by counsel for the parties and the fact that petitioner (accused) is in judicial custody since May 16, 2017, therefore, without commenting on the merits of the case, I am of the view that petitioner deserves bail,” Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said. The court said the accused Nitin, represented through advocate Pramod Kumar Dubey, shall be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 25,000 and a surety of the like amount. According to the prosecution, the victim alleged that in May 2017, Nitin and co-accused Deepu took her to the roof of a house and forcefully made sexual relations with her, while another accused who was a juvenile fled from the spot after seeing her condition. The minor girl, who is now 17 years old, alleged that the two accused had forcibly established physical relations with her on several occasions. On May 13, 2017, the girl narrated the incident to her mother that Nitin and Deepu had forcefully made sexual relations with her and whenever she used to go out, the juvenile accused used to follow and misbehave with her. The girl also said that the accused had threatened her with dire consequences if she disclosed the assault to anyone, the prosecution told the court. The girl’s mother informed the police and a case was registered against the accused for the alleged offences of gang rape and criminal intimidation under the IPC and aggravated penetrative sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act at Hari Nagar Police Station. The prosecutor submitted that during the trial of the case, the lower court got the mental age assessment of the victim done from the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS). As per a psychological assessment report, her mental age has been found to be 8 years, whereas her current age was 17 years. Dubey sought bail for the accused contending that there was sufficient evidence to show contradiction on the number of people involved in the alleged incident. The council said the prosecution's case rested solely on the girl's false testimony as the evidence showed that the prosecutrix and the witness kept changing their version and taking a contradictory stand in their evidence and the theory propounded on the basis thereof, leave scope for multiple other conclusions. He submitted that the prosecution came up with the case that the victim was mentally unfit, which was contrary to school records and claimed that no impairment has been specified in the document. The prosecutor opposed the bail of the accused saying there was strong apprehension that he will tamper with the evidence and influence the witnesses in the case by force, fraud and inducement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-bail-to-man-in-gang-rape-case-of-mentally-unfit-minor-girl-857656.html
06-07-2020||National||China agrees to pull back front-line soldiers from face-off scenes but mum on withdrawing additional PLA troops amassed in rear||India and China agreed to expeditiously complete the disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor, Ajit Doval, had a “frank and in-depth exchange of views” with Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councilor, Wang Yi, over the phone. India has been alleging that China amassed a large number of soldiers along the LAC between the two nations since early May, flouting the 1993 bilateral agreement, which required each side to “keep its military forces in the areas along the LAC to a minimum level”. The Indian Army too had to respond to the build-up by the Chinese PLA with “counter-deployment” resulting in the stand-off, which witnessed a violent face-off at Galwan Valley on June 15 resulting in casualties on both sides and already entered into the third month. New Delhi has been insisting on not only disengagement of front-line troops of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on the scenes of the face-offs along the LAC, but also withdrawal of additional troops the communist country army deployed on its sides of the disputed boundary. The phone-call between Doval and Wang on Sunday was the first engagement between the two Special Representatives after the current stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in eastern Ladakh started in the first week of May. They re-affirmed that “both sides should strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and should not take any unilateral action to alter the status quo and work together to avoid any incident in the future that could disturb peace and tranquility in border areas”, according to MEA press release issued in New Delhi. New Delhi has been blaming Beijing for the stand-off, alleging that the Chinese PLA had tried to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC, which serves as the de facto boundary between the two nations in western sector. Doval and Wang agreed that while the talks between the diplomats and the senior military officials would continue to implement the understanding reached so far to resolve the stand-off; they, themselves, would also remain in touch to “ensure full and enduring restoration of peace and tranquility in the India-China border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols”. The two Special Representatives agreed reaffirmed the consensus reached by Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during two “informal summits” in April 2018 and October 2019 that maintenance of peace and tranquility in the India-China border areas was essential for the further development of bilateral relations and that the two sides should not allow differences to become disputes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-agrees-to-pull-back-front-line-soldiers-from-face-off-scenes-but-mum-on-withdrawing-additional-pla-troops-amassed-in-rear-857668.html
06-07-2020||National||'Nearly extinct' damselfly species found near Satara dam||Three nature conservationists from Satara in Maharashtra claimed to have "rediscovered" a "nearly extinct" damselfly species 'Lestes patricia' after almost 100 years. A colony of this sub-species, christened 'Lestes patricia taamrpatti', was discovered by Dr Shriram Bhakare, Sunil Bhoite and Pratima Pawar-Bhoite from Umrodi Dam area, situated at the foothills of the northern Western Ghats in the district. According to the researchers, a single male specimen of Lestes patricia, endemic to the Western Ghats, was first discovered in 1922 from Kodagu (Coorg) district in Karnataka and the only specimen currently available is at Natural History Museum, London. "The discovered colony of new species closely match the specimen of the single known male of Lestes patricia from the London-based museum. However, there are stable differences between the newly found species and description of Lestes patricia," said Bhoite. "While comparing the body structure and features of the newly found species with an existing specimen of Lestes patricia from the London-based museum, stable differences were found. That is why the sub-species from the damselfly family has been named Lestes patricia taamrpatti," he added. Dr Bhakare, an ophthalmologist from Satara, said the reason behind adding the word 'taamrpatti' was because the species has a coppery red-brown uniform band bordered by black. "The likelihood the newly discovered population is, in fact, a distinct species cannot be ruled out, but cannot be confirmed until further, fresh specimens of Lestes patricia are made available from the locality in Kodagu. "Since the stable features observed in the newly discovered population preclude it from being indisputably placed under Lestes patricia, yet given the lack of comparative material, it is not possible to place it as a new species with certainty," he added. So the newly discovered population from Maharashtra is tentatively placed as a subspecies of Lestes patricia, Bhakare informed. He said a research paper on discovery of the nearly extinct species was published in Bionotes Journal recently. The researchers said 10 specimens, comprising six males and four females, have been collected for examination. Of the 10, two male and two female specimens have been deposited with Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), while the rest will be kept at other depositories in the country for further research.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-extinct-damselfly-species-found-near-satara-dam-857676.html
06-07-2020||National||Homeless again in twilight years? Funding dries up for old-age homes||Living out their twilight years in old age homes, thousands of elderly persons across the country could lose the roof over their heads with funds for their donation-dependent refuges drying up in the last few months. As businesses collapse and incomes shrink in the extended lockdown and post lockdown phase, many old age homes have been forced to trim their budgets for essentials such as rations and medicines and some fear they could be looking at closure if the financial crisis continues. “Old age homes, especially the smaller and mid-sized ones, have traditionally depended on donations from local philanthropic individuals and business communities. With the lockdown and economic recession, the same has totally dried up,” HelpAge India CEO Mathew Cherian told PTI. Many institutions might be forced to shut shop due to the “drastic fall in their overall incomes”, he added. According to HelpAge India, a non-profit organisation working for the disadvantaged elderly, there are nearly 1,500 old age homes in the country, housing nearly 70,000 people.  Other than the luxurious enclaves for the affluent, most senior care homes depend on donations, in varying degrees, to keep things running smoothly. The stakes are high for the residents, some of them taking on jobs such as cleaning, washing, cooking and making beds without assistance as their homes are forced to dispense with daily help. Compelled by circumstance, they came in for various reasons – dysfunctional families, financial constraints or the need for companionship in the last years of their lives. The fear that the life they have finally settled into might be taken away imperils their sense of physical and emotional security. Shashi Malhotra, 73, is one of those who said he doesn’t know where he will go if his home closes down. The former inspector with the sales tax department separated from his wife in 2008 and hasn’t seen his sons in 12 years. With the impending challenges of old age and no family to turn to, he registered himself in an old age home run by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). It has been a decade since he moved to the home in south Delhi’s Govindpuri locality. “This is better than home. I feel happy and secure,” he said. That this could be taken away from him is a thought almost too much to bear, Malhotra said. The DMRC home, which houses Malhotra and 20 others over the age of 55 free of cost, has undergone a budgetary cut of almost 30 per cent. “After the funding started decreasing, we have been facing difficulties in arranging rations, toiletries and medical supplies for the residents. Sometimes, we do get help from NGOs like HelpAge India, but we mostly have to just manage within the resources we have,” said Rohit Kumar, a supervisor at the home. The staff — there are four of them — hasn’t been laid off yet. But the future is uncertain. Shantiniketan, an old age home in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur locality that provides shelter to 38 ‘homeless’ and poor residents above the age of 60, isn’t as lucky. With a dip in funding by 50 percent, from both corporates as well as philanthropic individuals, the home had to let go of all four of its housekeeping staff. “The money from the funding is used for the upkeep of the home — rentals, and electricity bills, as well as staff salaries. We have had to ask our staff to not come because we can’t pay their salaries anymore.  “We are grateful that we haven’t had any major medical emergencies yet, but we are not sure what we will do when that happens,” said Sister Ancy Johnson, who runs the home with her family. She added that they do the chores around the home, including cleaning and cooking, on their own. According to india.gov.in, while most old age homes in the country offer free accommodation and food, there are some that work on a payment basis depending on the type and quality of services offered. The charges for paid facilities range anything between Rs 4,000-6,000 per month, said Himanshu Rath, founder of the Agewell Foundation.  The total elderly population in the country runs close to 120 million, out of which 53.5 million are “disadvantaged”. According to Helpage India’s Cherian, the depletion of funds is an immediate outcome of the “donor base” itself getting affected by the current state of affairs.  With incomes threatened and businesses collapsing, it is understandable that donors — both corporates and philanthropic individuals — are unable to lend a helping hand, in cash or in kind, he said.  “A conservative estimate would peg the quantum of decrease in support (for old age homes) at 50–60 per cent,” Cherian said. Life which was tough has just become tougher. “In the changed environment of social distancing, most elderly have to take care of their needs themselves, as general staff are unable to attend to them due to lockdown rules and the coronavirus threat. “Many who have to go for routine medical checkups are the worst affected because not all homes are equipped with medical facilities,” Agewell Foundation’s Rath told PTI.  A June 2020 survey by the not-for-profit NGO working for the welfare and empowerment of older persons revealed that approximately 55 per cent elderly respondents (within and outside of old age homes) felt the “lockdown situation” is affecting their health conditions adversely.  “At least 75 percent of elderly patients said that they missed the healing touch of their doctor, as they could not visit them personally. Nearly 44 percent of the respondents feel that limited or no access to regular medicines and physiotherapy were among the most critical health challenges being faced by them,” the survey noted. Rath said government authorities should provide “subsidy or loans and support for assisted living or senior care homes”. Unless the government comes to the rescue, the situation will only “aggravate the penury of the homes”, leaving thousands of elderly homeless and without any care, agreed Cherian. “Government can also give pensions to all residents of old age homes under the National Social Assistance Programme... and also 'White Ration Cards' under Right to Food,” Cherian said. HelpAge India has currently been aiding several old age homes to stay afloat by providing them material and resources to counter Covid-19 crisis, said Cherian. The total elderly population in the country, however, runs close to 120 million,  out of which 53.5 million are “disadvantaged”. The extended lockdown to curtail the spread of the Covid-19 led to businesses collapsing and incomes shrinking. And to old age homes being forced to trim their budgets – for rations, toiletries, medicines as well as With threatened incomes, and collapsing businesses, it is understandable that donors — both corporates and philanthropic individuals — are unable to lend a helping hand, in cash or in kind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/homeless-again-in-twilight-years-funding-dries-up-for-old-age-homes-857701.html
06-07-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown resulted in 'decreased' tuberculosis transmission say experts||Contrary to the perception, the lockdown has resulted in 'decreased transmission' of TB in the country, according to the experts. ''Decreased movement, wearing of face masks, physical distancing and cough etiquette have proven to be big factors in bringing down TB transmission during the lockdown,'' said Prof Surya Kant, a member of the executive committee, National Task Force for TB Elimination. Speaking to DH, Prof Surya Kant said that it was 'wrong' to think that the drop in the notifications of TB cases during lockdown signalled an increase in the transmission. Dr Surya Kant said that a majority of TB patients visited the district TB centres during this period instead of visiting tertiary care centres in the cities.  ''The only problem faced during the period (lockdown) was concerned with lack of proper follow-up, including X-Ray, culture and liver function tests,'' he said. He said that during the lockdown, instead of daily supervised administration of anti-TB drugs, one-month medicines were provided to the patients. Surya Kant said that the need of the hour is to strengthen Drug Resistance TB Centres at the districts. ''We already have 3-4 bed hospitalisation facility,'' he added. He went on to say that the objective was to reduce the number of TB patients coming down to the tertiary care centres and encourage them to visit the centres in their districts. ''It will result in less movement and hence reduced risk of transmission,'' he added. UP government was also planning to introduce public-private partnership programs to engage private health care providers across the state. It would improve access to TB care as many patients visited the private sector for health services.  The remarks assume significance as they reject reports expressing apprehensions that the drop in notifications of the TB cases during the current situation was worrying and was one of the examples of TB services being affected due to pandemic. In UP alone the number of TB cases reported in January this year stood at 40,087. This number came down drastically to 16,427 in May, when the lockdown was already in force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-resulted-in-decreased-tuberculosis-transmission-say-experts-857705.html
06-07-2020||National||ASI monuments reopen, but Taj Mahal still out of bounds||However, access to the monuments will be governed by a set of guidelines issued by the Central government that include capping the number of visitors and barring group photographs and insisting on digital payments for purchase of tickets and parking fees. Heritage sites such as the Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb, Purana Qila, Qutub Minar in Delhi, Charminar and Golconda Fort in Hyderabad were set to open on Monday. According to the guidelines, monuments falling within containment zones will not be open to visitors. Agra District Magistrate Prabhu N Singh has declared all monuments in the city, including the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Sikandara, Akbar’s Tomb, Itmad-ud-Daula Tomb as “buffer zones” after 55 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the city over the past four days. The city has 71 active containment zones and any access to the heritage sites could lead to further spread of the Sars Cov-2 infection, Singh said. According to the rules, no tickets will be sold at the counter at the monuments and will have to be purchased online. Visitors will also be barred from carrying food and eatables inside the monuments. The number of visitors at the Taj Mahal has been capped at 5,000 daily in two batches of 2,500 each in the forenoon and afternoon. For the Red Fort and Qutub Minar the cap of the number of visitors has been fixed at 3000 in two batches of 1,500. The Agra Fort and Sun Temple at Konark can have 2,500 visitors daily – 1,200 in the forenoon and 1,300 in the afternoon. All the other ticketed monuments of ASI can have 2,000 visitors daily in batches of 1,000. Visitors will have to follow personal hygiene and wear masks or face covers and follow designated routes for movements while visiting the monuments. At the entrance of the monuments, visitors will have to share their phone numbers with the ASI to enable contact tracing if required. Of the 3,691 protected monuments, 820 that have places of worship were opened to visitors last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asi-monuments-reopen-but-taj-mahal-still-out-of-bounds-857711.html
06-07-2020||National||Resident doctors association writes to PM Modi, demands cadre for healthcare professionals in line with IAS, IPS||The Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding a separate cadre for healthcare professionals in line with IAS and IPS. It said the coronavirus pandemic has once again stressed the need for improving the healthcare infrastructure in the nation beginning from the grassroots.  The creation of the Indian Medical Services (IMS) cadre has become more relevant in the times of coronavirus, whereby doctors from various specialities can devise effective strategies for controlling the epidemic and improving the overall healthcare system in the future, the federation said. "Healthcare systems demand thorough knowledge of the domain. Knowledge of subject specialists (doctors) in devising policies is essential for galvanising the healthcare system of the nation," it said.  The demand for a separate cadre for healthcare professionals in line with the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS), etc., is a long-pending one, the federation said. The Health Survey and Planning Committee (also known as Mudaliar Committee) had recommended the formation of a central health cadre in its report in 1961, it said. "The government had decided to constitute the All India Medical and Health Service way back in 1968. However, even after multiple discussions and consultations with states over the years, this cadre is yet to be brought into action on the field," the letter read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/resident-doctors-association-writes-to-pm-modi-demands-cadre-for-healthcare-professionals-in-line-with-ias-ips-857715.html
06-07-2020||National||NHAI to rank highways to ensure high quality roads||To improve highways, a ranking system will be introduced based on a performance audit of roads, NHAI said on Monday. NHAI has been mandated the task to develop, maintain and manage National Highways, the arterial roads of the country, for inter-state movement of passengers and goods. "In its effort to improve the quality of roads, NHAI has decided to undertake performance assessment and ranking of the highways in the country," NHAI said in a statement. The assessment audit and ranking of NHs are aimed to take corrective recourse, wherever needed, to improve the quality and provide higher level of service to highway commuters, it said. The assessment parameters are based on different international practices and studies for bench-marking highway performances in Indian context. "The criteria for the assessment have been broadly categorised in three main heads: Highway Efficiency (45 per cent), Highway Safety (35 per cent) and User Services (20 per cent)," it said. On the basis of outcome of the assessment, the Authority will undertake a comprehensive analysis and decide on the level of intervention required to enhance the overall service quality. Additionally, important parameters like operating speed, access control, time taken at toll plaza, road signages, road markings, accident rate, incident response time, crash barriers, illumination will also be considered while conducting the assessment, it said. Other parameters include availability of Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS), functionality of structures, provision for grade separated intersections, cleanliness, plantation, wayside amenities and customer satisfaction. "The score obtained by each Corridor in each of the parameters will provide a feedback and corrective recourse for higher standards of operation, better safety and user experience to improve existing highways. This will also help in identifying and filling gaps of design, standards, practices, guidelines, and contract agreements for other NHAI projects," the statement said. The ranking of the corridors will be dynamic, and the concessionaire/ contractor/ operator will get the opportunity to improve upon their ranking by improving the services on that corridor. Apart from overall ranking of all the corridors, separate ranking for BOT (build, operate, transfer), HAM (hybrid annuity mode) and EPC (engineering, procurement, construction) projects will also be done. This process of ranking will bring out operational efficiency and ensure high quality maintenance of roads, NHAI said. Road Transport, Highways and MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari has been stressing on the need to have performance audit of projects for quality road building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-to-rank-highways-to-ensure-high-quality-roads-857726.html
06-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: India, China agree to disengage troops along LAC||In today's episode, The Ministry of External Affairs has said that National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held a telephonic conversation during which they agreed on disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control at the earliest, The Supreme Court has set aside the Delhi High Court order asking the NIA to produce judicial records on the transfer of civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha from Delhi to Mumbai in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case and Activist Joshua Wong said that the world must stand in solidarity with Hong Kongers after Beijing imposed a sweeping national security law on the semi-autonomous city.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-china-agree-to-disengage-troops-along-lac-857751.html
06-07-2020||National||Opposition upping ante over EC decision to allow postal votes for those above 65 years||Opposition parties are upping the ante over the decision to allow people above 65 years the option of postal voting with Trinamool Congress and CPI on Monday shooting of letters to the Election Commission objecting to the move, calling it "unconstitutional" and one that will lead to "malpractices and foul play by those parties which are in power and having resources". The Opposition parties took umbrage at the EC for not holding consultation with parties and view the "tearing hurry" to amend the rules is due to the Bihar Assembly elections scheduled later this year. It had changed the rules in October last year to allow people above 80 years, disabled and those involved in essential services the option of postal voting while last month, it amended the rules once again to allow those above 65 years the same option. In his letter to Arora on Monday, Trinamool Congress General Secretary Subrata Bakshi said the move was "mala fide, unconstitutional and ex-facie violation of right to secrecy of vote, right to free and fair elections and right to health of citizens". He said the amendment suggests that it has been notified to protect the right to vote of Covid-19 patients and for those at high risk due to the pandemic. "However, upon careful examination, it is evident that the cumbersome process for voting via postal ballots will put the elderly at greater risk of getting infected by the virus...the amendment puts at risk the lives of many for the sake of petty political benefits," Bakshi said. In his letter, CPI General Secretary D Raja said the decision would lead to "malpractices and foul play by those parties which are in power and having resources". He also opposed the move to allow digital campaigning for the Bihar Assembly elections scheduled later this year, saying it will be "extremely expensive" and would deprive level-playing field to the parties, Raja said. The two proposals will "definitely jeopardise" the democratic process of free and fair elections," he said asking the EC to initiate "wider and transparent consultations" with all parties. Congress had approached the EC last Friday with a demand that the new decision on postal votes be recalled. In a petition to the EC, it said, "the manner in which this decision has been taken demonstrates a complete non-application of mind and a shocking circumvention of any consultation process with the key stakeholders (i.e. any other political parties other than the ruling regime). Even upon a cursory examination, the numerous legal deficiencies in this decision become apparent." In his letter to Arora on June 29, CPI(M) General Secretary raised objections to the "unilateral" measure, saying it altered the electoral procedures and it could lead to instances of "manipulation and malpractice" resulting in potential favour of the ruling party". "Our electoral system has always treated physical verifiability of the voters as the bedrock of integrity. With the two amendments to the rules, a very large number of voters will be out of the verifiability matrix. This assumes great significance because of instances of manipulation and malpractice even with the comparatively low number of postal ballots used by service personnel on election duty," Yechury had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-upping-ante-over-ec-decision-to-allow-postal-votes-for-those-above-65-years-857759.html
06-07-2020||National||Mylan gets DCGI nod for remdesivir in India, to launch at Rs 4,800 per vial||Pharmaceutical major Mylan NV on Monday said it has received approval from Indian drugs regulator DCGI to manufacture and market its remdesivir for restricted emergency use in the country for the treatment of Covid-19. The drug will be priced at Rs 4,800 per 100 mg vial and would be available to the patients in this month, it added. The company joins domestic pharma firm Cipla and Hetero who have already received permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to manufacture and market remdesivir for the treatment of Covid-19. The DCGI has approved the company's remdesivir 100 mg per vial for restricted emergency use in India as part of the regulator's accelerated approval process to address urgent, unmet needs amid the evolving the Covid-19 pandemic, Mylan said in a statement. The drug is approved for the treatment of suspected or laboratory-confirmed incidences of Covid-19 in adults and children hospitalised with severe presentations of the disease, it added. "The drug will be launched under the brand name 'Desrem' in India and will be available to patients in July at a price of Rs 4,800, which is more than 80 per cent less than the price at which the branded version of this product will be available to governments in the developed world," Mylan said. The company will manufacture remdesivir in India at its injectables facilities, which also make products for the US and have been inspected by the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) for compliance with good manufacturing practices, it added. "The approval by DCGI in India represents the first for Mylan in these 127 markets," Mylan said. The company continues to work extensively toward expanding emergency use access for patients in the 127 low- and middle-income countries where it is licensed by Gilead Sciences to do so, it added. "Mylan and Gilead Sciences have partnered for many years to make high quality medicines available to people who need them and have made significant progress to reduce the incidence of infectious diseases, including HIV/AIDS, around the world," Mylan President Rajiv Malik said. Mylan commends Gilead for their continued leadership on this front, and also applauds and is proud to continue partnering with the DCGI for its ongoing efforts to accelerate access to critical medicine for patients with Covid-19 in India, he added. "Our approval is a significant milestone for Mylan, for the global public health community and, most importantly, for patients who are battling this pandemic," Malik said. Domestic pharma major Cipla has already said it will price its generic version of antiviral drug remdesivir at less than Rs 5,000 per vial. Hetero has also said that it has fixed a maximum retail price of Rs 5,400 per vial for the drug. In May, domestic pharma firms Hetero, Cipla and Jubilant Life Sciences and pharma major Mylan had entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements with drug major Gilead Sciences Inc for manufacturing and distribution of remdesivir. The medicine has been issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) by the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mylan-gets-dcgi-nod-for-remdesivir-in-india-to-launch-at-rs-4800-per-vial-857762.html
06-07-2020||National||SC dismisses PIL against its Registry and imposes Rs 100 cost||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by an advocate against its Registry for allegedly giving preference to cases filed by influential lawyers, law firms and touts.  It also imposed Rs 100 cost on petitioner Reepak Kansal as a "token to remind of his responsibility towards noble profession" as he filed his plea in a hurry.  A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and S Abdul Nazeer rued that it has become a widespread practice to blame the Registry for no good reasons and this tendency was spreading in various high courts. In such situation, when the pandemic is going on, baseless and reckless allegations are made against the Registry of this court, which is part and parcel of the judicial system, the court said. The petitioner cited three petitions which were not listed by the Registry. The court, however, found there was no inordinate delay in listing the matters, filed by him earlier, in view of the defects. It said petitioner Kansal made a "careless conduct" and filed the petition in "undue haste".  The bench pointed out many petitions are filed with defects which are not cured for years together. A large number of such cases were listed in the recent past before the court for removal of defects.   Reminding the "worthy lawyers" that they are the part of the judicial system; they are officers of the court and are a class apart in the society, the bench said Registry is part and parcel of the system which has to work in tandem and mutual reverence. The bench said it expected the Registry to work efficiently and effectively. At the same time, the lawyers were also to remove the defects effectively and not to unnecessarily cast aspersions on the system. The court asked the petitioner advocate to be more careful and live up to the dignity of the profession.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-pil-against-its-registry-and-imposes-rs-100-cost-857802.html
06-07-2020||National||Indian professionals focus on upskilling for perfect career opportunity in post Covid-19 world: Survey||A significant number of Indian professionals are focusing on sharpening their soft skills like communication and virtual presentation to adapt themselves to the changing talent landscape in a post-Covid-19 world, says a survey. According to the survey by Talent500 by ANSR that covered 20,000 tech professionals to get insights into the current recruitment scenario in India, a significant number of job seekers said the current process of hiring is complex and lacks clarity. Over 54 per cent respondents reported lack of transparency and delays in communication as the main reasons for keeping them away from pursuing open opportunities in a company, the survey noted. Talent500 by ANSR is a career accelerator for the top 10 per cent of tech professionals and the exclusive talent acquisition partner for Fortune 500 companies and global capability centres (GCCs) in India. As per the survey, 98 per cent of the respondents are actively upskilling to stay ahead of the curve in a post-Covid-19 world. Around 56 per cent of professionals leverage free as well as paid upskilling platforms in order to carve themselves into a suitable candidate for large enterprises. Further, 70 per cent respondents feel that changing times call for a newer approach in order to market themselves better. The biggest takeaway of the survey is the emergence of the 'gig economy' in talent as 56 per cent respondents expressed interest in pursuing gig-based or remote work. There is a growing demand amongst top professionals to have more control over their lifestyle. Working with flexible schedules, ability to work with multiple clients, and different learning opportunities are the key reasons for this emerging trend, the survey noted. "India's top professionals are aware of the complex and uncertain environment and are already thinking of ways to prepare themselves in a post-Covid world," Vikram Ahuja, Co-Founder of Talent500, said. Ahuja further said "a renewed focus on upskilling and increasing demand for gig-based roles shows that the mindset of talent is changing. This will require enterprises to rethink their traditional recruiting models and employ simpler and more flexible approaches to engage with the top talent today." Talent500 surveyed over 20,000 active tech professionals in the market to understand the good, bad, and ugly of the current recruitment processes and their pursuit of the perfect career opportunity in a post-Covid-19 world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-professionals-focus-on-upskilling-for-perfect-career-opportunity-in-post-covid-19-world-survey-857803.html
06-07-2020||National||Positive development, says Congress on de-escalation at Galwan Valley||Congress on Monday described as “positive development” the reports of withdrawal of Chinese troops from the Galwan Valley but insisted on a statement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the situation in Ladakh. “Reports of Chinese troops withdrawal from Galwan Valley is a positive development. Disengagement and de-escalation on LAC is a priority. India must insist for a pullback in Pangong Tso. There is a need for the eternal vigil,” senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said. Sharma said the Congress was proud of the Indian Army for standing firm in the nation’s defence. “China needs to realise that stability and peace at borders and restoration of the status quo ante is a must to rebuild trust,” the former Union minister said. Addressing a press conference here, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera kept up the attack on the Modi government by demanding a statement from the prime minister on the actual situation in Ladakh. Khera said the prime minister should apologise for misleading the nation by telling at the all-party meeting that nobody had entered Indian territory or occupied Indian posts. “That statement unfortunately within a matter of two hours was used by the Chinese government as a clean chit by the Indian Prime Minister,” the Congress spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/positive-development-says-congress-on-de-escalation-at-galwan-valley-857833.html
06-07-2020||National||Sewage cleaning should be entirely done by machines: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday directed the officials to ensure that no sanitation worker had to enter the chamber to clean the sewer lines, adding that the work should be done by machines. Holding a meeting through video conference with public representatives and urban bodies, Gehlot said there should be no deaths during the cleaning of the sewerage lines. "This work should be done entirely by machines," Gehlot said. He instructed all the district collectors and civic authorities to ensure that no sanitation worker had to enter the chamber to clean the sewerage lines. Gehlot underscored that the sanitation workers had played a big role in keeping the city, streets and neighbourhood free from the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by risking their lives. He said the dedication with which the sanitation workers and the public representatives of the urban bodies had worked, the government had been able to "prevent" the spread of the novel coronavirus pandemic. According to the chief minister, Rajasthan's pride had "increased" in the country due to the hard work of the doctors, nurses, Anganwadi workers, police, sanitation workers and urban bodies in the battle against Covid-19. He said Rajasthan was the first state to provide an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to government and non-government personnel engaged in the fight against the pathogen. At the meeting, Gehlot took suggestions from the civic body mayors, chairpersons, councillors and others. He also released two posters to create awareness among the people against the virus. Urban Development and Housing Minister Shanti Dhariwal said the state government was going to introduce the Indira Rasoi Yojana in all the civic bodies to realise the chief minister's resolve that nobody should sleep hungry. Under this, two-time nutritious food will be made available to the poor at a subsidised rate of Rs 8 per plate in the permanent canteens. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said the state had acquired the capacity to do 40,000 coronavirus tests per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sewage-cleaning-should-be-entirely-done-by-machines-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-857834.html
06-07-2020||National||India engaging with China through diplomatic, military channels, says Harsh Vardhan Shringla||India is engaging with China through diplomatic and military channels, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Monday, asserting that if there is no communication with that country, then the Sino-India border situation would be much worse. He made the remarks while talking about diplomacy in times of the Covid-19 pandemic at a webinar organised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Shringla said that diplomacy is looking at a very changed scenario in terms of how statecraft and relations between countries work in the wake of the pandemic. "Countries do need to communicate. You cannot stop communications because otherwise the other alternative is greater frictions, tensions and problems, and probably conflict also," he said. "For example the increased tension on our border with China. I mean, if there is no communication with that country then we would have a much worse situation, but yesterday our National Security Adviser (Ajit Doval) spoke to his counterpart. Earlier our Foreign Minister (S Jaishankar) had spoken to the foreign minister of China," he said. There are other diplomatic and military channels that India is engaging in, he said. "So we are talking to them and if you stop talking then you can imagine what the consequences (would be). So diplomacy has adapted to this new situation and gone strongly digital," Shringla said during the webinar titled 'Implementing the vision of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat'. His remarks come amid the standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last eight weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers died in a clash with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. Both sides have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region. However, there was no visible sign of any end to the standoff. During the webinar, Shringla said that even though a few world leaders have now started meeting physically, virtual meetings have become the dominant mode of diplomatic engagement and will continue to be so till there is an effective vaccine available against Covid-19. "India has been at the forefront of such digital diplomacy. I have mentioned how Prima Minister Narendra Modi turned challenge into opportunity to start global conversations using virtual platforms," he said. "He (PM Modi) also held for the first time, a bilateral summit with the Australian prime minister. In addition, he has spoken to his counterparts in over 60 countries in this period of time. "On his part, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar has also reached out to foreign ministers from 76 countries. He has also attended the meetings of BRICS, SCO, RIC groupings and had joint meetings with his counterparts from the US, Australia, Japan, Brazil and South Korea," Shringla said. The foreign secretary said, at his level, he too had engaged with several counterparts digitally. As another example of digital diplomacy, Shringla said ambassadors of various countries to India were presenting their credentials digitally. "At the Ministry of External Affairs, we are attempting to find common ground between time honoured diplomatic protocols and new age internet protocols," he said. Talking about the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat vision, Shringla said, "What the government has done is made an exceptional package available for what would be the most vulnerable sections of our society and economy." "I had in an earlier address conveyed my view that the idea of self reliance or Aatma Nirbhar Bharat does not mean seeking self-centered arrangements or turning the country inward," he said. The call for Aatma Nirbhar Bharat is not about reverting to economic isolationism, its essential aim is to ensure India as a key participant in global supply chains, Shringla said. "Through building capacities at home we also intend to contribute to mitigating disruptions in the global market," the foreign secretary said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-engaging-with-china-through-diplomatic-military-channels-says-harsh-vardhan-shringla-857847.html
06-07-2020||National||Fact Check: Old video from Syria viral as Indian helicopter shot down by Nepal||A social media claim has surfaced that an Indian Air Force helicopter Rudra was shot down by Nepal and a pilot was captured. This has been promoted using a 30-second video, without any audio, that shows a helicopter shot down midair. “Regards Nepal: Today, Indian airforces had crossed the border to conduct airstrikes on the Nepal territories. India contacted an airstrike in Belahiya. In the resulting, we’ve shot down one Indian HAL Rudra and captured one Indian pilot. Now We’ll not return pilot to India,” wrote a Twitter user.   Twitter user @Irmaknepal also posted the viral video, attracting 1,500  and retweets and over 50,000 views.   In 2019, he had posted the same video however with audio in the background. “A Syrian Air Force (SyAAF) helicopter explodes mid-air as it descends after being struck by opposition anti-aircraft fire above Idlib countryside on October 17, 2012. One of the craziest and most iconic videos from the entire Syrian Civil War,” read his tweet.  As per The Telegraph, “Rebels downed a helicopter on Wednesday as troops fought to take back a key Syrian town, a watchdog said, as international peace envoy Lakhdar Brahimi warned the conflict risks setting the region ablaze. Fighting for control of the Damascus-Aleppo highway raged around the northwestern town of Maaret al-Numan even as Brahimi appeared to have won tentative support for a ceasefire proposal.”  Thus the social media claim that an Indian Air Force helicopter Rudra was shot down by Nepal and a pilot was captured is false. The video dates back to Syria from 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-old-video-from-syria-viral-as-indian-helicopter-shot-down-by-nepal-857848.html
06-07-2020||National||Fact-check: Old video from Syria viral as Indian helicopter shot down by Nepal||A social media claim has surfaced that an Indian Air Force helicopter Rudra was shot down by Nepal and a pilot was captured. This has been promoted using a 30-second video, without any audio, that shows a helicopter shot down midair. “Regards Nepal: Today, Indian airforces had crossed the border to conduct airstrikes on the Nepal territories. India contacted an airstrike in Belahiya. In the resulting, we’ve shot down one Indian HAL Rudra and captured one Indian pilot. Now We’ll not return pilot to India,” wrote a Twitter user.   Twitter user @Irmaknepal also posted the viral video, attracting 1,500  and retweets and over 50,000 views.   In 2019, he had posted the same video however with audio in the background. “A Syrian Air Force (SyAAF) helicopter explodes mid-air as it descends after being struck by opposition anti-aircraft fire above Idlib countryside on October 17, 2012. One of the craziest and most iconic videos from the entire Syrian Civil War,” read his tweet.  As per The Telegraph, “Rebels downed a helicopter on Wednesday as troops fought to take back a key Syrian town, a watchdog said, as international peace envoy Lakhdar Brahimi warned the conflict risks setting the region ablaze. Fighting for control of the Damascus-Aleppo highway raged around the northwestern town of Maaret al-Numan even as Brahimi appeared to have won tentative support for a ceasefire proposal.”  Thus the social media claim that an Indian Air Force helicopter Rudra was shot down by Nepal and a pilot was captured is false. The video dates back to Syria from 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-old-video-from-syria-viral-as-indian-helicopter-shot-down-by-nepal-857849.html
06-07-2020||National||Covid-19: HC asks UGC, HRD ministry to clear stand on final year exams in all varsities||The Delhi High Court Monday directed the UGC and Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD) to clarify their stand as to whether they recommend cancellation of final year examinations in all the universities across the country due to Covid-19 pandemic situation. The high court said the stand should be made clear by Tuesday and directed that responsible officials from the Ministry of HRD and University Grants Commission (UGC) shall join the hearing on July 7. Justice Prathiba M Singh, who was conducting the hearing through video conferencing, also directed the UGC’s committee headed by professor R C Kuhad to submit its report on final guidelines to the authorities concerned by Tuesday and it shall be placed before the court. “The UGC, which is an overarching body for all the universities, ought to, in fact, make a decision and give its recommendations to all the Universities across the country. UGC is a party in the present petition and it is admittedly considering the issues relating to final year examinations. “Thus, there should be no further delay in the UGC’s Committee submitting its report and the advisory from the UGC/ Ministry of HRD, being issued to Universities in respect of the conduct of final year examinations,” the high court said. The high court was hearing a petition by several students of the final year of Delhi University (DU) seeking quashing and withdrawal of the notifications of May 14, May 30 and June 27 in respect of conduction of online exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students, including students of the School of Open Learning and Non-Collegiate Women Education Board. As an alternative prayer, it also sought to direct DU to evaluate the final year students based on the previous years' or semesters' results in the same manner as the university has planned to promote the first and second-year students. An application for impleadment has also been moved by five students from Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University. Out of these five students, one student is from Faridabad, two from Delhi, one from Nagaland and one from Rajasthan. The high court noted that several students may have already obtained employment and may be compelled to report to their jobs and others may be scheduled to pursue post-graduate studies in India and abroad. Justice Singh said administrative authorities who are in charge of conducting examinations in universities, including the UGC and the Central Government, ought to also bear in mind that the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in enormous mental distress and agony to students. "There are families which are suffering medical illnesses and giving of examinations is not just a technological issue but the state of mental preparedness of the students also needs to be assessed," the judge said. The high court said the deadlines for submission of final year transcripts in all these universities would be in August-September 2020 and a large number of states, universities and institutions have cancelled final year examinations, including Maharashtra, Orissa, Haryana, MP, Punjab, NALSAR (Hyderabad), NUJS (Kolkata), IIT Kharagpur, IIT Bombay, Calcutta University, Lucknow University, Punjab University, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam University. It said some universities and institutions have opted for conducting examinations online which have already been completed and many varsities are also awaiting UGC’s fresh guidelines. The high court, in its order, said students in most universities and institutions which have cancelled the examinations have been promoted on the basis of past performance coupled with internal assessments wherever available. Regarding the Delhi University, it said DU is a university of excellence and studying in DU is a matter of pride as it attracts the best talent from across the country. “Thus, the problems of DU students may be much more, and thus the difficulties of the large expanse of students hailing from different regions need to be borne in mind. They cannot be judged on the basis of the facilities available in a city like Delhi or other metros,” it said. The high court directed the DU to place on record the number of students who are studying in the final year of the varsity and who are registered for the final year examinations to be conducted through the online process. DU will also give a state-wise break-up of the students and from where they have to take the examinations, the preparedness of the website portal for the handling of the traffic during exams, keeping in mind the recent technical glitches faced by students during the mock exams. The high court also directed the varsity to give the schedule of examinations, that is, evaluation of papers, a date for the announcement of results and date for issuance of transcripts. “While preparing and placing on record the schedule before this court, DU shall bear in mind the deadlines for all the final year students who have to seek employment, deadlines for postgraduate entrance examinations, deadlines for submission of documents to international universities where students may have secured admission,” it said. It also directed professor Vinay Gupta, Dean of Examinations at DU, to join the proceedings on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-hc-asks-ugc-hrd-ministry-to-clear-stand-on-final-year-exams-in-all-varsities-857865.html
06-07-2020||National||71 new Covid-19 cases in CRPF||Seventy-one more Central Reserve Police Force personnel have tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday, officials said. Out of the total 1,635 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country's largest paramilitary force, 842 personnel are under treatment, while 784 have recovered. Seventy-one cases of the pathogen were reported in the last 24 hours, while there have been 37 recoveries during the same period, according to the officials. There have been nine Covid-19 deaths in the CRPF, which has a personnel strength of around 3.25 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/71-new-covid-19-cases-in-crpf-857868.html
06-07-2020||National||Telangana Guv calls Chief Secretary, health official to discuss Covid-19||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday said she has called the state Chief Secretary and a top Health department official to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state. The governor also said she would interact with representatives of private hospitals on Covid-19 management and public grievances on availability of beds, billing and other aspects on Tuesday. The move comes against the backdrop of allegations that some private hospitals were seeking 'exorbitant' fees from coronavirus patients. The Governor, a medical doctor herself, said she would discuss the Covid-19 situation prevailing across the state with the state Chief Secretary and the Principal Health Secretary. Called Chief Secretary & principal secretary Health Telangana state to discuss regarding #Covid situation prevailing across the State, she tweeted. I will be interacting with private hospitals with COVID isolation facilities tomorrow 11 am regarding Covid management & public grievances for redressal from them on beds, billings, teasing etc for successful pvt-public participation in #corona eradication successfully& cordially, Soundararajan said in another tweet. The governor had earlier visited the state-run Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences in the city to express solidarity with the coronavirus warriors. The number of Covid-19 cases in Telangana continued to rise with 1,590 fresh cases being reported on Sunday, pushing the tally of infections to 23,902. Opposition parties have accused the government of not doing enough tests. The government has recently stepped up the testing, saying 50,000 samples would be examined in the city and neighbouring areas which have been reporting most of the cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-guv-calls-chief-secretary-health-official-to-discuss-covid-19-857873.html
06-07-2020||National||DGP visits Bihar village where no FIR had ever been lodged since independence||Bihar’s Director General of Police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey on Monday visited a village in the state’s West Champaran district where no FIR has been lodged in a police station nor any case related to this village ever registered in a local court since Independence. The DGP was on an official tour to Bettiah, the district headquarters of West Champaran. When told about the unique identity of Katrao village where no FIR has ever been lodged since 1947, the top cop decided to take stock of the village. On Monday morning, the DGP, in a surprise visit, reached Katrao. “How is that no case has ever been registered in this village? After all, there must have been some altercation, disputes, assault or attack,” the DGP asked a farmer identified as Nitesh. The DGP was informed: “whenever there is a dispute, we solve it among ourselves. If the dispute is related to men, the village elders, comprising men, resolve the issue. And in case of women, it’s the women elders who bring about the rapprochement.” Impressed over the response, the DGP said this was one village which could serve as a source of inspiration for others. The DGP then told the villagers to use masks and maintain social distance as precautionary measures— the best prescription for Covid-19. Before leaving, the villagers requested the DGP to have breakfast. He asked for roti, onion, salt and green chilly. “The kind of satisfaction one gets in desi (home-cooked) food is beyond description,” said the DGP after having food with the villagers on the Bihar-Nepal border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgp-visits-bihar-village-where-no-fir-had-ever-been-lodged-since-independence-857874.html
06-07-2020||National||Congress recalls special connection with the Dalai Lama||Congress on Monday recalled the special connect the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had with the Dalai Lama as the Tibetan spiritual leader turned 85. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh recalled the four hours Nehru spent with the Dalai Lama on April 24, 1959 at Mussorie, where the spiritual leader was residing after fleeing Tibet following Chinese aggression. Ramesh also shared a verbatim record of the four-hour discussion Nehru had with the Dalai Lama which led to the latter setting up base in India. During the discussion, Nehru is seen advising the Dalai Lama to stress on peace and stopping of fighting and killing in Tibet to keep the international focus on the Chinese supression of Tibetans. “P.M. deprecated the taking up of an attitude like ‘we must have independence or nothing else.’ This would not help, nor would the cursing of China help,” according to the account of the meeting published in the book ‘Selected Works of Jawaharlal Nehru’. “The Dalai Lama is a youthful 85 today. We wish that he continues to inspire the world for many more years,” Ramesh said, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also greeted the Dalai Lama hailing him as the true heir of Gandhian values, especially ahimsa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-recalls-special-connection-with-the-dalai-lama-857875.html
06-07-2020||National||Covid-19 Unlock: Govt sets ball rolling for conducting university exams||The government on Monday set the ball rolling for conducting examinations by universities and higher education institutions during Covid-19 'unlock' period even as it had directed that no educational centre will be opened till July 31. The Ministry of Home Affairs wrote to the Higher Education Secretary in the Ministry of Human Resources Development (HRD) allowing holding of examinations. An official spokesperson said the final term examinations are to be "compulsorily conducted" as per the Univesrity Grants Commission (UGC) Guidelines on Examinations and Academic Calendar for the Universities and by following the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) approved by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The MHA's nod came on a day the Delhi High Court directed the UGC and Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD) to clarify their stand as to whether they recommend cancellation of final year examinations in all the universities across the country due to Covid-19 situation. The court said that the stand should be made clear by Tuesday and directed that responsible officials from the Ministry of HRD and University Grants Commission (UGC) should join the hearing. There was uncertainty about conducting final examinations due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. There were also suggestions that the final exams could be cancelled and the marks be tabulated according to the performance in previous examinations. However, the UGC is learnt to have decided against scrapping the final exams during a meeting held on Monday. Officials said universities and higher education institutes are likely to be advised to conduct the examinations by the end of September. Earlier, the UGC had directed universities to conduct the exams in the first half of July. States like Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Odisha, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal had earlier cancelled all examinations in higher education institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-unlock-govt-sets-ball-rolling-for-conducting-university-exams-857878.html
06-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally at 7.15 lakh; Over one crore tests conducted||The DH Covid-19 Tracker put the total confirmed case of the infectious disease at 7,14,937 at 8:30 p.m. on Monday, an intra-day increase of 17,524. On Monday morning, the Health Ministry had put India’s Covid-19 count at 6,97,413 – an increase of 24,248 over Sunday morning figures. The death toll also crossed the 20,000-mark and had touched 20,115 at 8:30 p.m. on Monday. India also crossed the landmark of one-crore tests for Covid-19 over the past five months through its network of 1,105 labs across the country. The laboratories tested 3,46,459 samples on Sunday which is the highest daily figure so far. While old hotspots such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal have shown a declining trend in the spread of infection, states such as Odisha, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are reporting cases at a rising speed. Odisha reported 456 new cases on Monday, Assam (736), Uttar Pradesh (929), and Bihar (276). It said that with the help of effort undertaken by the central government, Delhi had witnessed a big jump in Covid-19 testing from 5,481 samples being tested daily between June 1-5 to 18,766 samples tested daily between July 1-5. “In spite of significantly increased testing in Delhi, the positivity rate has seen a substantial decrease from about 30% to 10% in the last three weeks,” the health ministry said. The Indian Council of Medical Research made testing for Covid-19 testing easier by doing away with the need for a prescription from a government doctor to test samples in private laboratories. In a letter to state governments on July 1, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava and Health Secretary Preeti Sudan had said that state authorities must not restrict an individual from getting tested, as early testing will help in containing the virus and saving lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-at-715-lakh-over-one-crore-tests-conducted-857889.html
06-07-2020||National||Atal Pension Yojana subscribers can change contribution amount anytime during year||Regulator PFRDA has asked banks to process requests for change in Atal Pension Yojana (APY) subscribers' contribution amount anytime during the year, a move aimed at making the scheme more attractive. This arrangement has been made available from July 1. Earlier, a subscriber was allowed to make the change only in the month of April. "This arrangement will enable the APY subscribers to increase/decrease their pension plans as per their changed income levels and capacity to pay APY contributions, which is very important to continue contributions in the scheme till 60 years," the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) said in a release. The regulator has asked "all banks to process upgrade/downgrade of pension amount requests of APY subscribers throughout the year with effect from July 1, 2020", it said. However, a subscriber can change pension plan only once in a financial year, said the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) There are about 2.28 crore subscribers enrolled under the scheme. The PFRDA further said from July 1, 2020 auto-debit of APY contributions has also started, which was stopped till June 30 in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. As per current arrangements, if all the pending APY contributions due between April-August, 2020 get auto-debited from savings account of the subscribers, latest by September 30, then no penal interest would be charged to them. The Atal Pension Yojana was launched by the Government of India in May 2015. This scheme is open to all citizens who are in the age group of 18-40 years. Under the scheme, a subscriber would receive a guaranteed pension of Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 per month after attaining the age of 60 years, depending upon his contributions. After the death of the subscribers, same pension amount would be paid to his or her spouse. On the demise of both subscriber and spouse, the accumulated pension wealth of the subscriber would be returned to the nominee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atal-pension-yojana-subscribers-can-change-contribution-amount-anytime-during-year-857899.html
06-07-2020||National||Religious intolerance, majoritarian politics shouldn't be allowed to undermine India's soft power: Shashi Tharoor||The "precious pluralism" that has been a civilisational asset to India in the globalised world is "sadly" under threat today and religious intolerance and majoritarian politics should not be allowed to undermine the country's soft power, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Monday. Speaking on 'India's Soft Power: Contours of Cultural Diplomacy' at an event organised by FICCI, Tharoor said India must remain the land of the "better story" as a society with free press and thriving mass media. "We need both soft power and hard power. I do want to stress on the importance of preserving these qualities in India that make us appealing to the world. The precious pluralism that has been a civilisational asset for India in the globalised world and is sadly under threat in our country today," he said. "Our democracy and dissent, our thriving free media, our contentious civil society forums, our energetic human rights groups, our free elections and our fractious political parties all of this show India in a very positive light in the eyes of the world so the kinds of things the government likes to delegitimize -- dissent is bad, you are anti-national -- actually these are the things that strengthen our image abroad," he said. He further said it is essential that India does not allow "spectre of religious intolerance and majoritarian politics to undermine our soft power which remains our greatest asset in the world of the 21st century". "These assets (soft power) may not directly persuade others to support India but it goes a long way in enhancing India's intangible standing in the world's eyes and that is why I am talking about soft power in this context as one of actually promoting the assets and products of our society and culture that the world would find attractive," he said. Calling Information Technology as India's soft power, he said, "We have gone from being associated with beggars and snake charmers and fakirs and we are now associated with being computer geeks." Noting that India has been benefiting from the future and the past, he elaborated on the reach of yoga across the world. "International Day of Yoga was a genuine coup for our government because it meant every year one day people will be performing yoga and recalling India in many ways," he said. He also talked about the popularity of Indian cuisine and the film and television industry. "Indian restaurants have proliferated around the world. You are looking at ways our cuisine has acquired universal ability. It is striking that in the UK, the curry houses employ more people than ship building, coal mining and steel making industries combined but we can go beyond to talk about cinema," he said. "I can tell you from my international experience of innumerable conversations with African ministers and diplomats who would speak fondly of the expectations of looking forward as young children of the next Bollywood film coming to their village," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/religious-intolerance-majoritarian-politics-shouldnt-be-allowed-to-undermine-indias-soft-power-shashi-tharoor-857908.html
06-07-2020||National||IITs distance itself from IIT Alumni Council||Twenty-three Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) on Monday distanced themselves from IIT Alumni Council – which recently announced a three-billion-dollar social initiative fund and unveiled plans to upgrade infrastructure for testing for Covid-19. The premier tech institutes also banned the Council from using their logos without written permission of the IITs system or individual IITs. “The recently formed IIT Alumni Council is one such example of an independent group of alumni of the IITs and possibly others as well, which is engaged in various activities of their interest. Unless expressly indicated for specific projects, the IITs have no role to play in their efforts or in their organization,” the directors of 23 IITs said in a joint statement. “IIT Alumni Council is also not at liberty to associate any IIT or its logo with any of the activities undertaken by it, unless they have the express written concurrence of the concerned IIT,” it said. The Council displayed the logos of all IITs on its website, and claimed itself to be the “nodal alumni body for alumni of all the Indian Institutes of Technology”. The joint statement noted that in recent years various groups of alumni have found a common cause and worked together towards achieving their objectives or making a lasting contribution. “The IITs however wish to emphasize that these are efforts of alumni in their private and individual capacity, except in cases where one or more IITs have expressly partnered with alumni in a specific endeavor or project,” the 23 IIT directors said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iits-distance-itself-from-iit-alumni-council-857912.html
06-07-2020||National||No birthday wishes for Dalai Lama from PM Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday cautiously avoided greeting Dalai Lama publicly on his 85th birthday, but the heads of the local governments of India’s territories coveted by China did wish the octogenarian monk, whom the communist country calls a separatist. Even as China’s aggression along its disputed boundary with India resulted in a military stand-off in eastern Ladakh and took the relations between the two nations to a new low, the Modi government in New Delhi did not go for a drastic change in its approach on Dalai Lama, contrary to speculation and suggestions on social media. Neither the President nor the prime minister on Monday publicly greeted the global icon of non-violent resistance against Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s 1950-51 occupation of Tibet.  A source told the DH that New Delhi wanted its response to China’s aggression along the LAC with India to be “measured and calibrated”, instead of going for drastic change. Public greetings to Dalai Lama from Rashtrapati Bhavan and Prime Minister’s office would have could have put in peril the efforts to resolve the stand-off. China in the past strongly reacted to official engagement between Dalai Lama, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989, and the leadership of India.  But R K Mathur, the Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh, used his official account on Twitter to greet the Dalai Lama on Monday. So did Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh Pema Khandu. “This day marks the 85th birth anniversary of His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama @DalaiLama.  I pray for his good health and #longevity. In these difficult times, his spiritual leadership gives strength,” tweeted Mathur. “A very warm birthday wishes to His Holiness the 14th #DalaiLama. On this special auspicious day of your 85th birthday, me and my family joins millions of followers across the globe, to rejoice and offer our prayers for your excellent health, happiness and long life,” Khandu posted on Twitter. China claims nearly 90,000 sqkms of areas in Arunachal Pradesh of India and nearly 2000 sqkms in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The communist country illegally occupied about 38,000 sqkms of India’s territory in Aksai Chin in the east of Ladakh. Pakistan also illegally ceded 5180 sqkms of India’s territory to China in 1963.  Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatraya and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur too extended greetings to the Dalai Lama. The Buddhist monk has been living in exile in Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh. Union Ministers Ram Vilas Paswan and Kiren Rijiju too took to Twitter to greet him. So did Ram Madhav, national general secretary of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, and United States’ envoy to India, Ken Juster. Dalai Lama has been living in India ever since he fled the Potala Palace in Lhasa in March, 1959, to escape the Chinese PLA, which had by then occupied Tibet. But just two months before Modi had an “informal summit” with Chinese President Xi Jinping at Wuhan in central China on April 27 and 28, 2018, the cabinet secretariat issued an advisory in New Delhi asking “senior leaders” and “government functionaries” in the states as well as at the Centre to stay away from events attended by Dalai Lama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-birthday-wishes-for-dalai-lama-from-pm-narendra-modi-president-ram-nath-kovind-857920.html
06-07-2020||National||Ajit Doval stresses on ‘timely and visible action’ during two-hour talks with Wang: officials||National Security Advisor Ajit Doval was cordial and “forward-looking” but at the same time insisted on “timely and visible action” on the ground during his two-hour conversation with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, which led to the easing of nearly two-month-long tensions along the Line of Actual Control, officials said Monday.    Doval, a 1968 batch IPS officer who rose to become Intelligence Bureau chief before being nominated as NSA by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014, has been designated India’s Special Representative on Sino-Indian border issues for his negotiation skills.          The officials said the focus of the talks was on "full and enduring restoration of peace and tranquillity" along the border and also better coordination to ensure avoidance of such incidents in future.         The discussions were held in a "free and frank manner", and the two sides agreed that the respective army commanders would work out the modalities for maintenance of peace along the LAC. The two representatives agreed on maintaining and promoting normal exchanges and cooperation and safeguarding overall Sino-India relations, the officials said. Doval and Wang agreed that diplomatic and military officials of the two sides should continue their discussions under the framework of the Working Mechanism and Coordination on India-China border affairs.         During the past many weeks, Doval, perceived as a crisis man, had been using back-channel diplomacy to ease tensions between the two countries. In the past, his services have been utilised in tense situations, including in August last year when the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and during the communal riots in the national capital earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajit-doval-stresses-on-timely-and-visible-action-during-two-hour-talks-with-wang-officials-857930.html
06-07-2020||National||CSC launches ICT-enabled Bal Vidyalaya pre-schools||Common Service Centre, a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) under Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, on Monday launched “Bal Vidyalaya”, ICT-enabled pre-schools specially designed for students of rural India, in 10 states. The first 21 such schools will come up in 10 states: Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The CSC aims to open 700 Bal Vidyalayas, one in every district across the country, by the end of current fiscal and then expand it to every block by the end of 2021, CSC Chief Executive Officer Dinesh Kumar Tyagi here after launching the school. "Digital India is for the poor and underprivileged. We started the concept of Bal Vidyalaya to bridge the digital divide in rural areas. CSC’s foundation is education, so we wanted to help the cognitive development of children at the nascent stage, " he said. "In villages, quality education will be ensured through CSC Bal Vidyalaya. To bridge limitations of access to technology tools and good teachers, CSC Bal Vidyalaya proposes to address these aspects,” he said. Common Service Centres (CSC) scheme is one of the mission mode projects under the Digital India Programme. There are over 3.6 lakh CSCs across India providing various services to people across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-launches-ict-enabled-bal-vidyalaya-pre-schools-857934.html
06-07-2020||National||India stresses on importance of 'Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled' peace process||India on Monday underlined the importance of an inclusive, "Afghan-led, Afghan–owned and Afghan-controlled" reconciliation process to bring peace and stability to Afghanistan. India made the assertion during an online meeting of regional partners of Afghanistan. A senior official of the Ministry of External Affairs represented India at the meeting which was chaired by Afghan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani. Twenty countries and international organisations including the United Nations participated in the deliberations. In his remarks, Ghani thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for extending to Afghanistan assistance to deal with the coronavirus pandemic and for hosting SAARC leaders' meeting for coordinated efforts in the region, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. "India, one of the largest development partners of Afghanistan, with commitment of more than USD 3 billion, reiterated the importance of an inclusive, Afghan–led, Afghan–owned, Afghan–controlled peace and reconciliation process," it said. "India highlighted the fact that in order to achieve durable peace in Afghanistan, putting an end to terrorist sanctuaries and safe havens is an essential pre-requisite," it said. The MEA said India expressed support for a constitutional order in Afghanistan, which would protect the interest of all sections of Afghan society, including women, children and minorities. Issues concerning Afghan peace and reconciliation process and support of the regional partners to an independent, unified, democratic and sovereign Afghanistan were discussed in the meeting. India has been a key stakeholder in the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan. India has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. It has been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-stresses-on-importance-of-afghan-led-afghan-owned-and-afghan-controlled-peace-process-857938.html
06-07-2020||National||Final year university exams by September end, says UGC||The University Grants Commission on Monday asked varsities and affiliated institutions to conduct final semester examinations by the end of September. The UGC recommended that the examinations be conducted in offline, online or a blended mode. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Commission held on Monday. “In case a student of terminal semester/ final year is unable to appear in the examination conducted by the University … he/she may be given opportunity to appear in special examinations for such course(s)/ paper(s), which may be conducted by the university as and when feasible, so that the student is not put to any disadvantage, the Commission added. “The above provision shall be applicable only for the current academic session 2019-20 as a one-time measure,” it said. The Commission said intermediate semester students will be evaluated based on internal assessment, as per guidelines issued earlier. The Commission noted that while it was important to safeguard the health, safety and fair opportunity for students, it was very crucial to ensure academic credibility, career opportunities and future progress of students globally. “Academic evaluation of students is a very important milestone in any education system,” it noted. The Commission said performance in examinations gave confidence and satisfaction to students and was a reflection of competence, performance and credibility that is necessary for global acceptability. Various examinations conducted by universities and higher education institutions in the country have been suspended since March in the light of Covid-19 outbreak. Earlier, a UGC panel had recommended that final year examinations could be held in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/final-year-university-exams-by-september-end-says-ugc-857939.html
06-07-2020||National||Ex-Corporate Affairs secretary Injeti Srinivas appointed IFSCA chairman||Former Corporate Affairs Secretary Injeti Srinivas was on Monday appointed the first chairman of International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA), an unified authority for regulating all financial services, to be headquartered in Gujarat's Gandhinagar, according to an official order. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved his appointment for a period of three years, the order issued by the Personnel Ministry said. Srinivas, a 1983-batch IAS officer of Odisha cadre, superannuated as the Corporate Affairs Secretary in May this year. The IFSCA will regulate all financial services in international financial services centres (IFSCs) established under the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005. Currently, banking, capital markets and insurance sectors in IFSC are regulated by multiple regulators, including the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI). The authority, that came into effect from April 27, 2020, can have eight members and a chairman. One member (ex-officio) each will be nominated by the RBI, SEBI, IRDAI and the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA), according to the International Financial Services Centres Act, 2019. Two members (ex-officio), from amongst the officials of the ministry dealing with finance, to be nominated by the central government and two other members to be appointed by the central government on the recommendation of a selection committee, according to the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-corporate-affairs-secretary-injeti-srinivas-appointed-ifsca-chairman-857942.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Covid-19, GST will be future Harvard case studies on failure: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's dig at government||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday attacked the government over rising coronavirus cases, saying future Harvard Business School case studies on failure would include the government's handling of Covid-19. Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the former Congress chief also tweeted a clip which included portions from the PM's addresses to the nation on the Covid-19 crisis, including his remarks that the Mahabharata war was won in 18 days and the war against coronavirus will take 21 days. The clip also showed a graph of rising coronavirus cases, making India the third worst-hit nation in terms of infection count.  "Future HBS case studies on failure: 1. Covid19. 2. Demonetisation.3. GST implementation," Gandhi tweeted along with the clip. Gandhi's attack on the government came a day after India went past Russia to become the third worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. Only the US and Brazil are ahead of India in terms of total coronavirus infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-gst-will-be-future-harvard-case-studies-on-failure-congress-leader-rahul-gandhis-dig-at-government-857566.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Kanpur encounter exposes Uttar Pradesh government: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday said the Kanpur encounter in which eight policemen were killed has exposed the encounter specialist Uttar Pradesh government and raised questions over claims of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath about ending hooliganism in the state. Noting Uttar Pradesh is often called as 'Uttam Pradesh', an editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said the 'Uttam Pradesh' now stands soaked in the blood of policemen, which is a shock for the country. Eight police personnel, including a deputy superintendent of police, were gunned down last week at a village near Kanpur by the henchmen of gangster Vikas Dubey. An accomplice of prime accused Dubey has been arrested, while the gangster is still at large. The Shiv Sena said there are reports of Dubey fleeing to Nepal after the incident. India is not enjoying good relations with Nepal at present, the Marathi publication said, hoping Dubey does not turn out to be Dawood in Nepal for India. It was apparently referring to reports of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim residing in Pakistan after fleeing India. "The Kanpur police killings have exposed the encounter specialist government in Uttar Pradesh," the Shiv Sena said. The Kanpur episode revives the memories of killings of policemen by a gang in Uttar Pradesh's Nathuapur four decades ago, it said, wondering what has changed in Adityanaths regime if security personnel are getting killed even after 40 years (of that incident). "Uttar Pradesh has faced ignominy for decades due to the gangs of goons there and their crimes. Claims have been made several times that goondaism has ended during the regime of present Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. But the Kanpur police killings have raised a big question mark on these claims, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. During the three-year tenure of the Adityanath government in the state, more than 113 goons have been encountered, it said, asking how come Dubey's name was left out of it. The Sena said there are more than 60 offences against the gangster, including that of murder and robbery, and wondered how come he got saved for want of evidence. What explanation the Yogi government has if someone alleges that the list of goons to be encountered is prepared as per the convenience of the Uttar Pradesh police and government? the Marathi daily asked. After the Kanpur encounter, the Uttar Pradesh administration razed Dubey's residence, contending it was illegal. Referring to it, the Sena asked, But what about the homes of the martyred policemen? Will the parents (of slain cops) get their sons back and children their fathers back? It was unfortunate that the Uttar Pradesh administration got the "secret knowledge" of Dubey's residence being illegal only after the killings of the eight policemen, it said. The Shiv Sena, without specifying details, said goondaism in Uttar Pradesh has its effects on the national capital Delhi and the financial capital Mumbai and hence, the Kanpur killings is a serious matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kanpur-encounter-exposes-uttar-pradesh-government-shiv-sena-857598.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||TMC government has to be removed lock, stock and barrel: BJP president J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda Monday launched a broadside against the TMC government in West Bengal, alleging criminalisation of politics and corruption have scaled new heights and calling for its ouster. Lauding Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee for fighting for a united India and opposing the "appeasement politics" of Jawaharlal Nehru, Nadda said it is an honour to celebrate his birth anniversary at a time when the Modi government has fulfilled his dream of scrapping Article 370 that bestowed on Kashmir a special status. On the one hand, we have Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who fought for a united India and always kept his ideals and principles above anything, and on the other, we have the present TMC government in Bengal for which "clinging to power by any means is everything". "Criminalisation of politics has scaled new heights, now we all hear about cut money in Bengal. We need to cut to size these leaders. We need to restore Bengal's glory and remove this government lock, stock and barrel," Nadda told a virtual rally for West Bengal on the birth anniversary of Mookerjee. Bengal used to lead the country once upon a time. Syama Prasad Mookherjee had taken Bengal to new heights...but it is a matter of shame that standards of education have now plunged to abysmal levels. Now, if you are not associated with the ruling party of the state, you would be graded accordingly. We need to change this, he said. The BJP leader also deplored "politicisation of education" resulting in falling standards of learning. "This trend is worrisome for Bengal. We must dedicate ourselves to restore education in Bengal back to its glorious standards," he said. Speaking about Mookerjee's contributions to the nation, Nadda asserted it was because of the efforts of the Jana Sangh founder that West Bengal and large parts of Punjab are with India. "It is due to Syama Prasad Mookerjee that Bengal and Punjab are with India. Otherwise, they would have gone to Pakistan during Partition...He opposed the appeasement politics of Nehru in post-Independent India.... but the Congress has a bad habit of stifling democratic voices," he said. When their ideals didn't match, he resigned from Nehrus cabinet. The Nehru-Liaquat pact made him resign because it cheated the minorities in Pakistan... Dr Mookerjee questioned the reason behind special rights being given to Jammu and Kashmir through Article 370. But Nehru Ji and Sheikh Abdullah were doing the job of executing their trick, he said. He also attacked the state's Mamata Banerjee government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis. "The West Bengal chief minister doesn't believe in cooperative federalism. She is not keen on sharing Covid data with the Centre," he alleged. Reacting to Naddas allegation against the TMC government, state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee termed it baseless and an attempt to mislead the people of Bengal. For BJP what matters most is votes. So they can go to any extent, from telling lies to distorting history. The allegation of education being politicised is baseless. They want to destroy our culture and tradition. They want to thrust their culture and ideology on Bengalis and are trying to mislead the people of Bengal, Chatterjee said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-government-has-to-be-removed-lock-stock-and-barrel-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-857645.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Bhima Koregaon case: SC sets aside Delhi HC proceedings on Navlakha's plea||The Supreme Court on Monday set aside the Delhi High Court order, saying it had no business to question shifting of activist Gautam Navlakha from Delhi to a Mumbai jail after his arrest in the Bhima Koregaon case. The HC had then ticked off the NIA for "inexplicable frantic hurry" as well as "unseemly haste" in taking Navlakha away from jurisdiction after his arrest, as his interim bail was pending consideration. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Navin Sinha said the Delhi HC had no business to question transfer of the accused as the Bombay High Court had sole jurisdiction in the matter. The court allowed a petition filed by the NIA against the May 27 order by the High Court. On a request made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the NIA, the top court also expunged adverse remarks against the NIA. Following his arrest under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Navlakha had in May moved the Delhi High Court for interim bail in view of public health emergency due to Covid-19. On March 16, the top court had declined anticipatory bail to Navlakha and told him to surrender within three weeks before the NIA.  On April 8, it gave him one more week to surrender in the case of their alleged link to banned Maoist outfit, allegedly emerged after the Bhima Koregaon violence. An event 'Elgar Parishad' was held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly led to caste violence on January 1, 2018. Several prominent activists have already been arrested in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhima-koregaon-case-sc-sets-aside-delhi-hc-proceedings-on-navlakhas-plea-857658.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Posters of Vikas Dubey put up at Uttar Pradesh toll plazas, search continues||In a bid to tighten the noose around Vikas Dubey, posters of the gangster have been put up at all toll plazas in Uttar Pradesh, a senior police official said on Monday. Dubey is involved in the killing of eight police personnel in Kanpur on July 3. "Posters of Vikas Dubey have been put up at all toll plazas in the state so that as soon as he crosses any of these toll plazas, information on his whereabouts can be obtained,” Inspector General of Kanpur Range Mohit Agarwal told PTI. He said 25 police teams drawn from 40 police stations have been pressed into action to search the criminal. "Some teams have also been sent to other states. We are expecting good news soon," Agarwal said. Police sources said surveillance teams are also keeping a watch on the close contacts of Dubey. Eight police personnel, including a DSP, were gunned down in a village near Kanpur by the henchmen of Dubey. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack from a rooftop on a police team after it entered Bikru village to arrest Dubey, a history-sheeter who has faced about 60 criminal cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/posters-of-vikas-dubey-put-up-at-uttar-pradesh-toll-plazas-search-continues-857696.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||US hoarding all Covid-19 medicines, India should give compulsory licence for generic Remdesivir: CPI(M)||Accusing the United States of "hoarding all drugs found to be useful" in combating Covid-19, the CPI(M) has asked the Centre to immediately invoke provisions in the Patent Act to issue compulsory license to Indian pharma companies to manufacture generic version of 'Remdesivir' that is found to be useful in tackling the virus infection. The party said Gilead Sciences’ anti-viral drug Remdesivir has shown efficacy in treating Covid-19 patients while media reports indicated that the US has bought the entire stock of medicine from Gilead for the next three months. "It will therefore not be available for the rest of the world," the CPI(M) said in a statement. The price of Remdesivir is $3,000 or Rs 2.25 lakhs for a five-day course in the US and five Indian companies are in negotiations for manufacturing the drug under Gilead’s license. Remdesivir will be sold at a "concessional" price of $400 or Rs 30,000-35,000 for the same five-day course after it is manufactured in India, it said. The CPI(M) claimed that the cost of manufacturing Remdesivir for a full course is less than $10 or Rs 750 in the US and about Rs 100 in India. “Gilead, by virtue of its patent monopoly, is holding the world to ransom by asking a price that is hundreds of times its cost," the CPI(M) said, warning that Indian patients will either not get the drug, or if it is available, find the cost prohibitive, as the US is buying up the entire stock of Gilead and due to the high cost due to its patent monopoly. Under Clause 92 of India’s Patent Act, it said, India has the right to issue a compulsory license to manufacture the drug in the country and Indian generic drug manufacturers have the ability and the will to manufacture the generic Remdesivir version. "Given Gilead’s extortionate price for Remdesivir, the government should immediately issue compulsory license to a number of Indian manufacturers. Given that India is one of the largest generic drug manufacturers in the world, there should be no reason why this drug cannot be made available rapidly and at affordable prices to the Indian people," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/us-hoarding-all-covid-19-medicines-india-should-give-compulsory-licence-for-generic-remdesivir-cpim-857714.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Pakistan summons senior Indian diplomat over 'ceasefire violations', claims 14 civilians killed this year||Pakistan on Monday summoned a senior diplomat from the Indian High Commission here to register a "strong protest" over the alleged ceasefire violations by the Indian forces along the Line of Control (LoC). The Foreign Office said in a statement that due to "indiscriminate and unprovoked firing" in Nikial Sector on Sunday five civilians, including three children, sustained serious injuries. The Indian forces along "the LoC and the Working Boundary (WB) have continuously been targeting civilian populated areas with artillery fire, heavy-calibre mortars and automatic weapons,” the statement alleged. It claimed that 14 people have been killed and 121 others injured in 1,595 incidents of ceasefire violations this year. The Indian side was called upon to respect the 2003 Ceasefire Understanding; investigate this and other such incidents of ceasefire violations and maintain peace along the LoC and the WB, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pakistan-summons-senior-indian-diplomat-over-ceasefire-violations-claims-14-civilians-killed-this-year-857727.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Maha must go prepared for Maratha quota hearing in Supreme Court: Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said the state government must go fully prepared for the Supreme Court hearing on the move to provide reservations in education and jobs to the Maratha community. The apex court is hearing a petition against the quota for admissions to post graduate medical courses as well as a another challenging the quota in jobs and education. "Government officials and ministers must be at hand fully prepared to brief the counsel during the hearing. The BJP will provide full support," Fadnavis told reporters here. In the city to take stock of the Covid-19 situation, the former chief minister said the idea of staggered office timings could be looked into to bring the situation back to normal amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. On the issue of the state government reversing the transfer of DCP-rank officials of Mumbai police, Fadnavis said the state home minister should have briefed Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray properly. The transfer order was reversed due to "confusion or lack of confidence" and may be a lapse on the part of the home minister, Fadnavis said. A home department order issued on Thursday to transfer 10 DCPs currently posted in Mumbai was reversed on Sunday, leading to speculation on lack of coordination between the Shiv Sena and the NCP which holds the home portfolio.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maha-must-go-prepared-for-maratha-quota-hearing-in-supreme-court-devendra-fadnavis-857731.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||BJP targets Rahul Gandhi on defence panel meet, Congress calls it silly distraction||Under attack from Congress over transgressions by Chinese troops in Ladakh, BJP on Monday virtually questioned Rahul Gandhi’s sincerity on strategic issues claiming that he failed to attend a single meeting of parliament’s defence panel. Nadda’s attack came soon after Rahul hit out at the Modi government’s handling of the Covid-19 outbreak, saying it should become a case study for the Harvard Business School on failures. “Rahul Gandhi does not attend a single meeting of the Standing Committee on Defence. But sadly, he continues to demoralise the nation, question the valour of our armed forces and do everything that a responsible Opposition leader should not do,” BJP President J P Nadda said. “Rahul Gandhi belongs to that glorious dynastic tradition where as far as defence is concerned, committees don't matter, only commissions do. Congress has many deserving members who understand parliamentary matters but one dynasty will never let such leaders grow. Really sad,” Nadda said. Congress dismissed Nadda’s remarks as a “silly distraction” from the focus on the government’s “mishandling” of the Covid-19 pandemic and the transgressions by Chinese troops in Ladakh. “There is a limit to ridiculing anyone,” Congress spokesman Pawan Khera said, wondering whether Chinese troops would be pushed back had Rahul attended the meetings of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence. Khera said the meetings of the standing committee on defence had not been convened in the past three-and-a-half months when such deliberations were required the most. Congress also accused the Modi government of shunting out senior BJP leader B C Khanduri as Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence after he submitted a report on the defence preparedness of the armed forces. Khera said the Modi government was rattled by the former Congress President’s persistent questioning of its “flimsy foreign policy” and “petty headline management”. “Instead of responding to the serious questions raised by Rahul Gandhi, the BJP has chosen to attack Rahul Gandhi. The BJP should understand that its attacks on Rahul will not make China withdraw from Indian territory,” the Congress spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-targets-rahul-gandhi-on-defence-panel-meet-congress-calls-it-silly-distraction-857744.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Govt not considering merger of CBDT, CBIC: Finance Ministry||The government is not considering any proposal to merge the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) and the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), the Finance Ministry said on Monday. The said merger was one of the recommendations of the Tax Administration Reforms Commission (TARC), headed by Parthasarathi Shome, which submitted its report in 2016. Reacting to a media report which suggested that a merger of policy-making bodies of direct and indirect taxes — CBDT and CBIC— is on cards, the ministry in a statement said, “The government has no proposal to merge the two Boards created under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963.” The ministry said that the report of TARC was examined in detail by the government and this recommendation of TARC was not accepted by the government. "As a part on an assurance made by the government in Parliament in response to a Parliament question, the government has also placed this fact in 2018 before the Committee on Government Assurances. The action taken report on the recommendations of the TARC is placed even on the website of Department of Revenue, which clearly shows that this recommendation was not accepted," it added.  The Tax Administration Reforms Commission (TARC) was constituted with a view to review the application of tax Policies and Laws in context of global best practices and recommend measures for reforms required in Tax Administration to enhance its effectiveness and efficiency.  TARC had made 385 recommendations out of which 291 recommendations are relating to CBDT and 253 to CBIC.  The ministry further said it is in the process of implementation of a number of taxpayers' friendly reforms like transition from manual assessment based on territorial jurisdiction to a completely randomized electronic faceless assessment, electronic verification or transactions and faceless appeals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-not-considering-merger-of-cbdt-cbic-finance-ministry-857746.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||India has shown to world that despite crippling coronavirus crisis, show goes on here: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Monday said India has shown to the world that despite the crippling coronavirus crisis, the show goes on here as smoothly as during the pre-pandemic times. He was speaking after inaugurating the IAS professional course phase-II (2018 batch) at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie through video conference. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said that civil services in 2020 have assumed a pan-Indian character in the true sense as it has representation from almost all states and union territories in the last couple of years. He said, for a heterogeneous country like India, it's a huge asset and in tune with the dream of the founding father of civil services in the country -- Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The minister said that officers have an opportunity to become the architect of a new India, the foundation of which was laid down by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Singh said that over the last 10 weeks, India has shown to the world that despite the crippling coronavirus crisis, the show goes on here as smoothly as during the pre-pandemic times, a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. The minister said, in the 73rd year of Independence, India stands tall, strong and is looking at the future with great hope and potential. "A diverse country like ours owes its sustenance to the constant efforts by the government to understand its citizens, work with them with the common goal of development in mind and inspire them to excel in every field of existence,” said Singh. Referring to the first-ever online inauguration of IAS professional course, he expressed satisfaction that out of 185 participants, nearly 125 are from engineering and other professional backgrounds and added that this will go a long way in meeting the modern-day developmental challenges facing India. Singh pointed out that the presence of 50 women officers in the batch is a real testimony of the “women empowerment” mantra espoused by the Narendra Modi government. He recalled that in the last five to six years, a series of new beginnings and innovations were undertaken by the prime minister to provide a new orientation and direction to bureaucracy in India. The minister particularly mentioned that a three-month central government stint as Assistant Secretaries for IAS officers at the beginning of their career started a couple of years back added tremendously in their capacity building. Similarly, amendment in the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 brought about in 2018 gives adequate protection to honest officers from harassment as for the first time bribe giver was also brought into the ambit of the Act, he said. Singh said that so far more than 25 lakh officers have registered on iGoT platform (online module) of the Personnel Ministry fitted to the training needs of frontline workers tackling Covid-19. He underlined that this measure will help in training an IAS officer into a "corona warrior". Dwelling on the concept of 115 Aspirational Districts based on 49 key indicators, Singh said that based on a scientifically designed mechanism, each aspirational district was to focus on improving these key indicators and raise its rating viz-a-viz the best performing district of the state and the best performing district of the country in the given indicators. He said that these are not necessarily backward districts and placing young officers here will bring fast changes in the indicators. In his address, Sanjeev Chopra, the director of LBSNAA, said that for conducting the online sessions, the learning management system (LMS) known as GYAN is used at the academy. “It is a one-point access online platform for the participants. Any participants can log in and access anything relating to the course e.g. power points, reading materials, live classes on video, assignments, quizzes, past classes etc,” Chopra said. There are 185 participants for phase II training this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-has-shown-to-world-that-despite-crippling-coronavirus-crisis-show-goes-on-here-jitendra-singh-857804.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Congress won't let BJP silence opposition: Ashok Gehlot||The Congress will not let the BJP succeed in its ploy to silence the opposition, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Monday, asking why the saffron party’s leaders are rattled when Rahul Gandhi questions government policies. The Congress is in power in Rajasthan but in opposition at the Centre. Gandhi is doing what a responsible opposition leader should do, seek answers, advise and offer cooperation on matters of national importance, Gehlot said. "Why are the BJP leaders so much rattled whenever Rahul Gandhi questions the government's wrong policies? What kind of democracy does BJP want - one where nobody sees their mistakes and asks nothing?” he asked. "The INC will not let the BJP succeed in its ploy to silence the opposition,” Gehlot tweeted. The chief minister also expressed concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country and suggested that the centre run a special awareness campaign like what Rajasthan did. “It is most worrying that India has now overtaken Russia as the third worst-hit country in the world by the coronavirus. The government of India should launch an awareness campaign like the state government has done in Rajasthan,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-wont-let-bjp-silence-opposition-ashok-gehlot-857806.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi targets Uttar Pradesh govt over rise in crimes in state||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday targeted the Uttar Pradesh government over the law and order situation in the state. Instead of fixing accountability for the rise in crimes, the state government is propagating the false idea that UP is "crime-free", she claimed. Gandhi said Uttar Pradesh accounted for one-third of all crimes against Dalits, and there had been a 21 percent rise in crimes against women in the state from 2016 to 2018. "UP accounts for one-third of all the crimes against Dalits. Crimes against women in UP rose by 21 percent from 2016 to 2018," she said in a tweet in Hindi.   दलितों के खिलाफ होने वाले कुल अपराध के एक तिहाई अपराध यूपी में होते हैं। यूपी में महिलाओं के खिलाफ अपराध में साल 2016 से 2018 तक 21% की बढ़ोत्तरी हुई।   Citing graphs to compare the rise in crimes against women and Dalits in Uttar Pradesh to that of other states, Gandhi said, "These figures point towards the rising crimes and the tightening grip of crime in UP. Surprisingly, instead of fixing accountability, the UP government keeps falsely propagating that UP is 'crime-free'."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-targets-uttar-pradesh-govt-over-rise-in-crimes-in-state-857826.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||BJP patronising goons: UP Congress chief on Vikas Dubey video||Accusing the BJP of “patronising goons”, Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Monday sought a high-level probe against ruling party leaders. Referring to a video on social media, Lallu said gangster Vikas Dubey is heard saying in it that he had links with BJP leaders, including MLAs. "The Congress stand is vindicated that the ruling party is patronising goons in the state,” Lallu said in a statement referring to the video, in which Dubey is seen taking names of some political leaders he has been in touch with. “From the day one, the Congress has been of the view that without support from the ruling party, a history-sheeter like Vikas Dubey cannot roam around freely and kill cops. The martyrdom of eight brave cops will prove to be the last straw for the Yogi Adityanath government,” Lallu said. Demanding a high-level probe, he said people of the state have the right to know how a history-sheeter was carrying out his activities in the state, all with the “support” of the ruling party leaders, including BJP MLAs. “Uttar Pradesh is in the grip of the BJP brand of jungle raj where they allow their own goons to kill cops. The common people have valid reasons to worry about their safety and security. The Congress will fight for their safety and security against all odds,” Lallu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-patronising-goons-up-congress-chief-on-vikas-dubey-video-857828.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||CPI joins TMC, CPI(M), Cong in opposing EC's decision to extend postal ballot to more categories||Upping the ante on the Election Commission's decision to allow postal voting for those above 65 years of age, the CPI on Monday followed the Congress, CPI(M) and the TMC in registering its protest over the matter by writing to CEC Sunil Arora. CPI General Secretary D Raja argued that the decision made ahead of assembly elections in Bihar will “jeopardise” the democratic process of free and fair elections. In a letter to the Chief Election Commissioner, Raja urged him to have a wider and transparent consultation on digital propaganda during election campaigns and postal ballot for those aged 65 or above. “These two proposals, if accepted, will definitely jeopardise the democratic process of free and fair elections. Our party – CPI - urges upon the ECI not to proceed unilaterally to implement these proposals which are bound to have a disastrous impact on our system,” Raja said. “I, therefore, request you on behalf of my party to initiate wider and transparent consultations with all political parties. I sincerely hope that you will give positive consideration to our views in the interests of our nation and its future,” he said in his letter. He further said that the digital propaganda during the election campaign will be extremely expensive and deprive political parties of a level-playing field. It was CPI (M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury who was the first to flag the issues related to the changes with the Congress then filing a petition with the commission, asking it to reconsider the decision. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) too wrote to the commission stating that the move is “arbitrary, mala fide, unconstitutional and ex-facie, a violation of secrecy of vote, right to free and fair elections and right to health.” “Our party is of the opinion that this amendment, issued without adequate consultation with the political parties, is antithetical to a robust and inclusive democracy,” the party said in its letter. In response to the CPI(M)'s criticism that the move was made without consulting political parties, the commission said that it was an extraordinary situation brought about by the pandemic and it was imperative to minimise the exposure of people to the virus and yet not deprive them of their voting rights. It also clarified that meetings with political parties in poll-bound Bihar had been conducted before the decision was taken. The Centre had recently notified amendments in the election rules to extend the facility of postal ballot to voters above 65 years of age and to those who are suffering from the viral infection. The Ministry of Law and Justice notified the Conduct of Elections (Amendment) Rules 2020, which will make the extension of the postal ballot facility in the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpi-joins-tmc-cpim-cong-in-opposing-ecs-decision-to-extend-postal-ballot-to-more-categories-857866.html
06-07-2020||National Politics||Decide on continuance in Grand Alliance: BJP to Manjhi||The BJP in Bihar on Monday asked former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, founding president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha and a disgruntled partner in the opposition Grand Alliance, to take an early decision with regard to his continuance in the five-party coalition. Party spokesman Nikhil Anand came out with a video message, urging Manjhi who began his independent political journey as an NDA ally in the assembly polls five years ago to act decisively and salvage his prestige which is at stake in the opposition alliance. "We hear that Manjhi has convened a meeting of his party in frustration over his concerns being repeatedly scoffed at by the RJD. It is distressing to learn that a young leader like Tejashwi Yadav does not deign to pick up the phone when the HAM chief, four decades his senior, tries to call him, Anand said. The BJP spokesman added that the time has come for the septuagenarian to bite the bullet and put an end to the "fajeehat" (humiliation) he is being subjected to while in the Grand Alliance. "The time has come for Manjhi to give up serving ultimatums which nobody is heeding and act decisively to salvage his pride", Anand said. The BJP spokesman was reacting to HAMs announcement that it will be convening an "important meeting in the wake of the lapse of the deadline given by Manjhi for setting up a coordination committee for Grand Alliance" on July 10. Grand Alliance sources alleged that Manjhis tantrums were a pretense and that he was in touch with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who heads the JD(U), after having made up his mind to return to the NDA. Notably, Manjhi was previously with the JD(U) and became the chief minister in May, 2014 when Kumar shattered by the partys drubbing in the Lok Sabha elections stepped down taking moral responsibility. Kumar had handpicked Manjhi for the post after the party, then headed by Sharad Yadav and riven by factions, failed to reach a consensus on a replacement. However, the protg turned rebellious when the mentor sought return as Chief Minister less than a year later and was ultimately elbowed out. A party-hopper who has been with the Congress, the undivided Janata Dal and the RJD at various points of time, Manjhi who was by then left high and dry floated HAM with support from disgruntled JD(U) leaders. The NDA, which was left weakened upon the exit of Nitish Kumar, gladly took HAM under its wing and the party was given more than 20 seats to fight in the 243-strong assembly. The fledgling outfit performed dismally, with only Manjhi succeeding in winning one of the two seats he had contested. In 2018, less than six months after Kumar returned to the NDA, Manjhi jumped ship and joined the Grand Alliance which was then left with only the RJD and the Congress. He was promptly rewarded with a legislative council berth for his son Santosh Suman from the RJDs quota. Known for an uncanny knack of sensing which way the wind was blowing, Manjhi grew uneasy after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, in which the RJD drew a blank and the Grand Alliance got decimated with only Congress managing to win one of the 40 seats in the state. Grand Alliance sources claim that Manjhis return to NDA got "delayed" because he was asked by BJP to iron out his differences with Nitish Kumar, who has apparently insisted on merger of HAM into the JD(U). The BJP is understood to have no problems with the merger though it is wary that the wily JD(U) chief may use the return of Manjhi a prominent Dalit leader to undermine Ram Vilas Paswan's LJP in the assembly polls. The chief minister is said to be of the view that the LJP does not have much of a support base and, hence, need not be given too many seats in the upcoming assembly polls. The Union ministers party looks up to the BJP and hopes that the saffron party would intervene and help the Paswans in getting their due, in recognition of their steadfast support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/decide-on-continuance-in-grand-alliance-bjp-to-manjhi-857932.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Three hotels serving as Covid-19 care facilities in Delhi delinked from hospitals over low occupancy||District authorities in South West Delhi have delinked three hotels serving as extended Covid care facilities from hospitals due to low occupancy, officials said on Sunday. Hotel Piccadilly at Janakpuri district centre, Taj Vivanta in Dwarka, Pride Plaza in Aerocity, and Welcome in Dwarka sector 10 were attached with hospitals closest to them in mid-June to serve as extended facilities for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms. However, in the last fortnight, only 25 of the 900 rooms at the four hotels were occupied. In an order issued on Saturday, SDM (Dwarka) delinked Piccadilly, Pride Plaza and Taj Vivanta from the hospitals they were attached with. Now, only Welcome hotel in Dwarka sector 10 will serve as an extended Covid care facility for Mata Chanan Devi, Akash Healthcare, Venkanteshwara, and Manipal hospitals, the order stated. It was also mentioned in the order that the hotels claimed they were incurring huge expenses due to low occupancy. The Delhi government had in early-June asked the district magistrates in 11 districts to use hotels as extended Covid care facilities of nearby hospitals. A total of 40 hotels were designated as extended facilities of various hospitals across the city. Patients staying in these facilities receive basic healthcare and are shifted to attached hospitals, if necessary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-hotels-serving-as-covid-19-care-facilities-in-delhi-delinked-from-hospitals-over-low-occupancy-857515.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Unarmed Indian soldiers were caught by surprise in Galwan Valley clash, families say||Indian soldiers who died in close combat with Chinese troops last month were unarmed and surrounded by a larger force on a steep ridge, government sources, two soldiers deployed in the area and families of the fallen men said. One of the Indian soldiers had his throat slit with metal nails in the darkness, his father told Reuters, saying he had been told by a fellow soldier who was there. Others fell to their deaths in the freezing waters of the Galwan river in the western Himalayas, relatives have learned from witnesses. Twenty Indian soldiers died in the June 15 clash on the de-facto border separating the two armies. The soldiers all belonged to the 16th Bihar Regiment deployed in the Galwan region. No shots were fired, but it was the biggest loss of life in combat between the nuclear-armed neighbours since 1967, when the simmering border dispute flared into deadly battles. Reuters spoke to relatives of 13 of the men who were killed, and in five cases they produced death certificates listing horrific injuries suffered during the six-hour night-time clash at 14,000 ft (4,267 metres) amid remote, barren mountains. Reuters contacted the military hospital in India's Ladakh region where the bodies were brought. The hospital declined to comment on the cause of death and said that the bodies were sent to the families along with the death certificates. Reuters also spoke to two soldiers of the Bihar Regiment deployed in the area, who were among those who accompanied the bodies of fallen colleagues to their homes in the area. They were not directly involved in the melee. The soldiers cannot be named because of military rules and all the families asked for anonymity because they said they were not supposed to speak about military matters. The Indian defence ministry did not respond to a request for comment on the fighting on June 15. In response to a Reuters query, a China foreign ministry spokesperson repeated previous statements blaming the Indian side for crossing the de-facto border and provoking the Chinese. "When Chinese officers and soldiers went there to negotiate, they were suddenly and violently attacked by the Indian troops," the spokesperson said. "The rights and wrongs of the incident are very clear." China has not provided evidence of Indian aggression. China's defence ministry did not respond to a request for comment. 'Arteries Ruptured' Three of the dead men had their "arteries ruptured in the neck" and two sustained head injuries caused by "sharp or pointed objects", the death certificates, seen by Reuters, said. There were visible marks on the neck and forehead, all five documents said. "It was a free-for-all, they fought with whatever they could lay their hands on - rods, sticks, and even with their bare hands," said a government official in Delhi briefed on the clash. The Indian government has said that the People's Liberation Army (PLA) acted in a premeditated manner, but it has not provided a full account of the clash that stunned the country and stoked popular anger against China. China has dismissed an Indian government minister's claim that China had lost 40 soldiers from the PLA's western theatre command deployed in Galwan. Its envoy to Delhi suggested in remarks to local media and posted on the embassy website that there had been losses on both sides. "The Indian army suddenly and violently attacked the Chinese officers and soldiers who went for negotiation, causing fierce physical conflicts and casualties between the two sides," Sun Weidong said. Indian government officials have told Reuters that the conflict began when the commanding officer of the Bihar regiment led a small party to Patrol Point 14 to verify whether the Chinese had made good their promise to withdraw from the disputed site and dismantle structures they had built there. But instead, they came under attack by Chinese soldiers using iron rods and wooden clubs with nails studded in them on a narrow ledge barely four metres wide overlooking the Galwan river. Bodies found in river  In recent weeks the world's two most populous countries have mobilised more forces along the 3,488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC), and the renewed hostilities have triggered a diplomatic and commercial spat that threatens to escalate, experts including former Indian military officers say. The possibility that unarmed Indian soldiers were overrun by a larger force could further fuel resentment against China and raise questions about why Indian soldiers were sent to a tense frontline without being armed. "How dare China kill our unarmed soldiers. Why were our soldiers sent unarmed to martyrdom?" Rahul Gandhi, leader of the main opposition Congress party wrote in a tweet, demanding the government provide a full account. A relative of one of the soldiers who accompanied Colonel Santosh Babu, the commanding officer, to the site of two tents erected by the Chinese troops told Reuters that members of the Indian patrol were unarmed. They were confronted by a small group of Chinese soldiers and an argument ensued over the tents and a small observation tower the relative said, on the basis of conversations with two other soldiers who were present. Reuters was unable to establish all of the details of what happened, but government officials in New Delhi briefed on the incident said that at some point Indian troops took down the observation post and the tents because they were on India's side of the LAC. Soon after the Indian side came under attack from a large Chinese force that pelted them with stones and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons, according to the families of three dead Indian soldiers, based on conversations they had with survivors. Some soldiers retreated to safety on the ridgeline in the darkness, but when they could not find the commanding officer, they re-emerged and came under fresh attack, four family members said. Babu was among those killed in the fighting, the Indian government said. One of the soldiers deployed in the area that Reuters spoke to said the Indian patrol was outnumbered by the PLA. "The Chinese side overwhelmed our people by sheer numbers," said the soldier, who overheard radio messages seeking reinforcements being sent to regional headquarters in Ladakh. Three of the Indian families said they had been told by soldiers who were commissioned to bring the bodies back to them that some combatants pushed each other into the fast-flowing Galwan river. The government official in Delhi also said bodies of some soldiers were fished out of the river the next morning. Some had succumbed to hypothermia, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unarmed-indian-soldiers-were-caught-by-surprise-in-galwan-valley-clash-families-say-857540.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Migrant labourer ends life due to financial trouble||A migrant labourer committed suicide in Gangapurva village here reportedly over economic hardship, police said on Monday. The body of 32-year-old Dharmendra was found hanging from a plum tree on Sunday, Shashi Kumar Pandey, SHO, Girwa Police Station said. He said Dharmendra was working as a labourer in Delhi and had returned to his village in April following the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus. Gyan Singh, younger brother of the deceased, said Dharmendra was worried as he could not get a job card and their sister's marriage was fixed. Singh said his brother was facing financial troubles and took the extreme step. The SHO said the matter is being investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-labourer-ends-life-due-to-financial-trouble-857608.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal urges hospitals to encourage recovered Covid-19 patients to donate plasma||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to hospitals to counsel their Covid-19 patients to donate plasma after 14 days of recovery from the disease. Addressing an online media briefing, the chief minister said that there has been a spike in demand for plasma over the past 4-5 days, after the opening of a plasma bank in Delhi. But there are not many donors, he said, appealing to hospitals to encourage their recovered patients to donate. He also said that Delhi at present has 15,000 Covid-19 beds of which only 5,100 are occupied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-urges-hospitals-to-encourage-recovered-covid-19-patients-to-donate-plasma-857622.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||3 police personnel suspended in connection with Kanpur attack||Three police personnel, including two sub-inspectors and a constable, have been suspended on charges of laxity in duty in connection with the death of eight policemen in Kanpur, a senior official said on Monday. "A preliminary inquiry has been initiated against all three policemen, including sub-inspectors Kunwarpal and Krishna Kumar Sharma and constable Rajeev, all posted at the Chaubeypur Police Station," Kanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar P said. They have been suspended for laxity in duty in connection with the death of eight police personnel in Kanpur, a police PRO said. An FIR would also be lodged against the policemen and they would face further action if their involvement is proved during the course of the inquiry, the SSP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-police-personnel-suspended-in-connection-with-kanpur-attack-857647.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police objects to statements in plea related to Jamia violence during anti-CAA protests||Delhi Police Monday objected to certain statements made in the Delhi High Court plea related to the violence during Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) university protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act last December, saying they are “more of a political statement made at a protest site”. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Delhi Police, took strong exception to the language used in certain paragraphs of the rejoinder filed by one of the petitioners in the matter and said “you cannot malign constitutional authorities like this”. “Irresponsible pleading is becoming an order of the day... This is more of a political statement made at a protest site and cannot be a pleading before the highest court of the state,” the senior law officer said, referring to the averments made in the rejoinder. Mehta contended that “irresponsible” pleadings have been filed in the rejoinder of one of the petitioners Nabila Hasan who has sought action against the police for allegedly brutally attacking the petitioners, students and residents of JMI. Hasan’s plea has also sought action against the alleged ruthless, and excessive use of force and aggression unleashed by the police and paramilitary forces on students within the university. Mehta was referring to the statement made in the rejoinder which said: “The police were utterly lawless obviously with clearance from the to. It is very probable that the order to mercilessly beat the students and break their bones as they began to assemble outside Jamia to begin a peaceful march to the Parliament came from the Home Minister.” The rejoinder also stated, “The police force behaved as if they were common criminals. Their conduct was such that it would appear to the common person that the police force had been given instruction from the home Minister to break the law at will and to cause as much pain and damage and loss to the public as possible.” Raising objection to these statements, the Solicitor General said broadly everyone knows the intention behind filing of a petition but it should not be made so obvious in the pleadings. “It is an example of irresponsible pleading. The intention comes out clear. You cannot malign the constitutional authorities like this. This brings the cat out of the bag. I have been saying this since the beginning that there is an agenda behind these petitions which are being pursued so vigorously,” he contended. After noting the objections, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, conducting the hearing through video conferencing, asked senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, representing Hasan, as to why he was making such allegations against the Home Minister and asked him to decide if he can removed them. To this, Gonsalves submitted that he will delete the particular lines immediately not because he thinks he was wrong but because he does not think that these statements are worth the court’s time or his time. He will file the rejoinder again after deleting the particular lines pointed out by Mehta. During the hearing, the court asked the petitioners to form a list of issues to be decided in the petitions and the Solicitor General will respond to it. At the end of the hearing, senior advocate Salman Khurshid, representing one of the petitioners, on a lighter vein said the Solicitor General has a huge collection of Urdu gazals by heart and he should respond to the issues with an urdu couplet. To this, Mehta responded with a Mirza Ghalib couplet, “kaasid ke aate aate khat ek aur likh du, main janta hu kya wo likhege jawab me” (Let me write one more letter, before the messenger comes, I know what he/ she is going to write in answer). He further said, “like Ghalib, I will also keep my issues ready for consideration since I know what your issues are going to be.” The court listed the matter for further hearing on July 13. Opposing a batch of six PILs seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the violence, the police have said the claim of police brutality is utter falsehood. The police have filed the affidavit in response to various petitions, moved by lawyers, students of JMI, residents of Okhla in south Delhi, where university is located and the Imam of Jama Masjid mosque opposite Parliament House, in which they had also sought medical treatment, compensation and interim protection from arrest for the students. The pleas have also sought registration of FIRs against the erring police officers. Delhi Police, in its affidavit filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair in response to the petitions, has sought dismissal of pleas seeking quashing of FIRs and directions against alleged police brutality in the university during the anti-CAA protests. It said the petitions were an utter abuse of PIL jurisdiction as the incidents of violence in and around the campus were well-planned and orchestrated attempts by some persons with local support. The affidavit filed by Rajesh Deo, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, said exercising fundamental right to dissent should be respected, but “no person can be allowed to commit breach of law, indulge in violence, arson and riotous activity causing danger to life, limb and property of innocent citizens under the garb of exercise of fundamental right of free speech and assembly”. Such fundamental rights are not absolute and are liable to reasonable restrictions under the Constitution, it has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-objects-to-statements-in-plea-related-to-jamia-violence-during-anti-caa-protests-857654.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||BJP's Sambit Patra donates plasma for Covid-19 treatment||"Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP have given party workers the mantra of 'seva bhav' (service). Inspired by it, I took blessings of our president J P Nadda and donated plasma today. Request all those who suffered from Covid and have regained fitness to donate plasma," Patra tweeted. Plasma therapy aims at transfusing plasma (a component of blood) containing antibodies donated by a recovered Covid-19 patient to the serious coronavirus patients. Many state governments and hospitals have set up plasma banks. Patra also posted pictures of his meeting with Nadda before going to donate plasma at a hospital. The BJP spokesperson had contracted the virus a few weeks back and was hospitalised for some days at a private facility in Gurgaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-sambit-patra-donates-plasma-for-covid-19-treatment-857659.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Ladakh row: China says front-line troops taking effective measures to disengage and ease tensions||China on Monday said the front-line troops are taking "effective measures" and making "progress" to disengage and ease the tensions in the Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control with India. The remarks of China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian came after government sources in New Delhi said the Chinese Army was seen removing tents and moving back from certain areas of the Galwan Valley, in a first sign of disengagement of troops from the area. The Galwan Valley was the site of a violent hand-to-hand clash between the two militaries on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. China's People's Liberation Army was seen removing tents and structures at patrolling point 14, the sources said in New Delhi, adding rearward movement of vehicles of Chinese troops was seen in the general area of Galwan and Gogra Hot Springs. Asked about reports of Chinese troops pulling back from the flash point in Galwan Valley, Zhao said “there is progress made on front-line troops taking effective measures to disengage and ease the tensions.” He said the Chinese and Indian troops held commander-level talks on June 30 as the two sides continued to work to implement the consensus reached at the two previous rounds of talks. “We hope the Indian side will move towards China and through concrete actions implement the consensus and continue the close communication through military and diplomatic channels to jointly push for the de-escalation on the border region,” Zhao said. According to the sources in New Delhi, the disengagement of the Chinese troops has started as per an agreement between the Corps Commanders of the two sides. On June 30, the Indian and Chinese armies held the third round of Lt General-level talks during which both sides agreed on an "expeditious, phased and step wise" de-escalation as a "priority" to end the standoff. The first round of the Lt General talks were held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-row-china-says-front-line-troops-taking-effective-measures-to-disengage-and-ease-tensions-857660.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court rejects plea alleging bias in listing of cases, imposes fine on lawyer||The Supreme Court Monday dismissed a plea alleging bias in a listing of cases by its registry officials and imposed a fine of Rs 100 on a lawyer for filing such a petition. A bench comprising Arun Mishra and S A Nazeer said it was dismissing the PIL filed by lawyer Reepal Kansal and was imposing a cost of Rs 100 on him for filing such a petition. Kansal said that due to technical glitches, the bench couldn't pronounce its judgement via video conference and apprised of its verdict telephonically. The lawyer said that the court has held that the allegations had no basis. The PIL alleged that preference in the listing of cases is being given to influential lawyers/petitioners. During the hearing, the top court had expressed unhappiness over the plea saying the apex court's registry has been working "day-and-night" for the benefit of litigants as well as advocates. "The registry is working day-and-night for you people...this has become a trend," the bench had said. The plea had also sought a direction to the apex court's Secretary General and other officials to stop discrimination against not-so-influential lawyers. The plea said there was no mechanism to address complaints against erring officers of the registry who favour some law firms/advocates for reasons best known to them. It also sought a direction to the officials concerned not to point out unnecessary defects in cases of ordinary advocates/petitioners and refund the excess court fee and other charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-rejects-plea-alleging-bias-in-listing-of-cases-imposes-fine-on-lawyer-857662.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||14-year-old boy held for raping minor neighbour in Uttar Pradesh||A girl was allegedly raped by a 14-year-old boy at a village in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida, police said on Monday. The accused, who lives in the same neighbourhood as the complainant, has been apprehended, they said. The incident took place on Sunday when the 12-year-old girl had gone out to relieve herself where the boy forced himself on her, according to officials. “A complaint was made by an uncle of the girl and an FIR lodged in the case. The accused was apprehended from his house on Monday,” a police official from the Ecotech I Police Station said. Further legal proceedings are underway, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-year-old-boy-held-for-raping-minor-neighbour-in-uttar-pradesh-857671.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Not wearing mask? Work as volunteer in Gwalior hospitals, police check-posts||Fines would also be imposed on those violating the Covid-19 protocols, he said. An order of this effect was issued by the district administration in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday after Collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh held a meeting with officials concerned on the ongoing 'Kill Corona' campaign, he said.  The order said those found without mask or not following the coronavirus guidelines at public places will not only have to pay a fine, but they would also have to work as volunteers for three days in hospitals and fever clinics treating Covid-19 patients and at the police check-posts. The collector said in the meeting that those coming from Indore, Bhopal and other states should be strictly screened at the district's borders, the official said. The Madhya Pradesh government has undertaken the 'Kill Corona' campaign across the state for a door-to-door survey to identify Covid-19 patients. On Sunday, Gwalior reported 51 Covid-19 cases, taking the district's tally to 528.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-wearing-mask-work-as-volunteer-in-gwalior-hospitals-police-check-posts-857673.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Fire safety NOCs stuck amid rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi||The Delhi Fire Services has received over 750 applications for issuance of no objection certificates since the coronavirus lockdown began, but has not been able to conduct inspections amid the rising number of infections, officials said on Monday. Fire-safety no objection certificates (NOCs) are presently only being issued on an emergency basis during the lockdown for government establishments and hospitals after following the protocol, officials said. Officials said since the nationwide lockdown, they had received applications for NOCs from various establishments, including industries, restaurants, guest houses, hotels and schools. The maximum applications were received from guest houses and restaurants, a majority of which are still closed due to the restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Activities like the issuance of NOCs, training sessions, public awareness campaigns and fire-safety inspections will likely remain suspended for a while amid the rising novel coronavirus cases, the officials said. The Delhi Fire Services has received over 750 applications from various outlets from March 21 to June 30 for issuance of NOCs, officials said. According to data shared by the fire department, the north zone received 148 applications, the south zone got 328, the west zone got 225 applications for NOCs from various outlets till June 30. Forty-nine applications have also been received from June 15-30 on the department's digital portal. The fire safety certificates are valid for three years and the establishment concerned should apply for renewal of certificate six months prior to the date of expiry. During the nationwide lockdown from March 25, the department said it had also suspended all its activities and only carried out firefighting operations. The Delhi Fire Services played an effective role in carrying out sanitisation work in containment zones like the Nizamuddin, Markaz, Bhogal, Jangpura and Okhla Mandi among other areas, according to officials. Delhi Fire Services Director Atul Garg said they had received over 750 applications for issuance of NOCs since the lockdown began, but were unable to carry out inspection as all establishments were closed during the phase and safety was also a concern. "Many of them who applied for NOCs were in the hope that the lockdown would be lifted soon, but it kept getting extended," Garg said. "Even now, requests are pouring in, but although lockdown has been lifted, majority of these establishments are still closed." He pointed out that several industries had still not started their operations, schools were closed, many restaurants and guest houses were not functional yet. The department will have to wait for the situation to normalise to conduct its inspections before issuing NOCs, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-safety-nocs-stuck-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-857675.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Three more policemen suspended over Kanpur encounter||Uttar Pradesh police have suspended three more of their men, suspecting that they tipped off Vikas Dubey whose gang members killed eight policemen in an ambush at a village near Kanpur last week. They are also probing into the allegations against Chaubeypur station officer Vinay Tiwari in a purported letter written by deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra weeks before he was killed in the same ambush. The letter, whose authenticity is yet to be confirmed, indicated that there were “links” between Tiwari and Dubey. Police had earlier suspended Tiwari and were already examining the possibility that he informed the gangster about the police team heading to Bikru village to arrest him. The gangster, who has faced about 60 criminal cases over the years, then allegedly laid a trap for the policemen, his henchmen spraying them with bullets from a rooftop. Police on Monday also increased the reward for Dubey’s arrest to Rs 2.5 lakh, up from Rs 1 lakh offered earlier. Twenty-five teams drawn from 40 police stations are conducting raids to track down the gangster, an official said. Posters carrying his picture have been put up at road toll plazas across Uttar Pradesh. “We are expecting good news soon," Kanpur Range Inspector General Mohit Agarwal told PTI. Police said apart from Vinay Tiwari, three other policemen from the same station are under the scanner. “Three police personnel have been suspended for their suspected role in leakage of information,” Kanpur’s Senior Superintendent of Police Dinesh Kumar P said. They are sub-inspectors Kunwarpal and Krishna Kumar Sharma and constable Rajiv. "A preliminary enquiry has been initiated against the three suspended policemen,” he said. Superintendent of Police (Rural Area) has been asked to probe into the matter. He said an FIR would be lodged against the suspended policemen if the inquiry showed their involvement in the attack in Bikru village. A police officer said all three policemen had accompanied the then Chaubeypur station officer Vinay Tiwari in the raid, meant to arrest Vikas Dubey following a complaint by local businessman Rahul Tiwari that he was thrashed by the alleged gangster. Police on Monday did not categorically confirm the authenticity of a letter purportedly written weeks before his death, alleging that Tiwari had diluted the charges against the gangster in one case registered in March. But police said they are investigating the allegations. The letter, as it appears on social media, does not carry a serial number or a date. “We came to know about the seriousness of the allegations through the media. We will verify these and appropriate action will be taken. Let us understand the entire incident and then we will brief you about the action," IG Mohit Agarwal told reporters. On Sunday, police arrested Vikas Dubey’s alleged accomplice Dayashankar Agnihotri, who said that the gangster had summoned his men after learning from someone at the station that policemen were on their way to arrest him. Hours after the failed raid on Thursday-Friday night, police had killed two alleged accomplices of the gangster in an encounter. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Congress accused the BJP of “patronizing” goons. State unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu alleged that an old video clip shows Dubey talking about his links in the BJP. In 2001, the gangster was accused of murdering a senior BJP leader inside a police station. He was, however, acquitted in that case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-policemen-suspended-over-kanpur-encounter-857686.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Private hospitals in Bihar not admitting patients with Covid-19 symptoms: NTPC||The NTPC has shot off a missive to the Bihar government complaining about the reluctance of private hospitals in the state capital to admit patients testing positive for, or showing symptoms of, Covid-19, and sought intervention in the matter. A letter to this effect, addressed to the Principal Secretary (Health), was written on July 3 by the state-run power giants Regional Executive Director (East II) Asit Kumar Mukherjee. According to NTPC spokesman Vishwanath Chandan, till date five family members of employees of the company stationed across Bihar have tested positive for the coronavirus. In his letter, Mukherjee has pointed out the fact that altogether "15,000 people", including NTPC employees, their dependent family members and CISF personnel deployed for security requirements are provided health cover by the company which has empanelled all the leading private hospitals in Patna and other districts. "At present, private hospitals in Patna are not providing treatment to patients having COVID-19 symptoms, though those in other states have been doing so", Mukherjee lamented. The senior NTPC official pointed out that the company was generating "8250 MW" of electricity in the state, which accounted for "around 70 percent of power consumption in Bihar". "Your kind intervention is solicited for issuing necessary direction to private hospitals..this will give confidence to our employees, involved in maintaining the essential service round the clock", Mukherjee added. Notably, the reluctance of private health care facilities to chip in during the pandemic has drawn the ire of the government in the recent past. In April, a circular was issued by the Principal Secretary (Health) warning private hospitals, nursing homes and diagnostic centres whereby these were warned of penal action if found shut or refusing admission to patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/private-hospitals-in-bihar-not-admitting-patients-with-covid-19-symptoms-ntpc-857694.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||HC seeks Delhi govt reply on helpline for nurses to complain against lack of PPE kits, masks||The Delhi High Court Monday sought the AAP government's reply on suggestions for setting up a helpline for nurses to complain against private hospitals for failing to provide N-95 masks and PPE kits as also considering ex-gratia to those who die attending to Covid-19 patients. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the Delhi government to also respond to the suggestion that private hospitals and nursing homes must file an undertaking before the concerned authorities for providing PPE kits, N95 masks to the nurses. The high court directed the Delhi government, represented through advocate Anupam Srivastava, to file a precise reply to the six points suggested by the counsel for an NGO which has filed a PIL alleging that nurses in private hospitals and nursing homes were not being provided proper personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and masks to guard against Covid-19 infection. Besides helpline, ex-gratia and undertaking, the Delhi government will also respond to the suggestions of extending the benefit of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) of insurance protection to nurses working in private hospitals and nursing homes and that the insurance premium be paid by the authorities at least for the limited period during the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Nurses must be provided with a quarantine facility and a nodal officer be appointed so that nurses can ventilate their grievances before and he can take up the issues with the government, the advocate of the NGO, Distress Management Collective, Manoj V George suggested. As the Delhi government’s counsel sought time to file reply to the suggestions, the court listed the matter for July 17. The Centre, represented by its standing counsel Anil Soni, told the court that he will seek instruction on the suggestion of extending the benefit of PMGKP of insurance protection to nurses. The NGO has alleged that nurses in private hospitals and clinics were being given used PPE kits. It sought that all the private sector nurses be covered under the PMGKP of insurance protection and provided proper psycho-social support. On these aspects, the Delhi government had earlier said that it has issued an office order on April 7 which states that any person, including doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, sweeper or any other staff in government or private sector, expires while attending to Covid-19 patients his/ her family shall be provided Rs 1 crore as compensation. It had also said that an office order was issued on June 17 notifying that psychiatric social counselling services are being made available to health care workers under a programme called 'samarthan'. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in its response, had said health care workers in government and private sectors are covered under the PMGKP which provides comprehensive personal accident cover of Rs 50 lakh. The NGO, which claims to be a group of social workers, healthcare professionals, lawyers, retired bureaucrats and retired judges, has alleged that the Centre and the Delhi government have a "discriminatory approach" towards nurses in private hospitals and nursing homes as compared to those working in state-run facilities. It has also claimed that the private management which runs these nursing homes/hospitals "are maintaining nil or meagre inventory of requisite stock of safety equipments" and are not exercising basic precautions for safety and security of their healthcare workers||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-seeks-delhi-govt-reply-on-helpline-for-nurses-to-complain-against-lack-of-ppe-kits-masks-857710.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Journalists protest against new media policy in Kashmir||A group of journalists on Monday held a protest against Jammu and Kashmir’s new media policy and demanded its immediate rollback. The policy which has already evoked sharp criticism from politicians and the civil society, who called it an attempt to kill the independence of journalists and media outlets operating the region, especially Kashmir, was approved by the J&K government last month. The journalists who had assembled at the Press Enclave, here, under the banner of “J&K Media Guild” were carrying banners that read: “Don’t gag media, we are an equally important pillar of democracy”, and “Down with media policy 2020.” They alleged that the new media policy was aimed at gagging the journalists in Jammu and Kashmir. “The government and the framers of the policy must understand that we are a pillar of democracy and importantly as equally as three other pillars,” the protesting scribes said. The J&K administration says that the policy was meant for effective communication and public outreach and attempts to “thwart misinformation, fake news and tries to develop a mechanism that will raise alarm against any attempt to use the media to vitiate public peace, sovereignty and integrity of the country.” However, the journalists said it is against all newspapers, news channels and other news platforms. “The policy provides for informing the government and police beforehand before carrying any story,” said a protester, Imtiyaz Ahmad. “In case one fails, his newspaper registration will be canceled, FIR will be filed against him or government advertisements will be stopped,” he added. Most of the journalist bodies in Kashmir have so-far maintained silence over the issue. While most newspaper owners refused to comment or write on the new media policy fearing reprisals from the government, some journalists have termed it as a coercive measure to silence the media voices. Even Kashmir Press Club, which misses no chances to speak about other issues has not issued any statement so-far about the policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalists-protest-against-new-media-policy-in-kashmir-857720.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 positivity rate has declined from 30% to 10% in Delhi: Centre||The Centre on Monday said the average number of samples being tested per day for Covid-19 has gone up in Delhi from 5,481 to 18,766 in about a month and in spite of increased testing, the positivity rate has declined from around 30 percent to 10 percent in the last three weeks. The government also said that the national positivity rate, percentage of samples testing coronavirus positive from the total number of samples, has also reduced and now stands at 6.73 percent. The Union, state and union territory governments have made a joint and coordinated effort to effectively manage the COVID-19 pandemic in the country, the Union health ministry said in a statement. As part of the coordinated efforts, the Union government has emphasised on increasing testing, prompt contact tracing and timely clinical management of cases, the statement said. It has also helped states to significantly ramp up testing capacities, the ministry said. This has resulted in reduced positivity rate in the country and the national positivity rate stands at 6.73 percent, it said. As on July 5, the states with their positivity rate lesser than the national average and tests per million higher than the national average are Puducherry (5.55), Chandigarh (4.36), Assam (2.84), Tripura (2.72), Karnataka (2.64), Rajasthan (2.51), Goa (2.5), and Punjab (1.92). In Delhi, efforts being made by the Union Territory were significantly bolstered by the central government to ensure an increase in testing, the ministry said. Tests were ramped up through increased RT-PCR testing along with the new Rapid Antigen Point-of-Care (POC) tests which gives results in only about 30 minutes, the Centre said. "As a result of concerted and focused efforts by the government of India to augment efforts, the average number of samples being tested per day which was only 5,481 (June 1-5) has witnessed a huge increase to reach an average of 18,766 samples per day between July 1 to 5," it said. "In spite of significantly increased testing in Delhi, the positivity rate has seen a substantial decrease from about 30 percent to 10 percent in the last three weeks," the statement said. There are around 25,000 active cases in Delhi and of these, 15,000 people are currently in home-isolation. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally close to the one-lakh mark, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,067||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positivity-rate-has-declined-from-30-to-10-in-delhi-centre-857730.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi: Covid-19 positive journalist kills self by jumping off AIIMS building||A 37-year-old journalist undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the AIIMS Trauma Centre died after allegedly jumping off the fourth floor of the hospital building on Monday afternoon, police said. The journalist worked with a Hindi daily and was a resident of northeast Delhi's Bhajanpura, they said. The incident took place at around 2 pm and the man was rushed to the hospital's ICU where doctors tried to revive him, a doctor said on condition of anonymity. According to Devender Arya, Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest), the journalist was admitted to the Covid-19 ward at the Trauma Centre on June 24 after testing positive for the virus. "He was admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre on June 24 and was apparently shifted to a High Dependency unit at the hospital. He was admitted on the first floor," a source at AIIMS said. He had undergone surgery for brain tumour recently, the doctor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-19-positive-journalist-kills-self-by-jumping-off-aiims-building-857734.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Lovers consume poison in UP's Bulandshahr, girl dies||A 16-year-old girl died, while her lover is battling for life in a hospital after the two consumed poison at his house in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district, police said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday night in Rajghat area under Narora police station limits, they said. The man (20) and the girl were in love with each other. They belonged to the same community. They wanted to get married but the girl's parents did not approve of their relationship as she was a minor, Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said. Late on Sunday night, the girl went to the man's house and both of them consumed poison, he said. The two were taken to Community Health Centre, Debai in a critical condition. The girl died there, the police said. The man's family has moved him to a private hospital in Aligarh, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lovers-consume-poison-in-ups-bulandshahr-girl-dies-857735.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||ICU beds at LNJP, Rajiv Gandhi hospitals increased to 180 and 200 respectively: Delhi CM||The Delhi government is making all efforts to ramp up ICU beds capacity for Covid-19 patients in its facilities, and the numbers for the same have been increased to 180 and 200 for LNJP and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospitals, respectively, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. Both the hospitals are dedicated Covid-19 facilities in the national capital. Kejriwal tweeted about the increase in ICU beds for coronavirus patients soon after visiting the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), where he felicitated the 1,000th Covid-19 patient who recovered at the facility. "Till a few days back, LNJP had 60 ICU beds and Rajiv Gandhi hospital had 45 ICU beds. They have been increased to 180 and 200, respectively. After making sufficient arrangements for COVID hospital beds, Govt is now making all efforts to increase ICU beds," he tweeted.   Till a few days back, LNJP had 60 ICU beds and Rajiv Gandhi hospital had 45 ICU beds. They have been increased to 180 and 200 respectively. After making sufficient arrangements for COVID hospital beds, Govt is now making all efforts to increase ICU beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/icu-beds-at-lnjp-rajiv-gandhi-hospitals-increased-to-180-and-200-respectively-delhi-cm-857737.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal urges recovered Covid-19 patients to donate plasma||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to hospitals to counsel their Covid-19 patients to donate plasma after 14 days of recovery from the disease, noting that the number of donors is yet to pick pace. As the city's coronavirus tally neared the one-lakh mark, the chief minister said there is no need to worry about the figure as around 72,000 people have already recovered from the virus.  Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said that there has been a major spike in demand for plasma over the past 4-5 days, after the opening of the country''s first plasma bank in Delhi. "The number of plasma donors is less, while the number of people demanding plasma is huge. If it continues, the stock of plasma at the plasma bank will finish soon. " I request recovered coronavirus patients to come forward and donate their plasma in large numbers," he said. Kejriwal said his teams were also contacting such people and requesting them to donate plasma to save the lives of Covid-19 patients.  Last week, the government had set up the plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). "I also appeal to all hospitals to counsel their Covid-19 patients for five minutes to donate their plasma after 14 days of recovery from the disease," he said. Plasma is effective in reducing the risk of death, he said. Plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those into a coronavirus infected patient to help kick-start the immune system to fight the infection. Terming plasma donors as "people's hope" in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases, the chief minister requested RWAs to honour plasma donor. He also said that Delhi at present has 15,000 Covid-19 beds of which only 5,100 are occupied. The chief minister said 20,000-24,000 tests are being conducted every day in the national capital, adding that there has also been decline in number of people admitting to hospitals. At present, there are around 25,000 active cases in Delhi and of these, 15,000 people are currently in home-isolation. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally close to the one-lakh mark, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,067.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-urges-recovered-covid-19-patients-to-donate-plasma-857743.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Had Geelani quit Hurriyat earlier, Kashmir would not have seen bloodshed: BJP||A senior BJP leader on Monday said if hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani had quit Hurriyat Conference earlier, “Kashmir would not have seen bloodshed and chaos.” “Geelani is a veteran politician. He has been in the Assembly and knows the benefits of democracy. (But) if he taken the decision of quitting Hurriyat earlier, perhaps Kashmir would not have seen this much of bloodshed and chaos,” Bhartiya Janata Party (J&K) General Secretary (Organisation) Ashok Koul told reporters on the eve of birth anniversary of the party founder Syama Prasad Mukherjee. Geelani, who is under house arrest for the last several years, resigned as chairman of hardline Hurriyat last Monday, complaining that constituents of the amalgam failed to lead the people after the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, “overstepped the limits”, and tried to “create a parallel structure.” On the revocation of Article 370, Koul said, “It was never permanent in J&K and after its the abrogation people have reaped the benefits that include a complete end to stone-pelting and there is no law and order or civilian killing at the encounter sites now.” He said that the question remains what did the people of achieving out of Article 370. “My answer is nothing,” the BJP leader said and accused the regional parties playing politics over Articles 370 and 35A just to ensure that they remain in power. “Common people in Kashmir or Jammu got nothing and instead was fooled on one or the other pretext by the regional political parties,” Koul said. “Today, benefits of rollback of Article 370 are clear: Stone pelting has completely vanished and there is no protest or a civilian killing at the encounter sites.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/had-geelani-quit-hurriyat-earlier-kashmir-would-not-have-seen-bloodshed-bjp-857748.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Woman found hanging from a tree in Ramban||A 22-year-old woman was found hanging from a tree outside her house in Jammu and Kashmir's Ramban district on Monday, police said. Pooja Sharma, a resident of a village in Banihal area, apparently died by suicide but the motive behind the step was not known immediately, an officer said. She was found hanging from a tree near her home. Her body has been sent for post-mortem, Deputy Superintendent of Police Rajinder Singh said. An inquiry has been started to ascertain the cause of her death, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-found-hanging-from-a-tree-in-ramban-857753.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||NIA files chargesheet against suspended Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh, five others for spreading terror||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday filed a chargesheet against sacked Jammu and Kashmir DySP Davender Singh in a Jammu court claiming that he was being "groomed" by Pakistani officials for leaking "sensitive" information. Singh, who was arrested along with lawyer Irfan Shafi Mir and the Hizbul terrorists Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu, and another Hizbul operative Ragi Ahmad Rather by local police on January 11 while they were travelling in a car from Srinagar to Jammu with arms, is accused of providing safe passage and hide-outs for terrorists as well as helping them in procuring arms and ammunition. According to the NIA, the accused were part of a "deep-rooted conspiracy" hatched by Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen and Pakistani state agencies to "commit violent acts and to wage war against the Union of India". Singh, who is presently in NIA custody, was also "in touch with certain officials of Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi through secure social media platforms. Investigation revealed that he was being groomed by Pakistani officials for obtaining sensitive information," the NIA said in a statement. The NIA also said Singh along with the lawyer and Syed Irfan Ahmed (Naved Babu's brother) had "arranged safe shelter" for Naved Babu in February 2019 to avoid "heightened surveillance" on the Hizbul commander. "Singh used his own vehicle for the movement of Hizbul terrorists and also assured them help in procuring weapons," the NIA chargesheet said. Along with Singh, five others - the lawyer, a trader Tanweer Ahmed Wani, Naveed Babu and as well as Ahmed -were also charge-sheeted. Singh was recently granted bail in a case filed by Delhi Police as it did not file a charge sheet in stipulated time but he could not be released as he was in NIA custody. The agency said that it has come to light during investigations that Hizbul Mujahideen chief Sayeed Salahudeen and other leaders along with Pakistani establishment was "extending support" to the cadre and commanders of terrorist outfits based in J&K. Mir, the lawyer, had not only met Hizbul Mujahideen leadership in Pakistan but also met Umar Umar Cheema, Ahshan Chaudhary, Sohail Abbas and others of the Pakistani spy agency ISI. The NIA said he was tasked to identify and activate the new hawala channels for transfer of money for sustaining terrorist activities in the Valley. Naveed Babu, a Constable, had deserted the police force along with certain weapons and was responsible for various killings, including incidents of terror in which labourers and truck drivers were killed after special status for J&K was revoked. "Naveed Babu had made efforts to recruit gullible Muslims youths to join the cadre of Hizbul Mujahideen. He was also receiving funds from LoC traders and accused Tanveer Ahmad Wani who was an Ex-President of LoC traders Association, was providing him funds with the help of other traders based in PoK. Investigation has also revealed that the accused were obtaining weapons and ammunition from across the border with the help of arms smugglers and Davender Singh," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-chargesheet-against-suspended-jammu-and-kashmir-dsp-davinder-singh-five-others-for-spreading-terror-857760.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||ASI monuments reopen in Delhi, masks mandatory||Qutub Minar, Humayun's Tomb and a host of other centrally-protected monuments in Delhi were reopened for visitors on Monday after being shut for over three months due to the Covid-19 crisis, officials said. All guidelines, including social distancing and sanitisation measures, will be followed at these heritage sites. Wearing of masks will be mandatory and no one will be allowed to enter without it, an official said. There are 173 monuments in Delhi protected under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). It includes three UNESCO World Heritage Sites -- Red Fort, Humayun's Tomb and Qutub Minar -- and Safdarjung Tomb, Purana Quila, Tughlaqabad Fort and Firoz Shah Kotla. "Delhi's ASI-protected monuments have been reopened for the public as per the directions of the Culture Ministry. However, Red Fort, which is closed every Monday on regular days, will remain closed today," the official said. Visitors can book tickets in either of the two slots -- forenoon slot, which starts in the morning and ends at noon; and afternoon slot from noon to 6 pm. In each slot, a maximum of 1,500 visitors will be allowed, according to the official. On regular days, the official said, Red Fort gets an average daily footfall in the range of 8,000-12,000; Humayun's Tomb gets 6,000-10,000 and Qutub Minar gets 8,000-10,000. However, Humayun's Tomb attracts more foreign visitors, they said. As many as 3,691 centrally-protected monuments and archaeological sites maintained by the ASI were shut from March 17 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asi-monuments-reopen-in-delhi-masks-mandatory-857767.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Shivraj Chouhan seeks GI tag for Madhya Pradesh’s Basmati rice; meets Union agriculture minister||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday met Union Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and sought his intervention in getting Geographical Indication tag for Basmati rice produced in the state. A Geographical Indication (GI) tag indicates the specific geographical origin of a product. Basmati rice is produced by about 80,000 farmers in Madhya Pradesh's 13 districts -- Morena, Bhind, Gwalior, Sheopur, Datia, Shivpuri, Guna, Vidisha, Raisen, Sehore, Hoshangabad, Jabalpur and Narsinghpur, Chouhan said. “Looking at the historical evidence, it will be appropriate to grant GI tag to Basmati produced in the state which will keep the interests of state’s farmers intact,” he said. The Madhya Pradesh CM said Basmati rice produced in the state is exported to various foreign countries contributing annually to the tune of Rs 3,000 crore towards foreign exchange, according to a statement issued by the state government here. “Denying GI tag to the rice produced in these 13 districts will be a grave injustice to the farmers of the state and their livelihood,” the chief minister said during the meeting. Tomar assured him of all possible help from the Centre in this regard, the statement said. Earlier during the day, Chouhan also met President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu. This was his first meeting with the president and the vice president after assuming the office of chief minister for the fourth time in March 2020. During the meeting with the president, Chouhan briefed him about the coronavirus related situation in the state and on other state-related matters. In his meeting with Naidu, he briefed him about the record wheat procurement in the state and various initiatives taken by his government for the welfare of migrant labourers and combating coronavirus, the statement said. He also presented to Kovind and Naidu copies of two booklets -- 'Ummeed' and 'Madhya Pradesh Vikas ke Pratibadh Prayas' -- published by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shivraj-chouhan-seeks-gi-tag-for-madhya-pradesh-s-basmati-rice-meets-union-agriculture-minister-857772.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: 60 cops quarantined after rape accused tests positive||Sixty policemen were quarantined in Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh after a rape accused they brought from Karnataka was detected with Covid-19 on Monday, an official said. The Civil Lines police station has been sealed and declared a containment zone, while swab samples of all the personnel have been sent for testing, Bilaspur Superintendent of Police Prashant Agrawal said. "A 28-year-old man was arrested from Mysore by a team of four policemen from Civil Lines police station after a woman filed a complaint of sexual assault last month. The accused, who claims to work at Bhabha Atomic Research Centre's Mysore unit, was brought here on July 4," he said. He was sent in judicial remand and jail authorities have been alerted after his reports returned positive, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-60-cops-quarantined-after-rape-accused-tests-positive-857780.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||NHRC issues notices to Uttar Pradesh govt, police chief over deaths in Ghaziabad factory fire||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh government and the state police chief over the deaths of people in a fire at an "illegal" candle-making factory in Ghaziabad, officials said on Monday. Taking suo motu cognisance of media reports, the commission said it is "necessary for the local administration to fix the responsibility of the concerned officer and start departmental or criminal proceedings against them, immediately to ensure justice to the victims and their families." According to a statement, the commission has issued notices to the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh and the Director General of Police, seeking a detailed report within four weeks. They have been asked to state the action taken against the factory owner and the delinquent officers, officials, status of the medical treatment being provided to the injured and relief or rehabilitation provided to the aggrieved by the state, according to the statement. Eight people were killed after an explosion brought down the roof and gutted the factory, located in Modinagar's Bakhrwa village, district officials earlier said. The factory had stockpiled highly inflammable material used in small quantities to make special candles generally used for decorating birthday cakes, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-issues-notices-to-uttar-pradesh-govt-police-chief-over-deaths-in-ghaziabad-factory-fire-857798.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Pay Rs 2,500 and get a Covid-19 'negative' report: Uttar Pradesh private hospital||A private hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut, about 500 kilometres from Lucknow, was caught issuing fake Covid-19 negative reports for Rs 2,500. The license of the hospital was cancelled and an FIR was also registered against its manager, according to the police sources here on Monday. The matter came to light when a video showing a hospital staff assuring a person a 'negative' Covid-19 test report duly issued by the district hospital in Meerut. The hospital staff was also seen accepting Rs 2,500 from the person in exchange for the 'negative' report. ''The report will have stamp of the district hospital....you can show it anywhere...it will be valid for seven days,'' the hospital staff, who was addressed as a 'doctor', said via video that was shared on social media. He also said that there was no need to bring the patient. ''If you bring the patient and a genuine test is conducted then the report may also be positive....what will happen then?'' he asked in the video. District officials said that the license of the hospital, which was situated on Hapur Road, was cancelled and an FIR was also lodged against its manager. The hospital would also be sealed, the officials added. Sources said that the hospital might have given out scores of fake negative Covid-19 reports. ''We are trying to ascertain how many people have been given such fake report....it is a very serious issue,'' said a senior official in Merrut.  So far over 1,100 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Meerut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pay-rs-2500-and-get-a-covid-19-negative-report-uttar-pradesh-private-hospital-857812.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi's Covid-19 tally crosses 1 lakh-mark with 1,379 fresh cases||Covid-19 cases in the national capital breached the one lakh mark on Monday with the addition of 1,379 people testing positive for the virus infection, while another 48 succumbed during treatment, taking the toll to 3,115. The total number of cases have now risen to 1,00,823. Delhi has reached the six-digit figure in 126 days after the first case was reported on March 2. Incidentally, Monday's figure slid below 2,000 mark for the first time since June 16 and marked a sharp dip from Sunday's figure of 2,244 and Saturday's 2,505. However, this decline in cases may not be a cause for celebration as this could be attributed to the sharp fall in testing of samples compared to the previous day. According to the medical bulletin issued on Monday, 13,879 samples were tested while it was 23,136 on Sunday and 23,673 on Saturday. This month, only on July 1, the numbers had dipped below 20,000 tests -- 19,956 -- while it rose to 20,822 on July 2 and 24,165 on July 3. Altogether, 6.57 lakh tests have been conducted for Covid-19 in the capital. Another indication that the situation has not changed much is that the positive case rate hovers around 10 per cent in the past few days. Since June 28, the proportion of positive cases to total tests done on a single day was below 15 per cenr and was dipping. On Monday, the positive case rate was at 9.93 per cent compared to 9.69 per cent on Sunday and 10.58 per cent on Saturday. The number of discharges also fell considerably as the fresh medical bulletin showed just 749 in the past 24 hours compared to 3,083 discharges on Sunday. Altogether, 72,088 people have been discharged. At present, 25620 are still under treatment, including 17141 asymptomatic or mild cases in home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-covid-19-tally-crosses-1-lakh-mark-with-1379-fresh-cases-857813.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Helpline numbers of city’s Covid-19 hospitals available in 'Delhi Corona' app: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that authorised helpline numbers of all Covid-19 hospitals in the city are being reflected in the ‘Delhi Corona’ mobile application, an official statement said on Monday. The development comes after the Delhi government received many complaints from citizens that helpline numbers of these hospitals remained unreachable most of the time, it said. Taking cognisance of the matter, Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia, who is also handling the health portfolio, directed all Covid-19 hospitals of the city to make authorised helpline numbers. “All these hospitals have come out with 24*7 available authorised helpline numbers and the numbers are available in the Delhi Corona app which was developed and launched by the Delhi government to provide Covid-19 pandemic related information,” the statement said. Any person who wants to reach out to these hospitals with Covid-19 related query can now dial these numbers directly from the application, it said. When a person clicks on the name of a hospital where beds are available, its phone number along with its location on a map will pop up in the mobile app. The AAP government had launched the ‘Delhi Corona’ application last month to provide real-time information on the availability of beds for the treatment of coronavirus in hospitals across the city. Days after launching the application, the government had ordered the medical facilities to ensure real-time updating on the app. The application also helps Delhiites locate nearby healthcare facilities dealing with coronavirus patients. The hospitals have also been colour-coded red, yellow and green depending on the availability of beds, with ‘red’ denoting hospitals with very few beds available and ‘green’ denoting those with an adequate number of beds, the statement said. Till July 6, Delhi has around 14,986 beds, out of which, 5,169 beds are occupied and 9,817 beds are vacant, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/helpline-numbers-of-city-s-covid-19-hospitals-available-in-delhi-corona-app-arvind-kejriwal-857822.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Kamal Nath plans to camp in Scindia bastion for bypolls||The Congress is mulling to set up its main election office for the upcoming assembly by-election in Gwalior, in the Chambal region where 17 assembly seats are scheduled to go to poll sometime in September. The party is looking for a big bungalow  in the city from where MP Congress chief Kamal Nath will supervise election strategies for defeating Jyotiraditya Scindia’s turncoat supporters in the Maharaj’s own bastion. The by-elections have been necessitated by resignations of 22 Congress MLAs whose revolt in March this year led to fall of the Kamal Nath government. Two seats were already vacant due to death of a BJP and a Congress MLA. Congress sources said owing to defection of Scindia and company, the party’s organisational structure in the Gwalior-Chambal region has crumbled. Kamal Nath, who has staked personal prestige in the bypolls, is keen to revive the party set up in the region to effectively take on the Scindia’s challenge.   Although Scindia’s relation with the BJP is still uneasy, the ruling party has started preparation for getting his supporters elected. Shivraj Singh Chouhan government’s fate hinges on outcome of the by-elections. The BJP, having 107 seats, needs to win at least nine seats to retain a majority in the 230-strong assembly. While the BJP has kicked off campaign for the by-elections with organising virtual rallies, the Congress is planning to come in an action mode from next week. After adjournment of the brief budget session which is slated to commence from July 20, Kamal Nath is planning to camp in Gwalior till the voting for 24 seats in the bypolls. The former chief minister has claimed that the Congress will win more than 20 out of 24 seats going to poll. AICC general secretary and MP in charge Mukul Wasnik is in Bhopal for the last two days. He is holding video calls with leaders of the Gwalior-Chambal region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-kamal-nath-plans-to-camp-in-scindia-bastion-for-bypolls-857835.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab police arrest alleged match-fixer Ravinder Dandiwal in connection with fake T20 match||Punjab police on Monday arrested alleged match-fixer Ravinder Dandiwal in connection with a T20 match played in Mohali district but streamed online as a game in Sri Lanka. The game held last month had caught the attention of BCCI’s Anti-Corruption Unit, the police and Sri Lanka Cricket. "Ravinder Dandiwal, who has emerged kingpin in the entire racket, was arrested on Monday,” Pal Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kharar, told PTI. He said that Dandiwal was arrested from Punjab. "He has been arrested in connection with ongoing investigations into the T20 match that was played, in which already two arrests have been made. "His role into the entire racket is being further probed," said Singh about Dandiwal, from whom police have seized some laptops, mobile phones and documents. Preliminary investigations reveal that Dandiwal, an original resident of Rajasthan, had organised fraudulent tournaments in the past as well, said Singh. Police had got vital clues about Dandiwal from the two other accused, Pankaj and Raju, arrested on Thursday. The ''Indian Express'' had reported on Friday that the game played on June 29 took place in Sawara village, 16 km from Chandigarh, but was streamed as a ''Uva T20 League'' match in Sri Lanka''s Badulla city, home of the Uva Province Cricket Association (UPCA). Both UPCA and Sri Lanka Cricket have denied their involvement in the league. While Punjab Police officials had earlier said an investigation is currently on to ascertain if a betting syndicate was involved, the BCCI had asserted that it is keeping an eye, but only to the extent of getting details of those involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-arrest-alleged-match-fixer-ravinder-dandiwal-in-connection-with-fake-t20-match-857840.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: BJP workers troll woman for discomfiting Scindia confidante||BJP workers trolled a woman using indecent language on social media after she discomfited water resources minister Tulsi Ram Silawat by asking how was he feeling after toppling ‘smoothly running’ Kamal Nath government, adding it will unnecessary cause waste of people’s money in by-elections. Tulsi Ram Silawat is considered closest ally of Scindia. He was among the 22 MLAs, who had flown to Bengaluru to ensure fall of the 15-month old Congress government. Although the Congress defectors are being pilloried on social media with epithets such as “traitors” and “betrayers” ever since their revolt caused fall of the government, this is the first time one of them has been confronted face-to-face with uncomfortable questions.     In a function at Indore, Upasana Sharma also confronted Silawat with the question as to why Jyotiraditya Scindia is raising questions on the farmer’s loan waiver whereas he used to tweet on this issue when the Congress was in power. Before leaving the Congress, Scindia had released a series of tweets asking then Chief Minister Kamal Nath as to why the government has failed to fulfil the election promise to the farmers of complete loan waiver.    Taken aback by the questions, Silawat took a while to compose himself and replied, “ the Congress was not fulfilling promises it made in the manifesto for the 2018 assembly election”. Some BJP workers tried to stop the woman but she remained defiant, saying she had every right to ask questions from her people’s representative as she is a voter.   Hours after the function, BJP workers started trolling the woman and abused her on social media. Some dubbed her a Congress agent. Upasana Sharma on Monday lodged a complaint with Indore police officers against the trolling. She told media persons that when she went to file a complaint, some police officers asked her who is she to ask question to a minister. She claimed that minister Silawat’s supporters made obscene comments against her in social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bjp-workers-troll-woman-for-discomfiting-scindia-confidante-857841.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Anti-CAA Protest: Delhi Police opposes political statements in pleadings before HC||Delhi Police on Monday opposed before Delhi High Court, the political statements made by petitioners in a matter arising out of its action against Jamia Milia Islamia University students and others during the anti-CAA-NPR-NRC protest. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta objected to "irresponsible pleadings" as "more of political statements made at the protest sites" in rejoinder affidavit filed by Nabila Hasan. Hasan alleged that the police were "ruthless" with the students and behaved as "common criminals". The petitioner also claimed that it was probable that the order to mercilessly beat up the students and break their bones came from the home minister. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked senior advocate Colin Gonsalves to decide if such statements can be removed. The counsel agreed to delete the lines. The court asked petitioners seeking a direction to set up a judicial commission, among others in their PILs, to frame issues for its adjudication and posted the matter for consideration on July 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-caa-protest-delhi-police-opposes-political-statements-in-pleadings-before-hc-857886.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Theft of holy book: Dera Sacha Sauda chief, three others booked||Jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and three others were named in a case relating to theft of the Sikh’s holy book Guru Granth Sahib. He was nominated two days after the arrest of seven Sirsa dera followers by a Punjab Police special investigation team probing the 2015 desecration of religious texts. They were held from Faridkot for their alleged involvement in the theft case. “We have nominated four more persons in the FIR,” Deputy Inspector General of Police (Jalandhar Range) Ranbir Singh Khatra, who is leading the SIT said on Monday. "One of them is Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and three others are the dera's national committee members," said Khatra. Khatra said the Dera Sacha Sauda chief was nominated in the FIR as a conspirator. The case pertaining to the theft of a ''bir'' (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib from a Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara on June 1, 2015 was registered at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot. The dera chief is currently lodged at the Rohtak’s Sunaria jail. In August 2017, he was sentenced to 20 years in jail for raping two women. A special CBI court in Panchkula had also sentenced him and three others to life imprisonment for the murder of a journalist over 16 years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/theft-of-holy-book-dera-sacha-sauda-chief-three-others-booked-857891.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||37-year-old Delhi journalist who tested Covid-19 positive jumps to death||A 37-year-old journalist, who was under treatment for Covid-19, allegedly jumped to his death from the fourth floor of the AIIMS on Monday afternoon. Tarun Sisodia, who was working with Dainik Bhaskar, took the extreme step at around 2 pm. He was admitted to AIIMS on June 24 and was believed to be under depression after he tested positive for Covid-19. "At around 1.55 pm, Sisodia ran out... Hospital attendants ran after him and tried to stop him. Sisodia ran to the fourth floor where he broke a windowpane and jumped out. He was immediately moved to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in Trauma Care Centre. He was intubated and resuscitation was tried but unfortunately, he succumbed to his injuries at 3.35 pm," an AIIMS statement said. According to the statement, he was making "significant recovery" from Covid-19 symptoms. He was stable on room air on Monday and was to be shifted to the general ward from the ICU. He had undergone surgery for frontal lobe meningioma (a type of brain tumour) at G B Pant hospital in March. While he was in AIIMS, the statement said, he was having "bouts of disorientation for which he was seen by a neurologist and psychiatrist and put on medication. The family members were regularly counselled regarding his condition".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/37-year-old-delhi-journalist-who-tested-covid-19-positive-jumps-to-death-857900.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM felicitates 1000th patient discharged from Covid-only Rajiv Gandhi hospital||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday felicitated a 57-year-old man who was the 1000th person to be discharged from a dedicated Covid-19 facility of the city government, officials said. The man (name withheld), a resident of Uttam Nagar, was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) on July 3 along with his wife who had also contracted Covid-19. "CM Kejriwal felicitated our 1000th patient to mark the milestone, and the recovered patient's wife was also present on the occasion," Director RGSSH, Dr B L Sherwal said. The chief minister also inaugurated the expanded ICU facility.  "The number of ICU beds for coronavirus patients has now been expanded from 45 to 200," he said. Besides, Kejriwal via video-conferencing facility, also exhorted Covid-19 patients who are recovering at the RGSSH to donate plasma once they fully recover, Sherwal said. RGSSH was one of the first government-run facilities to have been converted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Health Minister Satyendar Jain was last month admitted first at RGSSH for undergoing treatment for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-felicitates-1000th-patient-discharged-from-covid-only-rajiv-gandhi-hospital-857902.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Haryana Cabinet approves proposal to reserve 75% private jobs for its residents||As per a proposed ordinance cleared by the state cabinet on Monday, 75 percent of private-sector jobs in Haryana will be reserved for local candidates. The proposed move can have wider implications due to a large number of MNCs and Indian corporates being based in Gurgaon and other NCR cities falling within the state. The draft of the ordinance will be placed before the Council of Ministers in its next meeting. Providing 75 percent reservation in private sector jobs to the youth of the state was a key poll promise of Dushyant Chautala's Jannayak Janta Party, which is a coalition partner of the BJP. The cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, approved the proposal "for drafting Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Ordinance, 2020" to address the aspect of unemployment of the local population on a priority basis, an official statement said. "The draft of the Ordinance, that will be brought before the Council of Minister in its next meeting, will provide for 75 percent of the new employment to be given to local candidates for jobs having a salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in various privately managed companies, Societies, Trusts, Limited Liability Partnership Firms, partnership firms etc. situated in the State of Haryana," it said. However, the employers will have the option to recruit local candidates from one district to only 10 percent. Exemption clause shall also be provided if suitable local candidates are not available for a particular category of industry. "Availability of a suitable workforce locally would definitely enhance the efficiency of the industry/commercial establishment. The state government has also decided to give preference to local candidates in low-paid jobs as it is socially, economically and environmentally desirable and any such preference would be in the interests of the general public," the statement said. Speaking after the meeting, Chautala said, "Today is a historical day as now this would be mandatory for the industries or companies in the private sector to give 75 percent jobs to the Haryana youths." He said the BJP-JJP government is committed to employing the youth. The deputy chief minister said the employees getting monthly salary below Rs 50,000 would have to register on the portal of the labour department, which would be free of cost facility. He said the responsibility of registration would lie on the company concerned or job provider. Chautala said the companies which would not register on the portal, would face a penalty from Rs 25,000 to Rs one lakh. Under the Haryana State Employment to Local Candidates Act -2020, all private industries, units, firms and employment providers which would have more than 10 employees in its premises would be covered in this Act. These rules would apply to recruitment after the date of notification of this ordinance. The deputy CM said a domicile certificate would be mandatory for the candidate to take the benefit under this scheme, which would be implemented by the labour department. He said all those companies which would be covered under this Act would have to register the entire data of employees on the portal. Private companies would have to inform the labour department if they are unable to find the employees according to their requirement after which they would be permitted to give jobs to the youth belonging to other states. Earlier, the issue to provide 75 reservation to the youth of the state was discussed in a meeting of the state cabinet held in January. The deputy CM had then said that the matter would be referred to the Legal Remembrancer for an opinion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-cabinet-approves-proposal-to-reserve-75-private-jobs-for-its-residents-857906.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||11 more Covid-19 deaths in Haryana, 499 fresh cases push tally to 17,504||Haryana on Monday reported eleven more coronavirus deaths as 499 fresh cases took the total number of infections in the state to 17,504, officials said. Four fatalities were reported from Rohtak district, three from Faridabad, two from Sonipat, while one person died in the worst-hit Gurgaon district. Nuh reported its first Covid-19 death, according to the state health department's daily bulletin.        Of the 276 Covid-19 deaths in the state, 101 have been reported from Gurgaon while 95 people have died in Faridabad. These two districts, which fall in the National Capital Region, account for 10,706 of the total infections in the state. Among the districts which reported fresh cases were Faridabad (123), Gurgaon (109), Rohtak (104), Sonipat (82) and Nuh (13). The number of active cases in the state stands at 3,893 while 13,335 have been discharged after recovery. The state's recovery rate on Monday was 76.18 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-more-covid-19-deaths-in-haryana-499-fresh-cases-push-tally-to-17504-857910.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan reports five COVID-19 deaths, 524 new cases||Rajasthan reported five more Covid-19 deaths on Monday, taking their number to 461 as 524 fresh cases of the infection surfaced in the state. With this, the number of confirmed cases in the state rises to 20,688. While two deaths were reported from Ajmer, one fatality each was reported in Jaipur and Nagaur, besides the death of a patient from outside the state, officials said. Of the new cases reported, 80 are in Pali, 65 in Bharatpur, 58 in Jalore, 55 in Alwar, 47 in Jaipur, 28 in Ajmer, 26 in Bikaner, 25 each in Jodhpur and Barmer, 21 in Nagaur, 11 in Dholpur, 10 in Udaipur, besides cases in other districts of the state. The new cases include Pramod Sharma, who was arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau for claiming to be an agent of a senior police officer and accepting a bribe of Rs five lakh. All police officials who came in his contact have been quarantined, health department officials said here. There are 3,949 active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-reports-five-covid-19-deaths-524-new-cases-857918.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||On day 3, gangsters' properties worth Rs 2 cr attached: Noida Police||The Gautam Buddh Nagar Police on Monday continued its action against the regional mafia for a third day in a row, as it attached properties worth Rs 2 crore of four gangsters, officials said. The police has attached gangsters' properties worth Rs 13 crore in three days, the officials said. The clampdown on the mafia in western Uttar Pradesh started on Saturday in line with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's directives which came close on the heels of killing of eight policemen in Kanpur by henchmen of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey, they said. "On instructions of Police Commissioner Alok Singh, properties of four gangsters were attached on Monday. Overall properties, including vehicles worth Rs 2 crore were attached," Greater Noida DCP Rajesh Kumar Singh said. He said two land plots estimated worth Rs 50 lakh and a car worth Rs 12 lakh of Singhraj in Bilaspur were attached, five cars worth Rs 60 lakh of Satbir Bansal, four vehicles costing Rs 68 lakh of Sumit Bhati and one canter truck pegged worth Rs 10 lakh of Sundar Bhati were also attached. "The police action against the gangsters would continue in future also," DCP Singh said. The police had attached properties, both movable and immovable, of gangsters worth Rs 11 crore on Saturday and Sunday, according to officials. The crackdown is being carried out chiefly under Section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act, which allows attachment of illegal properties, in order to effectively curb gangsters, mafias and criminals and their associates, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/on-day-3-gangsters-properties-worth-rs-2-cr-attached-noida-police-857925.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Amarnath Yatra: Dedicated counters for Covid-19 sampling being set up in Kathua||The Jammu and Kashmir administration is setting up dedicated terminals and counters at Lakhanpur to ensure registration and medical sampling of all pilgrims on their arrival in the Union Territory for the upcoming annual Amarnath yatra, an official spokesman said on Monday. The decision was taken during a discussion on the entry mechanism of intending pilgrims at Lakhanpur along the Jammu-Pathankot highway between Jammu Divisional Commissioner Sanjeev Verma and the Kathua district administration, the spokesman said. He said Verma along with Inspector General of Police, Jammu, Mukesh Singh visited Lakhanpur to oversee the arrangements for the yatra to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir Himalayas later this month. This year, the annual yatra is being held in a restricted manner in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The spokesman said the divisional commissioner also called for making adequate arrangements for boarding and lodging facilities of pilgrims in case the yatra is halted due to any emergency. While reviewing security arrangements, Verma directed police to deploy the adequate number of personnel at Lakhanpur and at all important yatra points. Meanwhile, District Development Commissioner, Ramban, Nazim Zai Khan, also reviewed the arrangements, being put in place to ensure smooth conduct of the yatra, at a high-level meeting. Khan constituted various committees to monitor arrangements besides ensuring implementation of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the spokesman said. Keeping in view Covid-19 pandemic challenges, Khan directed 'langer' organisers and officers to allow only those 'sewadars' (workers) in their kitchens who have latest Covid-19 negative reports besides ensuring prohibition on the use of polythene bags and other such materials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarnath-yatra-dedicated-counters-for-covid-19-sampling-being-set-up-in-kathua-857928.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP chief asks party-ruled civic bodies to postpone anti-encroachment drive||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Monday asked the party-ruled municipal corporations to postpone anti-encroachment drive planned by them against street vendors in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In his letter to mayors of the BJP-ruled South, North and East Delhi Municipal Corporations, Gupta suggested for postponing the anti-encroachment drive till November-end. During the Covid-19 crisis, thousands of labourers and shopkeepers of weekly markets have lost their jobs. Many such people are now earning their livelihood by selling fruits, vegetables and other essential goods on the street, he said in his letter to the three mayors. "In the last few days, reports of strict action against such people have been published in some newspapers, which is not fair," he said. Employing people should be our priority in these times, Gupta said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi also calls for helping the poor. "I request the mayors to hold talks with the municipal commissioners and direct all types of anti-encroachment campaigns against street vendors and hawkers to be postponed till November 30. Where necessary, the action should also be done with full humanitarianism approach," he said. Gupta suggested that all the anti-encroachment campaigns should be postponed during the Covid-19 pandemic, except for the action against temporary encroachment and those ordered by the courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-chief-asks-party-ruled-civic-bodies-to-postpone-anti-encroachment-drive-857937.html
06-07-2020||North and Central||Not practical to plant 26 crore saplings in a day, UP govt lying: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday refuted the Uttar Pradesh government’s claim of planting 26 crore saplings across the state in a single day and accused it of making false claims and misleading the people. The saplings were planted across the state on Sunday as part of 'Van Mahotsav', an annual festival. According to the government's claim, nine crore saplings were planted in 2017, 15 crore in 2018, while in 2019, 22 crore saplings were planted, Yadav said. Now, the government is claiming that it has set a record of planting 26 crore saplings in 2020, Yadav said in a statement. The SP chief said that in a state which has a population of 23 crore, how is it practical to plant 26 crore saplings in a day. The government should give details of the land where these sapling have been planted, he said. Where and who will give the details of how many saplings were planted in the four years of BJP government and how many of them have been saved? he asked. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also accused the BJP of inventing lies everyday and said people are aware of what the reality is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-practical-to-plant-26-crore-saplings-in-a-day-up-govt-lying-akhilesh-yadav-857941.html
06-07-2020||Opinion||Jurgen Klopp and the art of leadership||“I’m the normal one,” beamed Jurgen Klopp, in his first press conference as manager of Liverpool FC in October 2015. In the four-and-a-half years since, Klopp’s tenure at one of the biggest clubs in the world has proven that the charismatic German is anything but.  Setting the stage The first thing Klopp did on arriving at Melwood, Liverpool’s training facility, in 2015 was to memorise the names of each member of the backroom staff, everyone from the kitman to the chefs to the janitor. Shortly afterwards, he scribbled the words “TERRIBLE” on the board at his first meeting with the players, adding with impish humour, “This is how teams will feel after facing us.” Even before he had taken charge of his inaugural game, Klopp had been out to a local pub, buying drinks for all the twenty Liverpool fans present there. It was clear from the start that the Klopp leadership mantra was based on cultivating relationships, bonds nurtured through humour, compassion, and the eagerness to help. “I have this helping syndrome, I really care about people and feel responsible for pretty much everything”, was how Klopp described his gregarious nature in an interview to The Guardian in 2018. At Liverpool, there was a lot to be responsible for. Since the beginning of the Premier League era, the Merseysiders had seen all the other elite teams of England lay claim to the league championship without managing a single title themselves, coming painstakingly close in 2009 and 2014. Be it the larger than life aura of Kenny Dalglish, the mercurial pragmatism of Rafa Benitez, the soft-spoken gentility of Roy Hodgson, or the impulsive intensity of Brendan Rodgers, no managerial style, it seemed, could quite catalyse the triumphant mentality at Anfield. But Klopp, who had turned the unheralded Mainz into one of Germany’s great underdogs before converting Borussia Dortmund into a household name across the globe, brought a compelling array of attributes that was soon to be epitomised by his revamped Liverpool unit. Relentlessness tempered with humility, passion mingled with professionalism, and a spirit of empathy reflected in sharing each other’s successes and failures were infused within Liverpool. The famous “Klopp hug” – distributed indiscriminately to players, support staff, and even to a journalist – encapsulated Klopp’s value system. Be it victory or defeat, promise or pain, there was the leader embracing his troops, absorbing their experiences into his own. The results soon demonstrated the Klopp effect. Liverpool made it to three finals under Klopp between 2016 and 2018, including a Champions League showpiece clash with Real Madrid in Kiev.  After the Reds lost out to Real and the entire squad had plunged into dismay, Klopp insisted on partying all night long, recognising how far they had come, before taking stock of how far they had to go. There was to be no brooding pessimism with Klopp around, his leadership was about making people happy, even on the most heartbreaking of occasions. Seizing the moment  “If Klopp wanted to run for German president, he would get elected. He would bring people together, lead the way,” believes Martin Quast, a German sportswriter. Unlike Jose Mourinho, who has thrived in the twin Machiavellian avatars of being loved and feared, or Pep Guardiola, whose obsession with his footballing principles has been both an ace and his Achilles’ heel, Klopp never lets his personality or his philosophy take precedence over his players. A darling of the media for his pithy observations and perennial smiles, Klopp is a rare leader who leads from the front without basking in the spotlight.  The need to “have strong people around you with a better knowledge in different departments than yourself” is something Klopp has regularly acknowledged, stressing that a manager cannot “act like you know everything.” The caution against over-centralisation even as he indulges in micro-management lets Klopp create a formidable network of associates, whom he trusts, listens to, and, who, in turn, do not hesitate to challenge him. A brilliant example of this is Liverpool sporting director Michael Edwards’ insistence to sign Egyptian forward Mohamed Salah from AS Roma in 2017, a move which Klopp did not agree with initially, but got around to approve, eventually. Salah proved Edwards right, netting 44 times in an incredible debut season for Liverpool. The fact that Liverpool overcame the might of Barcelona in the semi-final of last year’s Champions League in what is arguably the greatest comeback in modern football, stems in large part to the never die attitude that Klopp has instilled among his ranks. A barely believable victory over Barcelona was followed by a clinical display against Tottenham in Madrid, clinching a sixth European Cup for Liverpool, who had rediscovered how to own the big moments under Klopp.  But where most leaders might have been content to rest on their laurels, Klopp drove his juggernaut forward, with Liverpool trouncing all before them to seize this season’s Premier League. From having the nous to adapt his tactics throughout the season – especially with respect to the role of skipper Jordan Henderson – to keeping his “boys” motivated to retain their standards of excellence across a pandemic-ravaged campaign, Klopp ensured that Liverpool paid homage to their gilded history as one of England’s most decorated clubs by refusing to wilt under its weight. Carving a legacy  To lead in any sphere of life is no easy task. But to guide Liverpool – who are as much an international brand as they are a transcendental emotion – at a time when every single aspect of a leader is under scrutiny, requires resolve, resilience, even ruthlessness. It is arguably Klopp’s greatest strength that in being resolute, resilient, and ruthless, he has only come across as more likeable, more human.  In 1993, Sir Alex Ferguson won the first of his 13 Premier League titles for Manchester United, the first domestic championship for the club in 26 years. Liverpool’s Premier League coronation, their first top flight trophy since 1990, is, unquestionably, of equal significance, if not greater. To suggest that Klopp can match Ferguson’s legacy is, at this stage, wishful thinking, but there should be no doubt that the German has what it takes to build a dynasty of his own.  A dynasty that, unlike Ferguson’s, is not governed by an imperious manager, but is helmed by a leader who knows how to be in control by making everyone around him feel powerful. Mutual empowerment, after all, is what Klopp is all about, and given the state of the world right now, that is perhaps the best way to lead.   (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture, and sport. He is also a published poet who can be found sampling new cuisines, debating and cheering for FC Barcelona when he's not writing)   Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/jurgen-klopp-and-the-art-of-leadership-857641.html
06-07-2020||South||Puducherry reports 65 new coronavirus cases; overall tally breaches 1,000-mark||Puducherry on Monday reported 65 new Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally past the 1,000-mark, the Health department said. According to a medical bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 62 of the 63 patients were admitted to government hospitals here while the outlying regions of Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam recorded one fresh case each during the last 24 hours. The total number of coronavirus cases stood at 1,009 excluding two patients from Puducherry undergoing treatment in Villupuram in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. While the total number of active cases stood at 515, the number of patients treated and discharged was 480. Fatalities remained at 14 as no death was reported in the union territory in the last couple of days. Twenty-two patients were discharged after recovery in Puducherry.  The bulletin said the 65 fresh cases were identified at the end of tests of 502 samples. While eleven of the fresh cases were below 18 years, 46 patients were in the age group of 18 to 60 years and the rest above 60. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar told reporters that of the 20,778 samples tested, 19,324 returned negative and results of the remaining were awaited.  Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said some private medical colleges here had not come forward to cooperate with the government to test people for Covid-19. "Some of the private medical colleges had expressed orally that they were not interested in supplementing the efforts of the government for testing patients for the infection," the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-65-new-coronavirus-cases-overall-tally-breaches-1000-mark-857624.html
06-07-2020||South||AIADMK govt tried to 'hush up' excesses in father-son duo case: MDMK||The MDMK on Monday alleged that the AIADMK government tried to hide excesses by police personnel that led to the deaths of a father-son duo at Sathankulam in southern Tamil Nadu. The Vaiko-led party said the directives and guidance of the Madras High Court, in this case, have given confidence that the guilty would be punished. The Madurai Bench of the court intervened at the right time and gave directions to uphold justice when the "Tamil Nadu government, which must own up responsibility for the deaths of Jeyaraj and Bennix made efforts to conceal their brutal killings (a reference to alleged torture by some police personnel)," a resolution adopted at the district secretaries meeting of the MDMK said.  Rubbishing opposition accusations, both the state government and the AIADMK had all along assured stringent punishment in the case. While Law Minister C Ve Shanmugam has said the government would ensure the highest punishment to those responsible for the deaths, the AIADMK top leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami vowed to do justice. The MDMK meet, held via a virtual link was presided by party presidium chairman Tirupur Su Duraisamy and general secretary Vaiko addressed the office-bearers. Further, the party said such court directives brought confidence to the people. "Now, there is confidence that the guilty will be punished in the case under the guidance of the Madras High Court," the party said and lauded the intervention of the judiciary. The MDMK also appreciated the CB-CID for its quick pace of probe and arrest of five police personnel including inspector Sridhar and demanded tough punishment for the perpetrators of the alleged crime. On Covid-19, the party asked the government to further increase testing and urged the Centre to not allow private sector participation in the Railways. DMK leader M K Stalin had alleged that the brutal assault on the two men by police was "a result of the AIADMK government allowing them to take law into their own hands at a time when they have to ensure the safety of the public during the lockdown." Both the AIADMK and main opposition DMK had announced a solatium of Rs 25 lakh each to the family of victims. Bennix and his father Jeyaraj died on June 22 and 23 respectively in a government hospital in Tuticorin district after alleged torture at Sathankulam police station following their arrest on June 19. Following the outrage, Chief Minister K Palaniswami had announced a CBI probe. However, the High Court had tasked the CB-CID to handle the case till such time the central agency took over the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-govt-tried-to-hush-up-excesses-in-father-son-duo-case-mdmk-857652.html
06-07-2020||South||DRDO to set up research cell at IIT Hyderabad||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is going to establish a research cell at the Indian Institute of Technology here to meet the future defence technological requirements of the country. The DRDO - IITH Research Cell will undertake basic and applied research programmes in identified technology areas, a press release from the institute said on Monday. An MoU was signed during a virtual event organized at the DRDO DG-MSS Office in Hyderabad on July 3 in which officials from DRDO and IIT Hyderabad participated. Being established as an extension of the DRDO Research and Innovation Centre (RIC), Chennai, the research cell is envisaged to become a Centre of Excellence in conducting scientific and applied research in advanced technologies for defence, it said.coid Highlighting the role expected of DRDO-IITH Research Cell, G.Satheesh Reddy, Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman, DRDO, who addressed the event through video conference, said, the MoU is aimed at bringing together the capabilities of DRDO and IIT Hyderabad, in order to achieve greater heights in indigenous technology through collaborative research. "This DRDO-IITH Research Cell will ensure seamless execution of different projects between DRDO and IITH. IITH has a strong research base in advanced technologies, which will be strengthened for the growth of the country through this cell," Reddy said. The DRDO-IITH Research Cell will enable tapping knowledge resources in basic science and technology industries that are inter-disciplinary in nature and spread across multiple institutions, besides helping enhance the scientific and technological base of the country in critical defence technology areas. B.S.Murty, Director of the IIT Hyderabad, thanked the DRDO for choosing the institute for the initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/drdo-to-set-up-research-cell-at-iit-hyderabad-857666.html
06-07-2020||South||Sree Chitra develops indigenous EBAS to meet shortage of ventilators||The Sree Chitra Thirunal Institute for Medical Sciences & Technology (SCTIMST), has developed an indigenous easy-to-operate Emergency Breathing Assist System (EBAS) in an effort to meet the shortage of ventilators during the Covid-19 crisis. "The device is not a replacement for a mechanical ventilator, but works as a bridge for a few hours to a few days before conventional mechanical ventilation can be provided," a press release from the Institute of national importance said. The non-availability of sufficient number of ventilators to meet such an unprecedented situation meant that alternatives had to be found immediately to provide respiratory assistance to patients waiting for ventilators to be available in ICUs. "There was an unmet need to rapidly develop an easy-to-operate, emergency breathing assist device for such a scenario," she said. The device, which is compliant with national and international standards and guidelines, has been manufactured using components sourced from established supply chains within the country. A team of engineers -- Sarath S Nair, Vinod Kumar V and Nagesh D S -- from the department of Medical Device Engineering and Prof Thomas Koshy and Prof Manikantan from the department of Anaesthesia of SCTIMST developed the specifications and technology. The know-how and design of the EBAS were transferred to Wipro 3D in April this year for further joint development, the release said. The EBAS AirBridge provides positive pressure and volume-controlled ventilation through automatic, cyclical, inflation and deflation of a Bag Valve Mask (BVM) system. The essential parameters of ventilation such as tidal volume, breaths per minute, inspiration to expiration ratio can be adjusted by the operator. The device is portable, battery-operated, has low-running costs and is user friendly and does not need an intensive care specialist to operate it. It can also be used in small hospitals without central oxygen cylinders in emergency situations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sree-chitra-develops-indigenous-ebas-to-meet-shortage-of-ventilators-857677.html
06-07-2020||South||Woman commits suicide in Coimbatore Covid-19 quarantine ward||A 40-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide on Monday after she was isolated in a ward at a Women's College which has been turned into a Covid-19 care centre, police said. Mariammal was put on quarantine from June 30 after one of her relatives tested positive for Covid-19, the police said. She tested negative for the infection and was about to be discharged, but she was found hanging in the ward, they said. Police, who sent her body for a postmortem, are investigating into the reason for the suicide, even as a few relatives of hers alleged negligence by the district administration caused the death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-commits-suicide-in-coimbatore-covid-19-quarantine-ward-857682.html
06-07-2020||South||Only six Keralites, among those who tested positive for Covid-19 outside the state, contracted virus from Kerala||Amid criticisms that many Keralites were testing positive for the virus outside Kerala, the state health department has claimed that only six of them were found to have contracted the infection from the state. A report from the Kerala Health Department said that based on data from the National Centre for Disease Control, 110 persons who travelled from Kerala tested Covid-19 positive outside Kerala till June 30. However, on verification it was found that 90 of them did not contract the infection from Kerala. While eleven could not be traced, three were duplicate entries. The 'Report on Keralites tested positive outside Kerala' prepared by Kerala Health principal secretary Rajan Khobragade found that only six of those who tested positive for the virus outside the state, had possibilities of having contracted the virus from Kerala.  The report will be a relief for the Kerala government as the opposition Congress has been criticising the state government for trying to suppress the fact that many people travelling from Kerala were testing positive. The state government wanted to protect its image in its battle against the virus, the opposition had alleged. Most of the Keralites who tested Covid-19 positive were from Tamilnadu and Maharshtra, while two were from Karnataka. The highest number of Keralites tested in other states were from Kasargod district, 14, followed by ten each from Kannur, Kozhikode, Idukki and Kollam districts. The report also stated that health officials were further examining the six cases and doing a further analysis to see whether there were more cases during the same time period. The report also instructed more testing in those localities where these six cases came from, to see whether there were any active infection sources in those areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/only-six-keralites-among-those-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-outside-the-state-contracted-virus-from-kerala-857690.html
06-07-2020||South||New state-run hospital in Hyderabad ready to serve COVID-19 patients||The Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) here, a sports facility which has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital by the state government, is ready to serve patients, Health Minister E Rajender said on Monday. He also posted a video about the facilities in the hospital. "TIMS is ready to serve #Covid-19 patients," the minister tweeted. According to him, the bed capacity of the hospital is 1,224 and oxygen facility has been provided for 1,000 beds. The government has recruited staff to work in the hospital, he had said recently. Outpatient services at the hospital had already started. Meanwhile, official sources shared a video of a man who has been admitted to a hospital after he sought the ministers help over the phone at midnight. He had difficulty in breathing. The man said Rajender answered his call and directed his PA to help him and that he was admitted to a hospital. Rajender saved his life and he would be ever indebted to him, the man added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-state-run-hospital-in-hyderabad-ready-to-serve-covid-19-patients-857716.html
06-07-2020||South||IIT-M develops nano-coated filter for Covid-19 warriors||A nano-coated filter for healthcare workers treating Covid-19 patients has been developed by researchers at IIT-Madras. The filter's coating properties are optimised for efficient removal of sub-micron sized dust particles in the air, a press release from the institute said on Monday. The nano-coating can be positioned according to the need to enhance surface/depth filtration for healthcare workers or public responders, professor K Arul Prakash of the Department of Applied Mechanics, IIT-Madras, said. "The novel filter with multiple nano-coating can filter particles of the order of one micron size, which is a remarkable achievement," he was quoted as saying in the release. The use of the filter in face masks can enhance particle filtration efficiency. The filter can be used in respirator devices, air purification system in operation theatres, cabin air filters for the comfort and health of air passengers and air filters for armoured vehicle engines. The work of developing the filter has been funded by the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) and the nano-coated filter is in the process of being field tested in practical applications. Upon validation through field trials, the filter would be recommended for mass manufacture through industry collaborations, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-develops-nano-coated-filter-for-covid-19-warriors-857738.html
06-07-2020||South||Poor safety protocol, breakdown of emergency response led to LG Polymers gas leak: Panel||Poor safety protocols and total breakdown of the emergency response of procedures were the root causes of the May 7 styrene vapour leak in the LG Polymers unit at Visakhapatnam, in which 12 people were killed and hundreds fell sick, the High Powered Committee constituted by the Andhra Pradesh government said here on Monday. Citing multiple inadequacies on the part of LG, the HPC faulted the "slackness of management" for poor safety protocol, poor safety awareness and inadequate risk assessment response that aggravated the situation, a senior government official told PTI. The HPC, headed by Environment and Forests Special Chief Secretary Neerabh Kumar Prasad, submitted a 4000-page report to Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy here on Monday. "The accident occurred due to uncontrolled release of styrene vapour from the M6 tank at the LG plant, which qualifies as a major accident under the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989. Poor design of the tank, inadequate refrigeration and faulty cooling system, absence of circulation and mixing system, poor process safety management system and total breakdown of the emergency response of the procedures were the root causes of the accident," the HPC said in its report. The HPC also observed that the factory has "absolutely no stocks of inhibitors and negligible stocks of terminators, which could have been used to minimise the impact of the accident, if not neutralise it. "The temperature in the tank rose substantially. It was a tank with small vents. The rise in temperature caused the styrene liquid to eventually vaporize and increase the pressure," the HPC noted. The committee also observed that the alarm system (at the plant) was not used despite there being a total of 36 activation points, including one at the factory gate. Using the alarm could have alerted the people in the vicinity (from the impending danger), it added. Director of the Indian Institute of Petroleum (Dehradun) Anjan Ray, Director General of DGFASLI R K Elangovan, Regional Director of Central Pollution Control Board (Pune) Bharat Kumar Sharma, AP Special Chief Secretary (Industries) Karikal Valaven, AP Pollution Control Board member-secretary Vivek Yadav and others were part of the HPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/poor-safety-protocol-breakdown-of-emergency-response-led-to-lg-polymers-gas-leak-panel-857771.html
06-07-2020||South||Covid-19 tally crosses 20k mark in Andhra Pradesh; Toll mounts to 239||Andhra Pradesh coronavirus tally shot past the 20,000 mark on Monday as a record 1,322 cases were added in a day. This was the first time the fresh cases touched the four digit mark in the state as the tally rose to 20,019 while seven deaths saw the toll mounting to 239, a government bulletin said. The number of active cases now stood at 10,860 with the discharge of 8,920 patients so far. On Monday, Srikakulam district reported two deaths while Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Guntur, Anantapuramu and Chittoor reported one fresh death each. Of the 20,019 cases registered in the state till date, 17,365 were locals, 2,235 from other states and 419 foreign returnees, according to the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tally-crosses-20k-mark-in-andhra-pradesh-toll-mounts-to-239-857792.html
06-07-2020||South||LG Polymers ignored April 24 warning signal from styrene tank, says probe panel||LG Polymers management’s slackness, staff’s insufficient knowledge and poor safety protocols are among the core causes of the Vizag gas mishap, concluded a probe committee. The May 7 styrene leak from the LG Polymers India plant near Gopalapatnam in Visakhapatnam outskirts had killed 12 people and hospitalized 585 locals. The committee chaired by Neerabh Kumar Prasad, Andhra Pradesh’s special chief secretary (environment and forests) has on Monday submitted a voluminous report of 4000 pages on the May 7 incident to chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy. According to Prasad, in December 2019 a change was made in M6 styrene tank’s piping “which totally disrupted the circulation and mixing system.” “On 24 April, the tank gave initial signs of polymerization which if the company took as a warning signal, I think corrective actions could have been taken,” Prasad said after the report’s submission. The panel pinned the loss of life on the “total breakdown of emergency response procedures.” “Even after the accident, the company totally failed to activate its emergency sirens – none of the 36 siren points went off. It was a major lapse as it gave no warning to the people living in the vicinity.” The gas leak took place at about 3 AM, when people of the five surrounding villagers were in deep sleep. The report attributes the accident’s root cause to factors like poor design of the styrene tank - inadequate cooling, refrigeration systems, absence of circulation and mixing systems and inadequate risk assessment and response. The safety protocols during the lockdown period were exactly similar to time when the plant was in operation. No special steps were taken, Prasad notes. “Our committee has concluded that the Vizag leak is an uncontrolled styrene vapor release from the M6 tank at LG Polymers, which qualifies as a major accident under the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical (MSIHC) rules.” “In-depth root cause analysis shows that the temperature in tank M6 rose substantially and this rise in temperatures caused styrene liquid to vaporize. With increase in pressure in the tank with small vents, vapors released uncontrollably.”   The committee also pointed to the staff’s “insufficient knowledge of styrene chemical properties especially during storage under idle conditions.”   “We also concluded that if the company had carried sufficient stocks of TDM, NDM and other reaction terminating agents, it could have prevented the runaway reaction and second surge at night. Damage to the environment would have been much less,” the chairman said.   Prasad said that they have fixed the negligence of each and every entity and liabilities under various provisions of law. The panel has recommended factory safety boards at state and central levels to bring under their ambit all safety rules, laws to ensure utmost protection standards in the industrial units. Report should guide classification, relocation of hazardous industries, says CM Reddy CM Reddy said that, based on the report, industries should be classified into green/white categories or should be relocated far from residential areas “as people should not suffer.” The CMO statement was, however, not explicit on the government’s approach in the LG Polymers case, where locals are demanding its shift following the mishap. Reddy said that the report, to be placed in public domain, would serve as a guide on averting industrial mishaps. “All concerned departments should draw a foolproof action plan and protocols for industrial safety. If necessary, we will make required amendments to the existing laws to this effect.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lg-polymers-ignored-april-24-warning-signal-from-styrene-tank-says-probe-panel-857821.html
06-07-2020||South||Nexus of Kerala CM's office with accused in gold smuggling under diplomatic cover alleged||In a major embarrassment to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, who is suspected to be involved in gold smuggling attempt misusing diplomatic cover, was holding a senior post is an agency under the Information Technology department, which is a portfolio of the Chief Minister. The Customs (Preventive) wing probing the seizure of 30 kilogram gold at Thiruvananthapuram airport on Sunday had already held a former official of the embassy and on quizzing he gave details of the involvement of another former woman employee of the consulate. She is now working at the Space Park under the IT department. She was on contract job at Space Park and her service was terminated on Monday as the allegations surfaced. Meanwhile, the UAE consulate has maintained that none of its official were involved in the gold smuggling. It was learnt that Sarith, who earlier worked with the consulate as PRO, is now in the custody of customs officials, and Swapna Suresh, who earlier worked as secretary to the consul general, were involved in the smuggling.  BJP Kerala state president K Surendran alleged that the woman was having close nexus with the CM's office and an IAS officer in the CM's office was trying to save her in the case. He also alleged that the woman was given appointment in the agency under the IT department despite alerts of the police intelligence wing. Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that a CBI probe was required into the matter as it involved misusing of diplomatic channel. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the alleged nexus of the woman suspected in the gold smuggling with his office was baseless. The opposition parties were trying to link all allegations with his office. He however maintained that he was unaware of the woman's appointment in an agency under the IT department. Meanwhile, Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) in Kerala, Sumit Kumar, told DH that the involvement of some former employees of the UAE consulate in the smuggling was suspected and the probe was going on. Sources said that the suspected woman was now absconding. It was suspected that the racket had smuggled gold couple of times by misusing the diplomatic cover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nexus-of-kerala-cms-office-with-accused-in-gold-smuggling-under-diplomatic-cover-alleged-857845.html
06-07-2020||South||Anti-body tests to check community spread in Thiruvananthapuram; One more Covid-19 death in Kerala||In the wake of the spike in Covid-19 cases through local contact in Thiruvananthapuram, the state government decided to conduct anti-body tests at some of the localities where community spread was suspected. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that since many government employees from the state capital travel to various districts frequently, it was highly essential to prevent community spread in the city. Hence a triple lockdown was imposed in the state as soon as a spike in number of local spread was noticed. Meanwhile, one more person, identified as Yusuf Saifuddin, 62, who returned from Saudi Arabia recently died of Covid-19 in Kochi on Sunday night, taking the Covid-19 death toll in the state to 27. As many as 193 fresh Covid-19 cases were confirmed in the state on Monday, while 167 recovered from the infection. About 35 got infected through local contacts while the remaining were those who returned from abroad and other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/anti-body-tests-to-check-community-spread-in-thiruvananthapuram-one-more-covid-19-death-in-kerala-857864.html
06-07-2020||South||Kerala HC notice to govt on plea to assisting NRIs who lost jobs||The Kerala High Court issued notice to the centre and state governments on a petition seeking to set up a mechanism to assist NRI's who lost jobs abroad to seek due compensation. Lawyers Beyond Borders, an international network of legal experts, approached the court citing that many NRIs returning in Vande Bharat mission flights had lost jobs and were denied due wages and compensations by the overseas employers. Hence, a transitional justice mechanism need to be introduced immediately to address the grievances of repatriated workers, the petitioners urged through advocate P V Surendranath. The court maintained that the issue need to be addressed seriously. Notices were issued to External Affairs, Home and Labour ministries as well as Kerala government. The case is posted for July 16. A major chunk of the NRIs who returned were Keralites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-notice-to-govt-on-plea-to-assisting-nris-who-lost-jobs-857871.html
06-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu successfully conducts plasma therapy on 18 Covid-19 patients||Tamil Nadu has successfully performed plasma therapy on 18 Covid-19 patients at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here, a senior Health official said on Monday. The convalescent plasma clinical trial had begun here in May as per Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. The process involves infusing blood from recovered persons to those affected with coronavirus. Incidentally, the Delhi government had last week launched the country's first plasma bank. "There have been no complications so far. They are doing well," the official said about the 18 patients. The therapy has been possible due to the donation of plasma from patients who had recovered from Covid-19. Further trials would require plasma donation from the patients who have fully recovered from the virus, the official said. Sources said the authorities were in a predicament as there is still some apprehension among those who recovered in donating their plasma. Further, those with co-morbid health conditions cannot donate. "And those who meet the norms for donation could donate 14 days after testing negative for Covid-19," the official said. The donors, from all walks of life, were men aged between 30 and 50, and they were selected based on their health conditions. Tamil Nadu, which succeeded in the CPT, is hopeful of performing the therapy on more number of patients in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-successfully-conducts-plasma-therapy-on-18-covid-19-patients-857877.html
06-07-2020||South||Need to reform police to end custodial deaths: Santosh Hegde, former IPS officers||A group of eminent persons, including former Lokayukta justice Santosh Hegde and former IPS officers, have sought comprehensive police reforms, including an anti-torture law, to put an end to the saga of custodial deaths in the wake of the alleged custodial murder of a father and son in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi. Noting that lack of reforms has left the police in a colonial hangover, they said in a letter that proactive measures were needed to equip the police system to serve in a democratic country. This, they said, includes periodically fixed, intensive workshops, on a refresher basis to instruct station-house officers about their obligation to rigorously follow procedures so as to avoid custodial deaths resulting from “any form of torture, cruel or inhuman treatment whether it occurs during investigation, interrogation or otherwise.” The letter is signed by Srikumar, S T Ramesh and Rupak Kumar Dutta, who held the post of DG and IGP as well as former chairman of Karnataka Legislative Council B K Chandrashekar. There was a crying necessity for Parliament to enact an anti-torture legislation, it added. It called for stringent punishment of the police found guilty of such crimes and urged political leaders to refrain from protecting such officers. They said the Supreme Court’s directions to ensure implementation of preventive measures such as the duty to inform the kin or a friend of the arrestee about the time, place of arrest and venue of custody are rarelyfollowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/need-to-reform-police-to-end-custodial-deaths-santosh-hegde-former-ips-officers-857914.html
06-07-2020||South||Earthmover used again in Andhra Pradesh to move Covid-19 dead body||Another incident of using an earthmover to cremate a dead body of a Covid-19 patient surfaced in Andhra Pradesh, this time from Tirupati. The deceased is an elderly man who succumbed on Sunday night. TDP leader Nara Lokesh tweeted the video, questioning if the YSRCP government expressing shock. Tirupati municipal corporation officials said the JCB was used with the consent of family members as the man was about 180 kgs and the sanitary staff were exhausted moving his body to three places since morning. “His heavy body with broad shoulders was not fitting in the electric furnace at Govindadhamam. As the body was being moved out, the men could not manage, and it fell down. As the covers came off, it was taken to SVIMS and later sent to the Harishchandra cremation ground. The JCB was basically used to dig a 14 feet pit as required for the burial of a Covid-19 body,” said P S Girisha, Tirupati municipal commissioner. “The body had become very difficult for the 5-6 men to lift. We should have hired 10-20 more men, but the locals were gathering and protesting the Covid-19 cremation there. So, with the family’s consent we used the JCB for about two meters,” Girisha said. Ten days ago, the body of a Covid-19 positive man was taken for cremation in an earthmover in Palasa of Srikakulam. The district collector had suspended the town’s municipal commissioner and local sanitary inspector “for acting in haste.” In another such incident around the same time in the same district, a Covid-19 woman’s body was transported in a tractor in Sompeta. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has on Monday recorded its highest single-day addition of 1322 new cases, taking the total to 20,019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/earthmover-used-again-in-andhra-pradesh-to-move-covid-19-dead-body-857915.html
06-07-2020||South||Puducherry govt to buy more Covid-19 equipment for hospitals: CM||The Puducherry government on Monday decided to procure 5,000 more RT-PCR equipment to strengthen the infrastructure in a government-run hospital here and also in the government hospitals in the outlying regions. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister V Narayanasamy who reviewed the facilities in government hospitals in view of the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. It was also decided to install thermal scanners in all the primary health centres, apart from the 5,000 RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) equipment for the hospitals. Representatives of private medical college took part in the meeting, as the government is keen to associate them with its efforts to combat the pandemic, a press release said. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, Health Secretary T Arun and Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the Union Territory, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-govt-to-buy-more-covid-19-equipment-for-hospitals-cm-857929.html
06-07-2020||South||Tamil scholar Mannar Mannan passes away||Tamil scholar Mannar Mannan, son of late revolutionary poet 'Pavendhar' Bharathidasan, passed away on Monday due to age-related ailments, family sources said. Mannar Mannan was 91. He was former president of the Puducherry Tamizh Sangam. Chief Minister V Narayanasamy condoled the death of Mannan whose original name was Gopathy. The Chief Minister, in a message to the bereaved, said the territorial government conferred on Mannan the title 'Tamil Maamani' for his contribution to Tamil literature. I am saddened by the demise of Shri Mannar Mannan s/o Great revolutionary poet Bharathi Dasan Mannar Mannan was awarded Tamil Mamani by Govt of Puduchery He was also Tamil scholar held the position of President of Tamil sangam May his soul rest in peace Mannan is survived by three sons and a daughter. He was also a staff of Puducherry station of All India Radio since the establishment of the station in 1968.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-scholar-mannar-mannan-passes-away-857946.html
06-07-2020||South||'Bob-cut Sengamalam', the adorable elephant that will make your day||An elephant from Sri Vidya Rajagopalaswamy temple in Mannargudi, Tamil Nadu, has become the latest internet sensation as photos of her adorable bob haircut go viral. Affectionately named as “Bob-cut Sengamalam”, the elephant’s name literally translates to “red lotus”.  The elephant’s unique story first generated intense social media traction when Indian Forest Services (IFS) officer Sudha Ramen tweeted her photos. Her tweet, which has received over 22 thousand likes, saw interesting replies where people recalled instances when they met Sengamalam.    The adorable animal’s hair is washed thrice during the summer with an anti-dandruff shampoo and at least, once during other seasons. Special care is taken to clean her hair, using a brush.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bob-cut-sengamalam-the-adorable-elephant-that-will-make-your-day-857960.html
06-07-2020||State||Karnataka govt talks tough against denial of Covid-19 treatment||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said criminal proceedings will be initiated against hospitals refusing to treat Covid-19 patients, while warning of a surge in cases in the coming days. There have been instances of Covid-19 patients being denied treatment by hospitals. Patients can consult a 24x7 helpline ‘1912’ for any such complaints, he said. Sudhakar also said private hospitals had handed over only 117 of the 2,734 beds promised by them to the government. “As per our information, a total of 898 Covid patients are admitted at private hospitals. The managements should stick to their word and allot the beds promised to the government,” he said. The minister said that cases will rise in the coming days, but asked people not to panic.  “More people are killed due to tuberculosis every year,” he said, adding that the situation was under control in Bengaluru. A total of 400 ambulances are deployed in Bengaluru to transport Covid-19 patients alone, he said. Sudhakar said that 80 state-run labs were testing samples in Karnataka. “Private labs have not taken any testing load. Rules will be framed soon for private labs to test the samples sent by the government,” he said. Senior citizens With cases on the rise in Bengaluru, the government is mulling legislation on quarantining senior citizens above 60 years of age in their homes. Sudhakar said that it is a challenge to prevent transmission of the disease to senior citizens.“We are discussing with experts about the issue and will take a call soon,” he said. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai promised more facilities for Covid-19 patients in the coming days. “We need 500 more ambulances. Two ambulances are deputed per ward now, which has to be increased to four per ward,” he said. On reports of people leaving Bengaluru over lockdown rumours, Bommai said that travel will increase cases in rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-talks-tough-against-denial-of-covid-19-treatment-857506.html
06-07-2020||State||Covid-19: In U-turn, Karnataka minister asks tourists to defer plans||Barely a month after inviting travellers to visit various destinations in Karnataka, Tourism Minister C T Ravi has appealed to people, especially those travelling from Bengaluru, not to flock to districts like Chikkamagaluru and adjoining hilly districts so as to avoid possible clashes with locals who are wary of the Covid-19 situation. During Unlock 1.0, the tourism industry had gained momentum with package tours and eco-tourism activities, along with the onset of monsoon. As a result, hilly areas in Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu and Hassan attracted tourists from various parts of the state, especially from Bengaluru. A large number of people thronged Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu during the weekends. However, local activists stopped tourist vehicles at the entrance of towns, forcing many to return or divert. In one of the videos widely circulated on social media, a man is seen shouting at tourists, "You should not come here for recreation and increase the risk of infection. The government has asked citizens to stay at home and you people are going all around without any worry for life." Following the increase in footfall, Chikkamagaluru district administration issued an advisory to people to cancel their tour plans. Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham noted that many were visiting Mullayyana Giri, Baba Budangiri and Seethalayyana Giri areas. Acknowledging the problem, Minister C T Ravi told DH that he can only request Bengalureans not to travel for the next 15-20 days to avoid clashes with the natives. "Last weekend alone, Mullayyana Giri saw about 7,000 vehicles. It was a coincidence that 16 positive cases were reported in the district during the same time," he said. Navin Poonachha of Island Homestay and a member of the Coorg Homestay Association said that they have decided to close their doors for travellers till July end. “Apart from paying our employees, we have to also maintain infrastructure and cleanliness without any income. Though the homestay business is facing financial losses due to the pandemic, the members of the association have collectively decided to shut down homestays in the best interest of the district,” Poonacha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-in-u-turn-karnataka-minister-asks-tourists-to-defer-plans-857508.html
06-07-2020||State||Karnataka's Kodagu sees first Covid-19 fatality||The man hailing from Dandinapete in Kushalnagara was admitted to the designated Covid hospital in Madikeri on July 4 and died on the same day. His throat swabs samples tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday.  He was suffering from diabetes and high BP for the last 10 years.  DC Annies Kanmani Joy said that the last rites were performed as per the guidelines issued by the government.  All the precautionary measures have been taken during last rites. Public need not panic, she appealed in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-kodagu-sees-first-covid-19-fatality-857589.html
06-07-2020||State||Siddaramaiah's allegations of misappropriation unnecessary: Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday termed Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah's allegations of misappropriation against his government in the purchase of Covid-19 equipment as "unnecessary" and asked him to examine all the documents personally. He said if there were any shortcomings, strict action will be taken against officials or whoever is involved. "Let Siddaramaiah come and have a look at the figures, our officials will give him all the documents. As the leader of the opposition, let him personally examine everything," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters after paying tributes to former Deputy Prime Minister Babu Jagjivan Ram on his death anniversary, he said, "we will rectify if there are any shortcomings and strict action will be taken against officials or whoever it is." "But, without having any documents unnecessarily Siddaramaiah has been making such allegations, I had not reacted so far. Since you asked I'm telling him, as the Leader of Opposition come and sit in Vidhana Soudha (state secretariat), examine all the documents and give appropriate suggestions," the chief minister added.  Siddaramaiah on Friday had alleged misappropriation on the part of the Karnataka government in the purchase of equipment for Covid-19 treatment and demanded an inquiry into it. Stating that prima facie it appeared that the government has paid more than the market price, the former Chief Minister had said, "the government has spent about Rs 3,000 crore. Of this, there are irregularities to the tune of Rs 2,200 crore in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment." Stating that his government was taking all the precautionary measures to control the spread of Covid-19 in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa said "we have already arranged for more than 450 ambulances, there is no need to worry." "We have to live with this pandemic, so if the citizens of Bengaluru maintain social distance and cooperate with the government we can control the spread, there is no other way. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also said the same thing," he added. Appealing to the people to cooperate with the government by maintaining caution in the backdrop of a spike in the number of cases in the city, the Chief Minister said, "your life is important, we are taking all measures like arranging for beds at the hospitals among others. We will see to it that there is no shortage of anything."  As of July 5 evening, cumulatively 23,474 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 372 deaths and 9,847 discharges. Of these 9,580 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. A whopping 1,235 of the 1,925 fresh cases reported on Sunday were from the state capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiahs-allegations-of-misappropriation-unnecessary-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-857644.html
06-07-2020||State||Two more die of Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada||With two more deaths related to Covid-19 on Monday (July 6), Dakshina Kannada recorded a total of 24 deaths so far. A 52-year-old man from Kuthar on the outskirts of Mangaluru was admitted to designated Covid Wenlock Hospital for treatment and succumbed to the virus after failing to respond to the treatment. Another 62-year-old man from Ullal who was tested positive was undergoing treatment at a private hospital and died on Monday, said sources in the health department. Dakshina Kannada has recorded 10 deaths related to Coronavirus in the last six days alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-more-die-of-covid-19-in-dakshina-kannada-857670.html
06-07-2020||State||Diploma exams cancelled||The Diploma semester exams scheduled to be held between July 15 and August 5 have been cancelled. In a circular, the Higher Education Department said further dates will be announced later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/diploma-exams-cancelled-857919.html
06-07-2020||State||Govt launches DBT scheme for weavers||The state government on Monday launched a Rs.10.96-cr direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme to provide financial assistance for handloom weavers. The scheme is named “Nekara Sammana Yojane.” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who flagged off the scheme, said in the first phase, the financial assistance would reach 19,744 weavers. As per the fourth All India Handloom Census, there are 54,789 handloom weavers in Karnataka. The financial assistance for the rest of them would be credited in a phased manner, he said. As per the scheme, each weaver will get an assistance of Rs 2,000 per year. The scheme will apply to all those employed in silk, cotton and wool handlooms and related work. That apart, a one-time financial assistance of Rs 2,000 will be given to 1.25 lakh workers engaged in powerlooms, too.  However, speaking to DH, Akhila Karnataka Kaimagga Nekarara Sangha vice president Vittappa Gorantli said the government’s move would not help the weavers in any way. “An amount of Rs 2,000 per annum would mean Rs 5 per day. How will this help anyone? Instead, the government should spend time creating a platform for these weavers to sell their products. That will be of more use than financial schemes like this, which do not translate into any aid for the betterment of their lives,” hesaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-launches-dbt-scheme-for-weavers-857921.html
06-07-2020||State||Man ends life over Covid monetary loss||A 29-year-old man reportedly under financial stress due to Covid-19 restrictions ended his life in the city on Monday. The deceased was identified as Amith Kumar, a resident of Gopala in the city. He was a partner in a private travel agency. Family sources said he had suffered severe financial loss since March following lockdown and was finding it difficult to lead life. Tunga Nagar police have registereda case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-ends-life-over-covid-monetary-loss-857923.html
06-07-2020||State||HC takes up suo motu case on bed shortage, costly ICUs||The Karnataka High Court on Monday took suo motu cognisance of the complaints of non-availability of beds and exorbitant price slabs fixed for private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients.  A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy took cognisance of letters by the Advocates Association of Bengaluru (AAB). The letter stated that those testing positive for Covid-19 are finding it difficult to find beds. “There are issues raised about the manner in which the BBMP is dealing with the Covid-19 patients. There is also another letter raising issues regarding the charges levied on patients, especially when they are required to be admitted to the ICU. We direct the registrar to initiate suo motu writ petition on these issues, by formally filing the petition by making the state government, the central government and the BBMP as parties,’’ the bench ordered. The letter by the AAB stated that the package rates prescribed under government order dated June 23, 2020, was exorbitant and appears as though it was fixed for the benefit of the hospitals and not patients. It stated that the fixing of exorbitant rates was because of the failure of the state government to suitably equip itself to tackle the pandemic. “The package rate ceiling for Covid-19 patients directly admitted at private hospitals is fixed at a very, very high rate, making it unaffordable for the middle class. This appears to be made to benefit the hospitals rather than the patients who are in distress. (The rate for) isolation, ICU without a ventilator is fixed at Rs 15,000 and the hospital can claim it to be a single room and charge 25% extra, which brings it to almost Rs 20,000,’’ the letter stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-takes-up-suo-motu-case-on-bed-shortage-costly-icus-857924.html
06-07-2020||State||Govt freezes direct recruitment as 'economy' measure||The B S Yediyurappa administration has put direct recruitment on hold as an ‘economy’ measure to cut costs even as the state government faces severe financial difficulty in the wake of the Covid-19pandemic. In a circular issued on Monday, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) I S N Prasad said direct recruitment to all posts, including backlogs and the Kalyana Karnataka cadre, have been put on hold for the 2020-21 financial year until further orders. “This order applies to even those posts to which recruitment approved by the finance department is in various stages.” The circular stated that it was necessary to “mobilise resources” to bring the financial situation to normalcy in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “For this, it is necessary to prune government expenditure,” the circular, which mentioned that it had Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s approval, said. When contacted, Prasad said, “We intend to do this only for (the) current year.” The circular pertains to new posts or those that are being freshly filled up, headded. During the pandemic, there were plans by the Health and Family Welfare department to directly recruit some 1,900 doctors, and rules were also framed for the purpose. The freeze is likely to affect this as Finance department has issued the order to all government departments. The state government was walking a tight rope in terms of finances even before the pandemic. Yediyurappa had conceded in his budget speech that Karnataka was facing “unprecedented” economic difficulties after state’s allocation in share of central taxes was reduced. The effect became more pronounced as economy nosedived during the lockdown, with revenue sources drying up, adding to the governments’woes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-freezes-direct-recruitment-as-economy-measure-857945.html
06-07-2020||State||Give 2 days’ pay to pvt school teachers, minister urges govt teachers||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has requested the government school teachers to donate their two days' salary to help private school teachers who are in distress during the pandemic. Kumar made a request for the same at a meeting with members of the government school teachers' association. However, the association members are yet to discuss the matter and come to a decision. Even if the government school teachers (high school and primary) donate their one day's salary, it will come up to Rs 40 crore. Considering the requests from private school teachers seeking financial support from the government and demanding for the release of a package, the minister made the appeal to the government school teachers as the government itself is in a financial crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/give-2-days-pay-to-pvt-school-teachers-minister-urges-govt-teachers-857947.html
06-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Covid-19 cases on the rise; 1,843 new infections; 981 in Bengaluru||Karnataka reported 1,843 Covid-19 cases on Monday with Bengaluru accounting for 981 of them. This takes the total number of Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru to 10,561. The city is currently grappling with 8,860 active Covid-19 cases. The contacts of a majority of the cases reported in Bengaluru are yet to be traced. Some cases in Bengaluru were patients who reported to hospitals with symptoms of Influenza-like-Illness (ILI). Elsewhere, 99 new cases were reported in Ballari district. 81 cases were reported in Uttara Kannada, 68 in Bengaluru Rural, 56 in Dharwad, 53 in Kalaburagi and 34 in Dakshina Kannada. The state reported 30 deaths, including 10 patients in Bengaluru. Eight deaths were reported in Bidar district. As many as 680 patients infected with the virus recovered on Monday, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 10,527. There are currently 14,385 active cases in the state. It has reported 25,317 cases so far. The state tested 15,880 samples on Monday.  In all, 279 patients are currently in the ICU out of which 166 are in Bengaluru alone. Among the 30 fatalities reported on Monday, 10 are from Bengaluru Urban and the other 20 are from Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Ballari, Mysuru, Bidar, Tumakuru, Chikkabalapur, Bagalakot, Hassan and Kodagu. While two of them died at their residence on June 21 and June 30, four were brought dead on June 25, 28, 29, and July 2. Meanwhile, in the past 24 hours alone, many breached home quarantine. According to the state Covid-19 war room, among these, 61 were sent to home quarantine, 14 FIRs were filed and 9,588 were given a warning. In Bengaluru Urban and BBMP limits alone, 7,659 people were warned. Five were sent to institutional quarantine in Bengaluru sRural. According to the state war room report for Sunday released in the wee hours of Monday, 9,352 cases are still under investigation in the state. In all, 6,903 have a domestic travel history, 4,293 have a contact history, 1,900 ILI cases are under investigation, 577 have an international travel history and 449 SARI cases are under investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-covid-19-cases-on-the-rise-1843-new-infections-981-in-bengaluru-857950.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Landslide death: Rs 5 lakh distributed to victims' family||District-in-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Monday (July 6) handed over Rs 5 lakh each to the family of two children died after being buried under 30-foot debris following a landslide at Kaikamba-Banglagudde located on the outskirts of Mangaluru city on Sunday. He said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa condoling the incident had announced ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the victims. DC Sindhu B Rupesh, MLA Umanath Kotian accompanied the minister to the house of the victims. In the incident, Safwan (16) and Sahala (10) had died. Two houses were completely damaged and 14 houses are facing the threat. After four hours of operation, the NDRF team had succeeded in extricating the bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/landslide-death-rs-5-lakh-distributed-to-victims-family-857683.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt: No institutional quarantine for Maharashtra returnees, home quarantine for 14 days||Further modifying its Covid-19 quarantine norms, the Karnataka government on Monday exempted those travelling to the state from Maharashtra from the mandatory seven days of institutional quarantine. From now on those travelling to Karnataka from Maharashtra, like people coming from other states, will have to undergo 14 days of home quarantine. "Persons coming from other states to Karnataka, including Maharashtra, shall be placed in 14-days Home Quarantine," an order by Principal Secretary Revenue Department (Disaster Management) and Member Secretary, State Executive Committee N Manjunatha Prasad said. It said that other conditions as specified in the earlier order and standard operating procedure issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare shall continue to be in force until further orders. Till now those coming from Maharashtra had to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine, followed by seven days of home quarantine. Changing its quarantine rules the government had recently exempted those travelling to the state from Tamil Nadu and Delhi from three days of institutional quarantine and had said they will have to go for 14 days home quarantine like those travelling from other states. During last month returnees from Maharashtra had immensely contributed to the spike in the number of cases in Karnataka, which now has cumulatively 23,474 positive including 372 deaths and 9,847 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-no-institutional-quarantine-for-maharashtra-returnees-home-quarantine-for-14-days-857699.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sumalatha Ambareesh tests positive for coronavirus||Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, who has starred in over 220 films and was married to late actor-turned-politician Ambareesh, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.  She detailed about her discomfort, which she had been experiencing since Saturday, and reassured well-wishers that she would be okay in a Facebook post.  She went on to inform people that those who had been in contact with her over the past few days, their details have already been shared with the necessary government authority. She has still urged people, who met her and are showing symptoms, to get tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sumalatha-ambareesh-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-857832.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||At vanguard of waste collection, but hardly guarded against disease||Every other day, sharp at 7 am, Gangamma, 56, arrives in a bright yellow garbage tipper, whistling to get the attention of residents. She visits over 250 houses in a ward of the BBMP to collect waste.   Soon, she is knee-deep in plastic bags filled with garbage, wearing a cloth glove on her one hand and no gumboots. The residents on her route seldom segregate their waste. Normally, this kind of behaviour would annoy her, but now, during a pandemic, as face masks continue to appear in the mix, it terrifies her. “I’ve been getting masks from the time Covid-19 cases started appearing in March but now...” she trails off. Well now, just a kilometre from where Gangamma stands, an area has been barricaded as some people have tested positive there and she is terrified that she is receiving contaminated waste, and the masks.  Her concern is not new. Mansoor Gouse, 37, who picks waste from another ward in Bengaluru says there is no way to know whether the trash is contaminated or not and in a tonne of garbage, it is routine to find close to 400 disposable masks.  A passionate advocate for solid waste management, he has been making and sharing videos on social media, urging citizens to use reusable cotton masks.  Although he has not received protective equipment from the BBMP, Hasiru Dala, an NGO, has been providing him with masks, gloves and sanitisers. Gangamma has not been fortunate. Like many workers in waste management, she works under a contractor. She received a disposable mask once, in May, which she has been washing and using. When it fell apart, she had to buy one herself, but could not buy gloves. Gloves and masks are basic protective gear that many pourakarmikas are yet to receive, but even these might not provide them with full protection or the mobility they desire. Twenty-three pourakarmikas tested positive for the coronavirus recently in random testing. The results scare Gangamma, but she has little choice.  To add to her woes, Gangamma says she has not been paid for three months.  BBMP Special commissioner Randeep D said the BBMP has decided to issue one more round of more effective protective gear. “These will be higher quality gloves, masks and face shields. Some contractors have also been penalised for not providing protective gear to the garbage collectors. No decision has been taken yet on distributing full body PPE,” he said. Gangamma sums up her situation thus, “My life did not matter then (before the pandemic) and it does not matter now.” (Some names have been changed for their security and to protect their privacy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-vanguard-of-waste-collection-but-hardly-guarded-against-disease-857863.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Amidst Covid-19 scare, curbs on holding weddings with gatherings in two Karnataka districts||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol on Monday asked the Kalaburagi and Bagalkot district administrations not to permit weddings with gatherings as it could lead to the spread of the virus and instead hold it at the sub-registrar offices concerned. Karjol is also the in-charge minister of both the districts. In a note to the Deputy Commissioners of both the districts dated July 5, he said marriage can be allowed to take place at the sub-registrar's offices instead. He said despite the government taking several measures, coronavirus could not be controlled which is worrisome. Besides, it has to come to notice that those who attended wedding functions have been infected by the virus. Therefore, he said, permission should hereafter not be given to organise wedding functions with gatherings, instead they can be allowed to take place at sub-registrar's offices, he said, adding that media releases should be issued to this effect. The government, in its guidelines earlier, had said marriages can be permitted by ensuring social distancing, capping the number of guests at 50 and strict compliance with all other guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amidst-covid-19-scare-curbs-on-holding-weddings-with-gatherings-in-two-karnataka-districts-857869.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two superspreader events prompt govt to ban weddings in Bagalkot||The district administration on Monday banned wedding functions at public places. This decision follows after more than 60 people in the district have tested positive for Covid-19 after attending two weddings in a span of 3 weeks. As many as 12 members of an Ilkal family have been admitted to Bagalkot Covid hospital late on Sunday night after their throat swab samples returned positive for the virus. They are believed to have contracted the virus from a man from Siruguppa, Ballari district, who'd attended the wedding in Ilkal recently. Days later, the Siruguppa man succumbed to the virus. The taluk administration has initiated efforts to track the contacts. So far, 42 contacts have been quarantined. Hundreds of people had attended the wedding, it is said. The district administration had instructed the officials to lodge a complaint against the concerned over violation of Covid-19 guidelines. More than 30 people of a marriage party, including the groom, had contracted the virus late last month. The wedding of an excise department staffer in Haveri, had taken place at Bagalkot on June 12 and reception at his native Kaladagi. The groom tested positive on June 17 while those who attended the functions tested positive subsequently. The groom and his family had been booked under the Disaster Management Act 2005 for violating the Covid-19 rules. The district also saw 15 people, mostly women, contracted the Covid-19 after attending a baby shower in Badami taluk, and 20 people who had taken part in a funeral in Bagalkot test positive. Ban holds good for K'buragi too Following a surge in Covid-19 cases linked to the weddings and other public functions, District Minister Govind Karjol wrote to the district administration of Bagalkot and Kalaburagi to ban weddings at public places in both the districts. Bagalkot Deputy Commissioner Capt K Rajendra told reporters, "Marriages at public places and other public functions have been banned. However, weddings can be solemnised at Revenue department registrar's office till further notice. Only 20 people will be allowed for funerals."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-superspreader-events-prompt-govt-to-ban-weddings-in-bagalkot-857876.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka plans to give risk allowance to frontline health workers fighting Covid-19||Karnataka government is considering providing risk allowance to frontline healthcare workers fighting against Covid-19, state Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Monday. He said the government was also considering awarding five marks in the NEET exam to medical students involved in Covid-19 related work. The government is thinking of doubling the salary of 'D' Group workers and providing the risk allowance to all frontline workers, Sudhakar was quoted as saying in a press release. He said a final decision would be taken in this regard in 2-3 days. "Our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and all coronavirus warriors have been working tirelessly for the past 120 days. Naturally, this has taken a toll both physically and mentally," he said. "Our coronavirus warriors are vulnerable to infection and the additional allowance is a small step towards boosting their morale," the Minister said. Noting that about 2,000 medical students who are appearing for PG exams would be utilised for Covid-19 related work, he said. Besides, the final year nursing students and MBBS students would be deployed at the virus care centres, he said. Stating that the government has been taking strict measures to control the rising number of cases, Sudhakar said a target has been set to increase testing gradually and 15,000 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours. "A nodal officer has been appointed to oversee testing," he added. Asserting that the government is working honestly to control the spread of transmission and to treat infected persons, the Minister urged the media not to create panic but provide correct information to the people. Misinformation and fake news should be fought with correct information, he said adding that the fight against Covid-19 can only be won by the cooperation of people with the government, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-plans-to-give-risk-allowance-to-frontline-health-workers-fighting-covid-19-857887.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt freezes direct recruitment as 'economy' measure||The B S Yediyurappa administration has put direct recruitment on hold as an ‘economy’ measure to cut costs even as the state government faces severe financial difficulty in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a circular issued on Monday, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) I S N Prasad said direct recruitment to all posts, including backlogs and the Kalyana Karnataka cadre, have been put on hold for the 2020-21 financial year until further orders. “This order applies to even those posts to which recruitment approved by the finance department is in various stages.” The circular stated that it was necessary to “mobilise resources” to bring the financial situation to normalcy in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “For this, it is necessary to prune government expenditure,” the circular, which mentioned that it had Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s approval, said. When contacted, Prasad said, “We intend to do this only for (the) current year.” The circular pertains to new posts or those that are being freshly filled up, headded. During the pandemic, there were plans by the Health and Family Welfare department to directly recruit some 1,900 doctors, and rules were also framed for the purpose. The freeze is likely to affect this as Finance department has issued the order to all government departments. The state government was walking a tight rope in terms of finances even before the pandemic. Yediyurappa had conceded in his budget speech that Karnataka was facing “unprecedented” economic difficulties after state’s allocation in share of central taxes was reduced. The effect became more pronounced as economy nosedived during the lockdown, with revenue sources drying up, adding to the governments’ woes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-freezes-direct-recruitment-as-economy-measure-857903.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Random testing: 24.21% of samples test positive in Ullal||As much as 24.21% of  random throat swab samples collected in three areas in Ullal City Municipal Council (CMC) limits had tested positive for Covid 19, sparking fears of community transmission in the area.  Following a sudden spurt in cases in Ullal CMC limits, local MLA U T Khader had urged district administration to collect random samples in the affected areas. Accordingly, random samples were collected by holding camps near Ullal CMC office, Kodi and Mastikatte Azad Nagar. A total of 170 samples were collected in a camp at Ullal CMC, 83 at Kodi and 65 at Mastikatte Azad Nagara.  Of the 318 samples, 77 had tested positive (24.12 %) to Coronavirus, sources added. Majority of the confirmed cases were women, who caught infection despite staying at houses. In addition, former CMC president, a sitting member and few political party leaders, who were actively involved in welfare activities during lockdown, had tested positive during the random sample testing. UK sees spurt in cases On Monday, 20 districts (excluding Bengaluru Urban) have recorded infections in double digits in the last 24 hours with four of them going past 50-mark. Uttara Kannada recorded its highest single-day tally of 81 cases. After logging 90-plus cases for the last one week or so, Dakshina Kannada reported a tad more than 30 fresh cases. Meanwhile, more Covid warriors tested positive for the virus across the state on Monday. A medical officer of Jamkhandi taluk hospital, nine health workers from Ballari, a Group D staffer of the Shahpur government hospital in Kalaburagi district and several ASHA workers at various places have tested positive for the virus Men in khaki on Covid duty continued to be at the receiving end. The sub-inspector of Kodihalli police station in Kanakapura taluk, a DCRB woman constable, a cop attached with HD Kote police station contracted the virus. An Indian Army jawan from Karwar, an ADLR of taluk kacheri in Devenahalli, a nada Kacheri employee in Huliyurudurge, Tumakuru district are among the cases reported on Monday||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/random-testing-2421-of-samples-test-positive-in-ullal-857904.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt considers risk allowance to frontline workers||The state government is considering providing risk allowance to health workers engaged in frontline Covid-19 service.  Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the government contemplating on doubling the salary of Group ‘D’ workers and provide risk allowance to all frontline workers. A final decision will be arrived at in this regard in two to three days. “Our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and all corona warriors are working tirelessly from the past 120 days. Naturally, this has taken a toll on them both physically and mentally. Our corona warriors are vulnerable to infection and the additional allowance is a small step towards boosting their morale,” the minister said. The services of 2,000 medical students who are appearing for PG exams will be utilised for Covid-related work. Apart for this, final-year nursing students will be deployed at Covid care centres, Dr Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-considers-risk-allowance-to-frontline-workers-857905.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Herbal product to remove pesticide in fruits, veggies||The Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Horticultural Resarch (IIHR) has come out with a herbal product, which it claims can remove 80 to 100% of surface pesticide residues from fruits and vegetables.  “This is the first herbal product in the public domain that makes fruits and vegetables safe for consumption by removing pesticide residues. The product is safe as no synthetic chemicals have been used, and has been tested for efficiency on vegetables and fruits that have high surface pesticide residues,” said Dr M R Dinesh, Director, IIHR. The product is named “Arka Herbi Wash.” The product is available for sale at the IIHR campus in Hesaraghatta at Rs 12 per 10 gram packet. Call 080-23086100 for details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/herbal-product-to-remove-pesticide-in-fruits-veggies-857927.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC verdict on online classes likely today||The Karnataka High Court is likely to pronounce its orders on petitions challenging the ban on online classes on Tuesday. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy on Monday concluded the hearing on the batch of petitions. During the hearing, Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi submitted that the ban was only an interim arrangement. He said several factors were considered, including educational as well as health aspects of the children. The government will take a decision on the recommendations of the Committee on Technology Enabled Education, he said. The Advocate General said that of the total 1.44 crore school-going children in the state, 57 lakh students study in Kannada medium while 42 lakh children study in English medium. He further said that around 45 lakh children study in rural areas as against around 58 lakh in urban areas. Appearing for the schools, senior advocate Uday Holla said that the state government's order banning online classes based on a letter from Nimhans dated May 19, 2020 was illegal. "While World Health Organisation (WHO) says online classes must be held, Nimhans letter says according to the UN health agency, children below 6 years of age should use the screens less than one to one-and-a-half hours. There is no mention of scientific data in the letter," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-verdict-on-online-classes-likely-today-857933.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt freezes direct recruitment as 'economic' measure||The B S Yediyurappa administration has put direct recruitment on hold as an ‘economy’ measure to cut costs even as the state government faces severe financial difficulty in the wake of the Covid-19pandemic. In a circular issued on Monday, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) I S N Prasad said direct recruitment to all posts, including backlogs and the Kalyana Karnataka cadre, have been put on hold for the 2020-21 financial year until further orders. “This order applies to even those posts to which recruitment approved by the finance department is in various stages.” The circular stated that it was necessary to “mobilise resources” to bring the financial situation to normalcy in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “For this, it is necessary to prune government expenditure,” the circular, which mentioned that it had Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s approval, said. When contacted, Prasad said, “We intend to do this only for (the) current year.” The circular pertains to new posts or those that are being freshly filled up, headded. During the pandemic, there were plans by the Health and Family Welfare department to directly recruit some 1,900 doctors, and rules were also framed for the purpose. The freeze is likely to affect this as Finance department has issued the order to all government departments. The state government was walking a tight rope in terms of finances even before the pandemic. Yediyurappa had conceded in his budget speech that Karnataka was facing “unprecedented” economic difficulties after state’s allocation in share of central taxes was reduced. The effect became more pronounced as economy nosedived during the lockdown, with revenue sources drying up, adding to the governments’woes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-freezes-direct-recruitment-as-economic-measure-857935.html
06-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'50k ventilators to hospitals by August'||As many as 50,000 ventilators procured with the PM CARES fund will be supplied to hospitals in the country by the end of August, BJP's national general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh said on Monday. Addressing a virtual rally, he said that orders were placed for 30,000 ventilators already and India was on its way to achieve self-sufficiency in masks, PPE kits and others. "We are exporting 50 lakh PPE kits today," he said. "When the first case of Covid-19 was reported on January 30, we did not expect the disease to spread so far and affect the economy. At such a difficult situation, if not for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the situation would have been far worse," he said, at the conclusion of Jan Samwad Abhiyaan, organised to publicise the achievements of the first year of Modi 2.0.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/50k-ventilators-to-hospitals-by-august-857936.html
06-07-2020||West||Sanjay Raut trying to hide MVA govt's failures: Maharashtra BJP chief||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Sunday accused Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut of trying to hide the failures of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government by misleading people over the threat to the survival of the Uddhav Thackeray-led dispensation. Raut, in his weekly column in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Sunday indirectly accused the BJP of planning to topple the state government by October and have its own members appointed to the Legislative Council from the governor's quota. "Sanjay Raut today once again made a lame attempt to imply that the BJP is trying to topple this government by October. In reality though, Raut is scared that the NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena government is falling due to the internal fights that are happening between the three parties," Patil said. "He is just showing his fear to the people of Maharashtra by making a shallow accusations against the BJP," the former Maharashtra minister said. At a time when Maharashtra is battling a very serious outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, Raut is busy making baseless allegations against the BJP, he alleged. "Instead of introspecting on why the farmers of our state have not been given sufficient loans for the next harvest season and why they have been given bogus seeds in many districts, Shiv Sena is making failed attempts to discredit the BJP and its leadership both in the Centre and the state," Patil added. He said that the Shiv Sena controlled the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the last three decades, but just like every year, the citizens this year too suffered due to flooding and extensive water logging in the first spell of rains. "But 'Saamana' is always silent on these real issues that plague the state today. It only passes comments against the Centre and Prime Minster Narendra Modi," he said. His his column, 'Rokhthokh', Raut hit out at the BJP over the issue of appointment of 12 Maharashtra Legislative Council members from the governor'squota, saying delay in their nomination would amount to violation of the Constitution and suppression of freedom. The Rajya Sabha member said there were speculations that the appointment of 12 Legislative Council members from the governor's quota may be put on hold and the "new government" (after ousting the MVA) would make its own appointments after October. The MVA government is yet to recommend 12 names to the governor for nomination in the Legislative Council. The term of the 12 governor-nominated appointees ended last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-trying-to-hide-mva-govts-failures-maharashtra-bjp-chief-857521.html
06-07-2020||West||Goa govt to widen scope of Covid-19 testing as cases rise||Currently, samples for Covid-19 testing are collected only at the district hospitals in Margao (South Goa) and Mapusa (North Goa), and the sub-district hospital in Ponda (North Goa). Goa reported 77 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total count to 1,761. There have been seven deaths so far due to the disease in the coastal state.  "After deliberations with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, we have taken a decision to recruit new teams on a contractual basis to designate them at the primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs), and they will report to the respective health officers," Rane said. They will be dedicatedly working to collect samples and co-ordinate with the testing centres, the minister said in a statement issued on Sunday evening. "Our aim is to move forward in a very progressive manner with teams attached to every PHC and CHC, along with an increased scope of testing, as suggested by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," Rane said. "This way, the existing staff of the PHCs and CHCs will be used only for regular activities, as it is the need of the hour," he said. The state government will also streamline the supply of food at Covid care centres and it would be monitored by the health secretary from time to time, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-to-widen-scope-of-covid-19-testing-as-cases-rise-857573.html
06-07-2020||West||Mumbai gets 1 lakh Rapid Antigen kits as virus rages on||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), that has adopted a universal testing policy, to control the pandemic, is targeting different areas.Ss far as the Rapid Antigen tests are concerned, the focus is on five wards - P/South (Goregaon),  P/North (Malad),  R/South (Kandivli),  R/Central (Borivli West) and R/North (Dahisar) besides all medical colleges and containment zones. Gradually, more areas will be covered. "The test is recommended for all symptomatic Covid-19 suspects and asymptomatic high-risk contacts with comorbidities," BMC officials said.     If the test is negative in a symptomatic Covid-19 suspect,  then the second sample will be taken for Reverse Transcription Polymerise Chain Reaction (RT-PCR)  test.  According to BMC officials, so far, 724 tests have been done.  It is estimated that every day around 2,000 Rapid Antigen tests will be conducted. Currently, the BMC is conducting about 3,500-5,000  RT-PCR tests daily.  While RT-PCR takes almost eight hours to give results, the antigen-based test that uses nasal swab samples are out within 30 minutes. There are plans for Covid-19 frontline workers to also undergo the test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-gets-1-lakh-rapid-antigen-kits-as-virus-rages-on-857606.html
06-07-2020||West||Thane Covid-19 tally rises to 42,420, death toll reaches 1,268||The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra's Thane district has gone up to 42,420 after 1,878 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said on Monday. Thane city accounts for over 25 per cent of the total cases in the district, as per an analysis of the data. On Sunday, 1,878 people tested positive for coronavirus, taking the count of cases to 42,420, the district administration said in a medical bulletin. Out of the fresh cases, Kalyan-Dombivali reported the maximum 482 cases, followed by Thane city-373, Mira Bhayandar-303, Ulhasnagar-251, and Navi Mumbai-191. The remaining cases were reported from other civic limits in the district. Besides, 47 patients succumbed to the disease in the district on Sunday, raising the toll to 1,268.  Out of the 47 deaths, 16 were reported from Thane city, as per the medical bulletin. So far, Thane city has reported 10,731 coronavirus cases, Kalyan Dombivali-9,086, Navi Mumbai-7,793 Mira Bhayandar-4,314, Ulhasnagar-2,810, Bhiwandi Nizampur-2,319, Ambernath-2,200, Badlapur-973, and Thane rural-2,194. Thane city has till now also reported the maximum 402 deaths, followed by Navi Mumbai-244, Mira Bhayandar-162 and Kalyan Dombivali-140. The remaining fatalities have been reported from other civic limits. An analysis of the data showed the death rate in Thane was 2.99 per cent and the recovery rate was 50.19 per cent. Besides, the neighbouring Palghar district reported total 7,274 cases and 144 deaths till Sunday, a report from the district administration said. Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, who visited some areas of Thane district on Sunday, told reporters that civic bodies in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region were not financially strong and had to depend on the state government and private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.  The government should immediately pay attention to these civic areas and provide them assistance, including infrastructure, funds and manpower, said the leader of opposition in the state Assembly. The coronavirus test results should be made available within a day as against the present time of four to five days, he said while expressing concern over the "mismatch" between the number of patients and facilities available in various parts of Thane district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-covid-19-tally-rises-to-42420-death-toll-reaches-1268-857613.html
06-07-2020||West||Over 100 mm rain in suburban Mumbai, Thane; More showers likely||Mumbai's suburbs and neighbouring Thane district received over 100 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, the IMD said on Monday and predicted more heavy showers in those areas and other parts of Konkan Maharashtra. The observatory in Thane-Belapur Industrial Association area recorded 213.4 mm rainfall during the 24 hours ending at 8.30 am on Monday. Mumbai & around realised hvy rains with isol very hvy (>115.6 mm) at Thane/West Suburbs in last 24 hrs at 8.30 am 6 Jul. Mumbai, Konkan, isol hvy showers nxt 24 hrs, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbais Deputy Director-General K S Hosalikar said in a tweet. The Santacruz weather station in Mumbai's western suburbs recorded 116.1 mm rainfall during the 24 hours ending at 8.30 am on Monday, while the Colaba weather station in South Mumbai recorded 12.4 mm downpour during the same period. The Matheran bureau in Maharashtra's Raigad district recorded 90 mm rainfall during the 24-hour period, while the Dahanu observatory in Palghar district recorded 60.3 mm rain. Besides, the Nashik weather station reported 13.4 mm rainfall, the Ratnagiri bureau and the Harnai observatory in the district recorded 5.4 mm and 5.9 mm rain, respectively, and the Osmanabad district in Marathwada region of the state recorded 7.4 mm downpour during the period. Hosalikar said the satellite images suggested dense clouds over Saurashtra and Kutch regions in Gujarat, and warned of extremely heavy rainfall in those areas. Mumbai and other parts of the Konkan region have been experiencing heavy rains since Friday. On Sunday, the Powai lake in suburban Mumbai started overflowing after the heavy downpour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-100-mm-rain-in-suburban-mumbai-thane-more-showers-likely-857620.html
06-07-2020||West||Thane: Covid-19 patient goes missing from new facility||A 71-year-old Covid-19 patient has gone missing from the newly-commissioned Global Hub Corona Hospital in Thane city, police said on Monday. A Kapurbawdi police station official said a missing person complaint has been filed and teams were out to trace the elderly patient. "The man was first admitted to Kalwa hospital and then shifted to Global Hub Corona Hospital late night on June 29. His family was quarantined at the time. When they came out of isolation and started looking for the man, they could trace him and filed a complaint late Sunday night," the official told PTI. The Global Hub Corona hospital is a temporary facility with 1,024 beds and was inaugurated a couple of weeks ago by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. In another incident, a woman and her three sons, all of whom tested positive for coronavirus, were nabbed on Saturday while trying to flee to their native Uttar Pradesh in violation of medical advice, a Thane civic official said. The woman's husband had died of the infection at a hospital here and the family tried to escape quarantine after being detected with the infection, he added. In Mira Bhayander municipal limits in the district, a woman claimed her husband who tested positive was abandoned in the rains two days ago, and he died of the infection after being admitted later in a hospital in Kandivali in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-covid-19-patient-goes-missing-from-new-facility-857700.html
06-07-2020||West||No bickering in Maharashtra government: Thorat||There is no bickering within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), Maharashtra Revenue Minister and state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat said on Monday, two days after five councillors of the Shiv Sena in Ahmednagar district joined the NCP. Thorat also said that reports on the proposed purchase of official vehicles for ministers amidst the Covid-19 pandemic was based on incomplete information. The five councillors of the Sena from Parner had last Saturday joined the NCP in the presence of deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar in Baramati in Pune district. "...There is no question of bickering within the Aghadi. Some people are waiting for the bickering to happen. They engage in such campaigning. But there is no nothing beyond that (campaign). The alliance is strong and is united," Thorat told reporters when asked about the Parner development. The Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress are the three constituents of the Uddhav Thackeray-led government. To a question about the Opposition targeting the government over a proposal to purchase vehicles for ministers when revenue of the state has depleted, Thorat said the reports were based on incomplete information. The state government recently sanctioned Rs 22.83 lakh for the purchase of a seven-seater multi-utility official vehicle for education minister Varsha Gaikwad, drawing flak from the opposition BJP, which questioned the Sena-led dispensation over its priorities amid the Covid-19 pandemic.  Gaikwad is an MLA of the Congress from Mumbai. Acknowledging that the state's revenue has dipped due to the pandemic, Thorat said the education department had proposed purchasing of vehicles which are needed to ensure that administration is run efficiently which includes travelling. "But the news that was circulated was not based on complete information. There was a proposal to purchase six vehicles, but the purchase of only one vehicle was approved," Thorat added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-bickering-in-maharashtra-government-thorat-857732.html
06-07-2020||West||Covid-19 situation in Thane, nearby areas alarming: Devendra Fadnavis||The Covid-19 situation in Thane and adjoining areas in Mumbai Metropolitan Region is alarming and coordination among government agencies will have to be improved and testing numbers increased to get on top of the crisis, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said on Monday. He was speaking to reporters after a three-day tour of the region during which he visited Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan Dombivali, Mira Bhayander, Ulhasnagar and Panvel. "Testing must be increased and reports must come within a day so that timely treatment can begin. The situation in MMR is alarming. I will submit a report of my observations during this tour to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray," he said. As on Monday, Thane district has 42,420 Covid-19 cases, including 1,268 deaths. Thane city has reported 10,731 coronavirus cases, Kalyan Dombivali-9,086, Navi Mumbai- 7,793 Mira Bhayandar- 4,314, Ulhasnagar- 2,810, Bhiwandi Nizampur- 2,319, Ambernath- 2,200, Badlapur- 973, and Thane rural- 2,194.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-situation-in-thane-nearby-areas-alarming-devendra-fadnavis-857747.html
06-07-2020||West||12 Covid-19 patients injured as ambulance overturns in Maharashtra||A total of 12 Covid-19 patients were injured on Monday when their ambulance overturned while on its way to a Covid care facility near Bavdhan here in Maharashtra, police said. All the injured patients have been shifted to a nearby hospital. "An ambulance carrying 12 patients was headed towards the Balewadi-based Covid-19 isolation facility from Kothrud when it turned on its side near Bavdhan on Pune-Mumbai Highway," said Yashwant Gawari, senior inspector, Hinjawadi police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-covid-19-patients-injured-as-ambulance-overturns-in-maharashtra-857749.html
06-07-2020||West||Domicile certificate mandatory to apply for work in Maha Jobs portal||In a policy decision that may spark off a debate,  the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra has decided to make domicile compulsory for seeking jobs in industries in the state.  After the outbreak of Covid-19 and commencement of lockdown when migrant workers started leaving the state, Thackeray,  who is the Shiv Sena president and MVA leader, had asked the Industries department to give more jobs to locals.  With the move, majority of the unskilled jobs would go to the locals. On Monday, Thackeray unveiled the ‘MahaJobs’ portal intended to play matchmaker and a 'bridge' between employers and the jobless masses. “The MahaJobs portal will bridge the gap between the employers and those needing  jobs, including skilled, semi-skilled or unskilled workers. All companies or employers and the job-seekers can register on the portal for their requirements,” Thackeray said at the launch of the portal. Industries minister Subhash Desai said that bringing prospective employers and possible employees on one floor would be a gamechanger in the employment scenario. Thackeray and Desai pointed  out that during lockdown, many migrant workers from various states have left for their home-states, though some are now returning to various industrial centres. “This means that there is work and jobs are available, but the workers are not… This is where the MahaJobs portal will be helpful to all in a transparent manner,” Thackeray said. Desai explained that job-seekers will provide all their relevant information, their qualifications and skills, required documentation including the Domicile Certificate and the employers shall provide details of their requirements. The MIDC has already identified 950-pls trades/skills for 17 sectors including IT, medicine, engineering, logistics, chemicals, etc. and the Skill development Department will start short-term courses for those who desire to develop skills. The MahaJobs is a joint venture between the departments of industry, labour and skill development-entrepreneurship and will create employment in the new normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/domicile-certificate-mandatory-to-apply-for-work-in-maha-jobs-portal-857764.html
06-07-2020||West||Maharashtra hotels allowed to reopen from July 8 with 33% guest curb||Further easing the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the Maharashtra government on Monday allowed hotels and other entities providing accommodation services outside containment zones to resume operations at 33 per cent of their capacity from July 8. A government notification, which also covers lodges and guest houses, to this regard was issued here. The permission has been granted on conditions of these entities adheringto social distancing norms and other protocols to avoid spread of the infection. The governments move comes a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray interacted with various associations of hotels and lodges, and assured them of taking a decision soon on reopening after finalising Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). The on-going lockdown in the state will be in force till July 31. Hotels and other entities providing accommodation services, including lodges, guest houses, etc, outside containment zones, allowed to operate with restricted entry. "These establishments will operate at 33 per cent capacity and on conditions specified, the notification said. The hotels in shopping malls, however, will not be allowed to reopen. The government said that these entities, if they are being used as quarantine facilities, will continue to function as such unless the local district/municipal administrations decide otherwise. Similarly, some part/whole of the balance unused capacity (67 per cent) can also be used for quarantine facility by district/municipal administration, the government said. While allowing the hotels to reopen partially, the government has asked hoteliers to ensure only asymptomatic guests are allowed. The guests should be allowed only if they are using face cover/mask, which has to be worn all the time inside the hotels, the government instructed. The government said the guests are to compulsorily use the Aarogya Setu app and are encouraged to minimise use of housekeeping services. The government has asked the hoteliers to display prominently posters/standees/AV media on preventive measures and guidelines about Covid-19. The hoteliers have been asked to ensure proper crowd management in the hotels and parking lots, mandatory thermal screening at entrance and reception tables, which should have protective glasses. The government has instructed the hoteliers to make available for free hand sanitisers, preferable pedal-operated dispensers, at the reception, guest rooms and public spaces for customers.  The hotels must adopt contact-less processes like QR code, online forms, digital payments like e-wallet, among others, for both check-in and check-out, the government said. It added that the number of guests in elevators must be restricted, duly maintaining social distancing norms. The temperature setting of all air-conditioning devices should be in the range of 24 degree Celsius to 30 degree Celsius, while the relative humidity should be in the range of 40 per cent to 70 per cent in line with the CPWDs guidelines, the notification said. Seating arrangements in the hotels must ensure observation of social distancing norms, while gaming arcades, children's play areas, swimming pools or gymnasium shall remain closed, it said. The government has instructed to sanitise rooms and other services areas each time a guest vacates. The room should be left unoccupied for at least 24 hours after a clients stay is over, it added. In case of a suspected or confirmed Covid-19 case in the premises of hotels, the ill person should be kept in a room or area in isolation from others and the state/district authorities should be immediately informed about it. Among others, the government has also instructed to carry out disinfection of the hotel premises if a person is found to be coronavirus positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-hotels-allowed-to-reopen-from-july-8-with-33-guest-curb-857770.html
06-07-2020||West||West Bengal govt suggests new treatment protocol amid rise in Covid-19 cases||The West Bengal government has advised all Covid-19 hospitals in the state to opt for "prone awake ventilation" as and when possible before putting a patient on conventional mechanical ventilation. The move would cut down on the use of mechanical ventilators amid the surge in coronavirus cases, a senior official of the health department said. Prone positioning ventilation also called as prone awake ventilation (lying flat on the belly to improve oxygenation), which is mostly used in intensive care units (ICUs) for those having acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), should also be attempted on Covid-19 patients, according to an advisory issued by the department said. If that does not help, patients should be put on conventional ventilators, the official said. "With the number of Covid-19 cases soaring every day, we have to have ICUs and ventilators ready for patients at all times. But the number of ventilators the state has at the moment is not enough to support them all," the official said. West Bengal currently has 395 ventilators and 948 ICU beds in its Covid-19 hospitals, according to state health department data. "In cases, where the doctors suspect that the patient has a 'secondary bacterial infection', the (blood) culture should be sent for examination and he or she should be put under mechanical ventilation," the advisory stated. The department also said that "super-speciality teams should be available for appropriate advice in relevant cases". It has also warned against "indiscriminate use" of antibiotics for bacterial infections. "Since Covid-19 is a viral infection, the justification for prescribing antibiotics must be documented...We need to avoid indiscriminate and prolonged (use of antibiotics) as experience shows that it may cause harm in many cases," the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/west-bengal-govt-suggests-new-treatment-protocol-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-857839.html
06-07-2020||West||We will surely defeat Covid-19, asserts Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Amid rising coronavirus cases, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the ongoing battle against the pandemic will be definitely won and asserted that success against adversities can be achieved only when every section of the society comes together. He said his government is determined to overcome the coronavirus crisis in the state, which has reported more than than 2 lakh cases so far. Thackeray was speaking on the occasion of handing over of 20 ambulances, 100 ventilators and Rs 10 crore to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) under the 'Plasma Project', being jointly implemented by the civic body and the Tata Group for improving healthcare services in Mumbai. We are all determined to end the coronavirus crisis. Citizens and big entrepreneurs are fighting shoulder to shoulder with the government. Everyone is working tirelessly and this will ensure success," Thackeray said. The Chief Minister said in a crisis like coronavirus, many organisations and individuals have come forward to help fight the pandemic out of social consciousness. The Tata Group has stood by the state government in full force from the very beginning, he said. AadityaThackeray, tourism minister of Maharashtra and guardian minister of Mumbai suburban district, said the diversified conglomerate has been involved in the fight against the coronavirus from the very first day. AadityaThackeray prayed that time should not come to use these ambulances and ventilators, but if at all they are required, they will be useful in saving lives. AslamShaikh, guardian minister of Mumbai city district, said as steps are being taken fearlessly to get rid of coronavirus, Maharashtra will "soon" be free of Covid-19. Speaking on the occasion, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar sought the chief ministers involvement for the revival of BMCs own plasma centre that has 6000 litres of plasma stored. Ashutosh Salil, joint municipal commissioner, said the number of Covid-19 beds in Mumbai increased to 14,000 from just 3,500 more than three months ago and the count of ICU beds to 1,450 from 191 in mid-March. The city has a recovery rate of 66 per cent, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-will-surely-defeat-covid-19-asserts-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-857851.html
06-07-2020||West||POCSO Act has overriding effect on any other law: Bombay HC||The provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has an overriding effect on the provisions of any other law, the Bombay High Court said while granting bail to a 21-year-old man accused of raping a minor girl. Justice Bharati Dangre was hearing a petition filed by Suraj Paithankar, accused of raping a 16-year-old girl in November 2019. Paithankar was arrested by Pune police and has been in jail since. Paithankar was booked under the Indian Penal Code, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, as well as Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act after the victim claimed he abused her by mentioning her caste. Paithankar sought bail claiming he and the girl were in a consensual relation. The prosecution opposed the bail plea claiming since the accused was also booked under the Atrocities Act, he will have to file an appeal against the lower court's refusal to grant him bail under section 14(A) of the Act. The court, in its order on July 3, however, noted that in a case where the child subjected to abuse happened to be belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe, the procedure carved out in POCSOA would not take away the powers of the special court to try the offences under the Act. "The provisions of this Act (POCSO) shall have overriding effect on the provisions of any other law to the extent of inconsistency," the court said. On the provisions of the Atrocities Act invoked, the court said it is not the case of the prosecution that the applicant was aware the victim girl belongs to a Scheduled Caste and, therefore, intentionally assaulted her sexually, being aware of this fact. "Therefore, perusal of material in the charge sheet do not prima facie attract provisions of the Atrocities Act," the court said while granting Paithankar bail on a bond of Rs 25,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pocso-act-has-overriding-effect-on-any-other-law-bombay-hc-857870.html
06-07-2020||West||Goa BJP MLA caught on video partying, probe ordered||In an embarrassing moment for the BJP-led coalition government in Goa, videos of a party organised by a ruling BJP MLA Glenn Ticlo went viral on Monday, with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant assuring a probe into the affair.  The videos contain footage of a party held at a beach house in the popular coastal village of Calangute, where supporters of the party’s MLA are seen making merry with alcohol and catered food, violating social distancing norms as well as disregard to wearing of masks. The party occurred on Saturday, a day when Chief Minister Pramod Sawant urged people to not visit social functions, even birthdays in view of the spike in Covid-19 related cases in the state.  When asked if he would direct the state administration to take strict action against the violators of government orders, Sawant said, “We are inquiring into it.”  Goa’s Ports Minister Michael Lobo also said that even if those involved at the party were BJP workers, action would be taken under Section 188 (disobeying orders of a government officer) of the IPC.     "If anyone, including BJP members, has attended any party, action will be taken under Section 188," Lobo said.  Reacting to the development the MLA concerned, Glenn Ticlo said that he was barely present at the party. "I just went there said 'Hi' and left in five minutes," Ticlo said, adding that he does not “support such events”.  "People are still visiting each others' homes on birthdays. No one observes social distancing during weddings or wear masks on such occasions," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-bjp-mla-caught-on-video-partying-probe-ordered-857896.html
06-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Former Gujarat CM among 423 discharged even as state records yet another spike in cases||80-year-old ex Gujarat chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela, who was infected with coronavirus, on Monday was cured and discharged from a private hospital. He was among 423 persons who were discharged, taking the total of discharged persons in the state to 26,323 as the state recorded yet another biggest single-day spike with 735 new cases in 24 hours, taking the state's tally to 36,848.  According to the health department's bulletin, 17 infected persons died in 24 hours in the state which took the death toll to 1,962. Ahmedabad reported seven fresh deaths, taking its tally to 1,491 casualties at a mortality rate over 6.7 percent. Ahmedabad has a caseload of over 21,000 out of which 17,000 have been cured and discharged. Overall, the state has bettered its mortality rate which has gone below 6% over the past two weeks. Over the last ten days, government's data shows new cases declining in Ahmedabad while it is exponentially increasing in Surat. Even on Monday, Surat city recorded 201 cases while Ahmedabad recorded 168, one of the lowest in two months. The health department has claimed that decline in new cases and deaths could be "timely treatment and high literacy about the virus". Besides, senior officials believe that "severity of virus has gone down" which could be one of the reasons. However, Gujarat lags far behind in terms of number of tests conducted per day. Monday saw a total of 6,338 tests in the period of 24 hours which was one of the lowest in the last several days. Till Monday, the state had conducted a total of 4,18,462 tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-former-gujarat-cm-among-423-discharged-even-as-state-records-yet-another-spike-in-cases-857907.html
06-07-2020||West||Ex-health minister of Goa dies of Covid-19||Former Goa health minister Suresh Amonkar died of Covid-19 infection on Monday, a health official said. He was 68. "Amonkar remained admitted in the ESI hospital (in Margao) after testing positive for coronavirus since the last week of June. He succumbed to the infection on Monday evening," the official said, adding that Amonkar had been critical since the last few days. State Health Minister Vishwajeet Rane also confirmed that Amonkar, a former president of the the Goa BJP, died of Covid-19 disease. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant tweeted, "Deeply saddened by the passing away of Dr Suresh Amonkar, former President of BJP Goa Pradesh and Former Cabinet of Goa Govt. His contribution to the state of Goa is immense and will never be forgotten. I express my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family". Deeply saddened by the passing away of Dr. Suresh Amonkar, former President of BJP Goa Pradesh and Former Cabinet Minister of Goa Govt. His contribution to the state of Goa is immense and will never be forgotten. I express my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. Amonkar was first elected to the Goa Legislative Assembly from Pale Assembly constituency, later renamed as Sankhalim in north Goa, in 1999 and 2002 elections. "Deeply saddened to hear about the sad demise of former Health Minister & President of BJP Goa, Shri.Suresh Amonkar ji due to #COVID19. May God give his family the strength to overcome this tragic loss. My prayers are with his family & loved ones. May his soul rest in peace," Rane tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-health-minister-of-goa-dies-of-covid-19-857909.html
06-07-2020||West||Why sack workers when business activities have resumed? asks Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday expressed concern over several industries sacking workers at a time when the government is allowing resumption of business activities in the state, and said it was not right. Thackeray made the remarks as he launched the state government's MahaJobs portal that aims to make available job opportunities to the 'sons of the soil' or domiciled persons. The chief minister observed that migrant workers, who went to their native states due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, have started coming back to Maharashtra slowly after his government allowed resumption of business activities. Meanwhile, in a statement issued later, the government said more than 13,300 job seekers applied and 147 industrialists registered on the portal http://mahajobs. maharashtra.gov.inwithin four hours of its launch. "Today, we have jobs available, but there are no workers. Though this is the factual position, I noticed a strange scenario yesterday. "Several industries have started slashing salaries of workers or are sacking them," Thackeray said. "The sons of the soil or the migrant workers, who had not returned to their states and were reporting at workplaces, are being sacked. This is not right," Thackeray said. He said this issue needs to be discussed with industrialists as the state government is trying to resolve difficulties they are facing. The MahaJobs portal is the need of the hour, he said, adding the system works in a transparent manner. Thackeray asked the authorities to take a regular stock of how useful the portal turns out in terms of how many of the applicants actually get jobs using the online platform, which will be run by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). The portal's launch was attended by state Industries Minister Subhash Desai, Labour Minister Dilip Walse Patil, Skill Development Minister Nawab Malik and Minister of State for Industries Aditi Tatkare via video conferencing. Desai said 17 sectors for which job seekers can apply through the portal include engineering, logistic, textile and pharmaceutical. Skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled candidates can apply for jobs by uploading their details on the portal, which can be accessed by employers/industries also, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-sack-workers-when-business-activities-have-resumed-asks-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-857952.html
