07-07-2020||First Edit||ICMR needs vaccine against politics||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has rightly been slammed by scientists and medical experts for setting a deadline of August 15 for launching a vaccine for Covid-19. The ICMR has tried to wriggle out of the bad and embarrassing situation it created for itself by issuing a clarification that its letter to 12 hospitals to start clinical trials by July 7 was meant to “cut unnecessary red tape’’. This is not convincing because the ICMR’s original directive, written by its Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava, had told the hospitals to fast-track all approvals, and warned them that “non-compliance would be viewed very strictly’’. It also said that it was “a top priority project being monitored at the topmost level’’. It had even named the vaccine Covaxin, being jointly developed with the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech.   It is unthinkable that the country’s apex medical research body would set a few weeks’ deadline to develop and launch a vaccine for a disease like Covid-19, which is still being studied. The best research establishments in the world are trying to find one, and dozens of candidate vaccines and drugs are under development. The most optimistic target date is late this year or next year. It may take a longer time, too. Vaccine development has to go through various stages and it has to be ensured that it is safe, effective and does not have any side-effects. It demands a lot of experimentation, time and careful work and monitoring, always governed by caution. It has to be first tried on a small number of people and then on larger numbers, and it may take months for the results to be known. Some rules on testing and trials have been relaxed by regulatory bodies in the race for a Covid-19 vaccine, but the process itself cannot be short-circuited, as the ICMR tried to do.  A hastily produced vaccine can do much damage, sometimes more than the disease. Every year, there are cases of drug companies having to recall medicines and sometimes paying huge compensation for the sale of wrong or faulty medicines. Failure of a vaccine or a drug may also lead to loss of trust in research bodies. The ICMR’s handling of vaccine research may also show what is wrong with India’s scientific research. Politics of any kind should be kept away from scientific research and endeavours. Give freedom, facilities and time to scientists and researchers, and do not coerce them to show results by August 15 or a certain leader’s birthday. The country’s premier medical research body cannot conduct itself the way it has.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/icmr-needs-vaccine-against-politics-857964.html
07-07-2020||In Perspective||Rights of people with disabilities: Another attack on people with disabilities||Ever since the Covid-19 crisis began, it has been repeatedly argued that persons with disabilities (PwDs) are particularly vulnerable to contracting the virus and more prone to succumbing to the implications of the pandemic, the lockdown and other policies for the able. Just as disability rights activists were pointing out the exclusionary nature of the pandemic response, the State has struck another blow against the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act. The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) and the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MSJE) have sought suggestions and comments, from a select few organisations, on an amendment to decriminalise offences mentioned in Sections 89, 92 and 93 of the RPwD Act. Section 89 provides for a fine of Rs 10,000 if one contravenes the Act once and Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh in case of repeated contraventions; Section 92 provides for a punishment of six months, which can go up to five years, for insulting or humiliating a PwD in public view; Section 93 provides for a fine of Rs 25,000 in case someone refuses to furnish information. The DEPwD wishes to add another provision, Section 95A, as per which all the aforementioned offences can be compounded either before or after the institution of proceedings. This can be done by the chief commissioner for PwDs or state commissioner for PwDs after obtaining the consent of the aggrieved person. It further says that if any of these offences are compounded, the offender can be released if they are in custody and the proceedings dropped thereafter. The RPwD Act was considered to be a rights-based law that could salvage PwDs who had been denied equal opportunities in employment and education. One of the most celebrated features of the Act was that apart from obligating the appropriate government to provide reservations in government jobs and educational institutions, provide accessible infrastructure and conducive environment for PwDs and generally facilitate their growth and inclusion, it also imposed certain obligations on private entities, such as creating equal opportunity policies, prohibiting discrimination and providing for reasonable accommodation. Given this, nullifying Section 89, which provides for punishment if one contravenes the provisions of the Act, effectively nullifies the Act itself. As it is, more than half the states have not even notified the Act, 12 out of 22 National Law Universities do not provide for 5% reservations for PwDs as mandated by Section 32, only nine states have advisory boards on disability, mandated by Section 72, and only six states have made some progress with regard to maintaining state funds for disability, mandated by Section 88. In the private sector, statutory obligations, like prohibiting discrimination and providing for reasonable accommodation, are seldom taken seriously. This can be easily gauged from the presence of PwDs in India’s top firms, which is as low as 0.5%. In such a situation, if the penalty for contravening the provisions of the Act is removed altogether, governments and private entities need not bother about punishment for violating the law at all, thus negating the rights provided to PwDs. Allowing for the compounding of Section 92 would be detrimental to the disabled community. The usage of the expression “in public view” restricts the scope of the provision, thereby only punishing the offender if they insult or intimidate the victim in public and not in private. Such a provision goes against the spirit of the Act, which is to promote the rights and dignity of PwDs. Thus, Section 89 is already limited in its application and somewhat goes against the spirit of the Act. Now, diluting the provision further by making it compoundable practically allows private and government players to commit atrocities against PwDs. What is particularly peculiar about the suggestions of the DEPwD and MSJE is that the National Crime Records Bureau has never published any specific data pertaining to atrocities against PwDs. Thus nullifying the charging provision for atrocities against PwDs without any concrete empirical data and just assuming that such atrocities are non-existent or minuscule in number and thereby can be effectively decriminalised is somewhat illogical and farfetched on the part of the State. Further, the proposed amendment, as per which the offences can be compounded with the consent of the aggrieved PwD, is detrimental because atrocities against PwDs or contravention of other substantive provisions of the Act which ensure the dignity and rights of the PwDs, are such grave offences that the offender ought not to be allowed to go scott-free. Moreover, obtaining the “consent of the aggrieved person” might not be that difficult when the victim is a PwD with limited resources and the perpetrator is the State or a private entity with enormous economic capital and muscle power. Therefore, it can be argued that the proposal to add Section 95A is an attempt by the ablest State to render the Act toothless. If this amendment gets legal effect, it would certainly increase the “ease of doing business” at the cost of the rights of the PwDs, who are equal rights-holders. But it can be said with utmost certainty that such a trade-off would be constitutionally impermissible. The idea of bringing in Section 95A should be dropped and the State needs to be mindful that law-making for the disabled needs to be consultative in nature. We cannot replicate the UN Convention on Rights of People with Disabilities (CRPD) model unless we understand that nothing about the PwDs can be done without inputs from PwDs themselves. (The writer is a student at NLSIU, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/rights-of-people-with-disabilities-another-attack-on-people-with-disabilities-857965.html
07-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Anxiety in Mandya, after MP A Sumalatha tests positive for coronavirus||MP A Sumalatha testing positive for Covid 19 has raised anxiety among the people of Mandya. Sumalatha had visited Brahmadevarahalli in Nagamangala taluk on June 30, and launched several works. Adichunchanagiri Seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami too participated in the programmes, along with the MP. Later, she felicitated the corona warriors at a programme held at Raitha Sangha in Mandya. She also performed a ceremony at the Pandavapura government school. She inspected the bus stand work at Besagarahalli, on July 1. She also participated in a programme and distributed saplings to the villagers. After learning that their MP has tested positive, the people, who participated in the programme, as well as who accompanied her, are extremely worried. Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh said that the details of the MP's visits would be collected. Those who had come in contact with her would be quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anxiety-in-mandya-after-mp-a-sumalatha-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-858132.html
07-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Hassan to voluntarily shut shops, businesses by 2 pm on weekdays; total lockdown on weekends||With a spurt in Covid-19 cases in Hassan, hopkeepers and traders have voluntarily decided to close businesses and shops in the city and rural areas by 2 pm, starting Tuesday (July 7). The shops will be open from 6 am to 2 pm from Tuesday to Friday, and total lockdown will be observed on Saturday and Sunday."We will review the situation on July 13 and take a decision on the extension of the voluntary lockdown, said MLA Preetham Gowda. The rising Covid-19 cases have created fear among people and traders. Hence, the business has been limited to 2 pm, in an effort to keep the people from moving out unnecessarily, on the pretext of purchase. People should stay at home, unless it is an emergency or inevitable to come out. Many cases of respiratory problems are being reported from the residents, including children. Many, who do not have any travel history too have tested positive. The decision was taken voluntarily by the traders, and has no connection with the government orders, the MLA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-hassan-to-voluntarily-shut-shops-businesses-by-2-pm-on-weekdays-total-lockdown-on-weekends-858141.html
07-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||61 cases in districts; 3 deaths in Hassan||Hassan district has reported three deaths and 26 positive cases on Tuesday. While Mandya reported 29 positive cases, it was six cases in Chamarajanagar. A 47-year-old man, who had symptoms of cough, was admitted to the hospital on July 6 and died on July 7. He had no other comorbidities. An 88-year-old man from Holenarasipur, suffering from kidney ailments and a 38-year-old woman from Hassan too have succumbed to the virus. Out of 26 cases, the contacts of 17 cases are under tracing, three had a travel history of inter-district and state and, six had a contact history with other patients. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 567. While 273 patients have been discharged, there are 284 active cases. In all, 11 deaths have been reported. Out of 29 cases in Mandya, 22 people are primary and secondary contacts, three are suffering from ILI and four have a travel history of inter-district and state. With this, the total number of cases has increased to 586. In all, 381 have been discharged so far, and there are 205 active cases. A 55-year-old man from Maddur town, suffering from fever and epilepsy was admitted to Columbia Asia Hospital in Mysuru, where he tested positive. He died at the Covid hospital in Mysuru. Though he was admitted to the hospital in Mysuru, his relatives brought him to the Covid hospital in Mandya, but he breathed his last en route. The case will be added to the Mysuru’s list, said District Health Officer H P Manchegowda. His funeral was held in Mandya, as per the protocol. Chamarajanagar district has reported six positive cases on Tuesday. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 120. In all, 31 people have been discharged and there are 89 active cases. Out of six, five of them are from Gundlupet taluk, and have a contact history with P-18544. One is from Kollegal taluk, who has a travel history to Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/61-cases-in-districts-3-deaths-in-hassan-858308.html
07-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Anxiety in Mandya after Sumalatha tests +ve||MP A Sumalatha testing positive for Covid-19 has created anxiety among the people of the district, at places where she visited, in the last one week. Sumalatha had visited Brahmadevarahalli in Nagamangala taluk on June 30 to launch several works. Adichunchanagiri seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami too participated in the programmes, along with the MP. Later, she felicitated Corona warriors in a programme at Raitha Sabhangana in Mandya. She also performed a ground breaking ceremony at Pandavapura government school. She inspected the bus stand works at Besagarahalli in Maddur taluk on July 1. She participated in a programme and distributed saplings to the villagers. After learning that their MP tested positive, the people, who participated in the programme, as well as those who accompanied her, are under anxiety. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said, "The details of the MP's visits would be collected. Those who had come in contact with her would be quarantined."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anxiety-in-mandya-after-sumalatha-tests-ve-858311.html
07-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hoteliers seek support of MyMUL||Hoteliers and allied businessman, related to the food and hospitality sector, have sought the support of Mysore-Chamarajanagar District Cooperative Milk Producers Societies Union Limited (MyMUL) for their survival. C Narayana Gowda, president of Mysuru Hotel Owners' Association, along with members Mahesh Kamath, Ravi Shastry, Subramanya Tanthri and Raghavedra Tanthri, met managing director of MyMUL D Ashok and presented a memorandum, seeking support. Narayana Gowda said, "The food, hotel and hospitality sector in Mysuru largely depends on travel and tourism. There are 1,500 hotels, restaurants, bakeries and sweet stalls in Mysuru and mostly, they buy Nandini and other brand of products of MyMUL, supporting the dairy sector and farmers." "All hoteliers, bakery owners and sweet stall owners here, are incurring huge loss due to the prevailing Covid situation. Bangalore Milk Union or Bangalore Urban, Rural and Ramanagara District Co-Operative Milk Producers Societies Union Limited (BAMUL) is offering one litre of milk free, with one crate of milk packets. MyMUL can support the hotels in Mysuru with a similar offer,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hoteliers-seek-support-of-mymul-858312.html
07-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rajamudi Mahotsava begins at Melkote||The historical Krishna Rajamudi Mahotsava at Cheluvaranayana Swamy temple at Melkote was launched with special abhishekas and rituals, in a simple manner on Tuesday. The 10-day Sri Krishna Rajamudi Ashada jatra mahotsava will be held in a simple manner, in the wake of Covid-19. The rituals commenced at 5 am and concluded by 8 am. The deity would be adorned with the diamond-studded Krishna Rajamudi, and taken out in a procession on July 12. The festival would conclude on July 17. The kalyantosava of Lord Cheluvanarayana Swamy and Kalyananayaki was held in the evening, with all rituals in the presence of limited guests and priests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rajamudi-mahotsava-begins-at-melkote-858313.html
07-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Begin crushing in September: labour minister||Labour and Sugar Minister Shivaram Hebbar directed the officials to begin crushing activities at Chamundeshwari Sugar factory here, by the first week of September. The minister held a meeting with the officials, after inspecting the upgradation works of the sugar factory in Channarayapatna on Tuesday. He took the officials to task for not following the contract guidelines and for the default in payment since 2016. The management has not followed the contract rules and the government has lost hope on them, he said. He questioned the officials for the delay caused in completing the upgradation works. “Who is responsible for this? Should sugarcane growers suffer for the mistakes of the officials?” he asked. Chamundeshwari Sugar Factory general manager Nagaraju explained that the work was to be completed six months ago. As there was a problem in the chimney it was delayed. This was followed by Corona lockdown. The works would be expedited and the factory will open by September, he said. The minister said, “A meeting is being held in Bengaluru on Wednesday. The officials should attend the meeting and give it in writing that the works would be started by September.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/begin-crushing-in-september-labour-minister-858316.html
07-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan closes at 2 pm till Friday||With a spurt in Covid cases in Hassan district, shopkeepers and traders have decided to close business in the city and rural areas by 2 pm, from Tuesday (July 7), as a precautionary measure. Shops will be open from 6 am to 2 pm from Tuesday to Friday, and there will be a total lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays. The situation would be reviewed on July 13, and a decision will be taken on the extension of the voluntary lockdown, said MLA Preetham J Gowda. The rise in Covid cases has created fear among the people and traders. Hence, business is limited to 2 pm, in an effort to keep the people from moving out unnecessarily. The people should stay at home, unless it is an emergency or inevitable to come out. Many cases of respiratory problems are being reported by the residents, including children. Many, who do not have any travel history too have tested positive. The decision was taken voluntarily by traders, and has no connection with the government orders, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-closes-at-2-pm-till-friday-858317.html
07-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||People raise concern over burrial of Covid victims||At a time when the whole world was fighting against the plastic menace, the advent of coronavirus or Covid-19 has forced the use of plastic — in taking precautions, to manage, to treat patients and also to burry bodies of the victims. This has evoked a discussion on the social media, with posts by users and their sharing by others. The ‘Covid-19: Guidelines on Dead Body Management’, issued by Directorate General of Health Services (EMR Division), under Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, states, “Place the dead body in leak-proof plastic body bag. The exterior of the body bag can be decontaminated with 1% hypochlorite”. Some persons have evoked a discussion, on social media platforms, on the pros and cons of using plastic bags to cover bodies, before burrying them. One Rakesh from Hassan, who identifies himself as Jeev Rock on Facebook, has posted a text meme, raising concern over the dangers of burrying a human body in a leak-proof plastic bag. His post had been shared by 3,657 users till 4.10 pm on Tuesday. Till the same time, the post evoked 451 responses and 251 comments. The post, in Kannada reads: “It is a known fact that plastic is non-bio-degradable. However, the bodies of those who succumb to Covid are packed in leak-proof plastic bags and are again wrapped in black plastic sheets, before burrying it in pits. If the plastic does not degrade in soil, what will be the plight of the body, inside it? Will it not harm the nature and also human beings? Is it not right to either burn or incarcerate the body?” R Raghu, former chairman of Karnataka Exhibition Authority, said that if it were one or two cases, there was no need to worry. “But, of late, the number of Covid infection and also deaths are on the rise. Under such circumstances, in a densely-populated nation like ours, following the guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO) blindly, cannot be justified. We need to modify the guidelines, to suit our circumstances and needs,” he said. An official of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board said, “It is a sensitive issue to discuss at this hour of crisis. The burrial has to be done as per the WHO protocol. Even though it is mentioned ‘leak-proof plastic bag’, there will be air circulation and there will not be much harm. The decay of the body and also disintegration of the plastic bags and sheets will be delayed, but will not be hindered permanently. So, people need not worry about the procedure followed in burrying the bodies of Covid victims.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/people-raise-concern-over-burrial-of-covid-victims-858319.html
07-07-2020||Main Article||A coronavirus vaccine in 40 days, ICMR?||Misery acquaints us with strange bedfellows. Many years hence, this will perhaps be narrated as an apocryphal story. But for now, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) appears less the apex body in India for the formulation, coordination and promotion of biomedical research, and more the handmaiden for political populism, diminishing the scientific temper and with it the rigour of the scientific method. On July 2, 2020, the Director-General of ICMR wrote to a clutch of hospitals and universities -- some reputed, others less so -- that ICMR has partnered with Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) to fast-track clinical trials of an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. The letter emphasises that it is one of the “top priority projects being monitored at the top-most level of Government”. This is just as well. A project seeking to discover a vaccine that can effectively counter a raging pandemic must receive the highest attention. It goes on to say “it is envisaged to launch the vaccine for public health use latest by 15th August 2020 after completion of all clinical trials”. This is when it begins to tread dangerous ground that is fraught with far-reaching consequences -- for the scientific method, public health and safety, and the ethics of medical research. The letter addressed to institutions that have been selected as clinical trial sites urges them to “ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7, 2020”. Seriously? The enrolment of subjects begins on July 7, and the vaccine is launched for public health use on August 15 -- the whole process in five weeks? This appears reminiscent of an episode from the classic ‘Yes, Minister’ series. The stages of the development cycle of a vaccine include: the pre-clinical stage, clinical development, and regulatory review and approval. Clinical development is a three-phase process. During Phase I, small groups of people receive the trial vaccine. In Phase II, the clinical study is expanded, and the vaccine is given to people who have characteristics (such as age and physical health) similar to those for whom the new vaccine is intended. In Phase III, the vaccine is given to thousands of people and tested for efficacy and safety. The 'International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number' (ISRCTN) is perhaps the best database to ascertain the status of the global search for Covid-19 vaccines. The ISRCTN registry is a primary clinical trial registry recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and accepts all clinical research studies, whether proposed, ongoing or completed. The landscape documents prepared by the WHO as on July 2, 2020 listed 18 candidate vaccines in clinical evaluation for Covid-19. No Indian institution is listed. The University of Oxford appears to have made the most progress and is already in phase III of clinical evaluation. What does the study involve? Participants are randomly allocated to receive the investigational vaccine. Volunteers will be followed for 12 months, and they will be tested to see if they develop any symptoms which may represent Covid-19 disease. In addition, blood tests will be done to look at how the volunteers' immune systems have reacted to the virus. At the end of the study, the researchers will look at how many people had Covid-19 disease in each group and this will help them to decide if the vaccine has worked. The University of Oxford anticipates that the study will run from May 2020 to July 2021 -- a full 15 months! Now, let us look at what stage of the Covid-19 vaccine development cycle Indian institutions are at. The same WHO landscape document lists 129 candidate vaccines in the pre-clinical evaluation stage. Two Indian companies are listed: Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila -- both shown as being at the pre-clinical stage. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has only in early July given approval to both organisations to move to human clinical trials. Zydus Cadila has stated that it expects to complete the first two phases of human clinical trials for its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, ‘ZyCov-D’, in the next three months. The trials will begin this month in over 1,000 patients across multiple sites. What about Bharat Biotech? Covaxin, the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by Bharat Biotech, received DCGI approval for Phase I & II Human Clinical Trials and the trials will commence across India from July 2020. Clearly, neither candidate vaccine is anywhere close to public health use as envisaged by the ICMR. The institutions selected as clinical trial sites and addressed by the DG, ICMR, represent a curious, motley group, some of which are little-known private hospitals. While the criteria of selection are not known, one can only hope that it has been done by the ICMR through an objective and transparent process, and not by BBIL for that would constitute a serious conflict of interest in a matter that has important public health and safety implications that go beyond the profit motive. So, how might the testing sites, in the midst of considerable lockdown constraints, and without disrupting emergency response treatment of Covid-19 patients, speed up Phase I and Phase II of the clinical trials to complete them for public use of the candidate vaccine by August 15, 2020? Not to speak of the need to complete Phase III of the clinical trials to answer the real question -- whether the immune response the vaccine generates is adequate protection against the disease or not. There is a sense of disquiet in the scientific community and the credibility of the ICMR stands somewhat eroded. The ICMR has since sought to clarify that the DG’s letter is aimed at cutting red tape, to insulate vaccine development from slow file movement. Clinical trials are not about piles of faceless files. They are about human beings, and introducing a vaccine, about public health and safety. If there is any significance of August 15, 2020 to the search for a Covid-19 vaccine, it is that science must be independent of politics. Never has the need for scientific temper and integrity been greater than now. Politics and pandemics must not mix. ICMR would do well to advance science, rather than political populism. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-coronavirus-vaccine-in-40-days-icmr-857966.html
07-07-2020||National||US military to stand with India in conflict with China, indicates White House official||The US military "will continue to stand strong” in relationship to a conflict between India and China or anywhere else, a top White House official said on Monday, after the navy deployed two aircraft carriers to the South China Sea to boost its presence in the region. "The message is clear. We're not going to stand by and let China or anyone else take the reins in terms of being the most powerful, dominant force, whether it's in that region or over here,” White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows told Fox News. “And the message is clear. Our military might stands strong and will continue to stand strong, whether it's in relationship to a conflict between India and China or anywhere else,” Meadows said in response to a question. He was told that India banned Chinese apps because Indian soldiers were killed by Chinese troops last month and asked what's mission of the two aircraft carriers - the Ronald Reagan and the Nimitz - and what's America's mission. The troops of India and China are locked in an eight-week standoff in several areas in eastern Ladakh including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Gogra Hot Spring. The situation deteriorated last month following the Galwan Valley clashes that left 20 Indian Army personnel dead as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. The Chinese military on Monday began withdrawing troops from the Galwan Valley and Gogra Hot Spring after National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held lengthy talks on Sunday. Doval and Wang are also the special representatives on the India-China boundary talks. The United States has sent two of its aircraft carriers to the South China Sea. “Our mission is to make sure that the world knows that we still have the preeminent fighting force on the face of the globe,” Meadows said. President Donald Trump has invested more in the US military, more in not only the hardware, but the men and women who serve so sacrificially each and every day, he said. “He (Trump) continues to do so,” he added. China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. Beijing has built up and militarised many of the islands and reefs it controls in the region. Both areas are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources and are vital to global trade. China claims almost all of the South China Sea. Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims over the area. Appearing on the same Fox News on Monday talk show with host Brian Kilmeade, influential Republican Senator Tom Cotton said that the US aircraft carriers are headed to the South China Sea to thwart off any Chinese misadventure against Taiwan or other countries in the region. "That's one of the reasons why we have those aircraft carrier groups in the South China Sea. I mean, look what China did in the southwest. It's essentially invaded India over the last few weeks and killed Indian soldiers,” Cotton said. "No country on China's periphery, right now, is safe from Chinese aggression. All those countries want a close relationship with the United States. We ought to have one,” Cotton said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-military-to-stand-with-india-in-conflict-with-china-indicates-white-house-official-857961.html
07-07-2020||National||US thanks India for hosting Dalai Lama since 1959||The US on Monday thanked India for hosting the Dalai Lama since 1959 as it commemorated the 85th birthday of the Tibetan spiritual leader. The Dalai Lama has been living in India ever since he fled Tibet in 1959 following a crackdown on an uprising by the local population. The Tibetan government-in-exile operates from Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh. Over 1,60,000 Tibetans live in India. "Happy 85th birthday to His Holiness @DalaiLama, who has inspired the world through his peace ​& kindness, and as a symbol of the struggle for Tibetans and their heritage. We thank India for hosting His Holiness and Tibetans in freedom since 1959 & wish His Holiness happiness," the US state department's South and Central Asian Affairs (SCA) bureau tweeted. Speaker of the US House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi also conveyed her greetings to the Tibetan spiritual leader on his birthday. “The Dalai Lama is a messenger of hope, whose spiritual guidance has been a vital force to advance warm-heartedness and compassion, promote religious harmony, secure human rights and preserve the language and culture of the Tibetan people,” she said. Sadly, the aspirations of His Holiness and the Tibetan people remain unfulfilled as the oppressive Chinese regime continues its disgraceful campaign of persecution, Pelosi said. She noted that the US Congress on a bipartisan basis has long spoken with one voice in defence of those persecuted by Beijing and will continue to do so. In January, House Democrats defended the rights of Tibetans to practice their faith, speak their language and celebrate their culture free from Beijing’s repressive grip by passing the Tibet Policy and Support Act, which makes clear the US position that interference by Beijing in the process of recognising a successor or reincarnation of the 14th Dalai Lama would represent a clear violation of the religious freedoms of the Tibetan people. "The Senate must pass this bipartisan legislation and support the bond of friendship that has existed between the United States, the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan people for decades," Pelosi said. In honour of this special day and of the dreams of the Tibetan people, America remains committed to opposing the acceleration of Beijing’s aggression toward the people of Tibet, as well as its brutal campaign against the Uyghur people, its suppression of free speech and assault on the ‘one country, two systems’ doctrine in Hong Kong, and its violent efforts to undermine religious freedom and human rights throughout China, she said. “May this next year bring His Holiness The Dalai Lama, the people of Tibet and all those working to advance freedom in China and around the world a future of peace, security and prosperity for all,” Pelosi said. Congressman Andy Levin in a tweet wished the Dalai Lama a joyous birthday. “May we all follow the example set by His Holiness in the coming year and work towards a more peaceful world,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-thanks-india-for-hosting-dalai-lama-since-1959-857992.html
07-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 7||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 7.16 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 7,39,523 as of July 7 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 20,623   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 4,36,373 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-7-857994.html
07-07-2020||National||Haryana cop scribbles vehicle number before being killed, leads to the accused's arrest: Report||Haryana Police Chief Manoj Yadava praised one of the fallen policemen, Constable Ravinder Singh (23) who scribbled the registration number of the accused’s vehicle on his hand before he was killed. “It was basic policing skill that our brave Constable Ravinder Singh displayed before losing his life. He had scribbled the vehicle number on his hand which was noticed during the post-mortem,” Yadava said. Dr Hanif Qureshi also praised the constable, calling him a 'braveheart'. The registration number of the accused was a crucial lead in solving the murder case of Ravinder Singh and Special Police Officer Kaptan Singh (43), the police chief said. The two policemen were found lying in a pool of blood last Tuesday. Initial investigation showed that the two encountered the accused drinking in a car parked on the Sonipat-Jind Road near the Butana Police Station despite a curfew in place.  The officers tried to disperse them, which led to an argument followed by an attack using sharp weapons, according to the report. The accused allegedly sped off towards Jind after the attack. “The SOPs already exist and it just needs to be reiterated. Using bulletproof jackets and vehicles during such operation, maintaining secrecy of the details are a few such guidelines which exist,” Yadava said. Constable Ravinder Singh would be recommended for a posthumous police medal, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-cop-scribbles-vehicle-number-before-being-killed-leads-to-the-accuseds-arrest-report-858029.html
07-07-2020||National||Valued in gold: Mumbai MP honours Covid warriors with gold coins  ||To encourage Covid-19 warriors in a unique way, Mumbai MP Gopal Shetty has felicitated 30 of them by gifting them Rs 5,000 in cash and a gold coin weighing one gram. These warriors include security guards, sanitation workers and administrative staff. Shetty, a senior BJP leader, is an MP from Mumbai North which is currently the worst-affected area in India's financial capital. The Satra Park Cooperative Housing Society organised the felicitation ceremony in Borivali. Shetty also inaugurated a Covid care centre that the society had set up within its premises. This centre has a capacity of 12 patients. "I am grateful that the administration has agreed to this demand and am seeing many societies step forward and take the necessary steps to develop these centres," added Shetty.The area's legislator Sunil Rane was also present at the event. Shetty has taken up many causes to help those in need during the coronavirus pandemic in the city.A month ago, he had partnered with former minister Dr Deepak Sawant to inaugurate a Covid care centre in Pawandham, Mahavir Nagar in Kandivali. The centre has six doctors, eight RMOs and 50 nursing staff, alongside necessary medical equipment like X-ray machines, ECG machines, cylinders with liquid oxygen and monitoring equipment. Jain spiritual leader Namramuni Maharaj had blessed the centre, set up in the premises of a Jain temple. Since then, this centre, which provides free medical care, has helped 325 patients so far, with 200 of them recovering from the dreaded disease. Out of these 325, 22 patients are still at the centre, while the conditions for two have worsened to critical care and ventilator support. He has also helped in organising additional beds in Covid wards for the Miti Life hospital, Rustomjee, Dahisar (47 beds), Punjabi Galli, Borivali west (120 beds), ESIC Hospital (250 beds) and Bhagwati Hospital (80 beds). "By boosting the infrastructure for these hospitals, we're ensuring rapid, round- the-clock medical care for people in Northern Mumbai during the current Covid crisis. Apart from private hospitals, people can visit these centres for affordable and timely healthcare avenues," Shetty added. Shetty has received support from multiple NGOs, including the IBIF Cooperative Society, Ekta Meadows Society, Jai Cooperative Housing Society, Biplex Habitat Cooperative Housing Society, Kandivali Vishdeep Society, Tilak Complex, Gurukul Society and Sita Park Society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/valued-in-gold-mumbai-mp-honours-covid-warriors-with-gold-coins-858036.html
07-07-2020||National||IAF carries out night operations along India-China border||The Indian Air Force (IAF) carried out night operations along the India-China border last night, news agency ANI reported. IAF's MiG-29 fighter aircraft, Apache attack helicopter and Chinook heavylift helicopter conducted night operations at a forward airbase near the India-China border. The two coutries have been engaged in a tense standoff along the LAC. On Monday, both sides agreed to work on maintaining status quo and expediate the disengagement process. "Night operations have an inherent element of surprise. IAF is fully trained and ready to undertake entire spectrum of ops in any environment with help of modern platforms and motivated personnel," said Group Captain A Rathi, senior fighter pilot at a Forward Air Base near the India-China border.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-carries-out-night-operations-along-india-china-border-858041.html
07-07-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Infosys brings back over 200 employees, their families from US via chartered flight||IT services major Infosys has brought back over 200 of its employees and their families, who were stranded in the US amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, according to a senior company executive. The company brought these people back from San Francisco via a special chartered flight that landed in Bengaluru on Monday morning. "Infosys chartered flight took off from SFO (San Francisco) last night bringing hundreds of employees and families home to Bangalore," Infosys Associate Vice President - Retail, CPG and Logistics Samir Gosavi said in a LinkedIn post. Infosys did not comment on the development. According to sources, 206 individuals, including Infosys employees and their family members, were brought back. These individuals were stranded in the US after international flights were suspended following the coronavirus virus outbreak and the resultant lockdown, a person said. The employees were a mix of those working on client sites as well some who had travelled to the US for some meeting or event, another person said. The US is the biggest market for Indian IT services firms accounting for the biggest share of their revenues. For Infosys, North America accounted for over 60 per cent of its revenue for the quarter ended March 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-infosys-brings-back-over-200-employees-their-families-from-us-via-chartered-flight-858051.html
07-07-2020||National||India's coronavirus death toll hits 20,000 as infections surge||India's death toll from the coronavirus pandemic surpassed 20,000 on Tuesday and case numbers surged as the south Asian nation pushed ahead with relaxations to its almost two-month lockdown amid grim economic forecasts. The rate of both new virus infections and deaths are rising at the fastest pace in three months, as officials lift a vast lockdown of India's 1.3 billion people that has left tens of thousands without work and shuttered businesses. The country reported 467 new deaths on Tuesday, taking the toll to 20,160. It also recorded 22,252 new infections, increasing the total to 719,665. India on Monday overtook Russia as the third most affected country globally, behind the United States and Brazil. But its death rate per 10,000 people is still a low 0.15, compared with 3.97 in the United States and 6.65 in the United Kingdom, according to a Reuters tally. Health officials fear the number of deaths, which usually lag behind the detection of new infections, could rise significantly in coming weeks. India's death toll is currently the world's seventh-highest, behind the United States, Brazil, the United Kingdom, Italy, France and Spain. Over the first week of July, India reported an average of 450 deaths each day, compared with 250 in the first week of June, and 101 in the first week of May. Officials on Monday withdrew a planned reopening of the Taj Mahal, citing the risk of new coronavirus infections spreading in the northern city of Agra from visitors flocking to see the 17th century monument to love. The reopening of the Indian economy has been sporadic. While domestic travel has been opened up, international flights remain suspended and containment zones, areas identified as most affected by the virus, remain under strict lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-death-toll-hits-20000-as-infections-surge-858055.html
07-07-2020||National||SC grants Centre one more month to implement judgement on permanent commission to women Army officers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted one more month to the Union government to grant permanent commission to women Army officers, in view of the Covid-19 situation. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud took on record submission by the Union government that the judgement would be followed in letter and spirit and the delay was due to the prevailing pandemic. The government, for its part, sought an extension of six months time, granted for the purpose. It also said the decision on permanent commission and command position to eligible officers was at final stage and only formal orders were required to be issued. In its judgement on February 17, the top court said that the recruitment of women in armed forces was an evolutionary process, and denying them an opportunity on the ground of social norms and physiological features was disturbing. It said that a change from the mindset that women were weak and physically submissive was required in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-centre-one-more-month-to-implement-judgement-on-permanent-commission-to-women-army-officers-858114.html
07-07-2020||National||House cleaning taking a new turn in the Covid-19 era||Three months after the lockdown, with little to no domestic help, urban Indians have shifted from the humble 'jhadoo' and 'pochha' to new cleaning appliances such as automatic vacuum cleaners, dishwasher and self-squeezing mops. The popularity of these electric, semi-automatic mops has soared since the lockdown, which has left a lot of urban working individuals in need of a quicker way to clean their houses.  Shruti Sundar Ray (26), a resident of Kolkata, is planning to buy a vacuum cleaner as the physical labour of sweeping the house daily is difficult. “We are trying to find a specific model because our acquaintances are using it and we have got good reviews. But currently, it is out of stock on Amazon and Cliq,” she said.  A teacher at Oberoi International School in Mumbai, Moitreyee Mitra (49) tried searching for the self-squeezing mops in her neighbourhood but it had run out. "I have bad knees, so we ordered the pink ones from Amazon in the beginning of April.” Her house-help returned after the lockdown was eased but she preferred the traditional mop cloth to clean the house, she added.  Dr Sunita Varadaraj (56) from Coimbatore said she had ordered a Roomba's automatic vacuum cleaners online last year but had not used it as much then. “After the maid stopped coming, this one has been immensely helpful. It gets dust and dog hair from crevices very efficiently,” she said.  Local vendors have seen a rise in the sale of cleaning equipment. Thyagaraj A of Uniclean Equipments located in Shanti Nagar said, “The sale of vacuums, mops and cleaning supplies has increased by almost ten times during the lockdown. Customers are getting the products home delivered too.” “Since the lockdown, the daily demand for spin mops has gone up four times,” a Snapdeal spokesperson told the news publication. “It became the fastest-selling household item on the ecommerce site within days of the lockdown. ShopClues, too, has reported a 100% increase in demand for spin mops-with-bucket,” the person added.  Snapdeal estimates that the mid-range ones – Rs 600-Rs 1,000 – are the most popular. “The most sold variant in this category is spin mop with bucket and wheels, with a handle to drag the bucket,” the spokesperson added. Celebrities like Gulabo Sitabo’s Director Shoojit Sircar and Katrina Kaif, who had posted a video of her sweeping the floor at the beginning of the lockdown, too have taken recourse to these cleaning appliances, the article reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/house-cleaning-taking-a-new-turn-in-the-covid-19-era-858127.html
07-07-2020||National||Fact Check: Did PM Modi induct Prathap who claims to make drones from e-wastes into DRDO?||Speaking with Alt News, Prathap claimed while other details of his accomplishments are true, the bit about his induction into the DRDO is false. “Not yet,” he told us. “I haven’t received any offer from the Prime Minister’s Office. The PM cannot recruit for DRDO, isn’t it? Several people from Kannada media have told me that I will be getting a call. But I am not sure. Till now I haven’t received any call or email.”  The claim that PM Modi has inducted Prathap NM into the DRDO is baseless. It is to be noted that Alt News was unable to independently verify the awards and accomplishments credited to Prathap NM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-did-pm-modi-induct-prathap-who-claims-to-make-drones-from-e-wastes-into-drdo-858135.html
07-07-2020||National||Govt plans to develop 194 lighthouses as major tourist attractions||The shipping ministry on Tuesday said it is planning to develop around 194 existing lighthouses across the country as major tourist hotspots. Also, there will be efforts to identify lighthouses which are more than 100 years old, it said. Union Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya held a high-level meeting for developing around 194 existing lighthouses across India as major tourist attractions, the Ministry of Shipping said in a statement. Mandaviya said the move is aimed at boosting tourism activities in lighthouses and surrounding areas and give people an opportunity to know about the enriched history of lighthouses. The ministry officials presented a detailed action plan to develop lighthouses as tourism spots and have been asked to identify the lighthouses which are more than 100 years old. The statement said the minister put the impetus on creating museums to showcase the history and working of lighthouses, equipment used in operation etc. As per the master development plan of lighthouses, some key attractions are museums, aquariums, children play area and gardens, along with water bodies. The minister also took stock of the progress for developing tourist activities at Gopnath, Dwarka and Veraval lighthouses of Gujarat, the statement said. Mandaviya instructed the officials to prepare a detailed presentation on the project at the earliest. The meeting was attended by the Shipping Ministry Secretary, Directorate General of Lighthouses and Lightships and other stakeholders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-plans-to-develop-194-lighthouses-as-major-tourist-attractions-858140.html
07-07-2020||National||Govt to come up with SOP for shooting films in India in wake of Covid-19 pandemic: Javadekar||The government is coming up with a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for shooting films in India in light of the Covid-19 pandemic and is also set to provide incentives for production to accelerate restarting of film-making, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday. Speaking at the inauguration of 'FICCI FRAMES 2020, a convention on the business of entertainment, Javadekar said all stakeholders need to work together to make progress and harness the soft power of India -- media and entertainment. "Government is coming up with a standard operating procedure for shooting films in India in the light of the pandemic," the Information and Broadcasting minister said. "Further, to accelerate the restart of film-making that had come to a standstill as a result of COVID, it is also coming up with incentives of production in all sectors, including TV serials, film-making, co-production, animation, gaming. We will be announcing these measures shortly," he said. Javadekar also said that more than 80 foreign film producers have taken advantage of the film facilitation office. They have got a single window clearance for shooting their films in India, Javadekar said. He said the discussions at 'FICCI FRAMES' would certainly throw up new and innovative ideas that can be acted upon. Virtual inaugurations are the new normal and those virtual spaces are the new places for real partnerships, Javadekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-come-up-with-sop-for-shooting-films-in-india-in-wake-of-covid-19-pandemic-javadekar-858142.html
07-07-2020||National||SC grants interim bail to Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra||The Supreme Court Tuesday granted interim bail to Unitech Ltd promoter Sanjay Chandra, in jail for around three years for allegedly siphoning off home buyers' money, as his parents are hospitalized. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah granted interim bail to Chandra for one month. The apex court was informed that one of his parents is infected with Covid-19 and is undergoing treatment at the hospital. On January 20, in a respite to over 12,000 hassled home buyers of Unitech Ltd, the top court had allowed the Centre to take total management control of the realty firm and appoint a new board of nominee directors. The apex court had approved the name of retired Haryana cadre IAS officer Yudvir Singh Malik as chairman and managing director (CMD) of the new board and directed that existing board of directors of the company would stand superseded. In January last year, the apex court had refused to grant bail to Sanjay and his brother and Unitech promoter Ajay Chandra in the case relating to alleged siphoning off the home-buyers' money. It had then observed that they have still not complied with its October 30, 2017 order which asked them to deposit Rs 750 crore with the apex court registry by December 31, 2017. The matter pertains to a criminal case which started initially by one complaint lodged in 2015 and later joined by 173 other home buyers of Unitech projects' -- 'Wild Flower Country' and 'Anthea Project' -- situated in Gurugram. In 2018, the apex court had directed a forensic audit of Unitech Ltd and its sister concerns and subsidiaries by Samir Paranjpe, Partner, Forensic and Investigation Services in M/s Grant Thornton India. The forensic auditors had submitted their report which said that Unitech Ltd received around Rs 14,270 crore from 29,800 homebuyers mostly between 2006-2014 and around Rs 1,805 crore from six financial institutions for the construction of 74 projects. The audit revealed that around Rs 5,063 crore of homebuyers' money and around Rs 763 crore of fund received from financial institutions were not utilised by the company and high value investments were made off-shore tax-haven countries between 2007-2010.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-interim-bail-to-unitech-promoter-sanjay-chandra-858163.html
07-07-2020||National||Parliamentary panel meet on Covid-19 stares at postponement as MPs cite travel restrictions, quarantine||The meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology to discuss Covid-19 pandemic scheduled on Friday is staring at the possibility of being postponed, as a section of MPs expressing their inability to attend due to travel restrictions and quarantine measures in states. This has prompted Jairam Ramesh, a senior Congress MP who is "keeping his fingers crossed" on the quorum required for the meeting, to seek Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu's permission for allowing MPs to attend the meeting through video conferencing. Ramesh said in a letter to Naidu that many MPs have "expressed their inability to attend" the meeting because of "travel restrictions, quarantine and other constraints". The agenda on the table is to discuss "preparedness to deal with Covid-19 and other pandemics in future". "I am doubtful if we can muster up a quorum. But every member irrespective of party affiliation has asked for a virtual sitting of the committee. Surely, this can be arranged -- a number of countries have held even full Parliament sessions in a virtual mode," he said. "I once again request you to allow virtual meetings of the Standing Committees. Meanwhile, I keep my fingers crossed on quorum," he said. A Parliamentary Standing Committee has 31 members and presence of 11 MPs are necessary for holding a meeting. If held, this will be the first meeting of a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Covid-19 pandemic. The Standing Committee on Home Affairs led by senior Congress MP Anand Sharma had scheduled a meeting to discuss Covid-19 situation on June 3 but it had to be cancelled after several MPs expressed their inability to attend the meeting on account of quarantine in different states. A meeting of the Sharma-led panel is now scheduled on July 15 to discuss management of Covid-19 but a similar demand for video conferencing has emerged once again. Senior DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran on Monday written a letter to panel head Sharma seeking digital meeting, citing that Tamil Nadu has strict lockdown rules and he would have to be in quarantine on return that would "severely affect" his Parliamentary duties in his constituency. Maran said he would not be able to attend the meeting physically if quarantine regulations are not waived for him. There have been demands for holding the Parliamentary Standing Committee meetings through video conference but it did not go forward as the Parliament had to pass a resolution in this regard. Also, questions about confidentiality of proceedings were also raised. While there was no word about cancelling or postponing the panel meetings, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat unveiled an eight-point protocol for the meetings. The members will have to be seated six feet apart, only two witnesses from a Ministry will be allowed to appear before the panel at a time and providing only soft copies material related to meetings among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-meet-on-covid-19-stares-at-postponement-as-mps-cite-travel-restrictions-quarantine-858167.html
07-07-2020||National||CBSE rationalises syllabus by up to 30% for classes 9 to 12 to make up for academic loss||“Considering the importance of learning achievement, it has been decided to rationalize syllabus up to 30% by retaining core concepts,” Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced on Tuesday. A CBSE statement said that the revision of the syllabus was a measure taken due to the extraordinary situation prevailing in the country and in different parts of the world. It said the prevailing situation had resulted in loss of classroom teaching due to closure of schools.  “The Heads of Schools and Teachers may ensure that the topics that have been reduced are also explained to the students to the extent required to connect different topics,” the CBSE said. However, the reduced syllabus will not be part of the topics for internal assessment and the year end Board examination, the CBSE said. The changes in the syllabus have been finalised by the respective course committees with the approval of the Curriculum Committee and the Governing Body of the Board. The Home Ministry guidelines have barred schools from re-opening till July 31. However, schools do not expect to reopen at least till October as the Covid-19 outbreak showed no signs of abating. A recent survey by LocalCircles revealed that 76% of parents felt they didn't want schools to reopen till there were no cases for 21 days in their district and its vicinity. “Children, especially the younger ones, have a tendency of getting in close proximity to each other and implementing any social distancing protocols will be a big challenge for teachers and school administration,” the survey had said in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-rationalises-syllabus-by-up-to-30-for-classes-9-to-12-to-make-up-for-academic-loss-858181.html
07-07-2020||National||Maratha quota: Supreme Court to hold day-to-day hearing||The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated to start day-to-day hearing on a plea related to granting reservation in jobs and education to empower the Maratha community in Maharashtra. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat put the matter arising out of the Bombay High Court's order approving quota, for passing interim order for implementing the quota this year, next week. Senior advocate Shyam Divan sought a direction for conducting physical hearing in the matter with all precautions. The court asked the parties to decide among themselves about the allocation of time for arguing counsel. The court further said it may decide about day-to-day hearing next month. The top court had on July 12, 2019 directed that the Maratha reservation in jobs and education can't be applied with retrospective effect. Jaishri Patil and others challenged the validity of the high court's June 27 order for applying 12 to 13% quota since 2014. The petitioners claimed that the decision had breached the 50-per cent ceiling on reservation fixed by the apex court in its landmark judgment by the nine-judge bench in the 'Indra Sahwney' case (1992), also known as the "Mandal verdict".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maratha-quota-supreme-court-to-hold-day-to-day-hearing-858184.html
07-07-2020||National||Face masks, hand sanitisers no longer essential items in India: Centre||Face masks and hand sanitisers are no longer under the purview of the Essential Commodities Act as the products are now in abundant supply. The Centre has decided to allow the March 13 notification, that brought the two products under the purview of the Act, to lapse. On March 13, the Union consumer affairs ministry had declared face masks and hand sanitisers as essential commodities till June 30 to boost supply and prevent hoarding of these items in its fight to check the spread of Covid-19. Distilleries and apparel manufacturers were encouraged to take up production of hand sanitisers and face masks respectively as the demand shot up as they were found effective in controlling the spread of Covid-19. Since the supply of the two products is in surplus, the government believes that there are little chance of increase in prices or hoarding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/face-masks-hand-sanitisers-no-longer-essential-items-in-india-centre-858185.html
07-07-2020||National||Indian Railways sets up solar plant to feed power to railways overhead traction system||In a first of its kind use of technology globally, the Indian Railways has set up a solar plant at Bina, in Madya Pradesh, to directly power railways' overhead line. "This project is first of its kind as the power generated by the solar power plant will be directly fed to the overhead electricity lines of the railways to power the traction system of the electric locomotives to run trains," Railway Board chairman V K Yadav said. The Indian Railways in collaboration with Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) has set up a 1.7-megawatt solar power plant at Bina Traction Sub Station. The plant can generate around  25 lakh units of energy annually and save about an amount of Rs 1.37 crore for Indian Railways every year, Yadav said. This plant at Bina is a pilot project that involves the adoption of innovative technology for converting Direct Current (DC) to single-phase Alternating Current (AC) for feeding directly to Railway’s overhead traction system. The key challenge in this project was the conversion of DC power generated from solar panels to the single-phase 25 kV AC power which is used by the Railways traction system. "This required the development of high capacity inverters with single phase output which was not readily available in the market. The solar panels generate DC energy which will be converted into AC energy through these unique inverters to directly feed power to the Bina Traction Sub Station, which will be used for the running of electric trains," Yadav said. Currently, the 1.7-megawatt solar power plant is under extensive testing and likely to be commissioned in 15 days, he said. In the coming days, the Railways plans to set up power plants with a total capacity of 2 gigawatts. Tenders have already invited for the project and in another 2 to 3 years, the project is expected to complete.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-sets-up-solar-plant-to-feed-power-to-railways-overhead-traction-system-858191.html
07-07-2020||National||Isha founder Sadhguru's painting of bull fetches Rs 5.1 crore||'Bhairava', a unique painting of a bull, by Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, fetched Rs 5.1 crore through online-auction. The painting was put up for online auction a month ago and was closed on Monday. It received the highest bid of Rs 5.1 crore which would go to the Outreach programme of Isha, a spiritual organisation. This is the second art work that Sadhguru has contributed to Isha Outreachs efforts, which include distribution of protective gear to frontline health workers, infrastructure support for isolation wards and a daily supply of cooked meals and an immunity booster drink to thousands of people in rural Tamil Nadu, a statement said on Tuesday. 'Bhairava' is his tribute to Ishas much-loved bull who passed away in April last and Sadhguru used cow dung as a backdrop for the artwork that has been created using charcoal, turmeric and limestone. His first painting titled To Live Totally! was an abstract oil on canvas and fetched Rs 4.14 crore, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isha-founder-sadhgurus-painting-of-bull-fetches-rs-51-crore-858201.html
07-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to make major worldwide address at India Global Week in UK||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make a major worldwide address, expected to focus on India's trade and foreign investment prospects, at India Global Week 2020 organised in the UK from Thursday. "As the world battles to emerge out of the shadows of Covid-19, India with its immense talent pool, its technological prowess, and growing appetite for leadership has a central role to play in global affairs. I am sure the Indian Prime Minister’s message to the world will resonate with the #BeTheRevival: India and a Better New World theme of India Global Week,” said Manoj Ladwa, Chairman and CEO of the India Inc. Group, the UK-headquartered media house behind the annual event. The three-day summit, being held on a virtual platform given the coronavirus pandemic lockdown, had earlier confirmed senior Cabinet ministers, including External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Railways and Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, Civil Aviation and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Skill Development Minister Mahendra Nath Pandey, among some of the prominent speakers from India. On the UK side, Prince Charles will be making a special address at the event and the British government is lining up a high-profile set of speakers, including Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, Home Secretary Priti Patel, Health Secretary Matt Hancock and International Trade Secretary Liz Truss. Gaitri Kumar will also be addressing the event later this week, among her inaugural engagements as the new Indian High Commissioner to the UK. Besides a focus of the India-UK bilateral ties and much-anticipated enhanced special relationship in a post-Brexit world, there are a series of country-specific sessions scheduled to cover India’s ties with countries such as the US, Australia, Singapore and Japan. The India Inc. Group said that the wide range of around 75 sessions during India Global Week 2020 between July 9 and 11 will cover subject areas such as geopolitics, business, emerging technologies, banking and finance, pharma, defence and security, and arts and culture. The line-up will also include in-conversation segments, including between Indian-origin Hollywood actor Kunal Nayyar and Isha Foundation Founder Sadhguru, and journalist Barkha Dutt and Art of Living Foundation Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. The organisers expect an estimated 250 senior business and strategic expert speakers to attract a worldwide audience of over 5,000 people over the course of the summit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-make-major-worldwide-address-at-india-global-week-in-uk-858203.html
07-07-2020||National||CPI (M) demands CB-CID probe into man's death in Tamil Nadu||The CPI(M) on Tuesday demanded that the Tamil Nadu government order a CB-CID probe into the death of a young man whose father alleged it was due to police torture in Tenkasi district,and action against "errant" personnel. Announcing protest demonstrations across Tenkasi district to press for the demand on Wednesday, the party said an allegation has been made by a man in Tenkasi district that his 25-year-old son died following torture by the police during enquiry. When Tamil Nadu has been shaken by the deaths of a father-son duo due to alleged police brutality at Sathankulam, this allegation has been made by Navaneethakrishnan, hailing from Veerakeralampudur in Tenkasi district, CPI(M) state Secretary K Balakrishnan said in a statement. Citing Navaneethakrishnan's complaint, the party leader said when Kumaresan visited the Veerakeralampudur police station twice in May in connection with a land dispute, he was brutally assaulted allegedly by a sub-inspector and a constable. Following the assault, Kumaresan was admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital where he died on June 27, Balakrishnan said, citing the plaint. Though police officials assured action when his family and local people staged an agitation seeking steps against police personnel responsible for the young man's death, no action seems to have been taken, the CPI(M) leader said. The CPI(M) Tamil Nadu State Council urges the state government to order CB-CID probe and legal action against "errant"policemen in the light of complaint by Kumaresan's father that his son died of police torture," he said in the statement,adding that protest demonstrations would be held on Wednesday inTenkasi district to press the demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpi-m-demands-cb-cid-probe-into-mans-death-in-tamil-nadu-858214.html
07-07-2020||National||Serum Institute of India expects Covid-19 vaccine by year-end||Vaccine maker Serum Institute of India (SII) is hoping to develop a Covid-19 vaccine by the year-end as it is focusing on a "good and safe" product and is not in a "rush", the company's CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday. He was speaking during the launch of 'Compact XL, a compact diagnostics machine by MyLab Discovery Solutions, that will automate lab processes from sample handling to preparing RT-PCR tubes. Replying to a question about the development of the Covid-19 vaccine, Poonawalla said that by the end of 2020, the SII is hoping to have a vaccine. "End of the year, we are hoping to have a vaccine. So we will discuss once of the phase three trials for the product come about. Recently, there was news about another vaccine candidate which was being rushed. We do not want to rush anything. We want to emphasis on safety and efficacy... and once we are confident of good and safe vaccine, we will announce but that is still six months away from now," said Adar. He further said that till the vaccine comes, testing is the key and that is why SII has invested in MyLabs. "If you test, isolate and segregate, we can manage the situation till the good cure or vaccine comes around," said Adar. SII has invested over Rs 100 crore in MyLabs, a Pune-based molecular diagnostics firm. Poonawalla lamented that India is not testing enough and added that Indian test manufacturers including MyLabs are picking up the production capacity. "There is a fear that what will happen if the number of positive patients increases. I would like to say that there is no harm if the number increases as it will help us detect people," he added. Poonawalla also sought permission to allow export of the test kits. "We have enough capacity in manufacturing testing kits. MyLab can produce 2 million kits per week and there is no that much demand in India so allow us to export and we have enough buffer stock for India readily available if there is more outbreak," he said adding they are waiting for the government's blessings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-expects-covid-19-vaccine-by-year-end-858225.html
07-07-2020||National||Supreme Court extends protection to journalist Vinod Dua||The Supreme Court on Tuesday extended protection from arrest to senior journalist Vinod Dua till July 15 in a sedition FIR lodged by the police in Shimla in May over his YouTube show, critically analysing the Union government's decisions after Pulwama attack to lockdown. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran directed the police to file status report in sealed cover in the matter, The court also made it clear that it would quash the criminal investigation if there was no merit, on the next date of hearing. The court also said questions like why did Dua, a journalist with 45-year experience rely upon another newspaper article to make his video, was not relevant in the investigation into the matter. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Dua, contended that the way, his client was being questioned, was an outright harassment for exercising his constitutional right to freedom of speech.  He cited instances of News 18's journalist Amish Devgan and OpIndia's editor Nupur J Sharma cases to point out the top court stayed probe into the FIR lodged against them. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta objected to the contentions that the stay orders on probe in FIRs in other cases were passed on basis of facts of the matter. The court asked the State police file a report on its investigation and put the matter for consideration on July 15. On June 14, the court allowed the police to interrogate Dua at his residence in Delhi on giving a prior notice of 24 hours, "keeping in mind the social distancing norms prescribed during Covid-19 pandemic". A BJP leader, Ajay Shyam filed a sedition complaint with Kumarsain police station in Shimla against Dua on May 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-extends-protection-to-journalist-vinod-dua-858227.html
07-07-2020||National||Ahead of Parliamentary panel meetings, 8-point protocol for MPs issued over Covid-19||The MPs attending Parliamentary Standing Committee meetings will have to sit six feet apart, and not more than two witnesses from the ministry concerned can appear before the panel at a time. This is part of the eight-point protocol set by the Rajya Sabha secretariat keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic, ahead of the meetings of the Standing Committees on Science and Technology and Home Affairs on July 10 and 15 respectively. The meeting of the Standing Committee on Home Affairs was convened by its chairman Anand Sharma on June 3, but it had to be called off as members expressed their inability to attend it in view of the prevailing situation due to the pandemic. As members were facing difficulty in attending the panel meetings due to travel and quarantine restrictions, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, who is the chairman of the Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment and Climate Change, has written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to allow virtual participation of members in the meeting. The two presiding officers of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha had earlier deliberated on the issue of holding virtual panel meetings. However, they have not given their approval for it due to existing rules that require changes by the Rules Committee of Parliament and a resolution by the House, according to sources. The Rajya Sabha has eight Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committees of the House, of which two are chaired by Congress leaders Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh. "Respected M Venkaiah Naidu garu, Standing Committee on Science & Technology is scheduled to meet on July 10th. MPs across parties have asked for virtual sitting of Committee to discuss S&T issues related to Covid-19. I hope you will allow. Where there is will, there is skill (sic)," Ramesh said on Twitter. Standing Committee on Science & Technology is scheduled to meet on July 10th. MPs across parties have asked for virtual sitting of Committee to discuss S&T issues related to COVID-19. In his letter to the Chairman, Ramesh said the panel will discuss ongoing S&T related issues concerning Covid-19 pandemic and ongoing and future S&T programmes to enhance resilience and capacity to deal with such crises. "Many members of the Committee have expressed their inability to attend this meeting because of travel restrictions, quarantine and other constraints. I am doubtful if we can muster up a quorum. "But every member irrespective of party affiliation has asked for a virtual sitting of the Committee. Surely, this can be arranged - a number of other countries have held even full Parliament sessions in a virtual mode. I once again request you to allow virtual meetings of the Standing Committees," he said.  As per the protocol for meetings of Rajya Sabha Committees, members have to ensure conformity with physical distancing norms. Rajya Sabha Secretariat had discussed the protocol to be followed on May 28, anticipating meetings of some Committees after restrictions on domestic air travel were removed on May 25. Officials discussed the issue again and announced the updated protocol ahead of the two scheduled meetings. "Members of the Committee to be seated at a distance of 6 feet and appropriate arrangements to be made to accommodate the maximum possible participation. "Only two witnesses from the Ministry/Department appearing before the Committee for evidence would be allowed at a time and if more number of witnesses were to be examined, it would be done in turns. There is no restriction on the number of witnesses to be examined by the Committees," the new protocol said. It also stated that material related to the meetings would be supplied to members as soft copies, and reporters will be accommodated in the well of the Committee Rooms for taking verbatim note of the proceedings of the Committees. While participation of officials related to the Committees will be restricted, the participation of members in the meetings would be ascertained in advance so as to ensure necessary logistics. Hand Sanitizers, disposable masks and gloves for the members, witnesses, officers and staff of the Secretariat will be ensured at the entrance of the Committee Rooms and their attendance will also be taken outside under the new protocols, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-parliamentary-panel-meetings-8-point-protocol-for-mps-issued-over-covid-19-858228.html
07-07-2020||National||Panic in BJP as Jyotiraditya Scindia's PA tests Covid-19 positive||A wave of panic has gripped BJP circles after a personal assistant of party’s Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia was found Covid-19 positive. The PA, Anil Mishra, had come to Bhopal with his boss on July 2 to attend the oath-taking ceremony of new ministers. During his three-day stay in Bhopal, Misha reportedly came into contact with around 1000 persons in the Raj Bhawan, the chief minister’s house and the BJP state headquarters. Two weeks ago, Jyotiraditya Scindia too had tasted positive to Covid-19 and had undergone treatment in New Delhi. Mishra has been accompanying Scindia throughout his tours post-corona infection. He was with Scindia at the Raj Bhawan, at the CM house and the BJP office where his boss addressed a virtual rally along with chief minister Chouhan and the state BJP president VD Sharma. Mishra’s contact trail is longer than that of Scindia. He was in touch with Chief Minister and a large number of BJP MLAs apart from Scindia supporters. Confirming his positivity Anil Mishra said he has quarantined himself. The administration is trying to ascertain who came into contact with Mishra and whether they need to be tested for Covid-19. Earlier, detection of corona positivity in a BJP MLA during the Rajya Sabha election on June 19 had created flutter in Bhopal. The MLA Om Prakash Sakhlecha, who was detected positive, however, has recovered . He was inducted as a cabinet minister in the Chouhan ministry’s expansion on July 2. Congress MLA Kunal Choudhary, who cast his vote wearing PPE in the Rajya Sabha election due to infection , has also recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panic-in-bjp-as-jyotiraditya-scindias-pa-tests-covid-19-positive-858233.html
07-07-2020||National||Don't drag Indian Army into political mudslinging: Veterans||Members of Dharwad District Veterans’ Forum has urged political parties not to drag the Indian Army into their political mudslinging as it demoralises the men in uniform in particular, their family members, and the country in general. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, Air Commodore (retd) C S Havaldar said: "This (India-China standoff) is not the situation for political parties, especially Opposition parties, to show one-upmanship against the government. We as a nation have to show unity against an adversary like China. If the Opposition parties try to score political points, then it would demoralise the army,” he said. “There are hundreds of ways to pin down the government, do not use the army’s shoulder to fire at the ruling dispensation, as we (soldiers) do not fight for Indira Gandhi, Narendra Modi, or any political party, but for the nation,” he asserted. Without naming any political party, he said, such ‘enemical forces’ for their political (especially ideological) interests are sacrificing national interests. “For whose sake are soldiers fighting the war?” he asked. Lesson from enemy Havaldar said, henceforth India and its citizens should consider China as its ‘enemy’ for its unreliable character, and to stop the expansionist character of China, we have to support Indian army. Banning Chinese mobile applications and mobile phones should be part of our multi-pronged fight against the ‘dragon country’. Our top priority should be to become self-reliant in terms of weaponry to fight them. Calling for 'Athmanirbartha' in defence, the war veteran asked the government to give thrust to arms that were ‘Made in India’. “Rushing our Defence Minister to Russia to expedite advance weapons is not a happy situation. India should be in a position to produce the required amount of firepower for its defence,” he said, and added that in the Indian army is capable to fight to safeguard the Indian borders. Veterans Mohan Chithale, Veerupaksappa, Subash Kedai, and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-drag-indian-army-into-political-mudslinging-veterans-858244.html
07-07-2020||National||Spare Indian army from your political slugfest, veterans say to political parties||Members of Dharwad District Veterans’ Forum has urged political parties not to drag the apolitical Indian Army into their political debate as it demoralises the men in uniform, their family members and the nation in general. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, Air Commodore C S Havaldar said this is not the situation for political parties, especially opposition parties, to show one-upmanship against the government. “We as a nation has to show unity against an adversary like China. Instead, if the opposition parties try to score political points, then it would demoralise the army men,” he said. “There are hundreds of ways to pin down the government, do not use the army’s shoulder to fire at the ruling dispensation, as we army men do not fight for Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Narendra Modi or any political party but for the nation,” he said. Without naming any political party, he said such ‘enemical forces’ (sic) for their political (especially ideological) interests are sacrificing national interest. “For whose sake are we fighting the war,” he asked. Lesson from enemy Havaldar said henceforth India and its citizens should consider Chian as its ‘enemy’ for its unrealistic character and to stop an expansionist we have to support our army. Banning Chinese mobile applications and mobile phones should be part of our multi-prong fight against the ‘dragon country’. While our top priority should be to become self-reliance in terms of weaponry to fight them. Calling for Athmanirbartha in defence, the war veteran asked the government to give thrust in weapons that are ‘Made in India’. “Rushing our Defence Minister to Russia to expedite advance weapons is not a happy situation to be in,” he said and added that India should be in a position to produce the required amount of firepower for its defence. “With the current ammunition and weaponries, India is not in a position to wage a long term war with China,” he said and added that in spite of all this Indian army is ready to fight their lives to safeguard Indian borders. Veterans Mohan Chithale, Veerupaksappa, Subash Kedai and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spare-indian-army-from-your-political-slugfest-veterans-say-to-political-parties-858251.html
07-07-2020||National||Pvt hospitals asked to admit Covid-19 suspects without delay||In light of the rise in Covid-19 cases, Guardian Minister of Thane district Eknath Shinde has urged private hospitals to admit suspected patients and begin their treatment without delays, an official said on Tuesday. Shinde made this appeal during a webinar with more than 1,000 doctors organised with the help of the Indian Medical Association's Thane chapter, the official said. Instead of referring suspected coronavirus cases directly to dedicated Covid-19 treatment facilities, private hospitals must first admit such patients and begin treatment without any delays, the minister said. Patients can be sent to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals once their test results come out positive for the infection and their condition stabilises, he said. Expressing satisfaction that 50 physicians and seven intensivists will be providing their services through the IMA Thane, the minister urged more experts to come forward and serve at state government-run Covid-19 hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pvt-hospitals-asked-to-admit-covid-19-suspects-without-delay-858260.html
07-07-2020||National||Demand for work under MGNREGA has 'sharply' increased: Sources||Demand for work under the MGNREGA has more than doubled in this fiscal, so far, due to the Covid-19 lockdown and about 42 per cent of the total allocation of Rs 1.01 lakh crore for the employment scheme has already been distributed among states, sources said on Tuesday. The way demand for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) has "sharply" increased this year, it seems a sizeable amount will be required to meet demand, they said. To provide relief to migrant workers who returned to their villages from across the country during the lockdown, the Centre has expanded the ambit work offered under the scheme. It now includes toilet construction and dragon fruit plantation, sources in the government said. They said only the labour cost for construction of toilets, part of the Swachh Bharat Mission, will be paid under the MGNREGA. Besides this, dragon fruit plantation, which is mostly done in northeastern states, has also been included in the list of works, the sources said Officials in the Rural Development Ministry said the ambit of work has been expanded to provide as many opportunities as possible to engage migrant workers who have returned to their native states. Sources in the ministry also suggested that additional funds might be required for the MGNREGA as the demand for work under it has more than doubled compared to last year. Out of the Rs 1.01 lakh crore total allocation for the employment guarantee scheme, which also includes the Rs 40,000 crore allocated under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, Rs 43,000 crore has already been allocated to states, they said. If the existing rate of rise in demand for work remains, a substantial amount will be required for the implementation of the MGNREGA in the existing financial year, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-work-under-mgnrega-has-sharply-increased-sources-858263.html
07-07-2020||National||Process for COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials begins at NIMS Hyderabad||The process of conducting clinical trials for Covaxin, a vaccine candidate for Covid-19, began on Tuesday at the Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) here, a top official of the state-run medical facility said. "We will select healthy individuals and draw blood and send the blood samples to designated labs in New Delhi. They will give the green signal. Then the medicine people will examine and the first shot of the vaccine will be given due observation," NIMS director Dr K Manohar told PTI. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has identified 12 clinical trial sites such as medical institutions and hospitals, including NIMS, and has asked their principal investigators to ensure that the subject enrolment is initiated no later than July 7. "Everything will be sent to ICMR, where data is analysed. We have already started the screening of individuals. We will first take audio visual consent of the individual," the medical officer added. Asked about the total number of individuals required for the clinical trial, Manohar said at least 30 are needed. The clinical trials proposal was already placed before the NIMS hospital ethics committee. The Drug Controller General of India recently granted permission to initiate Phase I & II human clinical trials for Covid-19 Vaccine Covaxin- being developed by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/process-for-covid-19-vaccine-clinical-trials-begins-at-nims-hyderabad-858281.html
07-07-2020||National||India remains cautious as China yet to withdraw large number of troops from 'rear areas'||India remains cautious as China has not yet shown any signs of thinning out the large number of troops it amassed in the “rear areas” on its side of the disputed boundary, although both sides started pulling back front-line soldiers from some of the face-off scenes in eastern Ladakh. After the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) pulled back its troops from the scene of the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley, the Indian Army too withdrew troops 1.5 kilometers away from the spot, in keeping with the disengagement understanding reached between the senior military officials of the two nations during the three meetings they had last month to resolve the nine-week-long stand-off.   Though the Indian Army soldiers earlier routinely patrolled Galwan Valley, they would not do so for some time. The two sides agreed on a moratorium on patrolling during the last meeting between the senior commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies on June 30. While New Delhi has been dismissing Beijing’s claim of sovereignty on Galwan Valley over the past few weeks, the withdrawal of Indian Army troops from the area to reciprocate to pullback by the Chinese PLA as well as the moratorium on patrolling triggered speculation about an understanding between the two sides to create a “buffer zone” to avoid flashpoints. “By agreeing to a ‘buffer zone’ on the Indian side of the LAC and to restrict Indian patrolling to the west of the confluence of the Galwan and Shyok rivers, India will stay out of the Galwan Valley, thus giving credence to China's freshly minted claim to the entire Galwan Valley,” eminent strategic affairs analyst, Brahma Chellaney, posted on Twitter on Tuesday.              The Indian Army, however, said that the moratorium on patrolling by both sides in Patrol Point 14 area in the Galwan Valley was not permanent. “This is only a temporary step which would be in place till the disengagement process is complete. No permanent buffer zone has been created,” said an officer of the Indian Army. The sources in Indian Army said that while the process of troop withdrawal at Patrol Point-14 (PP-14) in the Galwan valley had been completed on Monday, the disengagement process was continuing at PP-15 (Gogra Post) on Tuesday. It would take one more day to complete the process at PP-17A (Hot Springs). The Indian Army is currently monitoring the pull back with drone footage besides keeping an eye on the conflict area from a distance. The confirmatory report will be prepared after senior PLA commanders verify the withdrawal and report it back to the Indian Army in accordance with a mutually accepted protocol, said sources. New Delhi, however, remains worried about the continuing stand-off on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake, where the Chinese PLA deployed soldiers and built structures at the “Finger 4” area, thus denying access to Indian Army to areas up to its earlier patrolling limit – the “Finger 8”. Sources said that although the PLA had apparently thinned out some of its troops and vehicles from “Finger 4”, the numbers were not significant.         China also remained non-committal on withdrawing the large number of troops it deployed over the past few weeks in the rear areas on its side of its disputed boundary with India – flouting the 1993 bilateral agreement, which required each side to “keep its military forces in the areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to a minimum level”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-remains-cautious-as-china-yet-to-withdraw-large-number-of-troops-from-rear-areas-858297.html
07-07-2020||National||ITBP not expected to be assigned internal security duties as 60 companies move towards LAC||he Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is not expected to be assigned any task related to internal security in the near future as more than 60 companies of the paramilitary force are being deployed all along the LAC in the backdrop of the recent standoff with China in Ladakh, officials said on Tuesday. Sources in the security establishment said the force is also set to get sanctions from the Union Home ministry to raise at least nine fresh battalions soon. They said in order to bolster troop numbers along the 3,488 kms long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, as many as 60 companies have been ordered to move towards the front in various areas like Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. An ITBP company has an operational strength of about 100 personnel. Out of the 60, about 40 companies have already reached border battalion camps in various states and the troops are undergoing acclimatisation and COVID-19 quarantine before they are sent to forward bases, they said. These units have been withdrawn from various internal security duties that they were rendering across the country, officials added. The ITBP is not expected to be drafted in any internal security duty in the near future like law and order duties to aid state police, deployment during various festivals and also for conduct of Bihar Assembly polls scheduled later this year as their maximum presence is required in the frontier areas of the LAC, they said. The government is also mulling to sanction it more battalions so that they can be raised and operationalised in the next two years, the officials said. With the recent sanction of two new commands to the ITBP at Chandigarh (western command) and Guwahati (eastern command) the force needs more manpower. A plan for grant of about 8-9 fresh battalions (with an operational strength of 1,000 people) to the force is under consideration of the Union Home ministry and a decision is expected soon, they said. At present, the ITBP has about 34 border battalions at 180 posts along the Chinese LAC. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh. The tension escalated manifold after killing of 20 Indian soldiers in Ladakh's Galwan Valley. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. The mountain-warfare trained force has 60 operational battalions in total with 56 being regular units and four for logistics like transport and weapons. Out of the 60 battalions, eight units are deployed for anti-Naxal operations in Rajnandgaon, Kondagaon and Narayanpur districts of Chhattisgarh. Some of its units are also tasked for VIP security duties, protecting about a dozen high-risk persons like veteran BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah among others while a contingent drawn from its Delhi-NCR units guards the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The force was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression and its posts are located between 9,000 feet-18,700 feet in the western, middle and eastern sectors of this front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-not-expected-to-be-assigned-internal-security-duties-as-60-companies-move-towards-lac-858300.html
07-07-2020||National||'5.03 lakh stranded Indians brought back through Vande Bharat Mission'||The Centre on Tuesday informed the Madras High Court that 5,03,990 lakh Indians stranded in 137 countries have been brought back to the country through Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) in less than two months. Tamil Nadu is the fourth state that received a large number of its residents through the mission, it said. "Kerala received the largest number of stranded Indians (94,085), followed by Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, Additional Solicitor General of India R Sankaranarayanan said. The largest number of stranded Indians returned by VBM flights are from UAE (57,305), followed by Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia and USA. From Nepal 91,193 people returned through land border check posts, he added. In the fourth phase of the mission 218 more flights are scheduled to India from various countries, of which more than 25 will be landing in Tamil Nadu, he said. Sankaranarayanan made the submissions in response to the PIL moved by DMK, alleging that the Tamil Nadu government was refusing clearance to such mission flights in the state. When the plea came up for hearing,senior counsel P Wilson submitted that earlier the problem was of the state government refusing clearance. Now since the state has made it clear that it has no objection to such flights, the Centre has to find a solution to bring back 25,939 residents of the state, who are still stuck in various countries, he said. "We will require at least 146 more flights for the 25,939 to return to India," Wilson said. Moreover, such stranded persons who need financial assistance must be provided such help from the funds available in the Indian Community Welfare Funds, which has so far not been provided, he said. To this Sankaranarayanan said less number of flights to Tamil Nadu does not mean that residents of the state are not retuning. Such flights do not necessarily land in Tamil Nadu. They are landing in different states and are then travelling back to the state, he said. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha directed the centre to get instructions as to the plan for return of 25,939 residents of the state and inform the court by July 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/503-lakh-stranded-indians-brought-back-through-vande-bharat-mission-858301.html
07-07-2020||National||Snakebites killed 1.2 million in India in the last 20 years||A staggering 1.2 million Indians died from snakebites in the last 20-years since 2000, says a new study, pegging India’s annual average snakebite deaths at nearly 58,000. Around 70% of such deaths occurred in limited low altitude, rural areas of eight states - Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh (including Telangana), Rajasthan and Gujarat. Half of all deaths took place in the monsoon period. This is a sharp increase from the previous figure of 46,000 annual snakebite deaths, as shown by the same group of researchers in 2011. Half the world’s snakebite deaths happen in India. Available data indicated that most envenomations were due to Russell’s vipers, followed by kraits and cobras. “Our study directly quantified and identified the populations most affected by fatal snakebites in India. We showed that the overall lifetime risk of being killed by snakebite is about 1 in 250, but in some areas, the lifetime risk reaches 1 in 100," said Prabhat Jha, senior author of the study and director of Centre for Global Health Research at the University of Toronto. Snakebite, which primarily targets rural farmers and their families, was the most neglected of all tropical diseases. But since 2017, it has been prioritised by the World Health Organization. In 2019, WHO launched its strategy for prevention and control of snakebite, aiming to halve the numbers of deaths and serious disabilities by 2030. Nine years ago, as an extension of his Million Death Study, Jha and his colleagues had analysed the snakebite deaths in India in what was known as the largest ever nationally representative mortality survey to include snakebites. The study contributed towards WHO’s revised annual estimate of snakebite deaths. In the new study published in the journal eLife on Tuesday, the CGHR researchers expanded the scope of the previous study by adding 11 more years of field data from covering 600,000 randomly selected deaths, and a systematic review of 78 Indian snakebite studies. “Snakes are a vital part of our ecosystem as rodent controllers and are important in religion and mythology,” says Romulus Whitaker, at the Centre for Herpetology at the Madras Crocodile Bank. “Since deaths are restricted mainly to lower altitude, intensely agricultural areas, during a single season of each year, this should make the annual epidemics easier to manage. India’s tremendous snakebite burden is staring us in the face and we need to act now!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/snakebites-killed-12-million-in-india-in-the-last-20-years-858302.html
07-07-2020||National||World Bank to provide $400 million to enhance support for rejuvenating Ganga programme Namami Gange||The World Bank on Tuesday said it will provide USD 400 million assistance to enhance support for the Namami Gange programme that seeks to rejuvenate the Ganga river. The Second National Ganga River Basin Project (SNGRBP) will help stem pollution in the iconic river and strengthen the management of the river basin, it said in a release. "The USD 400 million operation comprises a loan of $381 million and a proposed guarantee of up to USD 19 million," it said. The agreement for the USD 381-million loan was signed on Tuesday by Sameer Kumar Khare, additional secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs on behalf of the Government of India and Qaiser Khan, acting country director, India, on behalf of the World Bank. The guarantee instrument will be processed separately. The World Bank has been supporting the government's efforts since 2011 through the ongoing National Ganga River Basin Project (NGRBP), which helped set up the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) as the nodal agency to manage the river, and financed sewage treatment infrastructure in several riverside towns and cities, it added. "The continuity provided by the Second National Ganga River Basin Project will consolidate the momentum achieved under the first World Bank project, and help NMCG introduce further innovations, and benchmark its initiatives against global best practices in river rejuvenation," said Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, director general of the National Mission for Clean Ganga. According to the release, the Ganga Basin provides over one-third of India's surface water, includes the country's largest irrigated area, and is key to India's water and food security. Over 40 per cent of India's gross domestic product is generated in the densely populated Basin. But, the river is facing pressures from human and economic activities that impact its water quality and flows, the release said. Over 80 per cent of the pollution load in the Ganga comes from untreated domestic wastewater from towns and cities along the river and its tributaries, it said. The SNGRBP will finance sewage networks and treatment plants in select urban areas to help control pollution discharges. These infrastructure investments and the jobs they will generate will also help India's economic recovery from the COVID-19 crisis, the World Bank said. The project will also help NMCG develop state-of-the-art tools to help manage the river basin more effectively. The USD 381-million variable spread loan has a maturity of 18.5 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The USD 19 million guarantee expiry date will be 18 years from the guarantee effectiveness date, the World Bank said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-bank-to-provide-400-million-to-enhance-support-for-rejuvenating-ganga-programme-namami-gange-858305.html
07-07-2020||National||BCI moves SC for financial assistance to lawyers||The Bar Council of India has approached the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre and States to provide financial support to lawyers, facing unprecedented hardships due to closure of courts. The statutory body for regulation of legal profession and education sought disbursal of interest free loan upto Rs 3 lakh to lawyers and depositing of money directly into their accounts as relief measures for them.  It said out of 16 lakhs advocates enrolled with the different State Bar Councils in the country, many were first generation advocates solely dependent on regular income through court works. The very survival of these advocate has come into question in view of the present conditions, it contended. "The prolonged closure of the courts and tribunals all over the country since March, 2020 due to the lock-down declared by the Union and the various state governments to combat Covid– 19 pandemic has resulted in depriving majority of the advocates their only source of income," the plea filed by advocate S N Bhat said. The petitioner-body said about 25 to 30% of the advocates enrolled would be in need of immediate financial help.  It said the top court, which acted as parens patriae, can issue directions for the welfare of lawyers community to allow them full enjoyment of right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The petitioner also cited the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which provided for grant of financial relief including loans on concessional terms to the affected persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bci-moves-sc-for-financial-assistance-to-lawyers-858338.html
07-07-2020||National||India’s recovered Covid-19 cases more than active cases per million: Govt||India's recovered cases per million population is more than active Covid-19 cases per million, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday, crediting states and Union Territories for early identification and effective management of coronavirus cases. India has 315.8 recovered cases per million, while the active cases per million in the country is at a "low level" of 186.3, the ministry said in a statement. "This shows that while the total number of positive cases might be high, the recoveries are fast catching up, thereby keeping the active cases low. "This has also ensured that Covid healthcare facilities are not under pressure and are not stretched," it said. Delhi accounts for the highest 3497.1 recovered cases per million as against 1242.9 active cases per million, followed by Maharashtra having 869.5 recovered cases per million as against 661.6 active cases per million, Tamil Nadu has 753.0 recovered cases per million as against 529.8 active cases per million, while the respective numbers for Haryana are 480.9 and 140.4, according to the statement. Gujarat has 358.3 recovered patients per million as against 115.7 active cases per million, while for Rajasthan the respective numbers are 217.1 and 52.7, it said. Madhya Pradesh has 144.6 recovered cases per million as against 38.6 active cases per million, while Odisha’s respective numbers are 141.1 and 65.3, and Uttar Pradesh has 85.1 and 38.8. The country’s Covid-19 tally went past seven lakh on Tuesday, with a single-day spike of 22,252 infections, five days after crossing six-lakh, while the death toll climbed to 20,160 with 467 persons succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data updated at 8 am showed. According to the official statement, following directions of the Union health Ministry, states increased testing with the deployment of RT-PCR tests, and rapid antigen kits which have helped early identification of cases.  The ramped-up healthcare infrastructure in states has resulted in distribution of the positive cases in different healthcare facilities including Dedicated Covid Hospitals, Covid Health Care Centres and Covid Care Centres, it said. This coupled with effective treatment has ensured in keeping the case mortality low, the ministry said, adding that a ramping-up of Dedicated Covid in public and private sectors has ensured timely triaging and treatment of the patients. Along with testing, contact-tracing and house-to-house surveys has been intensified especially in the containment zones, it underlined. States have been specifically advised to ensure that at least 80 pc of new positive cases have their contacts traced and quarantined within 72 hours of confirmation of the positivity, the ministry said. States have developed several mobile apps to keep track of high risk population including the senior and elderly population, people with co-morbidities, pregnant women and small children, it said. The involvement of the community, ASHAs (Accredited Social Health Activists) and ANMs (Auxiliary Nursing Midwife) and the local government has led to effective surveillance in the community, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-recovered-covid-19-cases-more-than-active-cases-per-million-govt-858360.html
07-07-2020||National||Review petition filed in SC against judgement quashing 100% quota for STs in AP's scheduled areas||A review petition has been filed in the Supreme Court against its April 22 judgement which declared that providing 100% reservation in favour of Scheduled Tribe candidates for the post of teachers in scheduled areas of Andhra Pradesh was impermissible and violative of the fundamental rights of citizens. In a joint plea, Akhil Bharatiya Jan Jati Vikas Sangh, All India Federation of SC/ST Organizations, Baba Sahab Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Vidya Peeth and others contended the court has caused "grave harm to the Scheduled Tribes," by quashing the government order on quota.  "The court has shown complete apathy and lack of concern for the well-being of the Scheduled Tribes in the Scheduled Area," they said. Maintaining that that the judgement would create more inequality, the petitioners claimed "in effect, it reflects the Manuwadi mindset of the so called upper castes towards the socially disadvantaged, that they must be kept suppressed." They said attempts were made regularly to defeat the principles of reservation.  They said it would be just and equitable that a 100% reservation in proportion to the percentage in population across the board for a minimum period of 25 years is immediately directed to undo the wrong that has been meted out to the oppressed for centuries. On April 22, a five-judge Constitution bench, in its 152-page judgement, declared the AP government's order issued in year 2000 for 100% reservation to the ST candidates on the post of teachers in scheduled areas as wholly impermissible and constitutionally not valid. It had said all the citizens do have equal rights, and the total exclusion of others by creating an opportunity for one class is not contemplated by the founding fathers of the Constitution of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/review-petition-filed-in-sc-against-judgement-quashing-100-quota-for-sts-in-aps-scheduled-areas-858365.html
07-07-2020||National||Customs stations to set up 'Turant Suvidha Kendras' by July 15||All Customs stations would set up Turant Suvidha Kendras (TSKs) by July 15 which will act as the sole physical interface point with Customs officers for physical submission of documents, the CBIC has said. In a communication to all Principal Chief Commissioners of Customs and Central Tax, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said the step is being taken ahead of the pan-India roll out of faceless assessment, which will be done in phases. "The Principal Chief Commissioners of Customs/Chief Commissioners of Customs are advised to set up the TSKs in all Customs stations by July 15, 2020," it said. In its efforts to make India enter top 50 rank in World Bank's 'Ease of Doing Business' ranking, the CBIC had last year announced reform measure — Turant Customs — for speedy clearance of goods at air and sea ports. Turant Customs is a comprehensive package which is being implemented in a phased manner. Towards that, the Customs department plans to roll out pan-India faceless assessment by December 31 in a phased manner, and has already started it at Chennai and Bengaluru ports from June 8. Faceless assessment  (commonly known as anonymised or virtual assessment) enables an assessing officer, who is physically located in a particular jurisdiction, to assess a 'Bill of Entry' pertaining to imports made at a different Customs station, whenever such a 'Bill of Entry' has been assigned to him in the Customs automated system. "Considering the benefits ushered in by providing single point interface set up in Bengaluru and Chennai Zones for first phase of faceless assessment, CBIC would set up Turant Suvidha Kendra (TSKs) to all the Customs formations w.e.f July 15, 2020," an official statement said. "TSKs will henceforth be the sole physical interface point with Customs formations whenever physical submission of documents is required by Customs such as for defacement of Country of Origin Certificates. This is expected to further ease the Customs clearance process," it added. The statement further said that CBIC Chairman M Ajit Kumar on Monday unveiled several new and modern testing equipment inducted into the Central Revenues Control Laboratory (CRCL) which would significantly enhance the in-house testing capability of Customs, leading to faster import and export clearances. He also launched new IT functionalities for supporting contactless Customs under the CBIC's flagship programme 'Turant Customs'. The IT functionalities empower exporters to self manage changes in their bank account and AD Code through ICEGATE as well as register on ICEGATE without having to approach a Customs officer. "A major innovation that was announced today is the automated debit of Bonds in the ICES which will dispense with the need for importer to visit Custom Houses to get the debit made manually. "It has also been decided that the balance in the Bond would henceforth be indicated in the import document, which would help importers plan their imports," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/customs-stations-to-set-up-turant-suvidha-kendras-by-july-15-858376.html
07-07-2020||National||Nizamuddin Markaz: Delhi court grants bail to 122 Malaysian nationals||A Delhi court Tuesday granted bail to 122 Malaysian nationals, who were charge sheeted for attending Markaz at Nizamuddin in the national capital, by violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines, issued in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak in the country. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted the relief to the foreigners on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 10,000. They also filed applications for plea bargaining which was listed before Metropolitan Magistrate Siddharth Malik for July 8 for early disposal of the petitions. "Siddharth Malik, MM­, South-­East is directed to expedite the disposal of the plea bargaining applications moved on behalf of all the accused persons in view of the guidelines given by the High Court of Delhi," the judge said in the order. As per procedure, plea bargaining means an accused pleads guilty to the offence and prays for a lesser punishment. During the hearing, all the foreign nationals who were staying at a hotel, were produced before the court through video conferencing. They were identified by the concerned official of Malaysian High Commission as well as the investigating officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nizamuddin-markaz-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-122-malaysian-nationals-858382.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||DH Toons | Rahul Gandhi does not attend Parliament's committee meetings on defence but 'demoralises' armed forces, says JP Nadda||Launching a fresh attack on Rahul Gandhi, BJP president J P Nadda said on Monday that the Congress leader "has not attended" a single meeting of Parliament's standing committee on defence but continues to "demoralise" the nation and question the valour of armed forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toons-rahul-gandhi-does-not-attend-parliaments-committee-meetings-on-defence-but-demoralises-armed-forces-says-jp-nadda-858000.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena targets PM Narendra Modi over coronavirus crisis||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had expressed confidence that the battle against Covid-19 would be won in 21 days, but it has been over 100 days and the crisis still persists. The fight against Covid-19 is more difficult than the mythological war of Mahabharata, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said, adding that the battle against the pandemic will continue till 2021 as the disease vaccine won't be available before that. It expressed concern over India reporting the third-highest Covid-19 cases in the world. It is unfortunate and serious for the country, which is dreaming to become a financial superpower, to report over 25,000 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, the Sena said. We left Russia behind in terms of the number of cases. We will attain the number one slot in this unfortunate area if the number of cases continue to go up," it said. The war of Mahabharata lasted for 18 days. Prime Minister Modi had exuded confidence (in March) that we will win this battle against Covid-19 in 21 days. But it has been over 100 days and the coronavirus still persists and those fighting it have become tired, the Shiv Sena said. Patients are recovering on a big scale in Maharashtra, but the situation in some areas of the state turns one restless, it said citing the example of Thane district, which has been a major Covid-19 hotspot. The Shiv Sena said several politicians, public representatives, policemen, health workers and other administrators are getting infected by the disease, and this does not suit the country and states. "The coronavirus will be there and (we) need to live with it...the vaccine for coronavirus will not be available before 2021...that means (we) will have to live with coronavirus at least till then, it said. Without naming anyone or any party, the Shiv Sena said questions are being raised as to for how many days the lockdown will continue. But when you open the door (ease restrictions), the "messengers (threat) of coronavirus" are right out there, the Marathi publication said.  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has relaxed lockdown restrictions to some extent, but the threat is still not over, the Sena said. It said the Covid-19 must be fought even though the industries, economy and lifestyle have been hit hard by the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-targets-pm-narendra-modi-over-coronavirus-crisis-858050.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asks why no mention of Galwan Valley in MEA statement on talks||Keeping up the heat on Modi government, Congress on Tuesday demanded why had the interlocutors not declared territorial integrity over the Galwan Valley and insisted on restoring status quo ante in Ladakh as it existed before May 5. The sharp attack from former Congress president Rahul Gandhi came a day after India and China announced disengagement and de-escalation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. “National interest is paramount. GOI’s (Government of India’s) duty is to protect it,” Rahul said on Twitter sharing statements of the External Affairs Ministry and the Chinese Foreign Ministry on the talks between the Special Representatives of India and China on the boundary question. “Then, 1. Why has Status Quo Ante not been insisted on? 2. Why is China allowed to justify the murder of 20 unarmed jawans in our territory? 3. Why is there no mention of the territorial sovereignty of Galwan valley,” the Lok Sabha member asked. India was represented by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, who is also the Special Representative. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said disengagement would mean little if the status quo ante was not restored. “Disengagement is welcome but means little unless the status quo ante is restored. Otherwise, we’ll yet again see both sides declare peace, with China having changed the facts on the ground and moved the LAC closer to where it wants. The May-June status cannot become the ‘new normal’”, Tharoor said. Congress has remained strident in its criticism of Modi government’s handling of the Chinese intrusion in Ladakh at a time when other Opposition parties have chosen to support the prime minister. He highlighted how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China in its statement mentioned the Galwan Valley, but the Indian External Affairs Ministry did not do so. "The right and wrong of what recently happened at the Galwan Valley in the western sector of the China-India boundary is very clear. China will continue firmly safeguarding our territorial integrity as well as peace and tranquility in the border areas," the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in its statement. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha said the retreat of the Chinese army in Ladakh had vindicated Congress “arguments that huge intrusions occurred in our territory”. “They may try to leave other occupied strategic areas as a fait accompli. But we won’t budge an inch till the status quo ante is restored,” Chowdhury said. Chinese troops began removing tents early on Monday and started to withdraw from Galwan Valley, the site of a violent hand-to-hand clash between the two militaries on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, government sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-asks-why-no-mention-of-galwan-valley-in-mea-statement-on-talks-858062.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||Jitin Prasada, Congress' Brahmin face in Uttar Pradesh, launches community outreach||Senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada is all set to woo the Brahmins, once the party’s mainstay in Uttar Pradesh, claiming that the community was facing persecution in the state. Prasada said that through the Brahma Chetna Samvad, an initiative of his outfit Brahman Chetna Parishad, he would try to give voice to the demands, aspirations and suggestions of the community. “I am not looking at taking anyone’s share of the pie, but only making efforts to ensure that the community gets respect and its due rights,” said the former union minister,who is a special invitee to the Congress Working Committee (CWC). Ahead of the 2017 assembly elections, Prasada has reached out to the Brahmin community in the state through a series of conferences, but had failed to make an impact as BJP swept the polls. Brahmins constitute about 13% of the total voters in Uttar Pradesh and are considered to wield influence electorally in the state. In its heyday, the Congress had a galaxy of Brahmin leaders such as Kamalapati Tripathi, Narain Dutt Tiwari, Govind Vallabh Pant, and Jitin’s father, Jitendra Prasada. However, as caste politics dominated the state post 1989, the Brahmins moved to the BJP, scheduled castes strengthened the BSP founded by Kanshi Ram, and the OBCs supported Samajwadi Party party established by Mulayam Singh Yadav. In the 2017 elections, the BJP managed to win over support from a cross section of the society as it went on to win 325 in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly, while Congress managed to win mere seven seats. Prasada claimed that under the Yogi Adityanath government, the Brahmins were not getting their due and were instead being targeted. “In the past 20 days, at least 19 persons from the community have died. There is a bias against the community across all platforms, and there is absolutely no help from the government. Even ruling party MLAs and MPs are feeling suffocated,” said Prasada. Prasada insists that his efforts were not targeted with the 2022 assembly elections in mind, but aimed at giving a voice to the demands of the community that was "feeling persecuted" under the current government. Through the Brahma Chetna Samvad, Prasada is keen to reach out to the community in each district of Uttar Pradesh through social media and is hoping for a response cutting across party lines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jitin-prasada-congress-brahmin-face-in-uttar-pradesh-launches-community-outreach-858111.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||RJD joins Opposition chorus against relaxing postal voting rules||The RJD on Tuesday joined the Opposition chorus against the Election Commission decision to relax postal voting rules to allow those above 65 years, saying it will have "far reaching consequences" for maintaining procedural integrity of the elections. Senior RJD MP Manoj K Jha shot off a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora in which he said his party would wish to place "strong objection" on the manner in which "such hurried changes" have been carried without any due process of consultation with political parties. In his letter, Jha said his party's main concern is with the way in which the satisfactory physical verification of the voter will be done.  "With the introduction of new categories and expansion of existing categories of people to whom postal ballot will be made available, we are of the opinion that the principle of verification stands to be greatly undermined," he said. Echoing the concern raised by Yechury and other Opposition leaders, Jha also expressed apprehension that this move would end up in favour of the "ruling coalition" with the monitoring and supervision powers under the current administration.  He also said it was too early to introduce such rules as the most immediate elections of Bihar Assembly is scheduled to take place only in October-November this year. Jha also appeared to raise questions about the EC justification linking the move to Covid-19 pandemic, saying the government was already relaxing containment measures and allowing public activities to resume their natural rhythm. "It seems a bit premature to put in place preventive measures in a generally dynamic situation almost four months in advance," he said, demanding a wide-ranging consultation before going ahead with the plan. Congress had approached the EC last Friday with a demand that the new decision on postal votes be recalled. In a petition to the EC, it said, "the manner in which this decision has been taken demonstrates a complete non-application of mind and a shocking circumvention of any consultation process with the key stakeholders (i.e. any other political parties other than the ruling regime). Even upon a cursory examination, the numerous legal deficiencies in this decision become apparent." In his letter to Arora on June 29, CPI(M) General Secretary raised objections to the "unilateral" measure, saying it altered the electoral procedures and it could lead to instances of "manipulation and malpractice" resulting in potential favour of the ruling party". "Our electoral system has always treated physical verifiability of the voters as the bedrock of integrity. With the two amendments to the rules, a very large number of voters will be out of the verifiability matrix. This assumes great significance because of instances of manipulation and malpractice even with the comparatively low number of postal ballots used by service personnel on election duty," Yechury had said. Trinamool Congress General Secretary Subrata Bakshi on Monday said the move was "mala fide, unconstitutional and ex-facie violation of right to secrecy of vote, right to free and fair elections and right to health of citizens".  He said the amendment suggests that it has been notified to protect the right to vote of Covid-19 patients and for those at high risk due to the pandemic. "However, upon careful examination, it is evident that the cumbersome process for voting via postal ballots will put the elderly at greater risk of getting infected by the virus...the amendment puts at risk the lives of many for the sake of petty political benefits," Bakshi said. In his letter, CPI General Secretary D Raja said the decision would lead to "malpractices and foul play by those parties which are in power and having resources".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rjd-joins-opposition-chorus-against-relaxing-postal-voting-rules-858112.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||India shouldn't budge an inch till status quo ante restored at Indo-China border: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday said that the partial retreat of Chinese troops from Ladakh proves that there was intrusion in the Indian territory. Chowdhury in series of tweets claimed that the partial withdrawal of the Chinese troops may have resulted from the fact that unlike the Indian Army jawans are not used to work in harsh glacial weather conditions. “Unlike Indian army, Chinese forces are not accustomed to withstand harsh & inhospitable glacial weather of Himalayan mountain which may trigger to an extent of retreat of Chinese army, that too again vindicates our arguments that huge intrusions occurred into our territory,” tweeted Chowdhury. He also said that the Chinese troops may try to retreat from other occupied strategic areas as a “fait accompli” but India should not budge till the status quo is fully restored. “They may try to leave other occupied strategic areas as a fait accompli. But we won’t budge an inch till the status quo ante is restored,” tweeted Chowdhury. His comments come a day after the Chinese Army started a partial retreat from Ladakh following a discussion between the National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and the Foreign Minister of China Wang Yi. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-shouldnt-budge-an-inch-till-status-quo-ante-restored-at-indo-china-border-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-858183.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||BJP’s attack on Rahul a bid to divert people’s attention from Galwan issue: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday dubbed BJP president J P Nadda’s criticism of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over the Galwan Valley issue as a "desperate" attempt to distract public attention from the Centre's “failure”. On Monday, Nadda had attacked the Congress leader for "not attending a single meeting" of the Parliament's standing committee on defence and accused him of trying to "demoralise" the nation. Reacting to it, the Punjab CM said after having “failed” to respond to Rahul Gandhi's persistent and relevant questions on the issue, the BJP-led Union government was now trying “desperately” to distract people with a personal attack on him. “Not just Rahul but the entire country wants answers to those questions, which touch upon not just our soldiers but every Indian who wants to know what went wrong in Galwan Valley on June 15,” he said in a statement here. The CM said Rahul had been discussing the China issue with him for a long time and had been concerned about the matter even while the Centre was vehemently denying any standoff in Galwan. Pointing to the latest statements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he asked how the Chinese were now backing off without having entered the Indian territory in the first place. These are the kind of questions being raised by Rahul, he noted, adding that instead of answering them, the Government of India, led by the BJP, “continues to be in denial” even now. Reacting to the Nadda's criticism of Rahul for not attending a single meeting of the standing committee on defence, Singh questioned the relevance of this to the standoff. The committee does not take on-ground decisions relating to the battle field, he said. “It was not the standing committee which decided on sending soldiers to the borders with either no or inadequate arms and ammunition, nor does it make policy decisions on conditions in which the soldiers should or should not open fire,” said Singh. Even matters that are discussed in these meetings, such as those related to equipment shortage/procurement, just end up getting consigned to the archives, said the CM, citing his own experience as a member of the standing committee on defence during his last term as an MP. The chief minister, himself an ex-Army man, recalled that at one meeting he had attended, he had raised the issue of the shortage of ammunition and was told that the problem would be resolved in five years, to which he had quipped “let's ask Pakistan and China to wait for five years.” Even during the Kargil war, India had to purchase ammunition at higher prices from countries like Israel and South Africa, he said, adding that soldiers are forced to use practice ammunition in combat due to this long-standing shortages. He termed these meetings as simply a forum to “show our faces” with “no concrete” results emerging from the deliberations. Contrary to the Nadda's charge of Rahul demoralising the nation and questioning the valour of armed forces, the Congress MP was actually looking after the interests of the country and forces, the CM asserted. Quite apart from the fact that Rahul has the democratic right, like every other Indian, to question the government, the issues raised by him are important for ensuring that “we are not caught napping again and do not end up unnecessarily sacrificing precious lives of our soldiers, as happened in Galwan”, he said. The CM also flayed the Nadda's remarks on “dynastic tradition”, stating that Rahul got elected to the Lok Sabha by popular vote, and not due to his family connections. By questioning his credibility as an MP and as an intelligent Indian, the ruling party was only exposing the central government's “total failure” in Galwan, which had cost the nation dearly in terms of precious human life, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-s-attack-on-rahul-a-bid-to-divert-people-s-attention-from-galwan-issue-punjab-cm-858216.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||Plea in Delhi HC against police fines for Covid-19 management, norms violation||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court challenging a provision which empowers police officers of Sub Inspector rank or above to impose fines on anyone violating the Delhi Epidemic Diseases (Management of Covid-19) Regulations of 2020. The petition was listed before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan which on Tuesday asked the petitioner's lawyer to ascertain whether a similar matter is being examined by the Supreme Court. The court also asked Delhi government standing counsel Ramesh Singh to verify whether such a matter was before the apex court and listed the petition on July 28. The bench did not pass any interim order for stay, as sought by the petitioner's lawyer. The petition filed by Sonia Rana, a lawyer, contended that imposing fine amounts to handing down a punishment which can only be awarded by a judge, not a police officer. Advocate Dhananjay Singh Sehrawat, appearing for Rana, contended that in view of such a provision in the Regulations, it was against the principles of natural justice. Under the regulations an authorised person is empowered to impose a fine of Rs 500 for the first time and a further fine of Rs 1,000 for repeat violation of quarantine rules -- not maintaining social distancing, not wearing masks, spitting in public places and consumption of tobacco products in public places. The petition has sought quashing of the provision in the regulations which empowers the police officers to impose fines for these violations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/plea-in-delhi-hc-against-police-fines-for-covid-19-management-norms-violation-858217.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||Telangana secretariat demolition: Opposition likens CM KCR with Nero, Tughlaq; Calls him superstitious||The K Chandrashekar Rao government has started the demolition of the present secretariat complex in Hyderabad from Monday night, to build a mega, vaastu-compliant structure in its place. The opposition BJP and Congress are decrying the move as excessive when people in Telangana are in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic. Several leaders and citizens opined the vast vacant complex could have been used as a Covid-19 isolation and treatment centre as positive cases are surging, especially in Hyderabad. The state has recorded 25,733 total cases, with 1831 fresh cases added on Monday. BJP Telangana chief Bandi Sanjay compared KCR to “Nero” and “Tughlaq”, saying “the Rs 500 crore for the new secretariat could have been better utilized to reconstruct, expand the (dilapidated) Osmania General Hospital to save people’s lives now.”  “What is the need of a new secretariat for a person who never visits the secretariat? The present complex was built to serve the purpose of united Andhra Pradesh. But with his blind beliefs, KCR is behaving like a possessed man demolishing the secretariat in the dead of the night,” Bandi said on Tuesday. The second time CM has been keeping away from the secretariat since his first term, operating from a palatial office cum residence – Pragathi Bhavan – built with about Rs 50 crore. His plans for the new secretariat to be Vaastu compliant were met with opposition, and concerns of unwarranted expenditure of the public money. Telangana Congress chief Uttam Kumar Reddy said that “four crore people are suffering because of KCR’s superstitions.” “This is a dark day in Telangana's history. When there is funds crunch even to pay employee’s salaries, how come Rs 500 crore is being spent on the new secretariat. This urgent demolition is to avoid the High Court order challenged in the Supreme Court,” Reddy said. On 29 June, the Telangana HC dismissed a set of petitions challenging the TRS government’s plans of new secretariat, razing present buildings. On 27 June last year, KCR had laid the foundation stone for the new complex. The present secretariat buildings near Hussain Sagar in the heart of Hyderabad, were divided between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana following bifurcation of the united state in June 2014. The arrangement was in accordance with the AP bifurcation act, which states Hyderabad as a joint capital till 2024. However, AP’s share of buildings has been lying idle since the then chief minister Chandrababu Naidu shifted his government to Amaravati by the middle of 2017. The Jaganmohan Reddy government which came to power in May 2019 handed over AP’s four blocks to Telangana, a week before the foundation ceremony by KCR. Secretariat offices were shifted to nearby buildings to allow the demolition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/telangana-secretariat-demolition-opposition-likens-cm-kcr-with-nero-tughlaq-calls-him-superstitious-858255.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||'Can't run state from home': Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil takes dig at CM Uddhav Thackeray||Taking a dig at Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday said the state can't be run from home. A leader should be visible on the ground for people as was Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, he said. Patil, an MLA from Pune city, said it reflects poorly that NCP president Sharad Pawar has to frequently visit 'Matoshree', Thackeray's private residence in suburban Mumbai, during the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to reporters here, Patil said in the recent past, Thackeray has only visited the famous Pandharpur temple (of Lord Vitthal on occasion of Ashadhi Ekadashi on July 1) and some Covid-19 care centres in Mumbai. After that he didn't visit any place, Patil said, adding the state can't be run from home. "(BJP leader) Devendra Fadnavis is travelling every day. Isn't he scared of coronavirus? You can't sit at home when you serve people. "If he can't go on the field, he should at least meet people at 'Matoshree'," the former minister said. Asked about Pawar's visit to Matoshree on Monday, Patil said the veteran leader had visited the residence of the Thackerays in 2012 for seeking the Shiv Sena's support for Pranab Mukherjee in presidential election. "After that he has visited Thackeray's residence many times during the pandemic. It is not good for a senior and respected leader like Sharad Pawar to visit Matoshree frequently," said Patil. The NCP and the Congress are part of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cant-run-state-from-home-maharashtra-bjp-chief-chandrakant-patil-takes-dig-at-cm-uddhav-thackeray-858274.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||Chinese military withdraws troops, removes structures in Hot Springs, Gogra: Sources||Chinese military removed temporary infrastructure and continued gradual withdrawal of troops from face-off sites in Hot Springs and Gogra in eastern Ladakh for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, and the Indian Army is keeping a strict vigil on their rearward movement, government sources said. Gogra and Hot Springs are among the key friction points where the two armies were in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation for the last eight weeks. The sources said the mutual disengagement of troops at the two friction points is likely to be completed within two days, and that there has been "substantial" withdrawal of forces by Chinese military from the areas. The disengagement process began on Monday morning after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday during which they agreed on an expeditious withdrawal of troops from the area. Doval and Wang are Special Representatives for the boundary talks. The sources said the Indian Army is not lowering its guard in view of the disengagement process in the area and will continue to maintain high-level of alertness to deal with any eventualities. They said the two two Armies are expected to hold further talks later this week after the first phase of disengagement process is completed. As per the decisions arrived at corps commander-level talks on June 30, the two sides would create a minimum buffer zone of three kilometer in most of the areas where they were locked in a standoff. "There has been substantial withdrawal of Chinese troops from Hot Springs and Gogra. The Chinese mliitary has dismantled temporary infrastructure too in the areas," said a source. The Chinese military has already removed tents and withdrew its personnel from patrolling point 14 in Galwan Valley, the sources said adding the Indian Army is carrying out a thorough verification of the Chinese pull back. On the situation in Pangong Tso, they said a "marginal thinning out of troops" has been observed in the area. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in the bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last eight weeks. The tension escalated manifold after the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Both sides have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region. However, there was no visible sign of any end to the standoff till Sunday evening. Sources said the breakthrough was achieved at the Doval-Wang meeting. On June 30, the Indian and Chinese armies held the third round of Lt General-level talks during which both sides agreed on an "expeditious, phased and step wise" de-escalation as a "priority" to end the standoff. In the talks on June 22, the two sides arrived at a "mutual consensus" to "disengage" from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. The first round of the Lt General talks was held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise visit to Ladakh during which he said the era of expansionism is over and that the history is proof that "expansionists" have either lost or perished, in comments which were seen as a clear message to China that India is not going to back off and would deal with the situation with a firm hand. Tensions had escalated in eastern Ladakh around two months back after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chinese-military-withdraws-troops-removes-structures-in-hot-springs-gogra-sources-858286.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||BJP's 'economic mismanagement' will destroy millions of families: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday again targeted the BJP government over handling of the economy, saying its "mismanagement" will destroy millions of families but asserted this will no longer be "accepted silently". Gandhi has been accusing the BJP government of "economic mismanagement" and targeting it for its policies. "India's economic mismanagement is a tragedy that is going to destroy millions of families. It will no longer be accepted silently," he said on Twitter, using the hashtag "BJPsDistractAndRule". He tagged a report with his tweet that claimed that India's economic growth is likely to contract 4.5 percent in 2020-21 due to Covid-19. He also cited some media reports about rural households worse hit than urban ones and households losing incomes and extreme poverty expected to rise due to the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-economic-mismanagement-will-destroy-millions-of-families-rahul-gandhi-858304.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||Covid-19: CSIR seeks nod for clinical trial to check efficacy of combination of three drugs||The Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), in collaboration with Laxai Life Sciences Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad, has sought regulatory approval to undertake controlled phase III clinical trial using a combination of three different drugs to treat Covid-19 patients, a statement said on Tuesday. The purpose behind the clinical trial is to rationally combine and repurpose antivirals and determine safety and efficacy of the three combination drugs (Favipiravir+Colchicine, Umifenovir+Colchicine and Nafamostat+5-ALA). The clinical trial named MUCOVIN, to be carried out in partnership with Medanta Medicity, will include a total of 300 patients in four different groups of 75 each. The trials will be conducted for 17 to 21 days including screening and treatment, the statement said. Shekhar Mande, director general of the CSIR, said each group of patients will be administered one set of drugs.   This unique combinatorial strategy (antivirals and HDTs) with repurposed drugs having complementary, additive and synergistic roles, has been adopted to increase therapeutic options for Covid-19 treatment and help recover patients faster, he said. On CSIR's part, its two institutes -- Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad and Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine, Jammu -- are part of the exercise. Ram S Upadhayaya, CEO, Laxai Life Sciences said the study aims to target viral proteins essential for its replication as well as host factors that play a crucial role in the viral life cycle and contribute to the cytokine storm. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the CSIR has been repurposing several drugs to check their efficacy for treating the coronavirus patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-csir-seeks-nod-for-clinical-trial-to-check-efficacy-of-combination-of-three-drugs-858307.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||TMC holds protest rallies against hike in fuel prices, Rly privatisation of routes||The ruling TMC in West Bengal on Tuesday took out rallies in various parts of the state in protest against the Centres decision on privatisation of railway routes and recent fuel prices hike. The party organised street corner meetings and protest rallies outside various railway stations opposing centres "anti-people" policies. Since evening, protests were held in all the districts and blocks of the state, with TMC activists carrying posters and placards shouted slogans against the BJP-led union government. The agitation programmes were staged by observing social distancing norms and other precautionary measures for pandemic, sources in the party said. "Protest meet against hike in prices of petrol, diesel, and cooking gas at 14 no bus stand, Behala. The incessant fuel price hike has imposed a huge burden at the time of economic hardship and affecting the common people amid Covid-19 pandemic. #fuelpricehike," senior minister and TMC secretary- general Partha Chatterjee said in a tweet. His cabinet colleague and Kolkata Mayor, Firhad Hakim, took out a march at Kidderpore area. "Protest meet against the privatisation of @IRCTCofficial at Kidderpore Chakra Station This move of privatisation of Indian Railways will impose a huge burden at the time of economic hardship, affecting the common man who is already battling #COVID19 pandemic #IndianRailways," Hakim said in a tweet. Private players will begin rail passenger services by April 2023, and they will run only five per cent of the railways' total mail and express trains, the national transporter said last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-holds-protest-rallies-against-hike-in-fuel-prices-rly-privatisation-of-routes-858355.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||Prasar Bharti: BJP spokesperson among five nominated||Music composer Salim Merchant, former prime minister A B Vajpayee’s media adviser Ashok Tandon and BJP spokesperson Shaina NC were on Tuesday appointed to the Prasar Bharati board as part-time members. Dainik Jagran Editor-in-Chief Sanjay Gupta and media professional Alok Agrawal were also appointed as a part-time member of the Prasar Bharati, according to an order issued by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. The terms and conditions of their appointment shall be governed by the provisions of the Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of lndia) Act, 1990 and the Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting Corporation of India) Salaries, Allowances and other Conditions of Service of Chairman, Whole-time Members and Parttime Members, Rules, 2000 as amended from time to time, the order said. “Truly humbled. Sincere thanks to @PMOIndia @narendramodi Ji for nominating me to the board of Prasar Bharati. Prasar Bharati is the body at heart of communication & broadcasting. A role that I will perform with utmost responsibility,” Shaina said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prasar-bharti-bjp-spokesperson-among-five-nominated-858363.html
07-07-2020||National Politics||Congress uses Modi's old tweet against him on border row||The Congress on Tuesday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the disengagement of troops at the border in eastern Ladakh and used a tweet by him in 2013 during the UPA regime to ask him why Indian soldiers were withdrawn from their own land. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala sought to remind Modi of his own words and demanded answers from him on why Indian forces were withdrawing from their own soil. "Respected Prime Minister, Do you remember your words? Do your words mean anything? Will you tell us why our forces are retracting from our land? The country seeks answers," he said on Twitter. आदरणीय प्रधान मंत्री जी, क्या आपके शब्द याद हैं? क्या आपके शब्दों के कोई मायने हैं? क्या बताएँगे की अब हमारी फ़ोर्स हमारी सरज़मीं से क्यों पीछे हट रही हैं? Modi had on May 13, 2013, when he was chief minister of Gujarat, said "China withdraws its forces but I wonder why Indian forces are withdrawing from Indian territory? Why did we retreat?" Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also retweeted Modi's post and asked, "I stand with Modiji on this. PM must answer his question." Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asked the government why status quo ante was not insisted upon by New Delhi and why the territorial sovereignty of the Galwan Valley does not find mention in the government's statement. "National interest is paramount. Government of India's duty is to protect it," he said on Twitter. "Then, Why has Status Quo Ante not been insisted on? Why is China allowed to justify the murder of 20 unarmed jawans in our territory? Why is there no mention of the territorial sovereignty of Galwan valley?" he asked. National interest is paramount. GOI's duty is to protect it. Gandhi shared the statements put out by the Indian and Chinese Foreign Ministries after the talks between Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Indian National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. He highlighted how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of People's Republic of China in its statement made a mention of the Galwan Valley, but the Indian External Affairs Ministry did not do so. The Congress has been attacking Modi ever since the bloody border stand-off with China which led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh last month. Meanwhile, Chinese military removed temporary infrastructure and continued the gradual withdrawal of troops from face-off sites in Hot Springs and Gogra in eastern Ladakh for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, and the Indian Army is keeping a strict vigil on their rearward movement, government sources said. Gogra and Hot Springs are among the key friction points where the two armies were in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation for the last eight weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-uses-modis-old-tweet-against-him-on-border-row-858369.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Door-to-door health survey in Delhi's Covid-19 containment zones completed||The Delhi government has completed the door-to door health survey in the city's Covid-19 containment zones, covering around 3.68 lakh people, officials said on Monday. Over 1.66 lakh antigen tests have been conducted in 445 Covid-19 containment zones, according to an official. On June 29, the Union Home Ministry had said that the door-to-door survey would be done in containment zones on priority basis by July 6, followed by a similar exercise across the city. The earlier deadline to complete the door-to-door survey in city's containment zones was June 30. Under the new rules, authorities have to delineate the containment zones on a micro level, instead of big ones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/door-to-door-health-survey-in-delhis-covid-19-containment-zones-completed-857993.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Three security personnel injured in Pulwama encounter in Jammu and Kashmir||Three security force personnel were injured in an encounter with militants in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said.  A police official said that a militant was believed to have been killed during the encounter as he was shot at when he tried to jump from a house. However, the body of the militant is yet to be retrieved. On a tip off about presence of militants in Goosu village of Pulwama, security forces launched a cordon and search operation, the official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire towards security forces positions. Three security force personnel sustained injuries in the initial firefight. They have been evacuated to a hospital here, the official said. The operation was going on till last reports came in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-security-personnel-injured-in-pulwama-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-858061.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||234 fresh coronavirus cases reported in Rajasthan, death toll rises to 465||Rajasthan reported four Covid-19 deaths and 234 fresh cases of the virus on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 20,922 in the state, according to an official report.    One death each was reported from Nagaur, Dholpur Bharatpur and Jodhpur, taking the death toll to 465, it said, adding the total number of positive cases in the state has increased to 20,922. Of the 234 fresh cases, a maximum of 57 cases was reported from Jodhpur. Cases were also reported from Alwar (36), Nagaur (34), Bikaner (29), Jaipur (22), Sirohi (19), Jalore (9), Barmer (8) besides from other districts of the state.  After 15,966 patients were discharged upon recovery, there were 4,137 active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/234-fresh-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-rajasthan-death-toll-rises-to-465-858064.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Kanpur encounter: 3 more including close relative of Vikas Dubey held||Three more people including a close relative of gangster Vikas Dubey involved in the attack in which eight police personnel were killed have been arrested, a senior police officer said on Tuesday. According to the police, the total number of arrests in the case now stands at four. Dubey's relative Shama, his neighbour Suresh Verma, and maid Rekha were arrested in the case, an official police spokesperson said here. Rekha’s husband, Daya Shankar Agnihotri, is a key member of the Dubey gang and was arrested in a pre-dawn encounter in Kalyanpur on Sunday. Agnihotri, who was involved in the ambush, was carrying a cash reward of Rs 25,000 along with 17 others who continue to remain elusive. Ten police constables have been sent to Chaubeypur Police Station from the reserve police lines, said SSP, Kanpur Dinesh Kumar P. This is in replacement for the police personnel who were suspended for their alleged involvement in the encounter. Station Officer (SO) Chaubeypur, Vinay Tiwari, sub-inspectors Kunwarpal and Krishna Kumar Sharma and constable Rajiv were suspended for their alleged involvement in passing on information to Dubey about police movement. Meanwhile, a 2017 video of Dubey has gone viral on social media in which he suggested he was close to local politicians including some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs. The video was allegedly shot while Dubey was being interrogated by the Uttar Pradesh STF in 2017 after his arrest from Krishna Nagar. In the clip, Dubey claims to have close links with two local BJP MLAs, Bhagwati Sagar and Abhijeet Sanga and the chief of the Zila panchayat. He also claims in the video that Sagar and Sanga had helped him in the past when he faced police action. However, both the BJP leaders denied having any links with Dubey. "My constituency is Bithoor in Kanpur and people from the adjoining village come to me for help,” said Sanga, adding that on several occasions, he had recommended action supporting people who were against Dubey. Sagar, who is the MLA from Bilhaur, denied helping Dubey ever and said that the video was being circulated to malign his image. Both the BJP leaders alleged that Dubey usually associates himself with the leaders belonging to the ruling party in the state and demanded an inquiry into the matter. The Uttar Pradesh Police said Dubey's photographs have been put all over the state mainly at toll plazas including those in Unnao, Kanpur Nagar, Auraiya, Fatehpur and areas near India-Nepal border so that people may tip off the police if they spot the gangster. The reward on Dubey has already been increased to Rs 2.5 lakh, they said. The border areas of Lakhimpur Kheri, Maharajganj, Siddharthnagar, Bahraich and Gorakhpur that lead towards Nepal have been alerted to prevent Dubey from fleeing to the neighbouring country to evade arrest, said a senior officer. Police also suspect that he may be hiding in Madhya Pradesh's Chambal ravines, the officer added. Dubey and his men killed eight policemen mostly in their 20s and 30s, including Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra (54) in an ambush at Bikru village in Chaubeypur area on July 3. The others are Mahesh Kumar Yadav (42), Sub-Inspector Anoop Kumar Singh (32), Sub-Inspector Nebu Lal (48) and Constables Jitendra Pal (26), Sultan Singh (34), Bablu Kumar (23) and Rahul Kumar (24).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-encounter-3-more-including-close-relative-of-vikas-dubey-held-858102.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Two senior district officials test positive for Covid-19 in Ballia||The chief surgeon of the district hospital here and the district supply officer have tested positive for Covid-19, a senior official said on Tuesday. Sub-divisional Magistrate, Sarvesh Kumar Yadav, said the reports of the two came on Monday night. Besides the two, a pharmacist at the district hospital also tested positive for Covid-19. The Ballia district administration has declared a lockdown in urban areas of the district till July 10. In another development, a case has been registered against a Covid-19 patient, who had fled from a hospital in the district on Monday, Additional Superintendent of Police, Sanjay Yadav, said. The patient was admitted to the hospital on July 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-two-senior-district-officials-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ballia-858106.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan returns from Delhi, says working on portfolio allocation of 28 ministers||Amid reports of heartburn in the BJP over the recent expansion of Madhya Pradesh cabinet, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday refused to commit any timeline for allocation of portfolios to 28 new ministers, who took oath on July 2. Chouhan had recently visited New Delhi to meet top BJP brass apparently to discuss the political intricacies pertaining to the issue. "I am working on it...distribution will take place soon," said the chief minister, who reached here from Delhi, when asked by reporters on the timeline for allocation of ministries. Speculation was that the allocation of portfolios would take place on Tuesday. The induction of 28 ministers, including a dozen loyalists of Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose exit from the Congress in March led to the fall of the 15-month-old Kamal Nath-led regime in the state, had apparently caused heartburn among a section of senior BJP leaders, who were left out of the new ministry. BJP MLA Ajay Vishnoi had last week shot off a letter to the chief minister stating that there was resentment among the people of Jabalpur and Rewa divisions. The new ministers include 20 of cabinet rank and eight ministers of state. The Chouhan ministry's strength is now 34. Reacting to the development, former chief minister Kamal Nath said in Ujjain, "the government and the Cabinet were formed through a bargain. Now portfolios too will be allocated through bargaining". Nath visited the famous temple of Lord Mahakal in Ujjain before leaving for Badnawar to launch the Congress' campaign for the 24 assembly bypolls. The bypolls were necessitated due to resignation of 22 MLAs of the Congress who joined the BJP along with Jyotiraditya Scindia. Two more seats are vacant due to death of sitting legislators. The Election Commission is yet to announce schedule for the byelections. The initial mini expansion of the state cabinet had taken place on April 21 with the induction of five ministers, almost a month after Chouhan took oath as the CM for a record fourth term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-returns-from-delhi-says-working-on-portfolio-allocation-of-28-ministers-858108.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||'From warriors to saviours': AAP MLA Raghav Chadha urges Covid-19 survivors to donate plasma||AAP MLA and spokesperson Raghav Chadha has appealed to recovered Covid-19 patients to come forward to donate their plasma, saying they are warriors who defeated the disease and they now have a chance to become saviours. He said a pint of a recovered patient's plasma can save up to two lives. Last week, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the country's first plasma bank at the state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) in Vasant Kunj to facilitate plasma therapy treatment for coronavirus patients. "Not very often does God give one an opportunity to save another life. I think that the opportunity is given to the chosen ones. All those who have defeated Covid-19 are warriors but they can also become saviours by donating their plasma," the Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Rajinder Nagar told PTI. On the plasma bank, Chadha, who is overseeing the project, said, "The challenge that we face is convincing people to come forward and make plasma donations." He said some people are scared of visiting hospitals. "We have set up a team of trained doctors. These doctors counsel the potential donor and convince them to come forward and donate plasma," he said. "Separate lifts have been designated at the plasma bank for plasma donors. Plasma bank has been set up at a location which is disconnected from the main hospital so that patients don't have to go through that (hospital) to reach the plasma centre. The comfort of the donor is ensured," he added.  Chadha said the process of plasma donation is painless and lasts about 40 minutes. It starts with a well-being session, followed by the actual medical process. "We have received over 30 donations till now at Delhi's Plasma Bank and are expecting many more in the next couple of weeks," he said. He said all necessary precautions and steps are being taken at the medical facility to ensure that the exercise results in helping Covid-19 patients recover. Covid-19 survivors in the 18 to 60 age group and with weight above 50 kg are eligible to donate plasma after completion of the 14-day recovery period. However, women who have given birth recently and people with comorbidities cannot donate plasma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-warriors-to-saviours-aap-mla-raghav-chadha-urges-covid-19-survivors-to-donate-plasma-858117.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Man stabbed over Rs 1500 succumbs to injuries in Rajasthan||A 41-year-old fruit vendor, who was stabbed by two people over a dispute of Rs 1500, succumbed to injuries, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday evening in Pachphad village under Bhawanimandi Police Station of Jhalawar district. The man identified as Ikrar was admitted to the local government hospital and died during treatment, police said. “Ikrar was a resident of Pachpahad village and was brought to the hospital after being attacked with a sharp weapon… He succumbed to injuries late on Monday night, SHO at Bhawanimandi Police Station, Mahavir Singh said. On the bases of the victim’s statement before his death and the complaint filed by his father, we have lodged a case of murder against the two accused – Harish and Vishnu, who are yet to be nabbed, they said. In his statement, Ikrar told police that the accused had come to meet him on Monday evening and attacked him with a sharp weapon causing severe injuries in the stomach, the SHO said. The body was handed over to the family members after a postmortem examination on Tuesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-stabbed-over-rs-1500-succumbs-to-injuries-in-rajasthan-858122.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court extends protection to journalist Vinod Dua till Jul 15||The Supreme Court Tuesday extended till July 15 the protection granted to senior journalist Vinod Dua from any coercive action in a sedition case filed against him by a local BJP leader in Himachal Pradesh over his YouTube show. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit, in a hearing conducted through video conferencing, restrained the Himachal Pradesh police from arresting Dua in the case and decided to hear the journalist's plea next Wednesday. It also said that Dua, who has joined the police probe through virtual medium, is not required to answer supplementary questions of police in the case. Earlier, the top court had assembled on a Sunday and had granted protection from arrest to Dua till "further orders" in the sedition case. An FIR against Dua under IPC provisions for offences of sedition, public nuisance, printing defamatory materials and public mischief was lodged by BJP leader Shyam at Kumarsain police station in Shimla district on May 6 and the journalist was asked to join the probe. Shyam has alleged that Dua, in his programme, accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of using "deaths and terror attacks" to get votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-extends-protection-to-journalist-vinod-dua-till-jul-15-858124.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Shops to be shut for 3 days in case of Covid-19 violations in Madhya Pradesh||Shops, malls, offices and business establishments here will be forced to shut for three days if they fail to comply with the Covid-19 prevention guidelines and ensure that visitors follow the norms as well, a district official said on Tuesday. As per an order issued by Bhopal district collector Avinash Lavania, violators will have to work as "corona warriors" at check posts, fever clinics and carry out coronavirus-related awareness work. The decision was taken after reports about establishments violating the Covid-19 guidelines and protocols started emerging, the official said. Teams of officials have been constituted to monitor such violations, he said, adding that the order came into effect on Tuesday. If owners or management of offices, malls, shops, places of worship, etc. fail to comply with Covid-19 protocols and ensure that the same was followed by visitors, they will have to work as "corona warriors" at check posts, fever clinics or in awareness campaigns, the official said. Apart from this, the concerned establishments would be shut for three days and violators will also have to pay prescribed fines for different violations, he said. Earlier, the district administration in Gwalior on Monday had ordered that citizens who step out without masks or violate other precautionary guidelines at public places will have to volunteer at hospitals and police check posts for three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shops-to-be-shut-for-3-days-in-case-of-covid-19-violations-in-madhya-pradesh-858129.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Heavy rain lashes parts of UP, more likely on Wednesday||Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning lashed many parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh and isolated places in the western part of the state on Tuesday, the Met office said. According to the meteorological department, heavy rain is very likely to occur at many places in the state over the next three days. "Rain/thundershower is very likely at most places in eastern and western UP on July 8, 9 and 10," an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-up-more-likely-on-wednesday-858134.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Four held for beating up unmarried couple in Madhya Pradesh||Four persons were arrested in Madhya Pradesh's Jhabua district after a video of them allegedly beating up an unmarried couple surfaced on social media, police said on Tuesday. The attack had taken place at Dudhi village, 35 km from the district headquarters, last week, Kalidevi police station in-charge Gaurav Patil said. After the video surfaced on social media, the woman's father registered a complaint on Sunday, following which the four accused were arrested on Monday, he said. The accused, who are the woman's relatives, had allegedly caught the couple when they were out in the village and thrashed them using belts and sticks, the official said. The police have arrested Bhanwar Singh (32), Akram Machar (52), Kalu Baria (32) and Deewan Machar (20) under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, he said. The couple had allegedly fled the village out of fear following the attack, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-held-for-beating-up-unmarried-couple-in-madhya-pradesh-858137.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Citing pressure to do 'illegal works', woman UP PCS officer ends life||Citing alleged 'pressure' to allot works without floating tenders and make payment against rules, a young woman UP PCS (provincial civil service) officer ended her life in the state's Ballia town, about 425 kilometres from here. Thirty year old Mani Manjari Rai, who was also the executive officer (EO) of Maniar Nagar Panchayat in Ballia district, was found hanging by the ceiling in her bed room at her residence in Awas Vikas Colony in the town on Tuesday. A suicide note, allegedly left by the officer, said: ''I have been falsely implicated as part of a strategy'', according to police officials here. The family members of Manjari, who was resident of Bhanwar Kol area in the neighbouring Ghazipur district, alleged that she had told them on numerous occasions that she was being 'pressurised' to allow works without floating tenders and make payment without any scrutiny. ''She was under tremendous pressure....she felt depressed at times,'' said a close relative of the officer. Police officials said that they were investigating the matter. ''It appears to be a case of suicide....we have the suicide note in our possession...we are investigating the matter from different angles,'' said a senior police official in Ballia. Manjari, who was quite active on social media, used to pen poems also. Many of her poems encouraged the women to break age-old shackles and do what they enjoyed most.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/citing-pressure-to-do-illegal-works-woman-up-pcs-officer-ends-life-858149.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||SC asks UP govt to file status report on 57 girls found infected with Covid-19 in Kanpur's child care institution||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report on 57 minor girls, having been tested positive for Covid-19 in a shelter home in Kanpur. A bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao sought to know from the state government if the news item stating the children were afflicted with the virus was correct. The court gave the state government time till Friday to file its response, as news reports emerged claiming of 57 Covid-19 positive girls in shelter home, five were pregnant and one HIV positive. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government, led by Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan, informed the court that 35 out of 57 children, who were infected with the Covid-19 in a protection home at Royapuram, Chennai, have been cured. The court appointed advocate Gaurav Agrawal as the amicus curiae and posted the matter for consideration on Monday. It also noted some states including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Tripura were yet to file their response in the Suo Motu matter. On April 3, the court has Suo Motu directed the authorities to consider releasing on bail all those children, who were kept in observation homes on being found in conflict with the law, as Covid-19 was intensifying in the country. The court had also said that urgent measures need to be taken on priority to prevent the spread of the virus to Child Care Institutions (CCIs).  On June 11, the court asked all the state governments to spell out measures being undertaken to prevent infection of Coronavirus among juveniles kept at the protection homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-up-govt-to-file-status-report-on-57-girls-found-infected-with-covid-19-in-kanpurs-child-care-institution-858150.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan drowns while fishing in river in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan drowned while fishing in Bakulahi river in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district on Tuesday, police said. The jawan, Ravi Kumar (25), was a resident of the district's Jogpur area. He had come home on a seven-day leave, they said. Kumar had gone fishing with his father and brother. During fishing in Bakulahi river, he ventured into deep waters and drowned, Surendra Dwivedi, Station House Officer (SHO) of Kotwali police station, said. Divers fished out the body from the river and it has been sent for post-mortem, the SHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-drowns-while-fishing-in-river-in-uttar-pradeshs-pratapgarh-district-858152.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||MCA to be a 2-year course from academic session 2020-21: AICTE||Master of Computer Application (MCA) will henceforth be a two-year programme, the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) announced on Tuesday. So far, the degree programme was of three years' duration. The AICTE has also asked all higher education institutions to make necessary modifications in the course duration of the program. "Henceforth, the MCA course shall be of two years duration from 2020-21. In view of the above, necessary modification in the course duration of MCA program may please be made in conformity with the UGC decision and provisions contained in AICTE APH (Approval Process Handbook)," the council said in an official order. In December last year, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had approved a proposal for reducing the duration of MCA program to two years, like all other masters programs approved by the apex higher education regulator, following demands from several quarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mca-to-be-a-2-year-course-from-academic-session-2020-21-aicte-858156.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Blind girl dies due to want of foodgrains, financial help: HC seeks AAP govt's stand||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought response of the AAP government on a PIL which alleged that a 12-year-old blind girl died recently for want of food grains, medicines and financial help, all of which were denied to her as she did not have an updated Aadhaar card which required a retina scan. The girl died on July 1 at Swamy Dayanand Hospital at Shahdara where she was rushed following a seizure. Taking note of the facts, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand by July 14. The bench asked the Delhi Government to come with a solution to the grievances raised in the petition by Saurabh Singh who said during the lockdown and the relaxed period thereafter, the persons with disabilities, have been unable to access the food centres nor have they been able to avail any help in terms of ration or financial help. Advocate Kabir Ghosh, appearing for Singh, told the bench that the instant petition was first sought to be urgently heard on June 30, but the request was denied and subsequently, on July 1 afternoon the girl died. The petition has contended there are several such disabled persons in the national capital who have not received any succour as they do not have ration cards or disability certificates. It has also alleged that even persons with disability certificates have been denied their disability pension. Singh, a disaster management expert by profession and social activist, has contended that while the Delhi government is running a scheme of disability pension, "the same is not released on time and further, many disabled persons have been unable to seek benefit of the same as their applications are pending". "While the Covid-19 pandemic threatens all members of the society, persons with disabilities are disproportionately impacted due to the attitudinal, environmental and institutional barriers that they face. Most persons have been unable to access helplines.   "Moreover, there is no dedicated helpline for persons with disabilities which even makes it harder for such persons, more so persons who are deaf or and of hearing, to access any benefit," the petition has said. It has sought directions to the Delhi government to provide financial support, like unemployment allowance and increase in ex-gratia cash transfer, set up dedicated helplines for disabled persons to access benefits, provide healthcare and ensure access to essentials such as food, water and medicine to persons with disabilities (PWD). The plea has also sought a dedicated policy for PWD keeping in mind the pressing issues being faced by them during the Covid-19 pandemic and release of all pending payments under the scheme meant for disabled persons to all eligible beneficiaries and to clear all pending applications under the PWD Pension Scheme in an expeditious and time bound manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/blind-girl-dies-due-to-want-of-foodgrains-financial-help-hc-seeks-aap-govts-stand-858176.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports Highest single-day spike of 1,332 new Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 29,968||Uttar Pradesh recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 1,332 new infections pushing the state's tally to 29,968 on Tuesday, officials said. So far, 827 fatalities have been reported in the state, with 18 deaths in the last 24 hours, Principal Secretary for Health Amit Mohan Prasad said. The total number of active cases stand at 9,514, he said. Prasad said as many as 1,332 fresh cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours. He said 19,627 people have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals. Testing for Covid-19 touched a new benchmark on Monday with 30,329 samples being tested in a single day. So far, over 9.22 lakh samples have been tested, he said. Stressing on the need to take precautions against the novel coronavirus, Prasad said that the government has taken a serious note of people moving about without masks in public places. To check this, the fine on people caught not using masks is set to be increased from Rs 200 to Rs 500. A notification in this regard will be issued in two to three days, he said. "Increase in number of cases has been seen after 'Unlock', specially in workplaces and other such places where people sit in close proximity. There is a need to take utmost care. People seem to think that since 'Unlock' has started, the danger is over, which is wrong," Prasad said. So far, 33,571 Covid helpdesks have been set up by different departments at entry point of offices and industrial units, and till now, over 6,000 cases, having some symptoms, have been detected with their help, he said. Referring to the door-to-door campaign launched in the state's Meerut division from July 2 and in other divisions from July 5, Prasad said surveillance teams are noting down details of Covid-19 symptoms, besides preparing a list of those with co-morbidity. Data is being put on a portal to ensure that such cases get special care, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-1332-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-29968-858195.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||NIA arrests Pulwama resident for February 2019 attack on CRPF convoy||The NIA has arrested a Pulwama resident for allegedly providing logistical support to terrorists involved in planning the attack on a CRPF convoy that left 40 jawans dead in the south Kashmir district in February last year, officials said on Tuesday. Bilal Ahmed Kuchey, a resident of Kakpora of Pulwama district, is the seventh person to be arrested in connection with the attack. The sawmill owner was on Monday produced before a designated court in Jammu which sent him to National Investigation Agency custody for 10 days, the officials said. They said he had allowed the terrorists to use his house as a hideout and also provided them with high-end mobile phones used for communication with Pakistan-based handlers of the Jaish-e-Mohammed. The same mobile was used by Adil Ahmed Dar, the suicide bomber, for recording his video, they said. On February 14 last year, the suicide bomber blew himself up next to a CRPF bus, which was part of a 78-vehicle convoy carrying over 2,500 personnel on their way from Jammu to Srinagar. Forty CRPF personnel were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-arrests-pulwama-resident-for-february-2019-attack-on-crpf-convoy-858199.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court grants interim bail to Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted interim bail to real estate company, Unitech's promoter Sanjay Chandra as both of his parents were said to be affected with Coronavirus. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah allowed the concession for a period one month to Chandra who has been behind the bars for over three years in a cheating case on failure of his company to deliver flats on time and siphoning off their money. The court, however, denied similar relief to his younger brother, Ajay Chandra. During the hearing, the court was told Chandra's 78-year-old father was admitted to ICU and his mother was also hospitalised on account of being Covid-19 positive. The top court had earlier ordered for the government to take over management of the company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-grants-interim-bail-to-unitech-promoter-sanjay-chandra-858208.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi's bio-medical waste treatment facilities under pressure due to increased load||The two common bio-medical waste treatment facilities (CBWTF) in the city are grappling with increased load due to the Covid-19 pandemic, with their operators saying the pressure is set to increase with rising cases. The two CBWTFs in Delhi are SMS Water Grace BMW Private Limited in Nilothi in west Delhi and Biotic Waste Solutions Private Limited in Jahangirpuri, with an operational capacity of 12 tonnes and 34 tonnes per day, respectively.  Together, these facilities have been disposing of around 19 tonnes of Covid and 16 tonnes on non-Covid bio-medical waste per day, according to their representatives. SMS Water Grace collects Covid bio-medical waste from government hospitals, including LNJP and Safdarjung Hospital, quarantine centres, isolation facilities, testing centres, dispensaries, private hospitals and laboratories in six districts of Delhi -- west, southwest, central, Shahdara, east and northeast.  Biotic waste solutions covers north, northwest, New Delhi, south, and southeast districts. It collects Covid waste from AIIMS, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College etc. Municipal corporations are responsible for collecting Covid-19 bio-medical waste from houses of patients undergoing home quarantine. This waste goes to the waste-to-energy plants, which have incinerators with large capacities.   Delhi has three waste-to-energy treatment plants, at Sukhdev Vihar-Okhla, Narela-Bawana and Ghazipur.    Amit Nilawar from SMS Water Grace said before the coronavirus, his facility had been operating at 50 percent capacity. "Now, it is operating between 90 percent and 110 percent capacity due to the additional Covid-19 waste, which has increased the risk of shutdowns." The incinerator is burning 13 tonnes of bio-medical waste (Covid and non-Covid) per day now against around six tonnes in the pre-coronavirus times. The machinery needs rest, he said. Nilawar said the operation cost per day has increased manifold because of the "tremendous pressure" on the facility. "The plant is being operated in three shifts now as compared to two shifts earlier." "We had 100 employees earlier. Due to the increased workload, we hired another 50. We have been providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, gloves, and masks to everyone," he said. Besides alcohol-based sanitisers for employees, a large quantity of hypochlorite solution is needed to sanitise vehicles. According to the Central Pollution Control Board's guidelines for collection and disposal of Covid-19 waste, separate vehicles are needed to transport Covid and non-COvid bio-medical waste.  "We need help from the Delhi government. It should make it compulsory for waste-to-energy plants in the city to dispose of our surplus waste," he said.    PPE kits, masks, gloves, face shield, head cover, shoe cover, plastic bottles, sanitiser bottles and other such waste have high calorific value. It can be best used at waste-to-energy plants, can be autoclaved and shredded or recycled, Nilawar said. SMS Water Grace has urged the government to allow it to expand in a nearby plot and increase the capacity, considering the increased load due to Covid-19 waste. It has also demanded that the Directorate General of Health Services pay it Rs 50 per kg of Covid-19 waste as the "facility is struggling to meet the expenses". The demands are being looked into at the appropriate level, according to a senior government official.    Vikas Gehlot of Biotic Waste Solutions said the facility had been treating 14 tonnes of bio-medical waste per day before the coronavirus outbreak. "Now, we are disposing of around 22 tonnes of waste (12 tonnes Covid and 10 tonnes non-Covid) per day," he said.  The facility has requested the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to transfer waste to waste-to-energy plants for two-three days so that it can carry out preventive maintenance.  The pressure is going to increase as the number of cases grow, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhis-bio-medical-waste-treatment-facilities-under-pressure-due-to-increased-load-858209.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Qutub Minar gets maximum footfall, turnout very low at ASI monuments in Delhi on day 1||ASI-protected monuments were reopened for the public on Monday but the footfall on day one was very low, even as the number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the one lakh-mark. Qutub Minar, a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) World Heritage Site, attracted maximum crowd of just 100 visitors, sources said. The 12th century minaret on regular days gets a footfall in the range of 8,000-10,000, according to Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials. The footfall at other sites was  -- Humayun's Tomb (70-80), Purana Quila (20-22), Safdarjung Tomb (8) and Jantar Mantar (12), roughly, as per official figures, the sources said. Qutub Minar, Humayun's Tomb and a host of other centrally-protected monuments in Delhi on Monday were reopened for visitors after being shut for over three months due to the Covid-19 crisis. However, wearing of masks is mandatory and no one is allowed to enter if they are not wearing it, a senior official said. The Red Fort, which on regular days is closed every Monday, remained closed and reopened on Tuesday. "While the monuments have been reopened, visitors can book tickets in either of the two slots -- forenoon slot which starts in the morning and ends at 12 noon -- and afternoon slot from 12 noon to 6 pm. In each slot, a maximum of 1,500 visitors will be allowed," the official said. So, around 12 noon in the afternoon slot on Tuesday, out of the 1,500 tickets for the Red Fort, 1,478 were still unpurchased, according to live ticketing figures accessed from the ASI website. Around 4:15 pm, the unbought tickets for the Humayun's Tomb and Qutub Minar stood at 934 and 1,438, respectively, while the same figure stood at 987 for the Safdarjung Tomb, according to official figures. Delhi's ASI-protected monuments have been reopened for the public as per the directions of the culture ministry.  All protocols and standard operating procedures (SOPs) as outlined by the ministry are being followed, including social distancing and sanitisation measures at these heritage sites, officials said. Incidentally, the monuments reopened for the public on a day Delhi Covid-19 tally breached the one lakh-mark as the city recorded 1,379 fresh coronavirus cases, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,115. There are 173 monuments in Delhi, protected under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), including three UNESCO World Heritage Sites -- Red Fort, Humayun's Tomb and Qutub Minar; Safdarjung Tomb, Purana Quila, Tughlakabad Fort, Hauz Khas, Jantar Mantar and Firoz Shah Kotla. According to the officials, on regular days, the Red Fort gets an average daily footfall in the range of 8,000-12,000 while the Humayun's Tomb gets 6,000-10,000, and both these monuments are also UNESCO World Heritage Sites. However, the Humayun's Tomb attracts more foreign visitors in general, they said. A total of 3,691 centrally-protected monuments and archaeological sites maintained by the ASI across the country were shut from March 17 in view of the coronavirus crisis.  The officials said the reopening of sites have been done in compliance with the city and district authorities. The culture ministry recently had issued a set of protocols, saying only those monuments which are in non-containment zones will be reopened. The number of containment zones in the city on Monday stood at 455. As per the protocol, entry tickets being issued by e-mode and only e-payments acceptable at parking and cafeteria at the sites. No group photography and food or eatables shall be allowed inside the premises, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-qutub-minar-gets-maximum-footfall-turnout-very-low-at-asi-monuments-in-delhi-on-day-1-858223.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Scindia-Chouhan tug of war escalates||Tug of war between Jyotiraditya Scindia and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has escalated with allocation of portfolios to the newly sworn-in ministers proving a fresh bone of contention. Not satisfied with 11 out of his 22 supporters having been inducted in the cabinet last week, Scindia is batting to get important departments to them. The BJP high command also appears to be siding with the turncoat politician. The chief minister, who had a huge loss of face in the last Thursday’s cabinet expansion, is in a fix. The Congress is gloating over Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s predicament.   The chief minister on Tuesday returned to Bhopal after spending two days in New Delhi  where he met top BJP leaders including Amit Shah and party president JP Nadda and of course, Jyotiraditya Scindia. He discussed with them division of departments among the newly sworn-in ministers. However, the parleys seem to have borne little fruits as the chief minister has deferred portfolio allocation. “I will work out for two more days on allocation of departments," the chief minister told newsmen. Taking a swipe at the chief minister on this issue, former chief minister Kamal Nath taunted, “this government is born out of a dealing. The cabinet was also result of a deal and now deal is going on for allocation of departments”. Nearly 100 days after he took over as chief minister for a fourth time, Shivraj  Singh Chouhan was finally allowed to expand his cabinet  on July 2 after inducting 28 more ministers. Out of them 11 are Scindia supporters. It was surmised that the ministers might be allocated departments on the same night. But Scindia put his foot down on getting lucrative departments to his loyalists, much to the consternation of the chief minister. Chouhan rushed to New Delhi to seek the high command’s support for working an agreement with Scindia on this matter. He was forced to extend his stay as a compromise remained elusive. Eventually, Chouhan returned on Tuesday morning without any agreement on department distribution in hand. Now the ball is in the high command’s court. Scindia wants important departments such as urban development, PWD, commercial tax, excise and women and child development to be allocated to his supporters. The chief minister’ argument is that if he is forced to part with such key portfolios his authority will be severely eroded. Chouhan is keen to either keep many of these departments with him or distribute among old BJP ministers. The party high command is not favourably disposed to the chief minister’s desire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-scindia-chouhan-tug-of-war-escalates-858231.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Leaders who acted against party candidates in assembly polls to be deprived of posts: Delhi BJP president||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Tuesday said the party will adopt a "zero tolerance" policy towards leaders and workers who acted against its candidates during the Delhi Assembly polls in February and will not be considered for block, district or state level posts in the party's reorganization in the coming days. "We have enough feedback to identify which leaders and workers acted against party candidates in the polls and they will be punished by depriving them of any posts in organisational restructuring currently underway," he said. The BJP was routed in the assembly elections for 70 Assembly seats in Delhi by the AAP that won 62 seats. In a long drawn process which started after the results were announced on February 11, feedback on reasons for the debacle is being gathered by the party by holding meetings with various stakeholders, including party candidates.  "Only disciplined hardworking workers or leaders will be considered for different positions in the organisation, including presidents of block and district units and state office bearers. Those who indulged in anti-party activities by working against our candidates in elections will not be given any posts," Gupta said. The BJP won only eight seats against its expectations of upstaging the AAP and coming to power after over two decades in the February polls. The process of reorganisation of Delhi BJP has been set in motion with 35 teams being formed to shortlist  names of local leaders to be appointed as presidents of party's block units. The shortlisted names will be submitted to Delhi BJP president on July 9. "After we get the names of the probables for appointment as block presidents, observers will be appointed to shortlist leaders to be appointed as district presidents," Gupta said. The state office bearers will be appointed after finalising names of block and district presidents. The whole exercise is expected to be wrapped up by July end, he said. The national BJP leadership has deputed general secretary Arun Singh and BJP Mahila Morcha president Vijaya Rahatkar to supervise the restructuring exercise of party' Delhi unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/leaders-who-acted-against-party-candidates-in-assembly-polls-to-be-deprived-of-posts-delhi-bjp-president-858238.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||COVID-19:Adityanath asks officials to increase testing facilities||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday pitched for increasing testing facilities in the state for Covid-19, saying 30,000 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) tests should be done everyday. He also directed officials to make people aware of the need to avoid unnecessary movement in view of Covid-19 cases, and suggested that the Health department increase fines on those not wearing masks. Addressing an unlock review meeting with senior officials and ministers, he said besides rapid antigen tests, 30,000 RT-PCR tests should be done everyday, an official release here said. RT-PCR test is a laboratory technique combining reverse transcription of RNA into DNA that detects the virus while the antibody tests, which use blood, detect the body's response to the virus. The chief minister expressed satisfaction over establishment of over 33,000 COVID help desks. On the issue of locusts attack, the CM said an effective plan should be made to deal with it in coordination with different departments. Adityanath also asked officials to issue timely alerts to prevent deaths due to lightning besides making plans to control floods in the monsoon season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19adityanath-asks-officials-to-increase-testing-facilities-858239.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||IG probes 'letter' on gangster's link with cop, inquiry sought into then SSP's 'links' too||Police on Tuesday said an IGP-rank officer is probing into a letter purportedly written weeks before his death by DSP Devendra Mishra, alleging a nexus between gangster Vikas Pandey and the now suspended Chaubeypur station officer. The announcement came on a day when a senior officer also pointed fingers at the then Kanpur SSP Anant Deo, now a DIG, to whom the letter was allegedly sent. Police said there was no record of the letter, which has surfaced on social media, at the SSP’s office or at other offices. But they added they will continue to investigate into the matter. Anant Deo, now a DIG, told PTI that the signature on the letter does not match with that of the dead officer. The letter carried no serial number or date. In the letter supposedly written in March, Mishra accused Chaubeypur station officer Vinay Tiwari of watering down charges levelled in a case registered against the gangster. Devendra Mishra was among the eight policemen killed in an ambush allegedly laid by Vikas Dubey at his Bikru village near Kanpur. Vinay Tiwari is one of the four Chaubeypur station policemen suspended after the attack, under suspicion of having tipped off Dubey that a police team was on its way to arrest him. After being handed over the probe into the letter, Lucknow Range IG Lakshmi Singh reached the office of Circle Officer (Bilhaur), the post held by deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra. The IG questioned the staff, checked records and computer data, said an official. She also seized a computer hard disk, pen drives and some documents, the official added. Also on Tuesday, Inspector General (Civil Defence) Amitabh Thakur sought an inquiry into the alleged closeness between the then SSP Kanpur Nagar Anant Deo and Jai Bajpai, a “frontman” of gangster Dubey. Thakur said in his letter to Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police H C Awasthy that several photos showing Anant Deo and Jai Bajpai together have appeared. Bajpai is said to have amassed a huge amount money in a very short span of time, the IG claimed. “It is said that despite a criminal history, Jai Bajpai was given a clean report by police in his passport verification," he alleged. The details of his letter to the state police chief were revealed to the media by his activist-wife Nutan Thakur. Thakur said a close relationship between a man of “dubious reputation” and Anant Deo was a matter of great concern and needed to be probed. He has also sought the removal of Deo from the Special Task Force, where he is now posted as Deputy Inspector General, while an inquiry is on. According to the purported letter circulating on social media, Mishra had written that Dubey was booked on charges of rioting, extortion and criminal intimidation in a case. But the charges were later diluted, it said. "Showing sympathy to such a notorious criminal in such a way by the station officer and not taking any action brings the integrity of Vinay Tiwari into question," it said. It added that there were reports about Tiwari visiting the gangster frequently. Mishra's alleged letter to the SSP said if the station officer does not change his style of functioning, a “serious incident” could occur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ig-probes-letter-on-gangsters-link-with-cop-inquiry-sought-into-then-ssps-links-too-858241.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court notice to Centre, DGCA on plea for refund of ticket for flights cancelled due to lockdown||The Supreme Court Tuesday asked the Centre and the DGCA to respond to a plea seeking directions to airlines to refund full amount of tickets for the flights cancelled due to restrictions imposed in India to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan issued notices to the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) seeking their replies on the plea which has alleged that airlines have failed to refund the ticket amount and are "illegally imposing" the mechanism of 'credit shell' on unwilling passengers. "Issue notice," said the bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and M R Shah. The plea, filed by Air Passengers Association of India, claimed that refusal to refund the amount is "arbitrary" and is in blatant violation of the Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) as acceptance of 'credit shell' is at the sole discretion of the passengers. "It is submitted that the airlines are illegally imposing the mechanism of 'credit shell' on the unwilling passengers. The concept refers to a form of credit note which can be used to make a new booking with the same airline for a period so provided by the airline, usually of one year, as is being offered by most of the airlines," said the plea, filed through advocate Rohit Rathi. The bench said the matter would be heard along with a pending petition in the apex court which has also raised similar issue. The apex court said the petitioner's counsel shall serve a copy of the plea to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The plea filed by the association has also sought declaring as "arbitrary" the action on the part of airlines in not refunding the full ticket amount. It said that on April 16, the Ministry of Civil Aviation had directed all airlines to refund the full amount collected for tickets booked during first lockdown period from March 25 to April 14, and also where refund was sought by passengers against booking being cancelled. The plea said the office memorandum further directed that for ticket booked during the first lockdown period for travel during the second lockdown period from April 15 to May 3 and the passenger seeking refund on cancellation of ticket, the airline shall refund the full amount without levy of cancellation charges. It said the DGCA had issued a circular on April 19 directing the airlines to refrain from booking tickets for journeys to be undertaken with effect from May 4. The plea claimed that despite the directives of the ministry and the DGCA, the airlines have failed to refund the ticket amount. "The action on the part of airlines insofar they fail to refund the money of the passengers is in blatant violation of the CAR given that the acceptance of ‘credit shell’ is at the sole discretion of the passengers," it alleged. "It is submitted that the money lying in the ‘credit shell’ may not be of any avail to the passenger who had a specific reason for booking the tickets during the lockdown," the plea said. It said that in these "testing times", a passenger might require the money lying in 'credit shell' for immediate necessity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-dgca-on-plea-for-refund-of-ticket-for-flights-cancelled-due-to-lockdown-858246.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence UAPA case on Ishrat Jahan: Controversy in Delhi High Court over representing Delhi police||The controversy over who will represent Delhi Police in a communal violence matter again hit the Delhi High Court which on Tuesday allowed Delhi government standing counsel to file a status report on a plea by former Congress municipal councillor Ishrat Jahan, booked under anti-terror law -- UAPA --- in a case. Ishrat Jahan, who was arrested on February 26, has challenged an order of a trial court extending time for completing the investigation by 60 more days in the case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February this year. At the outset, Delhi Government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, objected to the status report being filed by advocate Amit Mahajan, who said he has been appointed as a special counsel by the Lieutenant Governor to represent Delhi Police in the case. Mehra said he has been appointed as the standing counsel by the full court of Delhi High Court and every status report or document filed on behalf of the prosecution has to be routed through his office. He said this status report filed in Jahan’s case should have been routed through his office, which was not done. Objecting to this, Mahajan said there is no procedure in law or any Act that the status report has to be routed through the office of standing counsel (criminal). Justice Suresh Kumar Kait, who was hearing the matter through video conferencing, said since a legal issue has arisen in this case, “I hereby direct Rahul Mehra, Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) to file a status report or written arguments and the investigating officer of the case is directed to brief the office of the standing counsel regarding the matter. The status report shall be filed within four days.” The high court clarified that it was not making any observation or comments on whether Mahajan, who was appointed by the LG, is legally authorised to file the status report or not. A similar controversy on who will represent the Delhi Police has arisen in various cases time and again. The high court on June 24 had asked the police to respond to Jahan’s plea challenging the trial court’s June 15 order granting a 60-day extension to police to complete its investigation against her and activist Khalid Saifi. The trial court was informed that Saifi had allegedly travelled outside India and met persons including fugitive Zakir Naik, controversial Islamic preacher, to get funds for spreading his agenda and the investigation regarding this required more time. Advocate Manu Sharma, who appeared for Jahan, has sought setting aside of the trial court’s order, saying it was “erroneous, bad in law and wrong on facts” and it was against the democratic and fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. “The application by the prosecutor is an abuse of the legal process as the same fails to make out any legal or factual basis that justifies extension of time. This exercise is only to subvert and defeat the right of the petitioner to seek regular and statutory bail under the CrPC. “The order deserves to be set aside on this ground alone. Speedy and fair investigation are fundamental tenets of the criminal justice system…,” the plea has said. The trial court, in its June 15 order, had said the prosecution has set out a case for extension of the statutory time period to conclude the investigation but the investigating officer was not divested of his obligation of concluding the probe expeditiously. The trial court, which granted time till August 14 to conclude the pending investigation, had noted the police contention that Saifi got suspicious funds through a NRI account of a person, who is serving in Singapore, in the account of an NGO which he is running in partnership with his friend. The police had sought extension of time till September 17 for concluding investigation against Jahan and Khalid, under section 43D (2) (b) of the anti-terror law. Section 43-D (2) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) provides that if it is not possible to complete the investigation within the 90 days period, then upon the report of the public prosecutor indicating the progress of the probe and the specific reasons for the detention of the accused beyond the 90 days period, after satisfaction, the court can extend the period of probe to 180 days. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and scores injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-uapa-case-on-ishrat-jahan-controversy-in-delhi-high-court-over-representing-delhi-police-858249.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Letter calling for strike in Kashmir fake, published in Pakistan: Jammu and Kashmir police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Tuesday filed an FIR against unknown people for circulating a letter in the name of separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani calling for a strike on the upcoming anniversary of slain militant commander Burhan Wani (July 8) and ‘Martyr’s Day’ (July 13). “We filed an FIR in this regard as soon as we confirmed with the family (of Geelani) whether he had written the letter. It was informed to us that he (Geelani) had not issued or written any such letter,” senior superintendent of police (SSP), Budgam, Ashok Amod Nagpuri, said. He said that the police were looking for individuals who circulated the letter on social media with an intent to create a law and order situation in the Valley. The letter attributed to Geelani had called for a general strike on Wednesday to mark the fourth death anniversary of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen commander and poster boy of new age militancy in Kashmir, Burhan Wani, who was killed in an encounter on 8 July 2016. Wani’s death had sparked massive protests across the valley, leading to a five-month agitation in which over 100 people were killed while thousands were injured. In the letter attributed to Geelani, a shutdown had also been called on July 13 for paying tributes to the protestors who fell to the bullets of forces of autocratic Dogra king Hari Singh in 1931. Separatist leaders, including Geelani, have been calling for general strike on these days in the past. However, Geelani or his aides could not be reached for a comment as he has been under house arrest for several years and the telephone line to his residence is not functional. On June 29, Geelani resigned as chairman of hardline Hurriyat, complaining that constituents of the amalgam failed to lead the people after abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, “overstepped the limits”, and tried to “create a parallel structure.” He also said that he would no longer be responsible or answerable for the conduct of the various Hurriyat constituents who have disappointed him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/letter-calling-for-strike-in-kashmir-fake-published-in-pakistan-jammu-and-kashmir-police-858254.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Students object to govt's decision to not scrap final year exams in university amid coronavirus||Students across the country have objected to the HRD ministry's decision to not cancel the final year exams in universities in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying they feared community spread of the infection and not examinations. The students launched multiple petitions online and took to Twitter to raise their objection using hashtag "Student lives matter". "We, final year students are not testing kits for government. We are not in fear of exams about exam rather there is a fear of community spreading. You can maintain social distancing in exam centre but what about hostels where we have common washrooms, common mess," an online petition signed by over 46,000 students said. Another petition launched on change.org and signed by over 75,000 students said, "Due to this Covid-19 pandemic. We all are facing many problems and issues in our day-to-day life, we appreciate the rules and regulations of the Indian government in this situation. But there are too many things to be noticed from student's side. Can the government not prioritise lives over exams in pandemic." "India is 3rd worst Covid-19 affected country. Things might deteriorate further by September. Both offline and online exams remain a big NO in these difficult times. It is really painful to see MHA-MHRD-UGC-DU not caring for students' welfare," tweeted Mithuraaj Dhusiya, a teacher at Delhi University's Hansraj college. Another Twitter user said, "Why guidelines on conducting exams are changed frequently? It's difficult for students to appear in exams due to ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Why students can't be promoted and assessed on the basis of previous year results?" Union Human Resource Development (HRD) Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Monday said that it is important to safeguard health and safety of students but also equally important to ensure academic credibility and career opportunities. Final year exams in universities will have to be conducted by September-end this year, the HRD Ministry announced on Monday, deferring the schedule from July in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. However, students unable to appear in final year exams in September will get another chance and universities will conduct special exams "as and when feasible", according to a revised guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The decision by the HRD Ministry came following a nod from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to conduct the exams as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) approved by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the central government announced a nationwide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. While the government has eased several restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-object-to-govts-decision-to-not-scrap-final-year-exams-in-university-amid-coronavirus-858279.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Dance party: Six booked for violating Covid-19 restrictions in Kerala||Six people, including the manager of a private resort, have been arrested for organising a party with a belly dance performance in violation of Covid-19 restrictions at nearby Udumbanchola in this hilly district, police said on Tuesday. The incident came to light after a video of the party in which a Ukraine national was among the dancers went viral on social media. The party was held at the resort as part of the inauguration of a private firm and many people took part in it violating the Covid-19 protocol. According to police, the event was organised on June 29 night and a case registered on July 3 under various provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Act and the India Penal Code. "We have arrested six people, including the manager of the resort, another person is the manager of the newly inaugurated business establishment and four other persons who were associated with the party," the investigating officer in the case told PTI. More arrests would be made in coming days, the officer added. Dismissing media reports that the "exotic dancers" were brought to the resort from Bengaluru, police said the dancers were from Ernakulam and the Ukraine-national is a resident of Fort Kochi. Police also added that they were verifying the details of the attendees with the list of participants in that party. The district administration and the police said they did not receive any complaint about the party and the action was taken after the video surfaced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dance-party-six-booked-for-violating-covid-19-restrictions-in-kerala-858291.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Sri Ram Temple Trust chairman, secretary depose in Babri Masjid demolition trial||Sri Ram Temple trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopal Das and its secretary Champat Rai on Tuesday accused the erstwhile Congress government in the Centre of implicating them falsely in the Babri Masjid demolition case. The two religious leaders made the allegation while deposing before a special CBI court trying the 1992 demolition case by agitated ‘kar sevaks’. Das, the chief of both the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas and the Trust, officially known as the Sri Ram Janambhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust, and its secretary Rai had appeared before the court of Special Judge S K Yadav to make their depositions under section 313 of the CrPC. The deposition under S 313 of CrPC follows the recording of prosecution evidence and allows accused persons to explain away the evidence adduced against them by prosecutors. In their separate depositions, the two VHP leaders asserted that they were completely innocent in Babri mosque demolition case and accused the then Central government of falsely implicating them in the case without any evidence. Responding to a query by Special Judge Yadav, the two said the then Congress government got the case lodged against them and others to fulfil its political motives. Like other accused, the two also said the government got the investigation conducted on the basis of fabricated evidence and then got the charge sheet filed in the court under political pressure. “I will produce my defence in the court at the appropriate stage of the trial,” the two stressed in their individual statements while replying to questions asked by the court. The special court is on the verge of completing the trial in the case. There are altogether 32 accused, including former Deputy Prime Minister L K Advani, the then Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh and veteran BJP leader MM Joshi, in the case. The two VHP leaders appeared in the court along with their lawyers Vimal Kumar Srivastava, KK Mishra and Abhisekh Ranjan. After his statement was recorded, Das put his thumb impression on his statement instead of signing it as his hand was shaking due to old age. After completion of their statements, ten more accused have been left to depose under section 313 of CrPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sri-ram-temple-trust-chairman-secretary-depose-in-babri-masjid-demolition-trial-858294.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Media body seeks judicial probe into suicide by journalist undergoing treatment at AIIMS||A media body on Tuesday demanded a judicial inquiry into the death of a 37-year-old journalist undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the AIIMS Trauma Centre here after he allegedly jumped off the fourth floor of the hospital building. In a statement, the Press Association, a media body of accredited journalists, also appealed to the government to sanction funds to the next of kin of the deceased as help in this grave crisis. Journalist Tarun Sisodia worked for a Hindi daily and lived with his wife and two children in northeast Delhi's Bhajanpura. Sisodia jumped from the fourth floor of the Trauma Centre on Monday and was shifted to the ICU, Devender Arya, Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) had said. The police has said that they initiated inquest proceedings. Doctors at the Trauma Centre, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility, tried to revive him but he succumbed to the injuries, hospital authorities had said. In letters to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar, the Press Association demanded a judicial inquiry into the incident which can bring the truth to light. Following the incident, Health Minister Vardhan had asked the AIIMS director to set up a panel to probe the matter. "I ordered AIIMS Director to immediately constitute an official inquiry into this incident, following which a high-level committee has been set up & shall submit its report within 48 hours," he had tweeted. The Press Association said the inquiry that the government has ordered consisting of department heads of AIIMS, may not be appropriate since the incident happened in the institute. Sisodia was the sole bread earner in his family and is survived by his wife and two young daughters, it said. The government should sanction funds to the next of kin of the deceased, the statement said. The Press Association had earlier urged the Centre to extend a Rs 50 lakh insurance cover to working journalists who like all other health professionals are fighting against Coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/media-body-seeks-judicial-probe-into-suicide-by-journalist-undergoing-treatment-at-aiims-858296.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||SGPC announces Rs 1 lakh compensation for Pakistani Sikhs killed in train-bus accident||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday announced Rs 1 lakh financial assistance to each of the families of the Pakistani Sikhs who were killed in a train-bus accident in that country. At least 21 Pakistani Sikh pilgrims were killed when a minibus in which they were travelling was hit by a train in Sheikhupura district in Pakistan's Punjab province on Friday. The SGPC, an apex gurdwara body, will also give Rs 50,000 to each of those who were injured in the accident. Most of the Sikh pilgrims were from the north-western city of Peshawar. They were returning from the Sheikhupura-based shrine of Nankana Sahib, the most visited Sikh shrine in Pakistan. SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal said, “In these hours of grief, the entire Sikh community across the world is with the grieving families who lost their near and dear ones in the rail accident." He further said it was an irrecoverable loss. Longowal appealed to the Pakistan government to provide all possible help to the families of those who lost their lives in this accident and also sought action against those who were responsible for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sgpc-announces-rs-1-lakh-compensation-for-pakistani-sikhs-killed-in-train-bus-accident-858315.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Indian Air Force carries out night time patrol in eastern Ladakh; to maintain high-level of readiness: Sources||In a demonstration of its aerial prowess, the Indian Air Force is carrying out night time combat air patrols over the mountainous eastern Ladakh region as part of its decision to maintain a high-level of readiness notwithstanding disengagement of troops by China from a number of friction points in the area, government sources said on Tuesday. The frequency of day and night operations by frontline fighter jets is a signal that India will continue to put pressure on China until the status quo ante is restored in all the areas in eastern Ladakh including Pangong Tso, Gogra and Hot Springs, they said. "There is no question of lowering our guard at this juncture," said a senior official on condition of anonymity. The sources said both the Army and the IAF will maintain their high alert level along the Line of Actual Control even as China has begun pulling back troops from several areas as part of a mutual disengagement process. The disengagement process began on Monday morning after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday during which they agreed on an expeditious withdrawal of troops from the area. Doval and Wang are Special Representatives for the boundary talks. In the last few days, the IAF significantly enhanced deployment of its frontline jets, attack helicopters and transport fleet in all its key bases guarding the airspace along the LAC in view of heightened border tension with China.   The IAF has also pressed into service a fleet of C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft as well as C-130J Super Hercules in transporting heavy military equipment and weaponry to several forward bases to further ramp up India's military preparedness in the region. The IAF is also using its Ilyushin-76 fleet to transport troops to various areas along the LAC, the 3,500 km de-facto border between India and China, the sources said. They said the force has already moved a sizeable number of its frontline Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar, Mirage 2000 aircraft to several key air bases including Leh and Srinagar. It has also deployed Apache attack choppers and Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations. The frontline fighter jets have increased their sorties in Ladakh and nearby areas. Last month, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria made a quiet visit to Ladakh and Srinagar air bases to review the Indian Air Force's preparedness to deal with any eventualities in the region. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. India has been insisting on restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh to restore peace and tranquillity in the region. India and China have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region. However, there was no visible sign of end to the standoff though the two sides agreed to initiate disengagement of the forces from the region. Following the Galwan Valley clashes, the Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border besides moving in heavy weapons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-air-force-carries-out-night-time-patrol-in-eastern-ladakh-to-maintain-high-level-of-readiness-sources-858330.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Govt steps up aerial spray of pesticide to fight locust swarms||The Union government on Tuesday said it has stepped up aerial spraying capacity of pesticides by deploying Bell helicopter as well as IAF's Mi-17 choppers besides drones to fight crop-threatening desert locusts.       This follows the UN body Food and Agriculture Organisation's (FAO) July 3 update warning India to be on high alert during the next four weeks as locusts continue to breed.       July 7, swarms of immature pink locusts and adult yellow locusts were active in Barmer, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Ajmer, Sikar and Jaipur districts of Rajasthan, Jhansi district of Uttar Pradesh and in Tikamgarh districts of Madhya Pradesh, the government said in a statement.       "Aerial spraying capacity has been strengthened for anti-locust operations," the agriculture ministry said.       With drones already being used for control of locusts, the ministry said a Bell helicopter has been deployed in Rajasthan for use in the scheduled desert area as per the need. The Indian Air Force (IAF) also has conducted trials in anti-locust operation by using an Mi-17 helicopter. "The results are encouraging. IAF started participating in anti-locust operations from 5th July by deploying the Mi-17 helicopter for aerial spraying in Jodhpur district. This is the first of its kind event in the history of locust control in India," it added. The ministry said 15 drones are deployed at Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Nagaur and Phalodi in Rajasthan for effective control of locusts on tall trees and in inaccessible areas through spraying of pesticides. India is the first country that is using drones for locust control. Presently, 60 control teams with spray vehicles are deployed in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, and more than 200 central government personnel are engaged in locust control operations, it said. The country is battling the worst locust attack in 26 years and using the latest technology and equipment to stop its spread. So far, control operations have been done in 1,43,422 hectares in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana by the Locust Circle Offices (LCOs).       The state governments have also undertaken control operations in 1,32,465 hectares area in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar. In the intervening night of July 6-7, the control operations were carried out at 22 places in 7 districts of Rajasthan and one place each in Jhansi district of Uttar Pradesh and Tikamgarh districts of Madhya Pradesh by LCOs. Besides this, State Agriculture Department of Uttar Pradesh also carried out control operations at three places in Jhansi district, while that of Madhya Pradesh State Agriculture Department at one place in Tikamgarh district, in the intervening night of July 6-7 against small groups and scattered population of locusts, it added. According to the ministry, "No significant crop losses have been reported in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Haryana. However, some minor crop losses have been reported in some districts of Rajasthan."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-steps-up-aerial-spray-of-pesticide-to-fight-locust-swarms-858373.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM announces Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia for family of Naik Rajwinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50 lakh for the family of Naik Rajwinder Singh who was killed in an encounter with militants in Kashmir, a statement said. The chief minister also announced government job for a family member of the slain soldier, it said Rajwinder of 53 Rashtriya Rifles (24 Punjab) died while fighting bravely with terrorists in Pulwama area of Jammu and Kashmir, the official statement said. The CM said the state government would provide all possible help and support to the bereaved family of the 29-year-old soldier. Rajwinder, from Dodra village in Samana tehsil of Patiala district, is survived by his parents, wife Gurpreet Kaur and brother Balwant Singh, the statement said. The soldier was enrolled into the Punjab Regiment in 2011, and after completion of training he joined the 24 Punjab, it said. Rajwinder displayed exemplary valour by doing extremely well in Ghatak platoon, which has the most physically and mentally fit soldiers of the unit, the statement said. Thereafter, Rajwinder volunteered to be posted for counter- terrorist operations in 53 Rashtriya Rifles and was deployed posted in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-announces-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-for-family-of-naik-rajwinder-singh-858378.html
07-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to provide free ration to PDS cardholders till November||The distribution of foodgrains for this month is scheduled to start in a phased manner from July 8, a government statement said. In Delhi, more than 17.54 lakh households are covered under the National Food Security (NFS) Act. Nearly 71,40,938 people get subsidised foodgrains from the Delhi government. These also include 68,465 Antyodaya Anna Yojna (AAY) households with 2,78,954 beneficiaries. The NFS beneficiaries are given 5 kg foodgrains every month, including 4 kg wheat and 1 kg rice. Regular entitlement under the AAY category is 25 kg wheat, 10 kg rice and 1 kg sugar per household. Delhi Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain said, “During the lockdown, the Department of Food and Supplies made all-out efforts towards meeting the food requirements of the poor and vulnerable sections of the city including NFS beneficiaries. "The Delhi government had earlier provided free ration to the NFS beneficiaries for April-June,” he added. The minister also cautioned the beneficiaries to be aware and not pay for the foodgrains provided to them. “In case the beneficiaries face any problem in receiving ration free of cost at fair price shops (FPS), they may contact officers of the department for immediate redressal,” he said. The beneficiaries can make a complaint to the respective assistant commissioner, food supplies officer or food supplies inspector. Hussain said for effective management at fair price shops, the government has deployed civil defence volunteers to ensure social distancing norms and orderly distribution of foodgrains. He added that officials have been deployed round-the-clock in the field to facilitate the distribution of foodgrains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-provide-free-ration-to-pds-cardholders-till-november-858379.html
07-07-2020||Opinion||Why India’s commitment to deepening its democracy is key to dealing with China  ||Before we come to this, let us recount China’s actions in the past few months. China has sunk a Vietnamese fishing vessel in April in the South China Sea and in May, a Chinese survey ship was involved in a month-long standoff with a Malaysian oil exploration ship. China’s expansive claims in the South China Sea have also prompted Indonesia to clarify its position as Chinese claims encroach upon Indonesia’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). However, in June, China surprised India and the world by attacking and killing Indian troops in Ladakh. China’s lack of interest in following past agreements to manage the border and its willingness to fortify its positions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) has resulted in a tense border standoff between India and China. Both sides have brought-in reinforcements and are preparing for any eventuality. Meanwhile, the efforts are going on at the military and diplomatic levels to diffuse the tension and restore status quo as it existed before the Chinese troop intrusion. In the context of the ongoing standoff, there seems to be a consensus among strategic analysts across the world that Chinese actions have altered the overall trajectory of Sino-Indian relations and that, in the future, it will no longer be business as usual. As the India-China competition heats up, the attention is shifting to the relative strengths of both states across the military, economic, geopolitical and technological domain and how best they can utilise their assets. In this context, India’s advantages in the naval domain and dominant positioning in the Indian Ocean is well-known. Struggle between two ideas Competition between India and China, however, is not limited to hard power and material domains of power alone. It is also a struggle between the two conflicting political systems of governance, socio-political changes and the best method to achieve economic development for their respective populations. In the long-run, this struggle between two ideas will play a key role in shaping this competition. China is a Communist state with a market economy and has achieved astonishing economic growth in the last four decades. Therefore, the Chinese Communist Party has redefined the relationship between the state and society. China promises economic prosperity in return for civil and political rights. It denies basic freedoms to its population and cracks down hard on dissent. The Chinese model of authoritarian politics with an open economy has emerged as an attractive model for many countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Moreover, China is also keen to project itself as a ‘successful’ model for politico-economic development. In contrast with China, India is a democratic state that guarantees full civil and political rights, rule of law and promises to deliver economic development within the framework of the constitution. Largely, India has stayed the course and has not compromised on its democratic credentials for achieving rapid economic growth. In fact, India has recorded high growth rates in the first decade of this century. Therefore, the Indian model with its emphasis on democracy, human rights and rule of law is an alternative to the Chinese model. Therefore, in the coming decades, as India and China compete with each other more vigorously, the dimension of the political system and the model of socio-economic development will also achieve greater salience. If India succeeds in delivering rapid economic growth and prosperity, India’s model of liberal democracy with economic development is likely to become more attractive for other countries in the world. The democratic imperative To achieve this, India will have to strengthen democracy at home and present itself as an attractive and viable model which is an antithesis of the Chinese model. It includes respecting the rule of law, maintaining the autonomy of institutions, guaranteeing civil and political rights and decentralising political power at home.  India will also have to design appropriate policies (such as implementing economic reforms and building infrastructure) that will deliver economic prosperity. It will not only help in building national power necessary to counter Chinese designs but also put a shine back on the democratic political system in the time when democratic forces across the world are facing the retreat.    Along with the strengthening of democracy at home, India will also do well if it moves closer to other democratic states in the region such as South Korea, Taiwan and Indonesia. Supporting democratic forces (wherever possible) and democratic states is a challenge to the Chinese model. India will do well to build on its democratic credentials and experience to engage in such an endeavour. It can perhaps emerge as a cornerstone of its foreign policy strategy.           Building and strengthening the relationship between democratic states (India, Japan, Australia and the United States) was the original idea behind the ‘Quad’ grouping. Therefore, apart from the shared security concerns about the rise of China, the democracy dimension will also be useful to elevate the importance of this initiative. India and China’s collision in Asia is being framed as a geopolitical competition and has implications for the entire Indo-Pacific region. Focusing on democracy (and economic development) at home and building strong ties with like-minded democratic states could emerge as a grand strategy for India in the long-run. It will also help in challenging China at its weakest point and strengthening the global political discourse around democracy and human rights. Whether India wants to focus on its strength as a democracy in its competition with China remains to be seen.   (Sankalp Gurjar is a Research Fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi. Views are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-india-s-commitment-to-deepening-its-democracy-is-key-to-dealing-with-china-858059.html
07-07-2020||Panorama||TN custodial deaths: We have waited long for a law against torture, says Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi||The country was shocked by the recent custodial deaths of a father and son in Thoothukudi’s Sathankulam police station, after having been arrested merely for keeping their shop open beyond lockdown hours and tortured for resisting police highhandedness. DMK’s Member of ParliamentKanimozhi, who has been at the forefront in demanding justice for the victims, tells DH’s Ahmed Shariff that she has written to the home minister to pass an anti-torture ordinance. A man and his son were taken by policemen and they came back as lifeless bodies. The incident took place in your constituency, Thoothukudi. This is not the only incident of custodial death. Every year, in this country, we come across hundreds of such incidents. In 2019, over 1,700 such cases were recorded in India. It’s happening every day all over the country and we have been turning a blind eye to it. We have accepted that this is the way the police will interrogate and somehow, we have not raised questions against it. In Sathankulam, the father and son belonged to the trader community and they had never had any conflict with the system nor had they any problem with the authorities. And that is why all of us are together raising our voices against what happened. Listen to DMK Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi here on DH's The Lead podcast:  The police say that they had kept their shop open beyond the stipulated time. But in some of the videos, which were played on news channels, we can see that other shops were open, too,and autorickshaws were plying. Even if they had kept their shop open late, is this the way the police should be dealing with it? Violence and brutality against ordinary citizens is becoming a regular thing, especially during this pandemic. The accused policemen are said to be “repeat offenders”. Should not the government have woken up immediately and taken action against them? Yes, definitely. (But) even before the autopsy, the chief minister stated that the two victims died of breathlessness. A few days before this incident, even in Kovilpatti, areas around Tenkasi and Ettaiyapuram have had cases where the police have arrested people, taken them into custody and beaten them. This (Sathankulam incident) is not the first case in the country, such cases have been happening every day. The central government was supposed to bring in a law against torture. The bill hasn’t been passed yet. The government should have taken action. People have said that the offenders be booked under murder charges. The government refused to do that till the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court stepped in and the whole investigation was monitored on an hourly basis, practically by the High Court. They even had to pass two orders in a single day, and we saw how the judicial magistrate was threatened when he went to Sathankulam to inquire what happened. He could not even speak to witnesses. The policemen were threatening him. If the government had stepped in and at least the chief minister had made a strong statement that those responsible would be brought to justice, this couldn’t have happened. One minister even said that it was not even a case of lockup death. Your party has been at the forefront in demanding justice for the victims. Now that CB-CID has taken over the case and the High Court is monitoring the process, what will be the DMK’s role henceforth?  We have offered all support to the family. I met the family and our party leader Stalin also spoke to them over phone. We have promised them all legal support. We don’t want to interfere in the way they want to take the case forward. We are there to help them and support them, if they want us to, in any way. More than that, I have also written to the National Human Rights Commission and they have also written to the people in the district asking for a report on what exactly happened. And on behalf of my party, I have written to the (Union) home minister that an (anti-torture) ordinance has to be passed, because Parliament is not in session, so that we can at least now stop such incidents from happening. We have waited long enough. When Parliament convenes, will you raise your voice for the (anti-torture) law? Definitely, we will insist that the law be passed. I will take up the issue in Parliament and the DMK will raise it. TN faces Assembly elections in less than a year. Will you promise to carry out police reforms if your party comes back to power? Definitely. We had brought in police reforms before. I am sure that the DMK will take police reforms seriously. It’s not enough to bring police reforms only in a state. A study has to be done and we have to look at changes throughout the country. We have to understand, and make people understand, and the law-enforcing authorities should also make it very clear that they are only a law-enforcing authority. The police department is not here to mete out justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tn-custodial-deaths-we-have-waited-long-for-a-law-against-torture-says-thoothukudi-mp-kanimozhi-857968.html
07-07-2020||Panorama||Adult vaccination: Boosting immunity||The current pandemic is not new to the world. Historically, the world has successfully conquered over epidemic-prone diseases with the help of vaccination. Ironically, the value of vaccination has been understated despite its preventive eminence; hitherto disapproved and gained a slow acceptance from the society. Covid-19 has yet again re-established the need and importance of vaccinations across the globe. While there are ongoing studies for the Covid-19 vaccine, we must not disregard the vaccines that have existed in before the Covid era and have saved countless lives every year, especially children--owing to their developing immune system. Having said that, vaccines are one of the most important health investments of any country and should not be limited to just children. Adult vaccinations Globalization and an increased need to travel (leisure and business) have exposed adults to amplified jeopardy of infectious diseases. Also, with fast-paced lifestyle and increasing co-morbidities like lung and heart diseases, adults are highly vulnerable to VPDs. Nonetheless, despite immense information available on VPD’s and vaccinations, most of the adults are either still unaware of the repercussions or do not believe in vaccination’s adeptness in helping the immune system thwart infections in adults. Adults with co-morbidities, especially lung, kidney and liver diseases, must get seasonal influenza vaccination administered. The highly communicable respiratory disease affects not just children but millions of adults every year across the world. With Corporate India preparing for #Unlock2 to give a much-needed boost to the economy, various question regarding safety and precautions remain as people re-join work. Unlike Covid-19, we have vaccines available that can protect us from Influenza. Hence, we must protect ourselves from the known while stepping out amid the unknown. Apart from these, adults should also consider pneumococcal and Hepatitis-A vaccinations. Besides, it has been proven in international studies that Covid-19 and Influenza can co-exist. If one is infected with both contagions at once, the risk of morbidity is excessively high. In the current scenario, understandably, Influenza and Covid are here to stay and it is urged to be protected against at least one. Having said that, Influenza vaccine should be mandated, especially for smokers and the ones affected with lung diseases. Besides Influenza, the need for other adult vaccination also varies with age, health conditions, lifestyle choices and occupational exposure. For instance, every adult should get the Tetanus and Diphtheria (Tdap) booster shot every 10 years. In case a person had missed Tdap during adolescent vaccination, they should be vaccinated for pertussis (whooping cough) vaccine as well. Additionally, pregnant women should be administered with the Tdap vaccine each time they are pregnant, preferably at 27 through 36 weeks.  One of the main reasons for low penetration of adult vaccination is lack of awareness among individuals as well as the medical populous. As a result, there is no pre-designed way adults can get vaccinated regularly, nor it can be monitored. Unquestionably, there is a dire need to sensitize the health planners as well as health care providers vis-à-vis adult vaccination. Neither a paediatrician nor a General Physician but only an internal medicine expert can help facilitate vaccinations in adults regularly, with increased awareness and accessibility. While emphasizing on the importance of adult vaccination, our current front-line Covid warriors (Health Care Workers) are also at an equally increased risk of contracting VPDs. During this time, vaccination against Hepatitis-B becomes extremely crucial. Moreover, infected HCWs can directly transmit to the vulnerable population. This is where the Government and Hospital management should intervene to setup strong guidelines. With such simple steps, adult vaccination - as a part of the routine immunization - can save millions of lives in India.  (The writer is an Infectious Diseases Specialist, Apollo hospitals)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/adult-vaccination-boosting-immunity-857970.html
07-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Being prepared, overcoming a daunting water-park ride||I have never fancied water parks with their unimaginably scary rides, for an outing. I admire the modern infrastructure, the countless rides and amusement items procured from abroad, but I steer clear of most of them as I know the sharp plunges in the so-called thrilling rides can sprain my neck, and wreak havoc on my lower back. That day, however, I had no option but to relent when my daughter insisted we visit one after she cleared a tough exam. The list of umpteen number of rides on the entry coupon excited the teenager while equally terrifying me by their very name and description. I could avoid all but one eight-shaped rubber boat ride which she was keen I enjoy along with her. This rubber boat would be pushed down a great height with a force one can never fathom without actually going through it, and come out with a splash in the water at the bottom of the ride.  While I stood in the queue for the ride, I visualised how I would sit inside the inflated outfit, and not resist with a stiff neck but move even if slightly, during the few seconds I was in it. I muttered a prayer as I sat myself in the middle of the boat and held onto the metal handle of the seat. To my pleasant surprise, I remember I came out of that boat with a wide smile of victory, and no pain or discomfort at all. To date, I accept it was only the visualisation exercise that helped me that day. In fact, mental preparedness is the key to coping with almost any experience, which we assume or are sure will cause us discomfort, pain or the slightest restlessness. During the course of life, we are sure to feel fear, unforeseen pressure or unexpected unpleasantness. Many times these experiences are unavoidable. But if we have prepared ourselves in advance as to how we will handle them, we are sure to emerge unscathed rather than be rendered helpless or feel victimised. A prepared and empathetic parent can handle a teenager’s tantrums coolly and with understanding. At times, just silence suffices, like when a drunkard boards a bus, for no words or actions by the crew or the other passengers will work when he is in that inebriated condition. Being prepared therefore means knowing in advance how we will respond in a particular situation – with a fitting retort, a gesture or only silence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/being-prepared-overcoming-a-daunting-water-park-ride-857967.html
07-07-2020||Second Edit||Praise Mumbai's Lalbaug Mandal||The organisers of one of the biggest Ganeshotsav events in Mumbai has taken a welcome decision to call off the celebrations this year in view of the difficult Covid-19 situation in the city. The Lalbaug Mandal has announced its decision to do without the celebrations and instead to organise a blood donation camp and an awareness programme to promote plasma donation on Ganesh Chaturthi day. Families of healthcare personnel and policemen who lost their lives in the fight against Covid-19 and army men who gave up their lives defending the country in Ladakh will also be felicitated on that day. The celebrations used to be held over 11 days every year, and this year they were expected to start on August 22. The preparations used tostart many weeks before the event. This is the first time in 86 years that the traditional Ganeshotsav is not being held.  Ganeshotsav is the biggest religious festival in Maharashtra and sees a large participation of people over many days. Lakhs of people attend the Lalbaug festival, but such gatherings are certain to have disastrous consequences in Mumbai now. Maharashtra is the state worst hit by the epidemic and Mumbai is reeling under it. No social distancing measures would be possible when such a large crowd assembles at one place. The organisers have decided to avoid any ritual which might attract people. They deserve praise for their wise decision. There are many other venues of Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in Mumbai and Maharashtra. The organisers of the event in such venues should also allow good sense to prevail and refrain from holding them as they will have the effect of spreading the virus and further aggravating the pandemic.  The government has curbed the entry of worshippers into religious places as part of the lockdown. The curbs exist, with some relaxations, in all parts of the country. If the daily visits of worshippers are to be discouraged, big congregations are certainly to be avoided. In most states and in all religious places, worshippers and those who manage the religious places have abided by the directions and protocols. One major event which was held was the rath yatra at the Puri Jagannath temple for which the Supreme Court gave special permission with some conditions. Celebrations, religious or otherwise, can be held after the pandemic goes away. Containing it and preserving the life and health of the people should get the highest priority now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/praise-mumbais-lalbaug-mandal-857963.html
07-07-2020||South||Kerala CM's principal secretary removed following alleged nexus with gold smuggling racket||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's principal secretary M Sivasankar has been removed from the post in the wake of his alleged nexus with former staff of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram involved in smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage. The development came a day after the CM termed baseless the alleged nexus of his office with the smuggling racket. While the BJP accused the state government of direct links with the former consulate staff, the Congress demanded a CBI probe into the allegations. The state was also witnessed demonstrations against the government over the row. A brief statement from the CMO on Tuesday morning said that Sivasankar was removed from the CM's secretary post and Mir Mohammed would take his place. However, it was not clear whether Sivasankar would continue as Information Technology Department principal secretary. Sivasankar, who was in the CMO, right from Vijayan's initial days after becoming Chief Minister, had recently faced allegations of bypassing official procedures for entering a deal for Covid data analytics with US firm Sprinklr. The IAS officer was allegedly having close nexus with UAE consulate former staff Swapna Suresh and Sarith, who are facing Custom department's probe in connection with smuggling of 30 kilogram gold through diplomatic baggage. Swapna was also appointed as manager of operations at the Space Park under the IT department. Her service was terminated on Monday in view of the fresh allegations. The CM maintained that he was unaware of the posting. Meanwhile, customs officials suspect that the racket had smuggled gold eight times since 2019 March. The involvement of any serving officials of the consulate was also under probe. While Sarith was arrested on Monday night after quizzing for nearly 24 hours, Swapna was still absconding. A raid was carried out at her luxury flat in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress alleged that the Chief Minister was responsible for unlawful activities of his staff. Sivasankar was being made a scapegoat, said Chennithala who wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a CBI probe into CM's office nexus with smuggling racket. Meanwhile BJP state president K Surendran alleged that Swapna was known to the Chief Minister since 2017 and she was actively involved in organising various events including the much hyped Loka Kerala Sabha global NRI meet of Kerala government and visit of Sharjah ruler to Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cms-principal-secretary-removed-following-alleged-nexus-with-gold-smuggling-racket-858073.html
07-07-2020||South||32 new coronavirus cases in Puducherry, tally rises to 1,041||Puducherry recorded 32 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the tally of infections in the Union Territory to 1,041. A medical bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfare said the total active cases were 510, number of patients treated and discharged were 517 while fatalities continued to remain 14 without any report of death for last few days. While 18 of the fresh cases were admitted to the State Government-run Indira Gandhi medical college hospital, 13 patients were admitted to Centrally administered JIPMER. The remaining one patient was admitted to the Government General Hospital in Mahe. The fresh cases, 20 men and 12 women, were identified at the end of examination of 498 samples. Five patients were less than 18 years, 25 patients were in the age group of 18 to 60 years, while the remaining two patients were above 60 years, the bulletin said. The department had tested so far 21,382 samples and found 19,996 samples out of them to be negative. Results of examination of remaining samples were awaited, it was stated. 35 patients were discharged, the bulletin pointed out. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said through a virtual press meet that the current month would pose danger to the Union Territory as the number of cases of infection might turn out to be big. He said private medical colleges had agreed to the appeal of the government to get infrastructures including beds and equipment ready for the patients admitted in the colleges for tests and treatment. "The government on its part would shift positive cases from its medical college hospital to private medical colleges on Tuesday and the infrastructures in private institutions were being improved," he said. Mobile testing units were pressed into service in rural areas so that there would be more examination of the samples to zero in on infection in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/32-new-coronavirus-cases-in-puducherry-tally-rises-to-1041-858074.html
07-07-2020||South||Kerala stops daily passes for commuters to Kasaragod, Mangaluru||The Kerala government has stopped issuing daily e-passes for those commuting between neighbouring Kasaragod district and Mangaluru in Dakshina Kannada District in Karnataka from Tuesday in the wake of rise in the number of Covid-19 cases on both sides of the border. The decision was taken at a district-level review meeting on Monday, attended by Kerala Revenue Minister E Chandrasekharan, after the sudden surge of coronavirus cases in Dakshina Kannada district in the last two days. Chandrasekharan, in charge of Covid management in the district, said those from Mangaluru working in Kasaragod should stay there for a period of 28 days in a month and vice versa. Daily commuting cannot be permitted as the number of Covid-19 cases were on the rise. Doctors and health workers were also bound by the new regulation, he told reporters. Kerala has already set up barricades at different points connecting Kasaragod and Dakshina Kannada involving local panchayats on the border. Dakshina Kannada reported 147 Covid-19 cases on Sunday and 34 on Monday. Nearly 90 new cases were reported from Ullal area bordering Manjeshwar in Kerala till Sunday which apparently prompted the Kasaragod district administration to arrive at the quick decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-stops-daily-passes-for-commuters-to-kasaragod-mangaluru-858157.html
07-07-2020||South||Is the Left-front government in Kerala now in the shoes of its former counterpart?||As the air is thick with the alleged nexus of Kerala's left front government with a woman facing probe for smuggling gold through diplomatic baggage, it seems to be a replica of what the previous Congress-led United Democratic Front government in Kerala had faced. Swapna Suresh, a former employee at the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, who is now facing probe for smuggling gold through diplomatic baggage addressed to a consulate official, allegedly has close connections with the who's who in the Pinarayi Vijayan government. The previous Oommen Chandy government faced a similar allegation wherein Saritha S Nair, who was accused of cheating many people by offering the solar power project, had an alleged connection with several people in the then government While a principal secretary is now shunted from the CMO for his alleged illicit relationship with Swapna, a couple of personal staff members of Oommen Chandy also met with a similar fate following their alleged illicit relationship with Saritha. While a picture of Saritha interacting with Chandy was then widely circulated by his opponents to allege their connections, pictures of Swapna standing close to Vijayan at some functions are now being widely circulated on social media. The Saritha row had taken a much ugly turn after she raised rape allegations even against Chandy and many of his cabinet colleagues, which were still under investigation. The Congress even alleged that CPM leaders and Saritha joined hands to tarnish the image of the Chandy government. The alleged nexus of the present CMO with a woman involved in gold smuggling and the woman even getting appointed to a senior post in a government agency under the CM has assumed much seriousness. The Congress and BJP warned that more skeletons will tumble out of the closet in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-the-left-front-government-in-kerala-now-in-the-shoes-of-its-former-counterpart-858158.html
07-07-2020||South||Centre has notified CBI taking over Sathankulam case: Tamil Nadu govt||The Centre has issued a notification on CBI taking over investigation into the deaths of a father and son duo belonging to Tuticorin district, the Tamil Nadu government said on Tuesday. Following Chief Minister K Palaniswami's letter to Home Minister Amit Shah requesting a probe by the Central agency into the deaths of Jeyaraj and Bennix, "the Central government has now issued a notification (on CBI taking over investigation into the case)," an official release here said. After announcing a CBI probe recently, Palaniswami had written to the Home Minister. The CB-CID is presently handling the case as per the direction of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. Five police personnel including an inspector have been arrested so far. Bennix and Jeyaraj died on June 22 and 23 respectively after alleged torture by Sathankulam police in Tuticorin district following their arrest on June 19. They were arrested for alleged violation of prohibitory orders in force due to Covid-19 lockdown by keeping their mobile phone shop in the district beyond the allowed time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-has-notified-cbi-taking-over-sathankulam-case-tamil-nadu-govt-858159.html
07-07-2020||South||Kerala High Court rejects Bishop Franco Mulakkal's discharge plea in nun rape case||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday rejected a petition of former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal seeking discharge in a sexual assault case at Kottayam district in Kerala. Franco had approached the HC after a local court earlier rejected the plea. The HC dismissed the petition after the prosecution maintained that there were incriminating evidence against Franco. Franco's contention that the nun raised fake sexual allegation against him was rejected by the HC. A nun of a convent at Kuravilangad in Kottayam district alleged that Franco sexually assaulted her 13 times between 2014 and 2016. Though the nun complained to the police in 2017 June, the investigation commenced only after protests by a group of nuns under the banner ‘Save our sisters’ in Kochi. Franco was arrested on September 21, 2018 and later released on bail. He was charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code for rape, unnatural sex, illegal detention and criminal intimidation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-rejects-bishop-franco-mulakkals-discharge-plea-in-nun-rape-case-858204.html
07-07-2020||South||Congress shoots off letter to PM Modi, seeks CBI probe into gold smuggling case||The Leader of Opposition in the Kerala Assembly Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking CBI probe into the alleged "influence of the smuggling cartel" at the office of Chief Minister of Kerala. The opposition has been up in arms against the ruling Left in the state over the recent seizure of over 30 kg of gold from the International Airport which was attempted to be smuggled into the state through diplomatic baggage. Chennithala in his letter said on July 4, the Customs authorities at Thiruvananthapuram seized gold worth "Rs 30 crore illegally brought to our country" from a consignment addressed to the "UAE consulate." Chennithala said a former employee of the consulate was arrested in connection with the case and a woman is allegedly the kingpin of the racket She was employed till yesterday (July 6, 2020) as Operations Manager with Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Ltd, under Kerala Government's IT department "and is suspected to be the mastermind in the smuggling. She is absconding and currently the Customs Department has launched a search for her," he said. The senior Congress leader also cited media reports which claim that the woman has close ties with M Sivsankar, Secretary of Kerala's Information Technology Department. Earlier in the day,the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said Sivasankar has been removed as Secretary to CM and replaced by Mir Mohammed, another IAS officer, who will hold additional charge. Chennithala also stated that the UAE government, in an official communique, had condemned the misuse of diplomatic channels of their consulate and stated that its mission and diplomatic staff have no role in it. "The issue of misusing diplomatic channels is a violation of the clauses of the Geneva Convention of the UN which grants immunity to diplomatic baggage," Chennithala alleged and sought a CBI inquiry. Citing media reports, he said the" influence of the smuggling cartel" at the "office of Chief Minister of Kerala" and the nexus between politicians, government officials and the smugglers points to a "grave situation" warranting an investigation by an agency which has authority and freedom to act impartially. Meanwhile, the Congress and the BJP lashed out at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the gold seizure, saying he was looking for scapegoats in the matter. Their comments came even as Kerala IT Secretary M Sivasankar was removed as Secretary to CM, in the backdrop of the gold smuggling controversy,where the role of a former woman employee of the IT department is being probed. BJP chief K Surendran, who met the media at Kozhikode, claimed many CPI(M) leaders have good rapport with the woman against whom an investigation is on. Speaking to reporters, Chennithala alleged that the chief minister was looking for scapegoats. "He was trying to protect the IT Secretary but when he was sure that the probe would reach the CM's office, he made a scapegoat out of Sivasankar. The Chief Minister cannot avoid the responsibility. He cannot solve this crisis just by removing someone else in the department," Chennithala said. Surendran alleged that the woman was known to the Chief minister since September 2017 when she played a major role in organising some five-day programmes in connection with the visit of a Sharjah sheik. Vijayan had told reporters on Monday that he was unaware of the factors behind her appointment and would look into the matter. Meanwhile, CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan in a statement said a comprehensive probe should be conducted into the matter and all those involved in the gold smuggling case should be brought before justice. He asserted that those involved will not be spared. "They will not get any sort of help from the Left Democratic Front (LDF) nor the state government.Those who are responsible will face justice.We hope the Customs officials, which is a central agency will bring out the truth," Balakrishnan said. The racket came to light when the Customs on Monday arrested a man, who claimed himself to be a former employee of a foreign country's consulate in Kerala, in connection with the seizure of gold worth over Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" at an airport in the state. The man was arrested following his interrogation in connection with the seizure of gold from the diplomatic baggage from Thiruvananthapuram international airport on Sunday, the Customs officials said. The gold weighing over 30 kg was seized from a diplomatic baggage that had landed by air cargo at Thiruvananthapuram international airport recently. The Customs has said it suspected a smuggling syndicate had misused the name of a person who enjoys diplomatic immunity. Customs personnel have said they were looking for a woman, also claiming herself to be a former employee of the consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-shoots-off-letter-to-pm-modi-seeks-cbi-probe-into-gold-smuggling-case-858245.html
07-07-2020||South||Surrender is not consent for sex: Kerala HC on rape of minor||Upholding the conviction of an elderly person in the case of a rape of a minor, the Kerala High Court has held that surrender cannot be construed as consent for sexual intercourse. In its order, the High Court said in a country like India that is committed to gender equality, only sexual intercourse which are welcomed could be construed as not violative of the rights of the victim, and accepted as consensual. Justice P B Suresh Kumar gave the order on June 29 in an appeal filed by a man, now 67 years old, challenging his conviction by the Sessions Court, Pathanamthitta, in the rape and impregnation of a minor girl belonging to a scheduled caste in 2009. In the appeal, the convicted man contended that the evidence tendered by the victim girl would show beyond doubt that the sexual intercourse was consensual. His lawyer also contended that the victim has admitted that she used to go to the house of the accused as and when desired or required by the accused and had sex with him. Dismissing the appeal, the High Court observed that the victim has given categoric evidence that while she was watching television one day, the accused closed the door of the house, pulled her to the adjacent room and had sex with her. She was also categoric in her evidence that though she attempted to make a noise, the accused prevented her from doing so by closing her mouth using his hand, the Court observed. Noting that the accused has no case that the first instance of sexual intercourse was consensual, the Court said the victim girl deposed that she did not disclose the incident to her mother due to fear. Similarly, she deposed that she did not disclose the incident to anyone as she was afraid that the accused would do something to her mother and sister, the court said. "In other words, it is clear from the materials on record that the victim was under a social and psychological hierarchical threat. In a situation of this nature, according to me, the conduct on the part of the victim in surrendering before the accused as and when desired by him cannot be said to be unusual or abnormal and such surrender can never be construed as consensual acts of sexual intercourse," the court said. "It is now settled that mere act of helpless resignation in the face of inevitable compulsion, quiescence, non- resistance, or passive giving in, when volitional faculty is either clouded by fear or vitiated by duress, cannot be deemed to be consent as understood in law and the consent, on the part of a woman as a defence to an allegation of rape, requires voluntary participation, not only after the exercise of intelligence, based on the knowledge of the significance and moral quality of the act, but after having freely exercised a choice between resistance and assent," the court said. Dismissing the appeal, the court also referred to the observation made on rape survivors by Judith Lewis Herman, an American psychiatrist and researcher on traumatic stress in her book 'Trauma and Recovery' that When a person is completely powerless, and any form of resistance is futile, she may go into a state of surrender. The system of self-defence shuts down entirely. The helpless person escapes from her situation not by action in the real world but rather by altering her state of consciousness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/surrender-is-not-consent-for-sex-kerala-hc-on-rape-of-minor-858253.html
07-07-2020||South||Kerala Covid-19 death audit report finds fatigability as an early symptom||A death audit report on Covid-19 by Kerala government found that fatigability or tiredness are also early symptoms of Covid-19 and suggested that proper awareness in this regard may help in picking patients at the early stages of infection itself. The report also recommended setting up of all treatment facilities, including convalescent plasma therapy and plasma banks, in all districts, ensuring first point of contact with health system on time, speeding up of test results and strengthening of the reverse quarantining to minimise Covid-19 death rates. Kerala is having a low death rate of 0.5 percent. The death audit was conducted by a team led by Kerala Health principal secretary Rajan Khobragade based on 22 deaths in Kerala till June 30. According to the report, 64 percent had history of travel, with UAE and Mumbai being the top destinations and 77 percent were aged above 50. Fatigability, breathlessness and fever were the most common symptoms. Tiredness or fatigability may be surrogate of breathlessness and hence it is important to include this in the campaign so that we can pick ‘at risk’ individuals early.  Around 95 percent had two or more complications. Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome, pneumonia, Cytokine release syndrome, acute kidney injury and myocarditis were the common complications. While 63 percent patients required invasive ventilation, half of the patients received anticoagulant therapy and steroids, said the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-covid-19-death-audit-report-finds-fatigability-as-an-early-symptom-858256.html
07-07-2020||South||Cop dies after Andhra Pradesh minister's escort vehicle overturns near Hyderabad||A head constable was killed and three others, including two security personnel, were injured after the escort vehicle of Andhra PradeshEnvironment and Forests Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy's convoy, overturned near here on Tuesday, police said. According to police, the incident happened when the rear side left tyre of the pilot vehicle (in front of the minister's vehicle) burst resulting in it going out of control and overturning near Koheda village under Abdullapurmet police station limits. One head constable, two constables and driver sustained injuries, a police official said The 56-year-old head constable died when he was being shifted to a hospital, the official added. The minister was proceeding to Vijayawada from Hyderabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cop-dies-after-andhra-pradesh-ministers-escort-vehicle-overturns-near-hyderabad-858257.html
07-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Local spread increasing alarmingly in Kerala||Kerala on Tuesday witnessed the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases through local contact with 68 new cases, while the total number of fresh Covid-19 cases was also highest, with 272 fresh cases being recorded. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that steps to break the chain would be enhanced as the local spread was increasing alarmingly. So far the state could keep the spread through local contacts at the minimum possible level through effective quarantine and surveillance. The highest number of cases through local spread was earlier reported on Sunday with 38 cases on record. Of the 5,894 persons who were infected with Covid-19 in Kerala so far, only around 750 got infected through local contact, while those from abroad and other states constitute the major chunk of those who got infected. However, over the last few days the number of infections through local spread was showing a steady rise and hence the govt already initiated steps like imposing triple lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram city for one week from Monday. Meanwhile, with 272 more persons getting infected and 111 recovering on Tuesday, the total number of Covid-19 active cases in Kerala was 2,413.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-local-spread-increasing-alarmingly-in-kerala-858261.html
07-07-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan alleges of attempt to tarnish govt's image||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday reiterated that the state government had no links with the gold smuggling row and his secretary M Sivasankar was kept off the office just because some allegations came up against him and not that he was found involved in it. Vijayan also told reporters that the opposition parties were trying to tarnish the image of the government as elections are approaching. He also warned of legal actions against circulating pictures of the woman facing probe for gold smuggling standing close to him at some functions and spreading baseless information that he was having links with her. He said that former employee of UAE consulate, Swapna Suresh, who is allegedly involved in gold smuggling using diplomatic baggage, got a job at the Space Park under the state IT department through a private recruiting firm. It was the usual practice to outsource recruitment to such projects through private agencies. Meanwhile, Kerala former Chief Minister and Congress leader Oommen Chandy, who earlier faced a similar allegations linking him with a con woman, said in a social media post that the present row reminds him of the allegations he had faced while being the CM. However he was not feeling happy over the fresh row, but would only demand the government to order a CBI probe, said Chandy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-alleges-of-attempt-to-tarnish-govts-image-858267.html
07-07-2020||South||Telangana govt directed to file report on excessive charges by pvt hospitals in treating Covid-19 patients||The Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to file a report on a petition alleging that private hospitals were charging excessively from Covid-19 patients beyond the limit prescribed by the government. The PIL was filed by advocate Srikishan Sharma seeking a direction to the stategovernment to take action against the private hospitals for charging exorbitantly and issue guidelines for maintaining transparency in the matter of treatment and billing against all the patients. The petitioner submitted that Maharashtra government has imposed restrictions by way of a notification restricting the maximum bill that can be claimed by private hospitals but there is no such restriction imposed by Telangana government. The petitioner also cited some of the bills of few patients, including of a Covid-19 patient, to substantiate the "exploitation" by private corporate hospitals. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, referred to the petitioner's contention and asked for a report from the government over the matter. The Court, while posting the matter to July 14, also issued notices to the Central government and the private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-directed-to-file-report-on-excessive-charges-by-pvt-hospitals-in-treating-covid-19-patients-858293.html
07-07-2020||South||Karnataka start-ups launch six indigenous products to tackle Covid-19||The Karnataka government supported start-ups in the state have produced six products locally to tackle coronavirus, which are now being imported, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Tuesday. Speaking at the official launch of these products, Ashwath Narayan, who holds the portfolio of IT-BT, Science and Technology and Higher Education, said it was a matter of pride for the state as the role of Kannadigas was significant in developing the products. "These products will reduce our burden of importing expensive equipment and tools in fighting this pandemic. We must take pride in the fact that we have reached this level of innovating and producing locally," said the Deputy Chief Minister. All the 6 products have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for immediate use. The products will also be commercially available with immediate effect; The Shieldex 24, Fluorescent probes and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) mix for Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RTPCR) detection, Remote foetal monitoring device called Daksh, Viral Transport Medium, Cov-Astra an AI- based device for detection of Covid-19 through an X-Ray and anti-microbial face wash containing herbal antimicrobials. According to the Department of IT-BT and Science and Technology, Shieldex 24, developed by Ravi Kumar from Biofi, can eliminate viruses located on any object. Florescence Probes by Dr Govindarajan and Dr Meher Prakash from VNIR, are part of the Covid-19 test kits. Daksh, developed by Dr Arun Agrawal from Janitri, is useful for Covid-19 positive pregnant women as it helps remote monitoring of the foetus.  Viral Transport Medium, developed by Manjunatha and Dinesh from Deno Bio labs at IBAB, helps in safely transporting the live virus sample from the sample collection centre to the testing lab. Cov-Astra, an AI-based device for detection of coronavirus, is developed by Adarsh Nararajan from Aindra. It is considered as a significant breakthrough that can detect Covid-19 virus through an x-ray and eliminates the conventional throat swab way of testing people. Per detection cost is significantly lesser at Rs 150 to Rs 250 per person. Anti-microbial face wash containing herbal antimicrobials, developed by Dr Latha Damle and team from Atrimed, can kill any virus, including Covid-19 virus, from any person's face within seconds, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-start-ups-launch-six-indigenous-products-to-tackle-covid-19-858299.html
07-07-2020||South||Covid-19 in Telangana: As opposition blames CM Rao of inaction, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan steps in||As the opposition's chorus grows to blame Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao of not doing enough to mitigate Covid-19 patients’ travails in Telangana, the state’s governor Tamilisai Soundarrajan is taking the matter in her hands. On Tuesday, Dr Soundararajan held a virtual meeting with representatives of corporate hospitals after several complaints of private hospitals fleecing the Covid-19 patients surfaced lately. An emotional video by one Dr Asra Sultana appealing “for rescue from a private hospital’s exploitation” highlighted the enormous mismatch between rates fixed by the Telangana government for Covid-19 treatment in the private sector and the actual bills patients are forced to pay. In another appalling incident from Hyderabad, a woman needing emergency care was reportedly refused admittance in several private hospitals in a single night, leading to her death eventually in a government hospital.    “People are in distress and running from pillar to post to get admitted in the hospitals. They are losing valuable time in getting beds at hospitals. This is an extraordinary situation where we need to show a kind heart and humanitarian approach,” the governor said while pointing to the private hospital managements that their good service would be undermined by negative publicity on pricing and services.  “We need to build confidence among the middle class people that they can walk in to any private hospital and be assured of quality treatment at affordable cost,” Dr Soundararajan said while assuring that as a doctor herself, she can understand the hospitals’ problems operating during the pandemic. A month ago, the governor visited the Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, a state-run facility designated for Covid-19 treatment and in an expression of solidarity met the doctors who tested positive. CM Rao has, till now, not made any such visit despite the protesting junior doctors at the Covid-19 nodal Gandhi Hospital demanding his visit to understand their problems working tirelessly. Raj Bhavan sources told DH that the governor wrote several letters to the TRS government raising concerns over the testing rates, containment measures etc. “Madam, No contact tracing. No testing. My relatives suffered a lot from 3 days in Asifabad govt hospital. No proper food. NO DOCTOR. They today took for test after 3 days. Madam I request you to please take strict action. You are the only hope of TS now,” tweeted one Praneeth Sai. Dr Soundararajan, former chief of Tamil Nadu BJP, has been the Telangana governor from September 2019.    Meanwhile, on Tuesday, hearing a petition on exorbitant fees charged in private hospitals despite a government order capping the prices, the Telangana high court asked for the government’s response. While allowing private hospitals in Covid-19 treatment, health minister Etela Rajender had, on 15 June, announced a ceiling of Rs 7500 per day without ventilator support and Rs 9000 with ventilator. Several hospitals are reportedly charging 10 times the prescribed rates. A related government order excludes charges for Covid-19 testing, PPE kits to high end drugs and investigations like CT Scan, MRI allowing private hospitals subject patients to such procedures and charge accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-in-telangana-as-opposition-blames-cm-rao-of-inaction-governor-tamilisai-soundararajan-steps-in-858306.html
07-07-2020||South||Vizag gas leak: LG Polymers CEO, 2 directors and 8 other officials held||Andhra Pradesh police arrested 12 employees of LG Polymers, including two Koreans - Sunkey Jeong, MD & CEO and DS Kim, technical director, in connection with the gas leak mishap. The May 7 styrene leak from the LG Polymers India plant near Gopalapatnam in Visakhapatnam outskirts had killed 12 people and hospitalized 585 locals. Three more people succumbed because of the effect later. 34 animals also died. Pitchuka PC Mohan Rao, additional director (operations) is among the 10 others arrested on Tuesday, including night duty officer, engineers, safety officer.  “Investigation disclosed that the incident at M6 styrene storage tank took place because of the negligence of the above persons who have knowledge that such acts are likely to cause death,” the police stated. The accused would be sent for judicial remand. The case is registered in the Gopalapatnam police station under IPC sections 304-II, 278, 284 etc., The arrests come a day after a high-level committee chaired by Neerabh Kumar Prasad, AP’s special chief secretary (environment, forests) submitted a voluminous report of 4000 pages on the incident to chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy. The report concluded management’s slackness, staff’s insufficient knowledge and poor design of styrene tank, poor safety protocols as among the core causes of the mishap, which it said qualifies as a major accident under the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical (MSIHC) rules. Speaking to DH, Prasad said that they have recommended shifting of the LG plant away from the densely populated area. The gas leak took place at about 3 AM, when people of the five surrounding villagers were in deep sleep. The Jaganmohan Reddy government has also suspended three officials – KVS Prasad, deputy chief inspector of factories, Visakhapatnam and two environmental engineers of the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board for dereliction of duties that allowed the mishap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-lg-polymers-ceo-2-directors-and-8-other-officials-held-858318.html
07-07-2020||South||Kerala: Tharoor denies alleged links with gold smuggling case accused||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor has denied the allegations that those facing probe in connection with gold smuggling now got job at UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram earlier on his recommendation. Tharoor said in a social media post that he had not recommended anyone for job in the consulate and had no connection with the gold smuggling case accused. He also said he would cooperate with any probe in this regard. Tharoor, while serving as  minister of state for external affairs, had played a key role in pursuing UAE to open consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. However, he was not a minister when the consulate was opened in October 2016, but was an opposition MP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tharoor-denies-alleged-links-with-gold-smuggling-case-accused-858367.html
07-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM inaugurates 750-bed Covid-19 facility, rules out further intense lockdown||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Tuesday inaugurated a 750-bed high-tech diagnostic Covid-19 facility here, with equipment on par with institutions like the AIIMS. Ruling out the possibility of an intense lockdown again (in Chennai), the Chief Minister said the virus spread would further come down with better adherence to guidelines. "I don't think there is a scope for it. This (prevention) is in the hands of the people," he told reporters after inaugurating the new facility, when asked if there was a chance for another spell of intensive lockdown. He asserted that there was no social transmission of the virus in the State and noted that the recovery rate was 57.85 per cent (the rest includes those being treated and dead). The Rs 136.68 crore facility has come up on the premises of the National Institute of Ageing at the King Institute of Preventive Medicine complex at Guindy here. An expert panel has been set up for providing treatment and specialists have been deputed from other government hospitals, theChief Minister said. As many as 100 doctors, 90 nurses and 100 other personnel have been deployed at the facility which has high tech diagnostic equipment, including CT-scan and ultra sonogram, in addition to amenities like ventilators and Wi-fi, he said. "This is a high-tech hospital on par with institutions like AIIMS and JIPMER," he said. While 300 beds have been earmarked for intensive care, the other beds were for other categories of Covid-19 patients with mild and moderate symptoms, the Chief Minister said. Across Tamil Nadu, there are 31,668 beds ready for occupation, of which 22,595 are in government hospitals and 9,073 in private sector hospitals, he said. In Chennai, there are 13,564 beds, 7,815 in government and 5,749 in private hospitals. In Covid Care Centres (for people with mild symptoms and for those who do not need treatment in tertiary care centres), across Tamil Nadu, there are 75,000 beds and in the state capital, 17,500 beds, Palaniswami said. To another question on the of extension of intense lockdown, Palaniswami indicated that it was not feasible to indefinitely extend curbs considering the economy and the livelihood options of people. Continuation of restrictions could affect the economy andearnings of the people, he said. "Livelihood is a very big challenge. The government has to see livelihood as well," he said, adding that on the one side the virus spread has to be reined in and on the other, the government should also look at people's livelihood opportunities. "In Chennai, through the intense lockdown, we are seeing a reduction in the spread of the virus in a phased manner," he said, adding the government's efforts have paid off. In Madurai the intense lockdown is on till July 12. On the rise in virus cases in some districts, the Chief Minister underscored the importance of people following guidelines on prevention. Batting for active public cooperation, he saidthe government had all along been taking preventive measures. Outlining initiatives like fever camps and door to door surveys in Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu, he said such measures have ensured the virus spread "is under control". On DMK president M K Stalin's demand for Rs 5,000 assistance for ration card holders, he listed out several welfare measures. Essential commodities, including rice and cooking oil, were distributed free of cost in PDS outlets and cash assistance of Rs 1,000 was provided to people, he said. Also, another round of Rs 1,000 was disbursed in Chennai and Madurai whenthe intense lockdown was announced again,he said. Asked if coronavirus was airborne, he said there was no complete information on that aspect. If there were new inputs on that count, the government would follow such guidelines as well from the experts, he said. More than 200 scientists from 32 nations had written to the WHO, saying there is evidence that coronavirus is airborne and even smaller particles can infect people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-inaugurates-750-bed-covid-19-facility-rules-out-further-intense-lockdown-858374.html
07-07-2020||State||Work or face action, Karnataka tells 1,246 staffers deployed in contact tracing||These are Group A, B and C employees from various departments who have been asked to report to senior IAS officer V Manjula, who heads a task force on Covid-19 contact tracing.  In an order, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said additional human resources were required to strengthen contact tracing, which is “a very important part” of controlling the spread of Covid-19. “Any disobedience in following this order will attract punishment under Section 56 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other applicable laws,” he said.  According to an extract of Section 56 mentioned in the order, officials will face imprisonment of up to one year, unless they have obtained “written permission” of a superior official or other lawful excuse to not carry out work assigned to them under the Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/work-or-face-action-karnataka-tells-1246-staffers-deployed-in-contact-tracing-858086.html
07-07-2020||State||Ramesh Jarkiholi says he had funded pressure cookers distributed by Congress candidate||Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi stirred a new controversy by stating the pressure cookers distributed to voters by the then Congress candidate in the year 2018 assembly election from Belagavi Rural Assembly Constituency were funded by him as part of efforts to get all the party candidates elected from the district. Jarkiholi inaugurated Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Belagavi Rural Unit office at Vijay Nagar near here on Tuesday. Addressing party workers, he said, myself made efforts for the victory of Congress candidate during the assembly election as party leader and that resulted in injustice to former MLA Sanjay Patil who was BJP candidate. Now we shall make all efforts to ensure that in the 2023 assembly election BJP candidate selected by party high command gets elected comfortably and its possible by unity and hard work of party workers and supporters. “Pressure cookers distributed by Congress candidate during the previous election were funded by me and it has become like celebrating a fair with somebody’s money. Are they (pressure cookers) still in use,” he asked without taking name of MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar. Jarkiholi said, "BJP workers have the power to decimate the Congress. Incumbent Belagavi Rural MLA was proud of money power. I was prepared to give all cooperation for the victory of party candidate, hence party workers and supporters should not fall victim to lures shown by the Opposition as we have to hoist BJP flag in the 2023 assembly election." "We have to win the election for Belagavi District Central Cooperative Bank and its not contested on party symbols. Need to brace up for Gram Panchayat, Zilla Panchayat and all elections. We are ready to pay double the amount offered by opposition from our pockets and if needed borrow loans. We have hard earned money and not easy money," Jarkiholi stated. Later speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a meeting in the city, Jarkiholi said, he stands by the statement that the pressure cookers distributed were funded by him and will do everything to ensure victory of party candidate from Belagavi Rural Assembly Constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ramesh-jarkiholi-says-he-had-funded-pressure-cookers-distributed-by-congress-candidate-858168.html
07-07-2020||State||Commercialisation of coal mining inevitable: Pralhad Joshi||Claiming that commercial mining of coal blocks which Coal India could not handle is inevitable to make India self-reliant in coal production in a couple of years, Union Parliamentary, Coal & Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi at the same time stated on Tuesday that Coal India Limited is given sufficient coal blocks, one billion tonne coal production target by 2023-24 is given, and this PSU in strategic sector would be strengthened. "We need at least 1,000 million tonnes of coal annually, and we imported over 250 million tonnes of coal last year, which is a sin when we have so much of coal reserves. This year 606 million tonnes of coal is produced so far, and our existing stock is sufficient for at least one month," he said. In reply to the strike by Coal India employees against permission for commercial mining of coal blocks, Joshi said, "talks are going on, we would try to convince them that Coal India would not at all be weakened. Only those blocks remaining out of coal India's purview are given for commercial mining," Some private hospitals made profit during normal times, and they should co-operate in treating Covid-19 patients in this tough time and should join hands with the government. All should be very alert during this dangerous situation. Scientists are putting efforts to prepare vaccination, but there is no authorised decision to release a vaccination on August 15, Joshi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/commercialisation-of-coal-mining-inevitable-pralhad-joshi-858230.html
07-07-2020||State||Low-cost X-ray to detect Covid-19 among six innovations||Imagine getting tested for the Covid-19 virus, without having to get your throat swabbed, at just Rs 150-250. All it takes is an x-ray of the chest. It is possible with Cov-Astra, a low-cost AI-based device developed by AIndra Systems founder Adarsh Natarajan, which can replace the conventional Covid-19 testing that could cost over Rs 4,000. This is one of the six innovations the state government unveiled on Tuesday that promise to make life better during the Covid-19 pandemic. These products have been developed by startups incubated and mentored at the Bengaluru Bioinnovation Centre (BBC), an initiative of the state government. Another innovation is the Shieldex 24, a microwave-like device developed by bioinformatics startup Biofi’s Ravikumar Rajendraprasad that can eliminate viruses located on objects such as a wallet, mobile phone, pen and so on within 15 seconds with ultraviolet rays. This can be used at offices or homes and even airports or railway stations where luggages can be screened to neutralize viruses. Then, there is DeConto, a low-cost product that helps transport a live virus. Such viral transport media are currently imported and are known to be expensive. The DeConto was developed by researchers Manjunath and Dinesh from Denovo Biolabs incubated at the Institute of Bioinformatics and Applied Biotechnology (IBAB).  On the testing front, VNIR cofounders T Govindaraju and Meher Praskash have developed fluorescence probes, which are currently important from various nations, including China. These probes are used in the RT-PCR test kits and their development promises to be a boon for Indian companies working on Covid test kits. To make things easy for pregnant women, Arun Agarwal of Janitri has developed Daksh, a foetal monitoring device. With this, a doctor can remotely monitor the foetus. The woman needs to keep the device on her stomach, which will let the doctor know the heartbeat of the foetus. Lastly, a team led by Latha Damle from Atrimed has come up with a face wash containing herbal antimicrobials. This herbal product claims to kill viruses, including Covid-19, from a person’s face within seconds. “All the six products have been approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for immediate use. The products will also be commercially available with immediate effect. The government will support and promote these products,” Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, the IT/BT minister, said, adding that it was a matter of pride for Karnataka as the role of Kannadigas was significant in developing these products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/low-cost-x-ray-to-detect-covid-19-among-six-innovations-858289.html
07-07-2020||State||Jarkiholi's cooker revelation stirs a controversy||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi stirred a controversy on Tuesday claiming that the cookers were distributed out of his money in the run up to elections for Belagavi Rural Assembly constituency. “I spent money for the cookers distributed in Belagavi Rural Assembly constituency. It was not the other person (MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar). It is like someone making merry at the expense of others,” the minister said. He was speaking after inaugurating an office of the BJP Rural unit. Jarkiholi, who was with the Congress has joined BJP. “During the last Assembly election I was in the Congress and had ensured defeat of BJP candidate Sanjay Patil. I will set this injustice by seeing the BJP candidate emerges victorious in the next election,” he said. Jarkiholi said that it had come to his notice that money was bring distributed in the election for the impending election to DCC Bank. “I will spend double that money. It is my hard-earned money and not an easy money,” he said. Reacting to Jarkiholi’s claims, MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar said that she would file a complaint with the Election Commission. She said that pressure cookers were distributed during the inauguration of Harsha Sugars and she had documents for purchase. “Jarkiholi if has purchased the pressure cookers out of his money, should provide accounts and documents,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jarkiholis-cooker-revelation-stirs-a-controversy-858321.html
07-07-2020||State||Kodagu rains bring KRS close to 100-ft mark||With a good spell of rains in Kodagu district, the inflow into Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, has increased, and the water level of the dam stood at 99.8 feet on Tuesday evening. The inflow was 7,736 cusec and outflow 451 cusec on Tuesday. The water level is expected to cross the 100-feet mark on Wednesday morning, a bit early. If the rain continues to pound Kodagu, it is expected to reach the maximum level by the end of July, according to sources in the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam. Last year, the water level crossed the 100-ft on August 9. In 2018, it reached the mark on June 17. With copious rain in Kodagu and the inflow on the rise, there will not be any problem for agriculture activities in Mandya and also for drinking water supply to Bengaluru, Mysuru and other places, said the Nigam authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kodagu-rains-bring-krs-close-to-100-ft-mark-858322.html
07-07-2020||State||HC concerned over lack of info on availability of beds||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday took serious note of non-availability of beds and the incidents of hospitals refusing to admit Covid-19 patients. The High Court directed the government to submit a report on the mechanism, if any, to notify the citizens of the nearest hospital with beds and ICU. Hearing a batch of petitions on issues pertaining to Covid, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar asked the state whether any Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is being followed for the burial of persons who die of Covid. During the hearing, a counsel mentioned a newspaper report about the plight of a citizen who was turned away by 18 hospitals. The patient died at the doorsteps of a government hospital in the city. The bench observed that the incident indicates the ‘sorry state of affairs’. “It seems there is no intimation by the civic authorities on the availability of beds in the city. It is necessary for the state to look into this report for necessary enquiry. The issues arising in these petitions are of urgent nature considering the cases of Covid, particularly in Bengaluru urban district,” the bench observed. It asked the government to submit a report on several issues such as - the manner in which availability of beds is notified for the benefit of the public; whether there is a centralised mechanism in the city so that a person with Covid-19 gets admitted to a hospital or Covid centre, ICU. The bench also directed the state to file a report detailing the availability of doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff and availability of food and medicine. “What manner one can secure the services of an ambulance at the earliest. Has the state imposed any embargo on rates of treatment for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals? Is there a protocol or SOP available for giving decent burial or cremation of persons who died with Covid-19 and is there any scientific opinion available on the question whether a person who touched the dead body of a Covid-19 patient gets the virus,” the bench asked. Earlier, hearing another batch of petitions on issues surrounding Covid-19, the bench directed the BBMP to immediately supply food to 900 families living in containment zones. The counsel for the petitioner had raised the issue stating that he had received calls from people living in containment zones. “Applicant states that a serious situation has arisen in containment zones. We direct the BBMP to look into the grievances of 900 families. BBMP will ensure that it performs its obligation of providing food to the needy families in containment zones,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-concerned-over-lack-of-info-on-availability-of-beds-858324.html
07-07-2020||State||HC notice to state, Centre on Covid insurance to senior citizens||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday ordered issuance of notice to the state and central governments on a PIL raising issues in respect to health insurance scheme coverage to senior citizens. The PIL contended that the insurance companies discriminate against senior citizens in various health insurance schemes, including the newly introduced coverage for Covid-19.  A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy also issued notice to Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India on a PIL filed by Letzkit Foundation. The counsel for the petitioner stated that recent claims made by policy holders suffering from Covid-19 were not entertained on the ground that the disease was not there when the policy was issued. While almost all diseases are covered under Central Government Health Scheme, it is limited to certain diseases in policies offered by both public and private insurance sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-notice-to-state-centre-on-covid-insurance-to-senior-citizens-858328.html
07-07-2020||State||Work or face action, contact tracing staff told||Karnataka has drafted 1,246 government employees into the crucial task of contact tracing to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, and they have been warned of action if they refuse to work. These are Group A, B and C employees from various departments who have been asked to report to senior IAS officer V Manjula, who heads a task force on Covid-19 contact tracing.  In an order, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar said additional human resources were required to strengthen contact tracing, which is “a very important part” of controlling the spread of Covid-19. “Any disobedience in following this order will attract punishment under Section 56 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and other applicable laws,” he said.  According to an extract of Section 56 mentioned in the order, officials will face imprisonment of up to one year, unless they have obtained “written permission” of a superior official or other lawful excuse to not carry out work assigned to them under the Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/work-or-face-action-contact-tracing-staff-told-858333.html
07-07-2020||State||RGUHS to issue Pharmacy course completion certificate||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) has decided to issue a course completion certificate to Pharmacy students, who have completed their course, to get jobs. In a circular, the RGUHS has asked the respective colleges to issue course completion certificates for students with a condition that "they should attend the examinations whenever it is conducted." The university authorities have clarified that the certificates were being issued to the students, considering the fact that they were losing job offers. "The Pharmacy course has been completed and we have to conduct exams. Due to Covid-19 crisis we are unable to conduct exams. The students will get course completion certificate now and they must appear for exams later to get their degree certificate," said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rguhs-to-issue-pharmacy-course-completion-certificate-858334.html
07-07-2020||State||SSLC evaluators' remuneration hiked by 5%||The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has increased the remuneration of evaluators who are taking part in SSLC evaluation work. The Board has issued an order increasing remuneration by 5%. For first language it has been revised from Rs 18 per paper to Rs 22. For second/third language it has been revised from Rs 16.38 to Rs 20 and for other subjects it is revised from Rs 17.43 to Rs 20. Even the remuneration of officials work at all levels during evaluation has been revised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sslc-evaluators-remuneration-hiked-by-5-858335.html
07-07-2020||State||AP, Telangana residents restricted||The district administration has restricted free movement of people from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in Ballari district. According to an order issued by the DC, a significant number of Covid-19 patients in the district are from AP and Telangana. Therefore, the travel is allowed only for those with a Sevasindhu pass.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ap-telangana-residents-restricted-858337.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No Covid-19 community spread in Karnataka, govt tells Central team||“Let me make it clear: There’s no community spread. We’re in between stages two and three. We told the Central team this. They’ve asked us to ensure we don’t get into the third stage,” Health & Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu told reporters.  The Central team, comprising Union Health Ministry’s Additional Secretary Arti Ahuja and Directorate General of Health Services Director (emergency medical response) Dr P Ravindran, held talks with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, Sriramulu and other officials on Karnataka’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic.   “Their opinion was that more tests need to be done in containment zones,” Sriramulu said. “They said Karnataka had done well so far and that we need to do better going forward.”  The government’s claim that there was no community spread of Covid-19 comes at a time when the number of positive cases has skyrocketed in the state, especially in Bengaluru. Till date, Karnataka has seen 25,317 positive Covid-19 cases of whom 10,527 people have recovered. There are 14,385 active cases, with 8,860 of them in Bengaluru Urban district.  According to an analysis by Karnataka’s Covid-19 War Room, of the 25,317 cases, the source of transmission in 13,019 cases is still under investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-covid-19-community-spread-in-karnataka-govt-tells-central-team-858071.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ex-CEO of co-op bank in Karnataka found dead; cops suspect suicide||A former CEO of a cooperative bank, which was being probed for alleged financial fraud, was found dead in his car here, police said on Tuesday. Police suspect that Vasudeva Maiya may have committed suicide by consuming poison but they hastened to add that the exact cause death would be known only after detailed investigation. The 70-year-old was found dead in his car which was parked by the roadside near Subramanyapura on Monday night, they said. The Anti Corruption Bureau recently raided the office and residence of Maiya and a few other executives of the Guru Raghavendra Sahakara Bank in connection with the alleged fraud. The cooperative bank's alleged irregularities came to light in January this year when the Reserve Bank of India stopped all its businesses and imposed restrictions on withdrawal by its customers. Following the restrictions, scores of its customers thronged the bank, which was reminiscent of the plight of the depositors in the scam-tainted PMC Bank in Mumbai. The Bengaluru South BJP MP Tejasvi Surya recently appeared in the Karnataka High Court on behalf of the depositors, who are fighting to recover their money through legal battle. Subsequently, the ACB has reportedly speeded up its investigation into the alleged irregularities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ex-ceo-of-co-op-bank-in-karnataka-found-dead-cops-suspect-suicide-858107.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress MLA who tested positive for Covid-19 attended KPCC chief takeover function||Congress MLA H D Ranganath testing positive for Covid-19 has become a cause of concern in the Congress circle here as he had attended a function where D K Shivakumar formally took over as the state party chief recently. A medical doctor, Ranganath from Kunigal constituency in Tumakuru district has been admitted to a private hospital here city after he tested positive for the deadly virus, party sources had said on Monday. "Yes, he had attended the oath taking ceremony of Shivakumar as the KPCC president," state Congress spokesperson A N Nataraj Gowda told PTI. Following the restrictions in place to control the spread of coronavirus, the ceremony was organised with only limited invitees including former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, immediate past state Congress chief Dinesh Gundu Rao, former minister Satish Jarkiholi and some MLAs, including Ranganath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-mla-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-attended-kpcc-chief-takeover-function-858202.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Steely resolve sees constables through||For 26-year-old police constable Suresh, the past few months have been a trial by fire. One of the biggest crises was when stranded migrant workers turned up in the hundreds and camped out in the police station, asking for help. As someone who was fluent in Hindi, Suresh took it on himself to get their paperwork in order, so they could board the trains headed home.  Now, in addition to his regular duties as a beat constable, he is sometimes called on to assist BBMP and health department officials in enforcing the containment in localities within the station limits.  "The public doesn’t always listen to the government officials. They only stay inside their houses if the police are present," Suresh says.  The police force has been a vital part of the state's response to the Covid-19 pandemic right from the beginning, but in recent weeks, the strain is beginning to show.  The increasing number of police personnel contracting the virus - over 500 of them have tested positive for the Covid-19 in Bengaluru alone -  has created a fear in the minds of the police force.  This police station in East Bengaluru, where Suresh works, is one of the few offices where no Covid-19 cases have been reported. The constant news of neighbouring police stations being sealed down does create some anxiety, the police here admit, but the air is one of inevitability. "There is fear... We meet at least 20 people a day in the station. We do not know who has the virus, where we might come in contact with it," says the station sub-inspector. Several officers have sent their families home to their villages or hometowns, for their safety.  When visiting areas designated as containment zones, the police say the fear of the virus is always playing at the back of their minds, despite the precautions they take. "We don't know what surfaces the person has touched and you can't avoid public contact sometimes," says Santhosh (name changed), a head constable.  After clocking in 12 hours of work, when Suresh returns to his rented accommodation that he shares with two other colleagues, there are phone calls from family members who are worried by news reports about increasing Covid-19 cases in the city. “My mother calls every day and says  - there is no need for you to do the job. Just come home,” he says. Suresh’s response echoes that of his colleagues. “We are paid our salaries. As an emergency service, we have to be present and perform our duties. If we catch the virus, there is nothing that we can do,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/steely-resolve-sees-constables-through-858275.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Fixed term workmen' will hit jobs for middle-aged: unions||The Labour department’s notification amending the Karnataka Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules to reintroduce “fixed term workmen” will be a “blow to permanent employment and job security,” trade unions have cautioned. According to trade unions, the amendment will indirectly empower industries to hire and fire labourers at will, and primarily affect middle-aged employees. Management consultants have welcomed it, saying that employability will improve due to the measures introduced by the government. Meenakshi Sundaram from Council of India Trade Unions told DH that the new amendments will end reliable job opportunities, especially for the youth. “Factories will hire only a minimum number of regular workers and force middle-aged men out of jobs as employers prefer younger workforce. The spike in unemployment of middle-aged men will have broader social ramifications,” he said. Moreover, these employees cannot be part of a union, which reduce the collective bargain rights of labourers. The amendment to Standing Orders to introduce “fixed term workman”  (contracted for employment for a fixed period) was brought in during NDA rule under A B Vajpayee, and was withdrawn when the UPA came to power. “Despite stringent legislation, all labour laws are liberal in nature as no violators are punished. Further relaxation of labour laws will have repercussions on social balance. We will challenge this in court,” saidSundaram. Management consultant B C Prabhakar said that hiring fixed term workmen rather than contract labourers will be beneficial for companies as it will allow them to reduce excess staff, which is necessary for the survival of some companies. “Their salaries will be on a par other employees along with all other benefits. Many employees do not want to work in a company permanently and this will help them,” he said. Noting that flexi-labour was a phenomenon all over the world, he said that the model will help improve employment as a whole. The Standing Orders are applicable to establishments such as factories, plantations and mines which employ more than 50 workers. However, the central government has introduced a Bill which when enacted will allow such provisions to be introduced across all sectors - such as banking and others, sources said. The government contemplated relaxation of labour laws to boost production impacted by the Covid-19 lockdown. One of the its recent circulars which increased working hours for factory workers was withdrawn after it drew flak from various quarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fixed-term-workmen-will-hit-jobs-for-middle-aged-unions-858277.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid tally: State breaches 25k mark||Karnataka breached the 25,000 mark more than a month earlier than the state war room prediction. The war room had predicted that by the state will have 25,000 cases by August 15. However, the count reached 25,317 on July 7 itself. Karnataka reported 1,498 new cases, 800 of them from Bengaluru alone, on Tuesday. With this the number of active cases mounted to 14,385. There are 143 patients in the ICU. The total number of Covid patients so far in the state is 25,317. The total number of recoveries are 10,527.  Addressing reporters here on Tuesday Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the mortality rate in the state was 1.58% and the ICU rate was 1.10%. This is better than the national fatality rate of 2.79%. He suggested that senior citizens in the state should practice reverse isolation and people aged above 60 should protect themselves by isolating themselves even before they test positive. The state is giving Remedisvir injections for patients with mild to moderate symptoms and moderate to severe symptoms, he said. Remdesivir is being given for those on oxygen. But it cannot be given to patients with renal problems, pregnant women or lactating mothers and children below 12.  The state tested 17,742 samples as on Tuesday. Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad reported 83 cases and 57 cases respectively.  Among the deaths reported, four are from Mysuru, four from Bidar, two from Kalaburagi, and one each from Bagalkot, Hassan, Dharwad, Belagavi and Davangere. Among the deaths reported, two had no symptoms but one patient's contact is still under tracing and one patient has a travel history to Goa. Two of them were brought dead on July 4 and June 29. Among the 15, only seven had comorbidities.  In the last one week, among Covid positive cases (at the time of testing) 65.50% were asymptomatic, according to the state war room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-tally-state-breaches-25k-mark-858343.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ban on tourists imposed in Kodagu||Barely a few days after the Chikkamagaluru district administration advising tourists to cut short visits to the hilly district, Kodagu has toed a similar line with the Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy ordering the closure of all hotels, resorts and homestays on Tuesday.  Though the Kodagu Hotels’ Association and Kodagu Homestays’ Association have suggested a voluntary lockdown, several homestays and resorts had continued receiving tourists claiming that they are not part of the association. However, a sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases in Kodagu has prompted the DC to crack down on tourism activities in the district.  Adding to woes, repeated incidents of landslides in Madikeri and Virajpet have also worsened the condition across Kodagu. As on Tuesday, Kodagu has a total number of 88 cases and one death. Fourteen cases were reported on Tuesday alone. The DC’s move has come as a big relief to the locals, who have blamed that the holidaying visitors are spreading the virus in Kodagu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ban-on-tourists-imposed-in-kodagu-858353.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 1,498 new cases and 15 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 1,498 new Covid-19 cases and 15 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 26,815 and the death toll to 416, the health department said. The day also saw 571 patients getting discharged after recovery, even as 279 patients in the state are undergoing treatment at Intensive Care Units. Out of the 1,498 cases reported on Tuesday, 800 were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of July 7 evening, cumulatively 26,815 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in the state,which includes 416 deaths and 11,098 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said out of 15,297 active cases, 15,018 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 279 are in ICU's. Among the 15 dead were four each from Mysuru and Bidar, Kalaburagi 2, and one each from Bagalkote, Hassan, Dharwad, Belagavi and Davangere. The deceased include 11 men and four women. While most of those who died had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza-like illness (ILI), contact history of two people was either under tracing or investigation. One had a history of inter-state travel. Out of the 1,498 cases which tested positive today, contacts of the majority of them are still under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 800, followed by Dakshina Kannada 83, Dharwad 57, 51 each from Kalaburagi and Bidar, Mysuru 49, Ballari 45, Ramanagra 37, Uttara Kannada 35, Shivamogga 33, Mandya 29, Udupi 28, twenty six each from Hassan and Bagalkote, Raichur 23, Vijayapura 22, Belagavi 20. While 16 cases were reported in Tumakuru, it was 14 in Kodagu, Yadgir 10, six each from Davangere, Kolar, Haveri, Chamarajanagara and Chikkamagaluru, Koppal 5, Gadag 4, Chikkaballapura 3 and Chitradurga 1. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of cases with 11,361 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,750 and Udupi 1,389. Among discharges, Bengaluru urban was on top with total 1,810, followed by Kalabuagi 1,329 and Udupi 1,171. A total of 7,40,047 samples have been tested so far, out of which 17,742 were tested on Tuesday alone. So far 6,94,816 samples have been reported as negative, of which 15,549 tested negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-1498-new-cases-and-15-deaths-in-karnataka-858354.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Meeting to discuss UG, PG exams today||The state government will take a decision on modalities to conduct examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate courses by Wednesday. Following the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education minister has convened a meeting with experts and vice-chancellors to discuss the issue on Wednesday. Sources said that the department will take a decision after the meeting on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/meeting-to-discuss-ug-pg-exams-today-858357.html
07-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Top health official in home quarantine||The office of Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, in Vikas Soudha has been sealed. Akhtar is under home quarantine. The development came after he came in contact with a government official who visited his office tested positive. The office has been sanitised and the employees there had been been asked to go into home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/top-health-official-in-home-quarantine-858359.html
07-07-2020||West||Intermittent intense rain likely in Mumbai: IMD||Mumbai and its neighbouring areas received moderate to heavy rains in the last 24 hours, the IMD said on Tuesday and predicted intermittent intense showers over the next day. The Matheran hill station in neighbouring Raigad district received 93.4 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 8.30 am on Tuesday, while the Thane-Belapur Industries Association observatory recorded 74 mm rainfall during the period, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Santacruz weather station, representative of Mumbais suburbs, reported 30.2 mm rainfall, while the Colaba bureau, representative of the island city, recorded 13.4 mm rainfall during the same period. "Mumbai and around recd mod to heavy rains in last 24 hrs at 8.30 am of 7 July. Next 24 hrs intermittent intense showers likely," IMD Mumbais Deputy Director General K S Hosalikar tweeted. According to the IMD, Alibaug in Raigad district recorded 54 mm rainfall during the same period while the Dahanu observatory in neighbouring Palghar district reported 34.7 mm rainfall. The Harnai weather bureau in coastal Ratnagiri district in Konkan region reported 30.2 mm rainfall during the period. Besides, the Nashik district recorded 25.2 mm rainfall and Kolhapur district reported 7.4 mm rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/intermittent-intense-rain-likely-in-mumbai-imd-858049.html
07-07-2020||West||With over 85,000 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai overtakes China||The deadly virus was first reported in December 2019 at Wuhan in Hubei province of China and now it has turned into a global pandemic. On the other hand, the total number of progressive cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has touched the 1.5 lakh-mark.   The financial capital of Mumbai and its far suburbs - spread over the five districts of Mumbai City,  Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad - is the worst-affected Covid-19 hotspot of India.  In Mumbai, the first two Covid-19 cases were reported on 11 March, two days after the first two cases in Maharashtra was reported from Pune when a couple tested positive.  On Monday evening, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai stood at 85,724 and deaths at 4,938. On Tuesday, the total cases in China stood at 83,565 while deaths 4,634. As far as the MMR is concerned, the total Covid-19 cases stand at 1,49,138 while deaths 6,515.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-over-85000-covid-19-cases-mumbai-overtakes-china-858082.html
07-07-2020||West||Over 15 lakh quarantined in Mumbai since coronavirus outbreak: BMC||More than 15 lakh people have been quarantined in Mumbai after contact-tracing so far since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the city civic body said. Out of these, 5.34 lakh people were identified as high-risk contacts, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. So far, 13.28 lakh people have completed their 14-day quarantine. As of now, 2.46 lakh people are under home quarantine and 14,288 under institutional quarantine, the BMC said on its website. Out of 14,288 people under institutional quarantine, 11,409 are lodged at 328 CCC-1 (Covid care centre) facilities, which have a collective capacity of over 50,000 beds, while 2,879 are kept at 57 CCC-2 facilities, having more than 6,100 beds, the BMC said. The CCC-1 facilities are set up mostly in hotels and halls and do not have 24-hour monitoring facility, while CCC-2 are government facilities where doctors and nurses are available round-the-clock.  The BMC said it has acquired several hotels, guest houses, gymkhanas, halls and other places for institutional quarantine and isolation purposes. It has sealed 6,552 buildings and declared 750 slums and chawls (small tenements) as containment zones, after one or more persons there tested positive for coronavirus. Till Monday, Mumbai reported 85,326 Covid-19 cases and 4,935 deaths due to the disease, the BMC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-15-lakh-quarantined-in-mumbai-since-coronavirus-outbreak-bmc-858133.html
07-07-2020||West||Museums will get redefined in the new normal, says Bhujang Bobade||Museums in India will be redefined in the new normal, says Bhujang Bobade, one of the leading experts in museums and collections. The gamechanger would be digitisation, information technology, artificial intelligence, robotics, Internet of Things, web-based platforms, apps and social media, says Bobade, the curator of Jalgaon-based Gandhi Research Foundation. "If we look at the global scenario, we are lagging behind in these areas," he said, adding that in the new normal when physical distancing, health and hygiene will be the order of the day, going online will be one of the best options. He said that if one looks at Indian museums, only six percent of them have a presence in the digital world and only 2 percent post updates on social media. "Time has come when every museum should be on App. Going to the people is the best options," said Bobade, who is also curating and conducting courses like Museums' Heritage,  Museums' Management and Indian Art & Architectural Heritage. He said that visitors, researchers, scholars, experts can come together on online platforms.  "India is rich in terms of heritage and culture. We need to take it ahead," he said adding that the collective artefacts at museums in India are enormous. Bobade said digital museums would be able to create a whole new brand, open new avenues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/museums-will-get-redefined-in-the-new-normal-says-bhujang-bobade-858136.html
07-07-2020||West||Gujarat: After seven months, six cops booked for torturing Telangana man to death||Seven months after the disappearance of a 62-year-old man, the Vadodara police has booked six policemen including a police inspector for allegedly killing the man, originally from Telangana, in illegal custody. The FIR registered on Monday evening alleges that the man identified as Babu Nasir Shaikh was subjected to brutal thrashing in order to extract confession from him that led to his death. After he died at the police station, the accused policemen "disposed" of the body, which has not been found as yet, and destroyed other evidence. A senior police officer said that an application is being filed in court to get permission for narco test of all the six policemen, who are denying allegations, to get clues of the dead body. According to the FIR, Shaikh had gone missing on December 10, 2019. After the family members failed to find him, Shaikh's son-in-law Ibrahim Pathan lodged a missing complaint on January 31, 2020 at Sayajigunj police station. The FIR states that Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), A, Division, Vadodara city police, P H Bhesaniya was asked to inquire into the case after a "secret" information was received that reportedly said "some incident with Shaikh" had happened at Fatehgunj police station.The city police commissioner Anupam Singh Gehlot told DH that two teams were formed to trace Shaikh and what exactly happened with him at Fatehgunj police station. "Our teams had been searching the victim everywhere and were supposed to visit Hyderabad to meet the victim's family but it was then that lockdown was announced that restricted the travelling." The other team led by ACP S G Patil was investigating the secret information on Shaikh's presence at Fatehgunj police station. The FIR states that Patil's investigation found that Shaikh was picked up by a surveillance team of Fatehgunj police and was brought to station as a suspect in a theft case. It says that the accused police inspector D B Gohil interrogated and tortured Shaikh. It alleges "Shaikh, who was tied to a chair in a way that he couldn't move, was beaten up, tortured by squeezing pen between his fingers and pressed hard to hurt him, he was bleeding." The FIR says that Shaikh kept crying in pain telling the interrogators that he had done nothing wrong. According to the FIR, these details have been narrated by at least three police witnesses, who were posted at the same police station, a private witness who was called at the police station by the accused to lodge an FIR related to an attempt of theft at his house and he saw Shaikh lying lifeless at the chair. The investigating officer is said to have obtained CCTV footage of the police station that reveals Shaikh being brought to the police station but the record of Shaikh's exit from the station hasn't been found. Sources said that the CCTV camera was allegedly switched off by accused policemen.  "We have witnesses and several circumstantial evidence revealing what happened with Shaikh. There is evidence of accused policemen destroying documents such as tearing FIR copy after the death of Shaikh. We are trying to trace the dead body. Since the suspect policemen are denying charges, we are going to seek permission from the court for their narco test," Vadodara Police Commissioner Gehlot told DH. The accused policemen have been identified as Police Inspector Dharmendrasinh B Gohil, Sub-Inspector D M Rabari and four Lok Rakshak Dal constables-Pankaj Mavjibhai, Yogendrasinh Jilansinh, Rajeshbhai Savjibhai and Hiteshbhai Shambhubhai. Gohil and Rabari were recently transferred to Ahmedabad after the inquiry was initiated. Meanwhile, the family members of Shaikh have also filed a habeas corpus petition in the high court which is pending. They have been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder (IPC 304), destruction of evidence (IPC 201), acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention (IPC 34), among other charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-after-seven-months-six-cops-booked-for-torturing-telangana-man-to-death-858186.html
07-07-2020||West||Bayer partners with Maha govt to set up 100-bed corona care facility in Aurangabad||German drug and agrochemicals major Bayer on Tuesday said it has partnered with Maharashtra government to set-up a 100-bed corona care facility at Chittegaon in Aurangabad. Over the last few months, Bayer has been collaborating with Maharashtra government, local officials and other organisations in the fight against Covid-19, the company said in a statement. Maharashtra has been one of the worst affected states due to Covid-19 and presently accounts for nearly one-third of India's total cases. This 4,500 sq ft facility at Chittegaon will augment the administration's infrastructure by adding 100 beds to treat Covid-19 patients. “At Bayer our vision is, 'Health for all, hunger for none'. It sets the foundation for our future and remains the benchmark against which we measure activities across the organisation. We are fortunate to be in a position to support the administration in these difficult times,” Bayer Chief Operating Officer, Crop Science Division, Simon Wiebusch said. Chandrakant Shelke, Tehsildar, Paithan, Aurangabad district, said, "In today's times when the pandemic is affecting each one of us, it is essential that we work in unison to counter the challenges. The Maharashtra government is grateful to Bayer for opening up its plant for setting up this Corona Care facility. It will go a long way in supporting the local communities.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bayer-partners-with-maha-govt-to-set-up-100-bed-corona-care-facility-in-aurangabad-858192.html
07-07-2020||West||Degree without exam: Bombay High Court directs UGC to be made party to PIL||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed that the University Grants Commission (UGC) be made a party to a PIL challenging the Maharashtra government's decision to issue degrees without holding final year exams. Owing to coronavirus and lockdown, the government canceled final year examinations and decided to issue degrees on the basis of students' performance in earlier semesters. Dhananjay Kulkarni, a retired teacher and former university senate member from Pune, has filed a public interest litigation against the decision. The PIL challenged the June 19, 2020 government resolution (GR). Under the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, the Chancellor has the jurisdiction and the state has no power to take a decision about exams, Kulkarni said. The UGC, on April 27, directed all the universities to conduct exams, but after a student organisation wrote to the state Minister of Higher and Technical Education, the exams in Maharashtra were postponed and later canceled, the PIL said. As per the GR, there are 7,34,516 students enrolled in final years of non-professional courses and 2,83,937 students in final years of professional courses in Maharashtra. The students who have cleared all previous semesters and do not want to appear for the last semester exam should give in writing that they do not want to appear for final exams, the GR said. Such students will be awarded final year scores based on the average of marks of previous semesters, it said. Students can take optional exam later (if they wish to improve their score), the GR added. Advocate Uday Warunjikar, petitioner's lawyer, argued that this dual assessment method had no logic and it can not be adopted while granting degrees. After hearing brief arguments, a division bench of Justices A A Sayed and M S Karnik said the UGC should be made a respondent, and adjourned the hearing on July 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/degree-without-exam-bombay-high-court-directs-ugc-to-be-made-party-to-pil-858222.html
07-07-2020||West||Goa seeks ICMR nod for convalescent plasma therapy||The Goa government has sought the permission of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for using convalescent plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Tuesday. He said the state has all the required facilities to store blood plasma. Goa has so far recorded 1,813 Covid-19 cases, of which 745 are active while seven have succumbed to the infection. "The state government has already written to the ICMR seeking their nod to treat Covid-19 patients using the plasma therapy. We will procure the latest equipment to derive plasma from recovered patients," Rane told reporters in Pernem. The therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those antibodies into an active coronavirus patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight the infection.  He said the government will recruit more doctors to expand the current testing capacity, and will also procure additional ambulances under the existing 108 initiative in view of the growing number of Covid-19 patients. Rane referred to an incident wherein a Covid-19 patient from Taleigao village near Panaji was forced to wait for hours for an ambulance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-seeks-icmr-nod-for-convalescent-plasma-therapy-858224.html
07-07-2020||West||Coronavirus: Complete lockdown in West Bengal's containment zones from July 9||The West Bengal government on Tuesday decided to impose complete lockdown in all containment zones from Thursday, as Covid-19 cases and casualties continued to surge in the state. All non-essential activities will be prohibited in containment zones from 5 pm on Thursday. According to the order issued by Additional Chief Secretary Alapon Bandyopadhyay, all government and private offices, non-essential activities, transportation, gatherings, and industrial, marketing and trading activities will be prohibited. The order also said that the earlier system of dividing containment zones into affected zones and buffer zones will no longer be applicable. “The current concept of containment zones may be combined with that of buffer zones. Together, they may constitute broader containment zones, which may be subjected to strict lockdown,” it said. The number of containment zones in Kolkata will be decided mutually by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the Kolkata Police. For districts, the process will be carried out in consultation with the respective Commissioners and Superintendents of Police. “Current concept of containment zone may be combined with the concept of a buffer zone and together they may constitute a revised and broad-based containment zone approach. These broader containment zones may be subjected to strict lockdown,” stated the order. The residents in containment zones will be “exempted and prohibited” from attending government and private offices. Entry and exit will be strictly regulated in these areas. Local authorities have been instructed to try and arrange home delivery services. Local authorities have been instructed to try to arrange home delivery to the residents of containment zones. The number of containment zones in Kolkata will be decided mutually by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC)  and Kolkata Police. As for the districts the process will be carried out in consultation with respective Commissioners and Superintendents of Police. The district magistrates, KMC and Kolkata Police have been instructed to upload the revised list of containment zones in the respective district website and the stater government’s Egiye Bangla website. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 22,987 cases were reported in the state till Monday, out of which 6,973 were active. The state has recorded 779 Covid-19 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-complete-lockdown-in-west-bengals-containment-zones-from-july-9-858237.html
07-07-2020||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi govt safe, says Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut||Amid reports of widening rift between the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's close aide Sanjay Raut said that the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government will complete a full five-year term. "The government will complete its full five-year term... It is not a 'khichdi' government," said Raut, the executive editor of Saamana and Shiv Sena's Rajya Sabha member. "There are no internal differences between Sena, NCP and Congress," Raut said, adding that Thackeray, the chief minister and Shiv Sena president, it looking at smallest details. The statement comes within hours of a closed-door meeting between Uddhav Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, the chief architect of MVA. In fact, Pawar has also given an interview to Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, that would be published from Saturday in parts. "There are no differences of opinion," he said, adding that he has personally discussed with Pawar, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawer, state NCP chief and Water Resources and Command Area Development Minister Jayant Patil and state Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat. "All decisions are taken in consultations," he said, and described Pawar as the "father figure". On the recent differences vis-a-vis abrupt cancellation of transfers of 10 deputy commissioners of police in Mumbai and 5 Shiv Sena councillors of Parner in Ahmednagar, defecting to the NCP, Raut said these were small, localised issues and must not be politicised. There are no differences as Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has claimed, added Raut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-govt-safe-says-shiv-senas-sanjay-raut-858247.html
07-07-2020||West||COVID-19 patient goes 'missing' from Thane facility, probe on||A 72-year-old Covid-19 patient has gone missing from a dedicated facility here in Maharashtra, as per the complaint lodged with local police. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has formed a committee to probe the incident, its PRO Sandip Malavli said on Tuesday. The 1,000-bed Covid hospital was recently inaugurated by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Family members of the missing patient have claimed that he was shifted from Thane civil hospital to the Covid facility on the night of June 29. On July 1, hospital staff told them the septuagenarian was doing well, they claimed. When the family members called up the hospital again on July 5 they were told that the old man was missing from his bed, they said. A complaint was lodged at Kapurbawdi police station on July 5. Meanwhile, Thane city BJP president and MLC Niranjan Davkhare and former MP Kirit Somaiya visited Kapurbawdi police station and demanded registration of a case against the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-goes-missing-from-thane-facility-probe-on-858252.html
07-07-2020||West||Policeman shoots himself dead in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli||A 47-year-old police driver allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with a rifle in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district on Tuesday morning, police said. The deceased worked as the driver of Gadchiroli's sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), an official at the office of Gadchiroli's superintendent of police told PTI. He allegedly shot himself with an AK-47 rifle around 7 am when he was in the guard room at the SDPO's residence in Gadchiroli, located around 170 km from Nagpur, he said. The reason behind his extreme step was yet to be ascertained, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/policeman-shoots-himself-dead-in-maharashtras-gadchiroli-858284.html
07-07-2020||West||Maharashtra govt will recruit 10,000 police constables: Ajit Pawar||As many as 10,000 constables will be recruited to strengthen law and order in Maharashtra and ease the work stress of the police force, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday. Apart from this, an all-woman battalion of the State Reserve Police Force will also be raised in Nagpur's Katol taluka, he said. In a video message, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh later said this will be the first women's battalion of the state and 100 acres of land will be required to set it up. According to an official statement, the decision was taken during a meeting presided over by Pawar at Mantralaya, the state secretariat, which was attended by Deshmukh and senior officials. "A decision has been taken to recruit 10,000 personnel in the police shipai (constable) category to strengthen law and order in the state and reduce work stress on the force," the statement quoted Pawar as saying. The move will help the youth from both urban and rural areas as they will get a chance to serve in the police force, he said. Pawar has instructed officials to ensure that the recruitment process is completed within a year and without hassles in view of the Covid-19 crisis, it was stated. He has asked officials to move a proposal before the state cabinet for approval accordingly. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has also approved of the decision, Deshmukh later said. Moreover, 1,384 posts will be created in the women's battalion and the recruitment will be completed in three phases, by filling 461 posts in each stage, the deputy chief minister said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-will-recruit-10000-police-constables-ajit-pawar-858340.html
07-07-2020||West||Gujarat adds record 778 coronavirus cases; 17 patients die||Gujarat reported yet another highest-ever single-day spike of 778 coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 37,636, the state health department said. The state reported the deaths of 17 more Covid-19 patients, raising the fatalities to 1,979. Also, 421 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered cases in Gujarat to 26,744, the department said in a release. The state now has 8,913 active cases with the condition of 61 patients being critical, it said. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 37,636, new cases 778, deaths 1,979, discharged 26,744, active cases 8,913, people tested so far 4,25,830.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-adds-record-778-coronavirus-cases-17-patients-die-858347.html
07-07-2020||West||BJP MLA Mukta Tilak tests positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra BJP MLA Mukta Tilak on Tuesday said she has tested positive for Covid-19 and quarantined herself at residence here. Today me and my mother have been tested positive for Covid-19. We both are not showing any symptoms & have been advised by doctors to be under home quarantine & have thus self-isolated. All other family members have been tested negative. Stay Home, Stay Safe Takingto microblogging site Twitter, the MLA from the Kasba constituency in Pune city said she and her mother have contractedthe infection, but they are asymptomatic. "Today me and my mother have tested positive for COVID-19. We are not showing any symptoms& have been advised by the doctors to be under home quarantine & have thus self- isolated," Tilak tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-mla-mukta-tilak-tests-positive-for-covid-19-858371.html
07-07-2020||West||Gujarat: Police sat for a month indecisively, govt rushed HC in last hour to hold Rath Yatra||The Ahmedabad police sat on an application moved by the temple authority seeking permission to take out annual Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra, one of the biggest religious events in the state, and held rounds of meeting with the trustees and other stakeholders discussing coronavirus outbreak in the city and its likely effect if permission was granted. It was only after the Supreme Court, on June 20, declined the Odisha government to take out a similar rath yatra there, the city police finally rejected the application of the trust. On the basis of the apex court's order, the Gujarat High Court also barred the temple authority from taking out the yatra in Ahmedabad which was supposed to be held on June 23. Although the apex court again reviewed its order on June 22 and allowed the event to be held in Odisha. This prompted an NGO to move the high court seeking similar relief for the yatra in Ahmedabad and elsewhere in the state. The court rejected the petition on the ground that the NGO didn't have any local standing. Hours later, the Advocate General Kamal Trivedi on behalf of state government along with several other temple trustees moved court on an urgent basis seeking permission to carry out "symbolic yatra." The hearing was held at 2 AM, barely a few hours before the morning ritual of the yatra, in which the court again declined to permit the event citing rising coronavirus cases. While rejecting the clutch of petitions, the high court sought explanation from the the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Home, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and Police Commissioner the "reasons and circumstances why application was not disposed of well within time and keeping the matter looming at large till the end and then compelling the parties to rush to the court for urgent circulation." The temple trust had moved the application on May 18, more than a month before the date of yatra. AMC Commissioner Mukesh Kumar and ACS (home) Sangeeta Singh have said in their affidavits that application for permission was not sent to their departments and such issues are dealt with at police commissioner office which gives or rejects such permissions. Kumar has said that his office didn't get any such letter while Singh stated that "around 16.06.2020, I was informally given to understand by Shivanand Jha, Director General of Police of the State of Gujarat, that before expressly declining the permission to the Respondent No.5 Trust (Temple), the Commissioners of Police, Heads of Range and the Superintendents of Police are coordinating with the temple authorities, organizers, religious leaders connected with Jagannath Rath Yatra to arrive at a consensus regarding cancellation or symbolic celebration in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In view of this, it appears that a series of meetings with temple authorities, organizers, religious leaders connected with Shri Jagannath Rath Yatra in Ahmedabad City and other places were held." The affidavit filed by police commissioner Ashish Bhatia states that after his office received the letter and accordingly opinions were sought from police officers from the areas falling in the route of the yatra. The officers opined that there were 2060 infected persons in these localities and 171 had died from the virus. These reports were received between June 3 and June 6. Bhatia reported to Additional Director General of Police. He has said that he had suggested to refuse permission as there would not be any adherence to maintaining social distancing and besides, over 24,000 policemen would have been needed for the safety of the procession. Interestingly, the commissioner's office sent the DGP a letter "for sanctioning expenditure likely to be incurred on ensuing yatra in the event it is permitted on any reason whatsoever." Meanwhile, it was only after the Supreme Court order's order came on June 20, the temple authority, according to the affidavit, was denied permission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-police-sat-for-a-month-indecisively-govt-rushed-hc-in-last-hour-to-hold-rath-yatra-858381.html
07-07-2020||West||Heavy rains continue to lash Saurashtra; over 1,000 evacuated||Over 1,000 people have been evacuated from low-lying areas in Saurashtra in the last two day as heavy rains lashed the region in Gujarat for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, an official said. The NDRF on Tuesday rescued nine people from a village in Jodia taluka of Jamnagar, two persons from Dhrol taluka and three from a village in Porbandar district - all located near river banks, he said. According to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC), Khambhalia taluka received 291 mm rainfall between 6 am and 4 pm on Tuesday, while it had received 487 mm rainfall on Sunday and 230 mm on Monday. Several parts of Devbhumi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Porbandar and Rajkot districts in Saurashtra witnessed very heavy showers, with Jamjodhpur in Jamnagar receiving 171 mm rainfall. Bhanvad and Kalyanpur talukas of Devbhumi Dwarka district received 155 mm and 119 mm rainfall, respectively, between 6 am and 4 pm on Tuesday, the SEOC said. Heavy rains also caused waterlogging in several residential areas in Jamnagar and threw normal life out of gear. According to locals, a temple in Jamjodhpur was submerged in rainwater and several rivers were in spate causing flood-like situations in villages. As many as 1,162 people were evacuated from low-lying areas and shifted to safer places in Jamnagar, Devbhumi Dwarka and Porbandar districts in the last couple of days, state relief commissioner Harshad Patel said. "At least 115 were sent back to their homes on Tuesday after situation improved at their respective villages while 1,047 are still at different shelters," he said. At least six teams of the National Disaster Response Force have been deployed in Saurashtra region and three in south Gujarat, Patel told reporters in Gandhinagar. The NDRF rescued nine people from a village in Jodia taluka of Jamnagar, two persons from Dhrol taluka and three from a village in Porbandar district - all located near river banks, he said. The India Meteorological Department's Ahmedabad centre said the monsoon remained "vigorous" over Saurashtra-Kutch on Monday, causing heavy rainfall in the region. A well-marked low-pressure area formed over Saurashtra and neighbouring regions persisted along with an associated cyclonic circulation, the IMD said. As per the IMD's forecast, heavy to very heavy rains are likely to lash isolated places in Devbhumi Dwarka and Kutch districts on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rains-continue-to-lash-saurashtra-over-1000-evacuated-858383.html
