08-07-2020||First Edit||India-China Conflict: In Galwan, why are we pulling back?||India and China are said to have set in motion a ‘mutual disengagement’ process. Troops on both sides have reportedly begun pulling back from Galwan Valley in Ladakh, and they are expected to do so next in the Hot Springs area, even as the Pangong Tso remains an area of concern for India. In Galwan Valley, both sides have pulled back by 1.8 km from the June 15 face-off site. The Chinese have dismantled tents and other infrastructure erected here. While the Chinese pullback and the de-escalation along the LAC are welcome, there is little reason for India to draw satisfaction from events unfolding in Ladakh. Contrary to claims that India held its ground in the talks between National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and China’s State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, it does seem that India has ceded territory to the Chinese. India’s stated position on the Galwan Valley is that this area is on the Indian side of the LAC.  Then, why has India pulled back 1.8 km from the face-off site here? And why did it agree to a ‘buffer zone’, again in what is Indian territory? Over the past two months, the PLA systematically occupied territory on the Indian side of the LAC. Beijing has now made a grand show of pulling back a bit. But it has gained territory overall in the ‘mutual disengagement process’. This is classic Chinese strategy. By agreeing to this farcical pull-out, the Narendra Modi government seems unable to reverse the Chinese land-grab in Ladakh. India has much to worry about. A Chinese official statement after the Doval-Wang talks makes no mention of any agreement on disengaging troops. Further, Beijing has not withdrawn its claim over Galwan but has reaffirmed that it “will continue to vigorously defend its territorial sovereignty…in the border areas.” The ground situation points to continuing Chinese pressure. PLA troop presence in other sectors remains high. Besides, Beijing recently raised its territorial dispute with Bhutan even as it meddles in the internal politics of Nepal and instigates anti-India moves there. These are attempts to pile up additional pressure on India. Weeks after both sides pulled back their troops from the standoff site at Doklam in 2017, PLA troops returned and resumed building infrastructure there. Likewise, on June 6, the two sides agreed to pull back from Galwan Valley, but the PLA stayed put, culminating in the face-off a little over a week later. India must draw lessons from these experiences. It cannot lower its guard. Importantly, rather than covering up its blunders at the border, the government should ensure that India’s territory is not lost to China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/india-china-conflict-in-galwan-why-are-we-pulling-back-858394.html
08-07-2020||In Perspective||Renewable Energy: Save clean energy SMEs||Decentralised energy is the future for India – delivering new and better work, cleaner air, improved health and much more. In under-developed rural areas with little or no grid connection, its impact is huge.  The organisations driving change are often SMEs and social enterprises. They are the ones filling homes with affordable solar lamps and non-polluting cookstoves, streets with electric rickshaws, and fields with solar-powered farming. These innovative leaders have always been underfunded and poorly supported. But now, they are teetering on the brink because of Covid-19. Supply chains are disrupted, social distancing makes sales difficult, and many customers simply cannot afford to pay. Some enterprises are just weeks away from collapse. In a recent survey by industry network Global Distributor’s Collective, 71% of enterprises reported reduced sales due to low customer income or reduced access to communities. More worryingly, 14% said they had ceased operations completely. Of course, every corner of society is under pressure because of the pandemic. But these enterprises, in particular, do much more than supply vital products and services. They are a vital link to inaccessible communities, supporting the most vulnerable. If they are not supported through this emergency, world’s development goals (and indeed climate goals) will be dealt a terrible blow. Two enterprises, in India, highlight the unique power of such organisations. Resham Sutra develops and sells solar-powered silk weaving machines that improve the incomes and health of women in rural Odisha. Designing this new technology called for years of experimentation and invention, scouring the world for key bits of machinery. But now, Resham Sutra’s machines are up to ten times more energy-efficient than regular motorised models, which are often unreliable and useless during power cuts. As well as supplying technology, Resham Sutra helps customers access affordable finance and government subsidies.  Similarly, Envo Business Solutions provides customised solar-powered solutions to households in the North-East. They are able to provide customised solutions with door-step service to some of the most remote end-users in Assam and Meghalaya. The rugged terrain in these places have made it difficult for the communities to access affordable energy and enjoy the improvement it brings to their well-being and livelihoods. Envo have been a lifeline for many for them. What unites Envo and Resham Sutra – along with thousands of similar organisations -- is their deep connection to the rural communities they serve. They understand local needs and address the many complex factors that trap people in poverty. They have swiftly pivoted their operations to address the pandemic. In Resham Sutra’s case, it has helped marginalised communities access emergency supplies of food and other essentials. These are outstanding enterprises – nimble, innovative and committed to building a more just world. But by choosing to serve the hardest to reach, such enterprises are themselves inevitably fragile, reliant on income from customers without savings or social safety nets. During the 2008 financial crisis, governments moved to rescue banks considered ‘too big to fail’. Now, they must rescue enterprises which are too valuable to fail. These innovators need funds and they need them fast.  Relief and stabilisation funds for clean energy enterprises are emerging. But the money available seems to be flowing towards larger, higher-profile organisations with existing connections to finance. For many smaller organisations, an injection between $5,000 and $50,000 would help ensure survival through this difficult period. But, cruelly, transaction costs make such amounts unattractive to many funders and investors used to working on a larger scale. As a result, an entire ecosystem of suppliers and frontline organisations is on the brink of disaster.  That is why many in the climate sector are calling for stabilisation funds that channel grants or soft loans through umbrella organisations such as incubators and accelerators. These funding intermediaries would use their sector expertise to ensure money is deployed carefully and efficiently, and that help reaches even the smallest frontline enterprises. At the same time, all investors and funders in the energy access sector must focus their efforts on supporting these frontline enterprises. It is vital they understand these organisations’ urgent need for help, but also their incredible power to drive development and social change.   Financiers must offer patient capital and patient long-tenure debt. And authorities at all levels should apply policies that boost the survival chances of such enterprises. Failure to do so will only lead to higher financial and social costs in future, as efforts to ease poverty are undermined.  The Covid-19 pandemic is the most immediate threat facing rural communities. But the climate emergency looms behind it. In both cases, those with the very least are most at risk. We must protect the grassroots organisations that are responding so powerfully to these two deadly threats.  (Lamb is CEO, Ashden; Hande is CEO, SELCO Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/renewable-energy-save-clean-energy-smes-858412.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Courts in Mysuru to remain closed for two days after advocate tests positive||The Mysuru District Court Complex and new court building at Jayanagar will remain close for two days as an advocate tested positive for Covid-19. According to the Mysuru Bar Association president Anand Kumar, the infected advocate had moved in the court buildings and thus District Health Office has decided sanitising the buildings.  The principal district and sessions judge has directed the lawyers not to visit the court for two days. The cases scheduled for closing days will be given fresh dates, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/courts-in-mysuru-to-remain-closed-for-two-days-after-advocate-tests-positive-858497.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||3 more people succumb to Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada||According to sources in the Health Department, a 57-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 from Ullal and was admitted to Covid-19 Wenlock Hospital on June 22, died on Tuesday night. She was also suffering from hypertension, diabetes, liver and heart ailment. A 32-year-old woman from Puttur, who was admitted to Wenlock Hospital on July 6 and was suffering from renal failure, diabetes, died on Wednesday. She was on a ventilator.  A 60-year-old Covid-19 positive man from Bhatkal, who was suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), heart ailment, and was admitted to a private hospital, passed away too. Of the 28 deaths that were reported in Dakshina Kannada so far, two are from Kodagu and Uttara Kannada districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-more-people-succumb-to-covid-19-in-dakshina-kannada-858509.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Thermal screening must at meat stalls at Karnataka's Chamarajanagar||Want to purchase meat? Wear masks and undergo thermal scanning, say the meat sellers in Gundlupet in Chamarajanagar district. The traders have volunteered for a self-lockdown as a precautionary measure. The meat stall owners in Bheemanabeedu village in the taluk have gone a step ahead and have made thermal screening and masks mandatory for customers. Through this, they aim to create awareness on the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.  Meat is sold only if the temperature level of the person is under control. If the thermal screening shows varied temperatures, they immediately inform the ASHA workers and the Health Department. However, no such incident has been reported so far, said Mohammed Sulaiman of the meat stall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-thermal-screening-must-at-meat-stalls-at-karnatakas-chamarajanagar-858512.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Srirangapatna Court complex in Mandya sealed after two staff test positive for Covid-19||It would be opened after a couple of days once the place is sanitised, according to sources.  A government hospital was also sealed down in Hunsur, in Mysuru district, after a pregnant woman from Hanchya tested positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday. After a surge in the number Covid-19 positive cases in rural areas, a number of police stations, court complexes and even the Deputy Commissioner's office were sealed down in Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/srirangapatna-court-complex-in-mandya-sealed-after-two-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19-858518.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Chikkamagaluru sees one more Covid-19 fatality||A 52-year-old woman who tested positive for Covid-19, succumbed to the virus, in Chikkamagaluru on Wednesday. The total deaths in the district have risen to three. The woman had arrived in Uppalige in Chikkamagaluru from Bengaluru and was tested positive. She was suffering from breathlessness, said doctors. Another MLC from Chikkamagaluru district too has been infected with Covid-19 and is admitted to a hospital in Bengaluru. Two days ago MLC M K Pranesh tested positive for Covid-19 in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-chikkamagaluru-sees-one-more-covid-19-fatality-858522.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||State government should pay stipend to medical students: Shamanur Shivashankarappa||Reacting to the indefinite strike by PG students and house surgeons of JJM Medical college demanding the release of stipend of 16 months, MLA and the College Management Honorary Secretary Shamanur Shivashankarappa made it clear that the management is not responsible and will not be able to give stipend as it is the responsibility of the government to do so since the students have been selected under government quota.  He responded to the students who met him at his residence at MCC block in the city on Wednesday. He said "they (PG students) are all rank students and selected under government quota. It is the duty of the government to give stipend. "Our 80 doctors of the college are serving in District Covid-19 hospital and we are paying salary to them. Besides, we are providing grant of Rs 2 crore a year for medical facilities in the hospital. The government used to give stipend to PG students and house surgeons. Since one year, it is not giving to them," he alleged. He also made it clear that he wrote a letter to the chief minister and medical education minister that the management can't give stipend to them. He would attend the meeting if it is convened again. He also alleged that BJP leaders are making false statements by saying that the management would give stipend.He also suggested students to carry on their strike till they get their stipend. PG students of JJM medical college in the city have been staging agitation for the past ten days demanding the state government to take steps to ensure that they are given their stipend due for 16 months but their demands remain unfulfilled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/state-government-should-pay-stipend-to-medical-students-shamanur-shivashankarappa-858574.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||59 test positive; one death in Mysuru||Fifty nine persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases has increased to 589, with 253 active cases. In all, 322 of them have been discharged. Out of 59, eight are domestic travellers; four-SARI, 15 ILI cases and 23 are contacts of infected. While four positive cases are health care workers, three are police personnel, one pregnant and one is a lactating mother. The Health department authorities have observed a total of 14,560 persons and tested samples of 24,571. Of them, 23,982 tested negative. As many as 2,389 persons are under home quarantine. With one more death, the total deaths increased to 14 in Mysuru district. A woman from Rajkumar Road in Kalyanagiri died on Tuesday. She was suffering from fever from July 4 and was admitted to the hospital on July 6. The funeral was performed as per the protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/59-test-positive-one-death-in-mysuru-858690.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Body abandoned suspecting Covid death in Malavalli||Suspecting that the death of a person was due to Covid infection, residents of Honaganahalli in the taluk, ran to a safe distance, out of fear, when the body was brought home for performing the last rites here, on Wednesday. The body was abandoned for a while. The residents staged a protest, demanding the authorities to conduct Covid test, before the last rites. Nagaraju (50) of Musukanakoppal in T Narasipur taluk, is the deceased. He was working in Bengaluru. Due to the fear of Covid outbreak, he had come to his uncle's house in Honganahalli in Malavalli taluk on Tuesday evening. However, he took ill in the morning and was admitted to a hospital in Kollegal, for respiratory problems. Later, he died. This created panic among the people, who suspected that the death was due to Covid. They demanded that the last rites be performed only after conducting Covid test. A team of officials, including Taluk Health Officer Dr Veerabhadrappa, and police visited the spot and assured that the funeral would be conducted as per Covid protocol. But, the villagers were adamant that Covid test be conducted, and staged a protest. Later, as per the advise of the officers, the relatives decided to shift the body to Musukanakoppal in T Narasipur taluk. As a precautionary measure, 11 people, including an autorickshaw driver, have been placed under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/body-abandoned-suspecting-covid-death-in-malavalli-858692.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Trainee nurses protest at KR Hospital||Trainee nurses at KR Hospital, a wing of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC&RI), wore black bands as a mark of protest, demanding to fulfill demands on Wednesday. Over 150 nurses participated in the protest and tied black bands on their arms, during work. A protester, who wished to maintain anonymity, said, “A few senior nurses and officials are threatening them to drop the protest.” A total of 150 nurses are working as trainee nurses and are getting Rs 10,000 as scholarship. The nurses are deprived of government benefits, as they are not considered as employees. The protesters demanded that the trainees be considered as contract employees and a salary of Rs 33,000 per month be paid as per the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations. A trainee claimed that the trainees are made to work more, compared to permanent nurses. Though we submitted a memorandum and urged the higher- ups, to consider our request, nothing has happened. The trainee nurses are removed, if they question about it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/trainee-nurses-protest-at-kr-hospital-858693.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Asha workers warn of boycotting work from tomorrow||Asha workers of Halebid, Hassan district have threatened of boycotting work from July 10 if their demands are not fulfilled. The Association of Asha Workers submitted a memorandum to Dr Anil, Administrator of the Community Health Centre on Wednesday. Asha worker Chayadevi said that the association members have decided to abstain from work, until the government provides them protective gears to fight against Covid-19 and fixes a salary of Rs 12,000 per month. “We need free treatment, in case we contract the virus. The government should take the responsibility of providing safety environment to the workers. Until then, the workers will not report for duty,” she said. Asha workers have staged protests in the taluk and district-levels, and put forth their demands to the tahsildars and deputy commissioners. Petitions have been submitted to the government more than 10 times. But, there is no response. Hence, it has become inevitable to stay away from work, they warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/asha-workers-warn-of-boycotting-work-from-tomorrow-858694.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Govt must give detailed account of Covid expenses'||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday, said that the State government must give detailed accounts on the expenses related to Covid-19. Speaking to reporters here, he said, “I will not let the government, if they fail to provide the detailed accounts. If the government fails to publish the documents, it is nothing, but accepting the corruption charges.” Siddaramaiah demanded the government must form a Cabinet committee to conduct a probe. "The government is doing nothing to contain Covid. It has failed to ensure security and safety of the people. Thousands of people are quitting Bengaluru, as they have no work," he said.    He said that Prime Minister Naredra Modi must have continued lockdown. "Modi announced lockdown. But, the cases continue to increase. Now, there is a need for lockdown, but the government is not ready to do so, citing the economy of the country. What is important for government, life of the people or economy?" he asked. Siddaramaiah said, "The government failed to tackle Covid as the number of tests are less. I have no opposition to online classes for children, but it will not help the development of the students.” Siddaramaiah said, “I came to Mysuru for rest and I am not on quarantine. A section of the media reported as if I was quarantined.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-must-give-detailed-account-of-covid-expenses-858695.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Do not take online classes lightly, says expert||Do not take online classes lightly, says N N Prahallada, retired professor in Education, Regional Institute of Education, under the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) in Mysuru. “Currently, a large number of school and college students are participating in online classes. More number of students are all set to join the bandwagon, soon. If they follow some suggestions, they can participate in online education sessions with ease and confidence and, also benefit from it,” said Prahallada, who has been educating teachers and teacher educators, since a few decades. “Teachers must study thoroughly and prepare in all aspects of the subject concerned, before venturing to take online classes. They must take proper care to explain various concepts, with examples, especially from daily life,” he said. “Students must avoid any tension or anxiety, while attending online classes. Stay calm and cool, while listening to or watching online classes. Proper listening is the first and the best step to understand online classes. Do not take online classes lightly. Be careful and sit separately in your house, free from noises,” Prahallada said. “Parents and other members of the family must cooperate with the children, while online classes are in session,” he said. “The entire education system, across the globe, has shifted the interaction with students from offline to online. Therefore, students should feel as if they are in the actual classroom, while listening to online classes from their respective homes. After listening to online classes, students must read the actual textbooks further, to enrich their knowledge. In case of doubts, teachers or classmates may be contacted over phone, for clarification,” the retired professor said. “Because of Covid-19, online classes have come to stay permanently. Social distance and wearing of face masks and use of sanitiser are the hallmark of this century. The central theme of post-Corona World is ‘Health Consciousness’. Thus, each and everyone must take care of one’s health and must improve immunity power to boldly face coronavirus,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/do-not-take-online-classes-lightly-says-expert-858696.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Ready to take on Hebbalkar in legal tussle says Ramesh Jarkiholi||Water Resources and District In-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that he was prepared to take on Belagavi Rural MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar in a legal tussle. Speaking to reporters at the airport on his way to Mumbai to attend a meeting regarding water released during monsoon and water-sharing agreement talks to meet summer requirements on Wednesday, Jarkiholi said, everyone knows Hebbalkar and how she got elected. "State is aware of how she got elected in the last assembly election and with whose support," he said. During the inauguration of BJP Belagavi Rural Assembly Constituency office on Tuesday, Jarkiholi said the incumbent MLA was elected with his support when he was associated with the Congress. Statement made on the BJP forum was not against anyone. We shall show our strength during the coming assembly election, he stated. "If Hebbalkar has been saying that I have not helped her in the election, she should take oath before her family deity Veerbhadreshwar and I too am prepared to swear before our family deity in Kolhapur," he said. He reiterated that the pressure cookers distributed by the Congress candidate were funded by him. He also said that Hebbalkar had pleaded him to be made member of Belagavi Urban Development Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ready-to-take-on-hebbalkar-in-legal-tussle-says-ramesh-jarkiholi-858583.html
08-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Nirani has documents on Covid-19 irregularities: Siddaramaiah||In what could prove to be a major embarrassment for BS Yediyurappa government, Congress leader tweeted proceedings of the Public Accounts Committee, claiming that former minister Murugesh Nirani had possessed documents alleging irregularities in procurement of Covid-19 equipment. BJP MLA Nirani, however, has denied submitting any documents to the Public Accounts Committee, the tweet came at a time when the opposition is locked in a pitched battle over corruption charges regarding the issue. Siddaramaiah shared minutes of the meeting of a Public Accounts Committee (PAC) meeting, which said that Nirani told PAC that an official traveling with him had brought 125 pages of documents in his pen drive. The documents highlighted gross irregularities in procurement of PPE kits, sanitisers and other equipment. "The documents in the pen drive could not be downloaded. Or else I would have submitted the papers to the committee," Nirani is quoted as saying. "Your ex minister Murugesh Nirani seems to have all the evidence to prove that yours is #100PercentCorruptSarkar. Collect it from him," Siddaramaiah tweeted. The tweet was among the several in which he attacked the government over delay in furnishing information sought by him from the government regarding Covid-19 procurement. Collect it from him. Murugesh Nirani, responding to queries, said that he had not submitted any pen drive which had documents pertaining to irregularities in Covid-19 procurement. "Reports regarding the same are baseless," he said. Ravi Krishna Reddy, president of Karnataka Rashtra Samithi, who shared the same document, sought to know why Nirani was denying the statements which were officially recorded in the PAC proceedings. Backtracking by the former minister indicates that there is conflict of interest, corruption and destruction of evidence among other violations in the case, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/nirani-has-documents-on-covid-19-irregularities-siddaramaiah-858686.html
08-07-2020||Main Article||Custodial Torture: Affront to our conscience||In May 2017, the then Attorney General of India told representatives from countries at the UN’s Human Rights Council that “the concept of torture is completely alien to our culture and it has no place in the governance of the nation.” Last week, Bennix, 31, and his father, Jayaraj, 58, were brutally tortured in a police station in Tamil Nadu’s Sathankulam town in Thoothukudi district. The father-son duo succumbed to the custodial torture on June 23. Their crime? Extending the business hours of their mobile accessories shop beyond lockdown hours. Their death from police brutality is an affront to both the conscience of the people and the conscience of the Constitution, which guarantees life, liberty and dignity in equal measure to all. As per the first information report, Bennix and Jayaraj were accused of Sections 188, 269, 294(b), 353, and 506(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). These are all bailable offences (except Section 506) but both of them died even before bail could be sought. Many lawyers have raised questions about the conduct of the Sathankulam Judicial Magistrate, B Saravanan, in this case. These are valid questions and must be repeatedly asked. Under the Indian criminal justice system, the police do not have sweeping powers of arrest and the Magistrate must exercise his judicial mind before making a remand order. The police must clearly list out the grounds necessitating arrest and the Magistrate must carefully peruse those grounds. The Magistrate must physically examine the accused to rule out custodial violence or any kind of medical unfitness in general. In the instant case, there was a colossal and unconscionable dereliction of judicial duty and propriety on the part of the Magistrate. As per reports, he did not physically examine the accused persons and proceeded to make a remand order in a routine and cavalier manner. The Magistrate is the first line of defence on issues of fundamental rights and his power, role and conduct must undoubtedly be discussed and debated. But the Sathankulam incident must reignite the debate on the larger issue of custodial torture and custodial deaths and the impunity with which the police act. According to a recent report by National Campaign Against Torture, 1,731 people died in custody in 2019 alone (that is, five custodial deaths a day). The 2018 NCRB data reveals that the state of Tamil Nadu accounted for the second highest custodial deaths in the country. Importantly, these are conservative figures because the majority of cases go unreported. The police are not mandatorily required to report (to NHRC) cases of custodial violence that do not result in deaths. The names of most victims do not go viral and their family members are the only ones to lament their deaths. Often, police delinquency merely leads to suspensions, transfers, or reproach. Few delinquent police officers are arrested and even fewer face punishment. Much of this immunity is attributable to how the procedural aspects of the current criminal justice system work in practice. In theory, the law provides for several safeguards, such as physical examination of the accused, the right of the accused to be presented before a Magistrate, the right to legal representation, the right to meet family members, the right against self-incrimination, and the right to silence, among others. In practice, however, these safeguards are routinely flouted. A police officer is supposedly immune from accountability because custodial interrogations are the prerogative of the police, who can easily manipulate or bury evidence. Interrogations take place behind closed doors and there is no eyewitness. The archaic methods to detect torture have also outlived their utility. Surprise inspections by official or non-official visitors (NOVs) seldom take place. Most police stations do not have adequate, functional CCTV cameras. Custodial interrogations are not electronically recorded. Custodial torture is widely accepted as normative behaviour and is considered to be a part of investigation. So much so that custodial torture is not a specific offence by name under the IPC. While India has signed the UN Convention against Torture (UNCAT), the government has not, till date, shown the courage or the will to introduce a standalone legislation on custodial torture. Currently, no Indian law defines “torture” or “custodial torture”. This is so despite categorical recommendations to that effect from a Select Committee of the Rajya Sabha, the National Human Rights Commission and the Law Commission. The existing provisions under the IPC and the Code of Criminal Procedure are inadequate and lacking in necessary specificity to address all kinds of custodial violence. What India needs today is standalone legislation on custodial torture and not tokenistic amendments to Sections 330 and 331 of the IPC (on extorting confessions). Unfortunately, there has been no clear attempt in bringing the Indian law in conformity with the UNCAT. In 2016, former law minister and Supreme Court lawyer Ashwani Kumar filed a PIL in the Supreme Court seeking that India meet its constitutional and international commitment to prevent custodial torture and violence.   That petition rightly pointed that the absence of a standalone, comprehensive and purposeful legislation in India for prevention of custodial violence has resulted in a disturbing void in law endangering the constitutional right of persons affected by custodial violence and torture. Kumar’s petition was, however, disposed of after the Attorney General told the court that the government was “seriously considering” the Law Commission’s recommendations in the matter. Since then, no concrete action has been taken by the government in this regard. The absence of a standalone legislation on custodial torture means that the Supreme Court’s guidelines issued in the DK Basu case (1997) remain a matter of mere academic interest for decades. There is no system in place to speedily prosecute delinquent police officers, to lodge complaints relating to custodial torture, to deal with the issue of evidence and burden of proof, to ensure speedy and fair investigation into custodial violence, to speedily dispose of complaints, to protect witnesses and complainants, to detect custodial violence using advanced scientific methods, or to sensitise police officers. Custodial torture is one of the worst forms of barbarism. The rule of law cannot survive when protectors turn into oppressors. Any form of custodial treatment or behaviour that is degrading and contrary to human dignity strikes a heavy blow at Article 21 of the Constitution. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court is monitoring the statutory magisterial probe into the custodial torture of the father-son duo and we will have to wait and see if appropriate punishment is meted out to those involved in the gruesome crime. The right against torture is a non-negotiable fundamental of the Constitution and Parliament must soon take a firm stand on this issue. (The writer is a Supreme Court lawyer and legal academic)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/custodial-torture-affront-to-our-conscience-858413.html
08-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally, fatality rate per million population lowest in world: Govt||Amid a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the government on Tuesday said the total number of coronavirus infections and fatalities per million population in the country are among the lowest in the world. The country's Covid-19 caseload increased to 7,19,665 on Tuesday with a single day rise of 22,252 cases, while the death toll climbed to 20,160 with 467 persons succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. However, a PTI tally showed India's Covid-19 caseload at 7,34,647 and the death toll at 20,620. The tally has been compiled as per information provided by respective states and union territories. The Union health ministry said India's recovered cases per million population is more than active Covid-19 cases per million. It credited the states and Union Territories for early identification and effective management of the coronavirus cases. India has 315.8 recovered cases per million, while the active cases per million in the country is at a "low level" of 186.3, the ministry said in a statement. During a virtual interaction with his Swedish counterpart, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan stated that India's preemptive, proactive and graded approach ensured a plateaued graph of Covid-19 cases and a significant number of unoccupied beds in the health facilities at any point of time. Vardhan made the remarks in his conversation with Swedish Minister for Health and Social Affairs, Lena Hallengren, who had called upon him virtually to discuss cooperation in the field of health and medicine, according to a ministry statement. Elaborating on the lessons India learned while handling the Covid-19 pandemic, Vardhan,said, "India has a recovery rate of more than 61 per cent and a mortality of as low as 2.78 per cent in spite of being a country of 1.35 billion." Also, 2.5 lakh people are being tested every day. From a single lab four months back, the country now has more than 1,100 labs to diagnose Covid-19, he said. "India's pro-active, pre-emptive and graded approach ensured a plateaued graph and significant number of unoccupied beds at any point of time in the three-tiered Covid health infrastructure assembled by the government," an official statement quoting Vardhan said. Referring to the ‘WHO Situation Report-168’ dated July 6, the ministry said India's Covid-19 cases per million population is 505.37 as against the global average of 1,453.25. Chile has witnessed 15,459.8 Covid-19 cases per million population, while Peru has 9,070.8 cases per million people. The US, Brazil, Spain, Russia, the UK, Italy and Mexico have 8,560.5, 7,419.1, 5,358.7, 4,713.5, 4,204.4, 3,996.1 and 1,955.8 cases per million, respectively, according to the WHO report. "The WHO Situation Report also shows that India has one of the lowest deaths (due to Covid-19) per million population. India's cases of death per million population is 14.27 while the global average is more than its four times, at 68.29," the ministry said.  The United Kingdom has 651.4 Covid-19 related deaths per million population, while the metric for Spain, Italy, France, the USA, Peru, Brazil and Mexico is 607.1, 576.6, 456.7, 391.0, 315.8, 302.3 and 235.5 deaths, respectively, the ministry said. During the last 24 hours, a total of 15,515 Covid-19 patients have been cured, taking the cumulative figure of recovered cases among Covid-19 patients in the country to 4,39,947 as on Tuesday. "Coordinated efforts at all levels of the national and state governments for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19 are showing encouraging results with consistently increasing gap between recoveries and active cases. Presently, there are 2,59,557 active cases and all are under medical supervision," the health ministry said. “As on date, the number of recovered cases exceeded that of the active cases by 1,80,390 on Tuesday. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients has increased to 61.13 per cent,” it said. The ramped-up healthcare infrastructure in states has resulted in distribution of the positive cases in different healthcare facilities including Dedicated Covid Hospitals, Covid Health Care Centres and Covid Care Centres, the ministry said. This coupled with effective treatment has ensured in keeping the case mortality low, the ministry said, adding that a ramping-up of Dedicated Covid in public and private sectors has ensured timely triaging and treatment of the patients. Along with testing, contact-tracing and house-to-house surveys has been intensified especially in the containment zones, it stressed. States have been specifically advised to ensure that at least 80 per cent of new positive cases have their contacts traced and quarantined within 72 hours of confirmation of the positivity, the ministry said. States have developed several mobile apps to keep track of high risk population including the senior and elderly population, people with co-morbidities, pregnant women and small children, it said. Meanwhile, India's drug regulator has asked the Drugs Controllers in States and UTs to instruct the enforcement officials to keep strict vigil to prevent the blackmarketing and sale of the anti-viral remdesivir injection above MRP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-fatality-rate-per-million-population-lowest-in-world-govt-858420.html
08-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Centre asks states, UTs to bolster mechanism to address mental health issues||The Centre has urged states and Union Territories to put in place and strengthen mechanisms to spread awareness about rising psychosocial concerns among people during Covid-l9, saying acceptance of mental health issues is relatively low due to the stigma attached. Asserting that mental health services including advocacy and awareness campaigns should essentially become part of the government's response to Covid-19, Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan also stressed on the need to bring mental health issues to foreground and make them accepted as common ailments.  In a letter addressed to Chief Secretaries and the administrators of all states and UTs, Sudan said that psychosocial concerns cut across age groups and segments of the population and that it is imperative that all the care providers including volunteers, police and all frontline workers are aware and equipped with the appropriate training. The country is grappling with the challenge of Covid-l9 and concerns relating to mental health, manifested in feelings of fear, anxiety, negative thoughts about consequences of disease and subsequent depression are being raised, Sudan said in the letter, dated July 6. "Incidence and prevalence of mental health issues, however, tend to be higher in the urban areas, and even more skewed towards the metropolitan cities. While there may be many causative factors to this reality, declining social support in the nuclear families and restricted social networking due to Covid-19 are among important reasons. "The identification and acceptance of mental health issues is relatively low due to the stigma attached with it," she said in the letter. Given the above factors, it is imperative to focus on preventive aspects of mental healthcare and early detection, Sudan underlined. The common signs and symptoms of the depression and anxiety need to be discussed openly so that anybody who starts facing the problem is able to identify, accept and seek help. Lack of knowledge and ignorance is what aggravates the problem, she said.  "Keeping above in view, I request you to put in place and strengthen mechanisms for amplifying awareness about mental health through existing communication materials... initiate screening and address mental health issues for those in need, improve help seeking behaviour on mental health related issues by sensitising people and health care workers," she said. Sudan shared some of the steps taken by the Ministry to address them which include setting up of helpline (080-4611 0007), in collaboration with National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) to provide psychosocial support by mental health professionals. It also includes onboarding of 20 states on the national psychosocial support helpline, the letter said, stating that remaining States/UTs are also encouraged to join the helpline in order to expand its reach. The measures initiated by the ministry also includes issuance of guidelines/ advisories on management of mental health issues, catering to different segments of the society. National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) has also been working towards building capacity of health workers in providing support and has undertaken online training of psychologists across the country for providing brief and basic telephonic psychological support in the context of Covid-l9, the letter said. This is in addition to an online platform set up to support healthcare workers involved in providing psychosocial help in the context of Covid-19, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-asks-states-uts-to-bolster-mechanism-to-address-mental-health-issues-858422.html
08-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 8||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 7.6 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 7,64,071 as of July 8 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 21,101   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 4,36,373 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-8-858424.html
08-07-2020||National||DH Toon: Custodial torture, affront to our conscience||In May 2017, the then Attorney General of India told representatives from countries at the UN’s Human Rights Council that “the concept of torture is completely alien to our culture and it has no place in the governance of the nation.” Last week, Bennix, 31, and his father, Jayaraj, 58, were brutally tortured in a police station in Tamil Nadu’s Sathankulam town in Thoothukudi district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-custodial-torture-affront-to-our-conscience-858425.html
08-07-2020||National||Government sets up team to coordinate probe against three Gandhi family trusts for alleged tax violations, money laundering||The government has set up an inter-ministerial team to coordinate probe into the alleged violation of laws on money laundering, income tax and foreign contributions by three trusts linked to the Gandhi family, including the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF), prompting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying those who fight for the truth cannot be intimidated. The decision comes close on the heels of the ruling BJP accusing the RGF of receiving funds from the Chinese embassy during UPA era, as both parties engaged in a war of words over India-China stand off. A Special Director of the Enforcement Directorate will head the inter-ministerial team, which will also look into the alleged irregularities in Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust (RGCT) and   the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust (IGMT). "The Ministry of Home Affairs has set up an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate investigations” against the RGF, RGCT and IGMT, a Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) spokesperson said on Wednesday. The investigators would be looking into the transactions of these trusts under Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) Act, Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and Income Tax Act for violations. Rahul, who is a member of these trusts headed by his mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, tweeted hours after the government announcement, "Mr Modi believes the world is like him. He thinks every one has a price or can be intimidated. He will never understand that those who fight for the truth have no price and cannot be intimidated." Accusing the government of carrying out a “blind witch hunt”, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the BJP was applying "double standards" in instituting a probe against these Trusts but such questions are not asked of some "holy cows" close to it. He said they have "nothing to hide, nothing to fear". "You ask us questions. We are here as law abiding persons to answer, but, you need to be exposed that you don't even ask these questions to many holy cows. You don't ask questions (about the 9th Schedule exemptions that the Gandhi-family run trusts are asked) to Vivekananda Foundation, Overseas Friends of BJP Foundation, India Foundation and for that matter, you do not ask how RSS gets large quantum of money. Whose special arc of protection they enjoy? Have you asked a single similar question to any of the entity, I have asked the names of?" he said. The BJP defended the government action saying it would not have waited for six years if politics was behind the probe into these issues. It said the order of a probe is the "natural" outcome of information brought out in the public domain recently. "These transactions are in the public domain... Our government is committed to transparency. It is natural to investigate these transactions after so much information was recently brought out in public domain," BJP general secretary P Muralidhar Rao told reporters, asking Congress leadership to cooperate with the investigation. The Congress had earlier denied the allegations and countered the BJP saying the PM-CARES fund under Modi had accepted donations from Chinese companies. It also questioned the visits by BJP leaders and exchanges between the BJP and Communist Party of China in the past few years while alleging that the Prime Minister had shared a "strange bonhomie" with China and that he had 18 meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping in the past few years. As former Congress president Rahul Gandhi launched an attack on the government's handling of the India-China border row, the BJP had hit back with party president J P Nadda raising the issue of Chinese embassy donations to the RGF. Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had asked whether it was a "bribe" for lobbying for a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) between the two countries. The latest action also comes days after the government cancelled the allotment of a bungalow to Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, daughter of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Justifying the decision, the government had said that she was not entitled to the facility after the withdrawal of her Special Protection Group (SPG) security cover in November last year. Along with Priyanka, the government had withdrawn the SPG cover of Sonia and Rahul too in November. Before this, it had withdrawn the SPG cover of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The RGF, set up in 1991 and headed by Sonia, works to realise "the vision of the former prime minister of a modern India, secular, and progressive; a country that enshrines the democratic principle of equality and blends progress with rich cultural traditions". The trustees include Singh, Rahul. Priyanka, former finance minister P Chidambaram and former deputy chairman of the erstwhile Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia among others. The RGCT, also headed by Sonia, was set up in 2002 to address the development needs of the underprivileged of the country, especially the rural poor. Besides Rahul, the trustees include Ashok Ganguly and Bansi Mehta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-sets-up-team-to-coordinate-probe-against-three-gandhi-family-trusts-for-alleged-tax-violations-money-laundering-858475.html
08-07-2020||National||DCGI warns against black marketing of Covid-19 drug remdesivir: Report||The agency said that the sale of remdesivir above the MRP needs to be checked immediately. DCGI Chief VG Somani said that they had received complaints from an Uttar Pradesh-based community engagement group called LocalCircles.  “The MRP of remdesivir marketed by Hetero Healthcare Limited is Rs 5,400 but consumers have reported it being sold at a price of anywhere [between] Rs 15,000 and Rs 60,000,” the LocalCircles said in a letter, reviewed by Times of India. What is remdesivir? Remdesivir is an antiviral drug which helped shorten hospital recovery times in a clinical trial developed by the US-based Gilead Sciences Inc. Generic versions are in demand after Gilead Sciences reportedly failed to import the drug after being granted permission to do so from the DCGI. The agency has also cleared the generic version named Desrem. Generic versions from Cipla Labs and Hetero Ltd have also been cleared. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has approved restricted use of the injectable drug for the treatment of patients with severe Covid-19 infection. Desrem, manufactured by Mylan, is priced at Rs 4,800 per 100 mg vial while Cipremi, Cipla’s version, is priced at less than Rs 5,000 per 100 mg vial. Hetero’s Covifor is priced at Rs 5,400.  The price will be set at $390 per vial, or $2,340 per treatment course, for patients on government-sponsored insurance and for those in other countries with national health care systems.The drug will be sold only in the United States through September, meaning US patients will receive almost the entirety of Gilead’s output, more than 500,000 treatment courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-warns-against-black-marketing-of-covid-19-drug-remdesivir-report-858485.html
08-07-2020||National||India's coronavirus caseload climbs to 7,42,417||With 22,752 fresh cases of Covid-19 in a day, India's virus caseload increased to 7,42,417 on Wednesday, while the death toll climbed to 20,642 with 482 people succumbing to the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry data.   The number of recoveries stands at 4,56,830, while there are 2,64,944 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country, the updated data at 8 am showed.   "Thus, around 61.53 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases included foreigners. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,04,73,771 samples have been tested up to July 7 with 2,62,679 samples being tested on Tuesday.   Of the 482 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 224 are from Maharashtra, 65 from Tamil Nadu, 50 from Delhi, 25 from West Bengal, 18 from Uttar Pradesh,  17 from Gujarat, 15 from Karnataka, 13 from Andhra Pradesh, 11 from Rajasthan, seven each from Bihar and Telangana, six from Punjab, five each from Jammu and Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh, four in Odisha, three from Haryana, two each from Jharkhand and Puducherry and one each in Chandigarh, Goa and Uttarakhand.   Of the total 20,642 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 9,250 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,165 deaths, Gujarat with 1,977, Tamil Nadu with 1,636, Uttar Pradesh with 827, West Bengal with 804, Madhya Pradesh with 622, Rajasthan with 472 and Karnataka with 416. The COVID-19 death toll reached 313 in Telangana, 279 in Haryana, 252 in Andhra Pradesh, 175 in Punjab, 143 in Jammu and Kashmir, 104 in Bihar, 43 in Uttarakhand, 42 in Odisha and 27 in Kerala. Jharkhand has registered 22 deaths, Chhattisgarh, Assam and Puducherry 14 each, Himachal Pradesh 11, Goa eight, Chandigarh seven, Arunachal Pradesh two and Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 2,17,121 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,18,594, Delhi at 1,02,831, Gujarat at 37, 550, Uttar Pradesh at  29,968, Telangana at 27,612 and Karnataka at 26,815, according to the ministry data. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to  23,837 in West Bengal, 21,404 in Rajasthan, 21,197 in Andhra Pradesh, 17,999 in Haryana and 15,627 in Madhya Pradesh. It has risen to 12,570 in Bihar, 12,522 in Assam, 10,097 in Odisha and 8,931 in Jammu and Kashmir. Punjab has reported 6,749 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 5,894 cases. A total of 3,415 people have been infected by the virus in Chhattisgarh,  3,230 in Uttarakhand, 2,996 in Jharkhand, 1,903 in Goa, 1,704 in Tripura, 1,430 in Manipur, 1,083 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,041 in Ladakh. Puducherry has recorded 930 Covid-19 cases, Nagaland 625, Chandigarh 494 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 405 cases. Arunachal Pradesh reported 276 cases, Mizoram has 197 cases, Andaman and Nicobar Islands has 147, Sikkim has registered 125 infections so far, while Meghalaya has recorded 80 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 5,018 cases are being reassigned to states.   State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-caseload-climbs-to-742417-858490.html
08-07-2020||National||Covid-19: 'Nationalism', 'citizenship', 'demonetisation' among chapters dropped from CBSE syllabus||The CBSE's move to rationalise its syllabus by dropping certain chapters to reduce course load on students in view of the COVID-19 pandemic has been welcomed by various school representatives, but a section of academicians alleged that the exercise appears to be "ideologically" driven. Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary measures, a school representative said. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in its syllabus rationalisation exercise has dropped chapters on democracy and diversity, demonetisation, nationalism, secularism, India's relations with its neighbours and growth of local governments in India, among others, as per the updated syllabus. On Tuesday, the board had notified that it has rationalised by up to 30 per cent the syllabus for classes 9 to 12 for the academic year 2020-21 to reduce course load on students amid the COVID-19 crisis, after suggestions from various quarters, including parents. The HRD Ministry maintained that the curriculum has been rationalised while retaining core elements. However, school representatives raised concerns over the lack of clarity on whether reduction of syllabus will impact syllabus of entrance examinations like NEET and JEE. The academicians also claimed that it appears more importance was given to "political considerations" than academics in reducing the syllabus. "On the face of it, it appears that there is some ideological element in the choice of what is deleted. How do you optimise learning during this time? You are trying to reduce the investment in education, you are compromising on the learning of students," Professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University's School of Social Sciences Surajit Majumdar told PTI. This is not the way to approach the issue of how to respond to the pandemic, he said. "Reduction does not have to be because of the pandemic but for optimisation of learning," Majumdar said. "There are other ways to think of adjusting like making adjustments to the academic calendar. What will you do for primary students? This is a very casual approach. It reflects that there is no interest in having an educated society," he said. Rajesh Jha, a political science professor at the Delhi University (DU), said when the choice based credit system was introduced in varsity, the paper on nationalism and colonialism, which was earlier compulsory was made optional in 2017. "Now, it has also happened to school syllabus. Unfortunately, political considerations have taken over academics. This will only affect academic rigour and quality. The concepts of liberty, equality, social justice, secularism are linked. How can one be taught without other?" he said. Another DU political science professor, who did not wish to be named, said," Chapters like democracy and diversity have been dropped. Crucial chapters from history have been dropped too about social reform movements." "It is understandable to reduce course load of students in such times but some of these chapters are also included in undergraduate studies so students are expected to know some basics," the professor said. The views of the academicians were echoed by Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. "Shocked to know that the Central Govt has dropped topics like Citizenship, Federalism, Secularism & Partition in the name of reducing CBSE course during #COVIDCrisis. We strongly object to this & appeal @HRDMinistry, GoI to ensure these vital lessons aren't curtailed at any cost," Banerjee tweeted. Chaturvedi tweeted, "We don't need no education-on Democratic Rights, democracy, gender, GST, citizenship, population struggles & movements, India's relationship with its neighbours." Cutting syllabus workload is good but it shouldn't become an excuse to curtail different streams of thoughts, she tweeted. Universities and schools across the country are closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a classroom shutdown as a measure to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25. While the government has eased several restrictions, schools and colleges remain closed. The HRD Ministry had announced in May that the syllabus will be reduced for the next academic session to reduce burden on students due to learning disruption caused by closure of schools because of COVID-19. Several concerns over course load were raised by parents, who put out online petitions on the issue. "As great a tool as online education is, it comes with certain limitations, and I believe that the reduction of syllabus is a fair move as many students who live in rural, underprivileged areas, were deprived of education because they did not have access to gadgets, power supply, and sufficient bandwidth – which are the prerequisites of online education," said Alka Kapoor, Principal, Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh. Reduction of syllabus makes sense in that regard, she said. A representative of DAV Public School, Gurgaon, said,"Rationalisation of syllabus is a welcome move". "The board has not barred us from teaching the dropped chapters it is just that students won't be evaluated for those chapters. Classroom teaching cannot completely be taken over by alternative methods, reduction in syllabus was very much needed," the representative said. "Extraordinary situations call for such extraordinary measures, said Rukmini Jha from Green Fields School. It can't be expected from students to bear the same course load as they were supposed to do during regular classroom so reduction in syllabus for this year is a wise move, she said. The government must also clarify whether syllabus for entrance exams will be reduced too or will continue to be the same, Jha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-nationalism-citizenship-demonetisation-among-chapters-dropped-from-cbse-syllabus-858501.html
08-07-2020||National||SC extends stay on coercive action against TV anchor Amish Devgan in multiple FIRs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday extended its stay on investigation against TV journalist Amish Devgan in multiple FIRs lodged against him across the country for his remarks against Sufi Saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna gave two more weeks time to him to serve notice on complainants on a request made by senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for Devgan. The court extended protection to him, initially granted on June 26, on a writ petition filed by him. The court had then issued notices to Rajasthan, Telangana  and Maharashtra, where FIRs were lodged against him.  Devgan has already tendered his apology for his inadvertent remark using name of 'Chishti' in place of 'Khilji' and calling him 'lootera' (plunderer). The TV debate show 'Aar Par' was telecast on June 15. In his plea, Devgan sought a direction to club multiple cases and transfer those to a court in National Capital Region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-extends-stay-on-coercive-action-against-tv-anchor-amish-devgan-in-multiple-firs-858513.html
08-07-2020||National||Govt would not have waited for six years if politics was behind probe into RGF transactions: BJP||The central government's order of a probe into transactions of trusts linked to the Nehru-Gandhi family is a "natural" outcome of information brought out in the public domain recently, the BJP said on Wednesday. BJP general secretary P Muralidhar Rao also rejected the charge that the government's decision is politically motivated, saying it would not have waited for six years had this been true. Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government came to power in 2014 and won a second mandate in 2019. "These transactions are in public domain... Our government is committed to transparency. It is natural to investigate these transactions after so much information was recently brought out in public domain," Rao told reporters. He said the Congress leadership should cooperate with the investigation. An inter-ministerial team has been set up by the government to coordinate probe into the alleged violation of various laws like money laundering and foreign contributions by three Nehru-Gandhi family linked trusts, including the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-would-not-have-waited-for-six-years-if-politics-was-behind-probe-into-rgf-transactions-bjp-858532.html
08-07-2020||National||Pakistan must introspect why it's universally acknowledged as 'epicentre' of terrorism: India at UN||Hitting out at Pakistan for peddling “false narratives” against it, India has asked Islamabad that it must introspect about why it is universally acknowledged as the "international epicentre" of terrorism and the “best safe haven for terrorists.” Mahaveer Singhvi, head of the Indian delegation, made the comments at a webinar ‘The Global Scourge of Terrorism: Assessment of High-Risk Threats and Trends, including the rise of Violent Extremism and Hate Speech in a Pandemic Environment’ on Tuesday during the ongoing virtual Counter-Terrorism Week. "While the world is coming together to battle the pandemic, it is unfortunate that Pakistan, a state which sponsors cross border terrorism, continues to use every opportunity to peddle false narratives and make baseless, malicious and egregious allegations against India and interfere in our internal affairs,” he said. “The international community should call upon Pakistan to take sustained, verifiable and irreversible actions against terror outfits operating on the territory under its control. Pakistan must introspect upon why it is universally acknowledged as the international epicentre of terrorism and the best safe haven for terrorists,” Singhvi said. Slamming Islamabad for raising India's domestic policies and internal affairs, including the issue of Jammu and Kashmir, he said even as Pakistan provides shelter and support to terrorists, it continues to peddle false and motivated narrative on the situation in the Union Territory. “It is seeking to portray its military, financial, logistical support to cross border terrorism against India as a freedom struggle. It is also peddling misinformation about India's domestic legislation and policies,” he said. If Pakistan wishes to be taken seriously in the fight against the “even more destructive virus of terrorism”, it must look inward and live up to its commitments and abandon its “divisionary tactics,” he said. While Pakistan conveniently blames others, it "turns a blind eye” to the human rights violations in Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and territories of Jammu and Kashmir illegally occupied by it, he said. “It has also systematically and consistently discriminated against its religious and cultural minorities,” Singhvi said, adding that reports of forced conversions, attacks on religious places of minorities, including Ahmedias, Christians, Hindus and Sikhs in Pakistan are well known to the world. “India is the largest democracy in the world where all faiths receive equal treatment, as mandated by the Constitution. Members from minority communities have held high offices in India, including presidents and prime ministers. Pakistan, being a theocratic State, may find it difficult to fathom India's secular credentials. “The least Pakistan could do… is to look into its own sorry state of affairs and put its house in order before pointing fingers at others and spewing venom against the democratically-elected Indian government and its leaders,” he said. He also slammed Pakistan's “ludicrous” statement claiming credit for eliminating Al Qaeda from its territory, saying it is “indeed ironic", considering its leader Osama bin Laden, "has recently been glorified as a martyr, by none other than the Prime Minister of Pakistan on the floor of their Parliament….This is a chilling reminder of the patronage that the international terrorists receive in Pakistan.” He said Prime Minister Imran Khan had publicly acknowledged the presence of up to 40,000 terrorists in Pakistan and that terrorists from there have attacked neighbouring countries. He also cited a recent report by the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team of the UN Security Council stating that around 6,500 Pakistani terrorists belonging to Jaish-i-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba are operating in Afghanistan. “Pakistan's role as epicentre of terrorism has been well documented by numerous international organisations” including the UN and the Financial Action Task Force. “Unlike Pakistan, India does not make any distinction between terrorists and invariably condemns terror attacks anywhere in the world,” including the recent Karachi attack, he said. Recalling the 2008 attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul by a Pakistan-supported terrorist group that claimed several lives, he said, “it is very unfortunate that a country which perpetrated terrorist attacks in Mumbai (2008), Pathankot (2016), Uri and Pulwama is now preaching to the world community.” He said India continues to face the scourge of state-sponsored cross border terrorism. “Terrorists have made innumerable attempts to infiltrate into our country from their safe abodes across the border to carry out attacks and have even used unmanned aerial systems to smuggle weapons across our borders,” he said. Globally, there have been “malevolent attempts” by terrorists to exploit the distress caused by lockdowns and disturb cohesiveness of societies, he said, adding that the increased presence of people online has been targeted by terrorists to spread misinformation through hate speeches, fake news and doctored videos. Terror groups have also exhorted supporters to target security forces and health workers and proscribed terrorist outfits are collecting funds under the garb of charitable activities to finance terror. “As the world grapples with Covid-19, it is important to augment international legal frameworks to coherently fight against terrorists, whose disruptive activities continued and, in fact, increased during the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-must-introspect-why-its-universally-acknowledged-as-epicentre-of-terrorism-india-at-un-858536.html
08-07-2020||National||Kulbhushan Jadhav refuses to file review petition, says Pakistan||Jadhav, who is facing death sentence, instead of filing a review petition, decided to use his pending mercy plea, despite the Pakistani  authorities inviting him to file a review petition of the sentence, as per the Pakistani Additional Attorney General. “On June 17, 2020, Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav was invited to file a petition for review and reconsideration of his sentence  and conviction. Exercising his legal right, he refused to file a petition for review and reconsideration of his sentence and conviction,”  Pakistan Additional Attorney General said in a press conference on Wednesday, as per reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kulbhushan-jadhav-refuses-to-file-review-petition-says-pakistan-858560.html
08-07-2020||National||Patna to remain under lockdown from July 10 to 16, orders District Magistrate||A complete lockdown has been ordered in Patna from July 10 to July 16 due to a sudden spurt in novel coronavirus cases, officials said on Wednesday. An order to this effect was issued by Patna District Magistrate Kumar Ravi. Except for the essential services, markets, offices and other commercial activities will be prohibited during the lockdown period in the state capital, the order said. The decision comes on a day Bihar reported its highest single-day spike of 749 COVID-19 cases, of which Patna alone accounted for 235. The state's COVID-19 tally now stands at 13,274, the health department said in its daily update on Wednesday. This is the first instance of the state's coronavirus count crossing the 700-mark in one day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patna-to-remain-under-lockdown-from-july-10-to-16-orders-district-magistrate-858578.html
08-07-2020||National||Enhancing global cooperation need of the hour to effectively tackle Covid-19: President Ram Nath Kovind||Asserting that India was at the forefront of the ongoing international efforts to defeat the coronavirus, President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday said enhancing global cooperation to effectively tackle the pandemic was the need of the hour. At a ceremony during which Kovind accepted credentials from heads of mission from New Zealand, the United Kingdom and Uzbekistan, he said that India has deep-rooted ties with all the three countries and was privileged to share with them a common outlook on key global issues. The president noted that enhancing global cooperation was the need of the hour to effectively tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement. "In this context, he stated that India was in the forefront of ongoing international efforts to defeat the pandemic," it stated. Expressing happiness over the vibrant state of relations with the three countries, President Kovind emphasised that as a member of the UN Security Council for the term 2021-22, India looked forward to working with the international community to strengthen global peace and prosperity. "This was the second time that credentials presentation in Rashtrapati Bhavan happened through video-conference in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic," the statement said. The president had in May this year received the credentials from the envoys of seven countries through video-conference. David Pine, the High Commissioner of New Zealand, Sir Philip Barton, the High Commissioner of the United Kingdom, and Akhatov Dilshod Khamidovich, the Ambassador of the Republic of Uzbekistan presented their credentials to the president during Wednesday's ceremony. Kovind conveyed his warm wishes to the envoys on their appointment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enhancing-global-cooperation-need-of-the-hour-to-effectively-tackle-covid-19-president-ram-nath-kovind-858593.html
08-07-2020||National||India may see 2.87 lakh Covid-19 cases a day by winter 2021 in absence of vaccine: MIT study||India may record about 2.87 lakh projected cases of the novel coronavirus per day by the end of winter 2021 in the absence of a Covid-19 vaccine or drug interventions, according to a modelling study by the researchers from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Using data for 84 countries with reliable testing data -- spanning 4.75 billion people -- the researchers developed a dynamic epidemiological model. in a preprint paper, MIT professors Hazhir Rahmandad and John Sterman, and PhD candidate Tse Yang Lim, noted that the top ten countries by projected daily infection rates at the end of winter 2021 are India with 2.87 lakh infections per day, followed by the US, South Africa, Iran, Indonesia, the UK, Nigeria, Turkey, France, and Germany. However, they noted that the projections are highly sensitive to assumed testing, behavioural, and policy responses, and as such they should be interpreted as indicators of potential risk and not precise predictions of future cases. The researchers added that more rigorous testing and reductions in contacts in response to risk perception will significantly reduce future cases while laxer response and normalisation of risks can lead to overwhelming breakouts. By making additional assumptions on future testing and responses, the researchers said the model can inform future trajectories. "We explore a few projections out to spring 2021 that exclude vaccine and treatment availability," said the researchers. The researchers considered projections under three scenarios: 1. Using the current country-specific testing rates and response functions moving forward, 2. If enhanced testing -- of 0.1 per cent a day -- is adopted on July 1, and 3. If sensitivity of contact rate to perceived risk is set to 8, leaving testing at current levels. The first two scenarios project a very large burden of new cases in the fall 2020, with hundreds of millions of cases concentrated in a few countries estimated to have insufficient responses given perceived risks, primarily India, but also Bangladesh, Pakistan, and the US.  "Our model simulates the progression and spread of Covid-19, including how people interact, how many get sick, how many get tested, how many are hospitalized, how many die -- and how people change their behaviour in response to the risk they perceive,” Rahmandad said. "We then use a wide range of data to estimate the parameters of the model -- say, what fraction of infections are asymptomatic, and how contagious the virus is -- to give the best match to the real world data," they said. The model revealed several important insights. Most fundamentally, the magnitude of the epidemic is widely underreported, the researchers said. They estimate that cases and deaths through June 18 are, respectively, 11.8 and 1.48 times higher than official reports across the 84 nations considered. Despite these elevated numbers, the authors note that no country is remotely close to establishing herd immunity, they said. "While actual cases are far greater than official reports suggest, the majority of people remain susceptible. Waiting for herd immunity is not a viable path out of the current pandemic," Rahmandad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-see-287-lakh-covid-19-cases-a-day-by-winter-2021-in-absence-of-vaccine-mit-study-858597.html
08-07-2020||National||Specialist from AIIMS to provide guidance on clinical management of Covid-19 to doctors in 17 states||Specialist doctors from the AIIMS here have been roped in by the Union Health Ministry to provide expert guidance and knowledge support on Covid-19 to doctors manning ICUs in state hospitals, in an effort to reduce the fatality rate. The first such session through tele-consultation or video conference will be held today. The doctors will provide guidance on effective clinical management of coronavirus infected patients in the ICUs of different state hospitals through tele/video consultation, the Health Ministry said on Wednesday.  Tele-consultation is a critical component of the clinical intervention protocol for Covid-19. "They will handhold the states in clinical management of Covid-19 patients to reduce the case fatality rate. These tele-consultation sessions for providing timely and expert guidance to the doctors in the states shall be conducted twice every week, on Tuesdays and Fridays," the ministry said in its statement. Ten hospitals with more than 1000 beds, including nine from Mumbai (Maharashtra) and one from Goa will participate in the first session. These are NESCO Jumbo Facility, P South (Phase II), CIDCO Mulund Jumbo Facility – T (Phase II), Malad Infiniti Mall Jumbo Facility, PN (Phase III); Jio Convention Centre Jumbo Facility, HE (Phase III); Nair Hospital; MCGM Seven Hills; MMRDA BKC Jumbo Facility, HE (Phase II); MMRDA BKC Jumbo Facility, HE (Phase I); Mumbai Metro Dahisar Jumbo Facility, T (Phase II); and Govt Medical College and Hospital, Panaji, Goa.  "As part of its holistic response and management strategy for Covid-19, the Centre remains committed to reducing case fatality rate by ensuring effective clinical management of all Covid-19 positive patients," the ministry said.     Selected hospitals have more than 1000 beds for Covid patients including isolation beds, oxygen supported and ICU beds. Today's session will be led by Dr Anand Mohan, HOD, Pulmonary Medicine, AIIMS, Delhi. This tele-consultation exercise shall be extended to another 61 hospitals which have bed capacity ranging from 500-1000 on twice a week basis. A calendar of these expert-led tele-consultation sessions has been drawn up to cover the States till July 31. A total of 17 such states shall be covered including Delhi, Gujarat, Telangana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Jharkhand and Maharashtra, the ministry said. Up to two doctors handling ICU patients from each hospital along with the Director General of health Services (DGHS) of the state concerned will participate in the VC interaction, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/specialist-from-aiims-to-provide-guidance-on-clinical-management-of-covid-19-to-doctors-in-17-states-858605.html
08-07-2020||National||Supreme Court recalls its order allowing sale of BS-IV vehicles for 10 days after lifting of lockdown||The Supreme Court Wednesday recalled its March 27 order by which it had allowed the sale of BS-IV vehicles for 10 days across the country, except in Delhi-NCR, after lifting of Covid-19 induced lockdown. The apex court said automobile dealers violated its directives and BS-IV vehicles were sold during the lockdown in last week of March and after March 31 also. "Do not take advantage of this court by playing fraud" a bench comprising Justices Arun Mishra, S A Nazeer and Indira Banerjee, said while hearing the matter through video-conferencing. The top court had on March 27 said it was permitting the sale of 10 percent of unsold BS-IV vehicles to make up for six days lost due to the nationwide lockdown which was imposed on March 25. The apex court Wednesday said that Bharat Stage (BS)-IV vehicles sold after March 31 this year will not be presently registered. The bench observed that the sale of BS-IV vehicles had increased in the last week of March when the nationwide lockdown was in force, and they were sold online also. Senior advocate Aparajita Singh, who is assisting the top court as an amicus curiae in the matter, said the court has recalled its March 27 order. During the hearing, the bench observed that the automobile dealers association have not followed its earlier order and they have violated the apex court's directives. It said that BS-IV vehicles were sold during the lockdown in last week of March and after March 31 also and now their registration was sought despite the fact that order was passed way back in 2018. The association's counsel referred to an earlier order and argued that court had said if BS-IV vehicle is sold before March 31, then registration would be done. To this, the bench asked how dealers have sold these vehicles during the lockdown period in March. It observed that details of more than 17,000 vehicles have not been uploaded on the e-Vahan portal of the Government of India. The bench said it would ask the government to check the e-Vahan data. The court said it would allow registration of those BS-IV vehicles, whose details are uploaded on the e-Vahan portal till March 31. It asked the government to place before it the data of vehicles which were uploaded on the e-Vahan portal after 31 March. It asked the automobile dealers association to furnish details of the vehicles sold by them to the government. The bench has posted the matter for hearing on July 23. The apex court in October 2018 said no BS-IV vehicle would be sold or registered in India from April 1, 2020. In 2016, the Centre had also announced that India would skip the BS-V norms and adopt BS-VI by 2020. BS emission norms are standards instituted by the government to regulate the output of air pollutants from motor vehicles. On June 15, the apex court had made it clear that no sale and registration of BS-IV vehicles would be permitted in the country and pulled up the automobile dealers association for violating its earlier order that had given some limited relaxation. A livid top court had noted that as per the compliance affidavit filed regarding its March 27 order, more than 2.25 lakh vehicles were waiting for registration as on March 31 and this exceeded the figure which it had specified. It had allowed registration of 1.05 lakh two-wheelers, 2,250 passenger cars and 2,000 commercial vehicles which were sold but not registered across the country. It had said that registration of vehicles, which were to be sold out of the permitted 10 percent, cannot be made without its permission and without giving particulars as ordered by the court in March. In March this year, the apex court was informed about the unsold inventory of BS-IV vehicles -- around seven lakh two-wheelers, 15,000 passenger cars and 12,000 commercial vehicles. It was told that there were 1.05 lakh two-wheelers, 2,250 passenger cars and 2,000 commercial vehicles, which were sold but not registered throughout the country. The top court had then ordered that vehicles, which were sold but not registered, be registered by the authorities by April 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-recalls-its-order-allowing-sale-of-bs-iv-vehicles-for-10-days-after-lifting-of-lockdown-858606.html
08-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Secularism, citizenship and nationalism out of CBSE syllabus||In today's episode, secularism, citizenship and nationalism out of CBSE syllabus, an inter-ministerial team will coordinate probe into the alleged violation of various laws like money laundering and foreign contributions by three Nehru-Gandhi family linked trusts and Instagram will start testing a new format ‘Reels’ in India.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-secularism-citizenship-and-nationalism-out-of-cbse-syllabus-858609.html
08-07-2020||National||CBSE decision to drop nationalism, secularism from syllabus kicks off row||CBSE’s decision to drop topics such as federalism, nationalism, secularism from the Class XI syllabus for the truncated academic session of 2020-21 triggered a controversy with the Congress and other opposition parties terming it as “unacceptable” and a part of a larger conspiracy. The CBSE also dropped complete chapters on ‘Democracy and Diversity’, ‘Popular Struggles and Movements’ and ‘Challenges to Democracy’ from the Class X Political Science syllabus and topics such as ‘Understanding Partition’ and ‘Demonetisation’ from the Class XII syllabus. “Secularism and federalism are pillars of Indian democracy. What message are you trying to send? That these do not matter,” Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singhvi told reporters here. Singhvi said he was planning to move the Court in his personal capacity against the CBSE decision to drop these topics from the syllabus. “Shocked to know that the Central Govt has dropped topics like Citizenship, Federalism, Secularism & Partition in the name of reducing CBSE course during #COVIDCrisis. We strongly object to this & appeal @HRDMinistry, GoI to ensure these vital lessons aren't curtailed at any cost,” West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said. Shiv Sena also criticised the CBSE decision and asked the Modi government to be tolerant to diverse thoughts. “Cutting syllabus workload is good but it should not become an excuse to curtail different streams of thoughts, Mantriji,” Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury termed the CBSE decision as “atrocious and unacceptable”. “Using the pandemic, Modi government is deleting sections dealing with India’s diversity, plurality, democracy etc that uphold our Constitutional values from the Higher Secondary syllabus,” Yechury said. Yechury claimed that the CBSE move was to advance the RSS vision of an exclusivist, theocratic, intolerant, fascistic nation. “This is nothing but the destruction of our Constitution. Unacceptable,” the CPI(M) leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-decision-to-drop-nationalism-secularism-from-syllabus-kicks-off-row-858610.html
08-07-2020||National||Withdrawal of Chinese troops in Hot Springs complete; Pull back continues in other areas||Indian and Chinese armies continued with the troop withdrawal process on Wednesday clearing patrol point-15 – another friction zone in eastern Ladakh that was on the knife-edge during the nine-week long stand-off in India’s northernmost union territory. The disengagement has been completed at PP-15 (Gogra Post/Hot Spring areas) where the troops have moved back by nearly two km from the line of actual control, government sources said. At PP-17 and PP-17A in the same area, it would take another day or two to finish the task. PP-15 is the second friction point that was cleared by the two armies in the last two days after PP-14 that witnessed a bloody battle on June 15 between the troops leading to the death of 20 Indian soldiers and a significant number of Chinese troops. Satellite images also confirm the clearance. On the northen banks of the Pangong Tso where the Chinese troops fortified their positions, sources said some more thinning of the People’s Liberation Army troops had taken place at Finger 4 up to which the Indian troops are restricted at the moment, but there is no sign of a definitive pull back yet. Traditionally on the northern banks of the 135 km long lake, Indian troops used to patrol upto Finger 8, which is 8 km east of Finger 4. Sources said the two armies were exploring yet another meeting of the senior military commanders to complete the verification process and decide on the future course of action. But no time schedule has been drawn yet. The joint verification will assess the implementation of the disengagement process once the dismantling of temporary infrastructure and withdrawal of troops are completed. Besides the talks would also finalise the modalities for restoring normalcy and bringing back peace and tranquillity along the LAC after the disengagement exercise is completed. At PP-14 and PP-15, a buffer zone has been created which no army is patrolling at the moment. Indian Army sources insist it was only a temporary measure necessary to avoid recurrence of any inadvertent clash between the troops. “This is only a temporary step which would be in place till the disengagement process is complete. No permanent buffer zone has been created,” said an Army officer. Sources said Indian Army would maintain its aggressive posturing along the LAC till the Chinese side cuts down on its significant build up in the depth areas on their side of the LAC. Both sides brought in thousands of additional troops and weaponry including tanks and artillery guns to their rear bases as part of a build up following the face-off that began on May 5, even though increased Chinese presence along the LAC was noticed by mid-April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/withdrawal-of-chinese-troops-in-hot-springs-complete-pull-back-continues-in-other-areas-858622.html
08-07-2020||National||SC agrees to hear PIL for closing down 'Ashrams' by fake Babas||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to examine a PIL for a direction to the Centre to close down the 'Ashrams' and spiritual centres run by fake 'Babas' for having kept hundreds of women inmates over there in unhygienic conditions, triggering threat of Covid-19 spread.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna asked petitioner Dumpala Ramreddy, a resident of Secunderabad, to serve the copy of the petition to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The court asked Mehta to look into the matter as it gave a bad name to everyone. It decided to consider the plea after two weeks. The petitioner also sought framing of guidelines in setting up of 'Ashrams', spiritual entities in the country. The petition filed through advocate Sravan Kumar contended that the government authorities failed to take any action against "fake babas" who were running the Ashrams and trapping the innocent people particularly women. Thousands of women have been forced to stay in the Ashrams and were given drugs and narcotics, he alleged. "Though very serious criminal cases were registered against Veerendra Dev Dixit, Asharam Bapu, Ram Rahim baba etc, their Ashrams are still running with the help of their close associates and the authorities are not verifying the facilities available over there," the plea alleged. The petitioner was also aggrieved with rape accused Dixit, whose 'Adhyatmika Vishwa Vidhyalaya' at Rohini in Delhi - where his daughter stayed for the past five years - was raided by the court-appointed panel following complaints by several girls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-agrees-to-hear-pil-for-closing-down-ashrams-by-fake-babas-858623.html
08-07-2020||National||Indian, Chinese militaries to carry out verification of disengagement process in eastern Ladakh||Indian and Chinese armies are expected to carry out a joint verification to assess the implementation of the disengagement process once the dismantling of temporary infrastructure and withdrawal of troops by China are completed in the friction points in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. They said the two militaries are set to hold extensive talks on finalising modalities for restoring normalcy and bringing back peace and tranquillity in the region after the verification of the disengagement exercise is completed. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-remains-cautious-as-china-yet-to-withdraw-large-number-of-troops-from-rear-areas-858297.html The mutual disengagement of troops from the standoff points has been undertaken as a measure to ease the situation in the region and the larger focus would be to ensure the total restoration of status quo ante in all areas of the region, they said. As per the mutual understanding, neither side will carry out any patrolling in the friction points till modalities for restoration of peace and tranquillity are thrashed out. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held “a frank and in-depth exchange of views” on Sunday to de-escalate tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Chinese military began pulling back of troops from a number of friction points from Monday morning. The Chinese military has already withdrawn troops from Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, while the pull back is likely to be over in Gogra on Thursday. Military sources said Indian Army will continue to maintain its aggressive posturing along the Line of Actual Control till the Chinese side cuts down on its significant build up in its rear bases along the LAC, the de-facto border between India and China. Both sides have brought in thousands of additional troops and weaponry including tanks and artillery guns to their rear bases as part of a mega build up following the face-off that began on May 5. "There is a trust factor now. We will not lower our guard at all," said a senior military official on the condition of anonymity. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in the bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last eight weeks. The tension escalated manifold after the Galwan Valley clash. Both sides have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region. However, there was no visible sign of any end to the standoff till Sunday evening. Sources said the breakthrough was achieved at the Doval-Wang meeting. On June 30, the Indian and Chinese armies held the third round of Lt General-level talks during which both sides agreed on an "expeditious, phased and step wise" de-escalation as a "priority" to end the standoff. In the talks on June 22, the two sides arrived at a "mutual consensus" to "disengage" from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. The first round of the Lt General talks was held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise visit to Ladakh during which he said the era of expansionism is over and that the history is proof that "expansionists" have either lost or perished, in comments which were seen as a clear message to China that India is not going to back off and would deal with the situation with a firm hand. Tensions had escalated in eastern Ladakh around two months back after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-militaries-to-carry-out-verification-of-disengagement-process-in-eastern-ladakh-858624.html
08-07-2020||National||Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh announces week-long protest against Centre's move to privatise PSUs||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) is on warpath against the Narendra Modi government with RSS-affiliated trade union on Wednesday announcing a 'Sarkar Jagao Saptah' (wake up, government week) this month-end against the government's move to privatise Public Sector Units and problems faced by the workers. The agitation plan was announced by BMS General Secretary Virjesh Upadhyay, a day after a virtual meeting of national office bearers of the trade union presided by national president Saji Narayanan. The BMS plans to highlight the problems of unorganised sector workers particularly migrant workers issues, non-payment of wages, huge job losses, suspension of labour laws and increasing working hours in many states and "unbridled privatisation by selling PSUs and also through corporatisation of Defence and Railway production units. "The BMS has decided to observe 'Sarkar Jagao Saptah' from July 24 to 30 through countrywide demonstrations," Upadhyay said. During the meeting, the leaders assessed that three days coal strike had affected 95% activities in the sector. The BMS said the coal strike would have an "outstanding" impact on the entire public sector and government sector employees. As a part of 'Sarkar Jagao Saptah' agitation, BMS activists will contact grass-roots level workers of each sector and educate them about the central as well as state governments’ latest policies and their severe impact on workers. "It will also expose the anti-workers Ordinances brought by four state governments and increasing of working hours from 8 to 12 hours by 12 state governments. Each day, workers belonging to one particular sector will conduct processions and public meetings as per the local situations by following all the Covid-19 norms," Upadhyay said. According to the BMS plan, workers of schemes like ASHA, Anganwadi, mid-day meal, National Health Mission and 108 ambulance services will hold protests on July 24 followed by power and transport sector employees the next day. On July 26, private-sector employees in cement, engineering, jute, textiles, sugar, distilleries, pharmaceutical and industrial estates will hold protests while on July 27, employees in railways, postal, defence, local bodies and state and central government will take to the streets. Financial sector employees' protest will be on July 28 while the unorganised sector workers hold demonstrations the next day. The protest programme will culminate on July 30 with protest by employees of PSUs on July 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharatiya-mazdoor-sangh-announces-week-long-protest-against-centres-move-to-privatise-psus-858645.html
08-07-2020||National||RS officials say quorum not necessary for all Parliamentary panel meets; Jairam calls it silly, bogus argument||A day after senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh sought online meetings of Parliamentary Standing Committees raising concern about participation of MPs, Rajya Sabha officials on Wednesday said such panels were meeting without quorum for years and the requirement of minimum MPs present is necessary only for "taking decisions" and "adopting" reports and not for general discussions.Officials cited that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, which is headed by Ramesh since last September, held 32 meetings during the last three years of which 22% were without quorum while the panel on Home Affairs headed by another senior Congress leader Anand Sharma held 38 meetings during this period while 21% were without quorum.However, Ramesh, who chaired 11 meetings since his assumption as panel head in September, was not convinced with the argument and described it as "silly and bogus". He said there was quorum in all the meetings he chaired and that "disinformation virus has hit the media briefers in the Rajya Sabha too"."Point isn’t about quorum alone. It’s about facilitating those MPs who want to attend and are unable to because of the containment zone and quarantine restrictions in their home states. Very different from not attending due to other commitments in normal times. On those occasions we did not have advance information always on who will attend and who will not. This time around MPs have informed before the meeting. Some have even requested for virtual meetings," he said in tweets.Officials said the details of meetings without quorum in the past three years after Naidu took over as Chairman were referred to only to bring out that committees used to meet without quorum even in normal times. The information been shared with media so that MPs willing to attend the meetings should not be in any doubt whether such meetings will be held or not, on account of quorum requirement, they said.The Science and Technology panel is scheduled to meet on Friday to discuss "preparedness to deal with Covid-19 and other pandemics in future" and Ramesh wrote to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu demanding a digital meeting, which he said several MPs cutting across party lines had sought.  Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-meet-on-covid-19-stares-at-postponement-as-mps-cite-travel-restrictions-quarantine-858167.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-meet-on-covid-19-stares-at-postponement-as-mps-cite-travel-restrictions-quarantine-858167.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-meet-on-covid-19-stares-at-postponement-as-mps-cite-travel-restrictions-quarantine-858167.html He had said many MPs have "expressed their inability to attend" the meeting because of "travel restrictions, quarantine and other constraints" and that he was “doubtful if we can muster up a quorum”.However, officials said the quorum is necessary only for taking decisions and adopting reports by the committees and “not for taking up a general discussion on identified issues and for taking evidence” from the concerned ministries or departments."Committees have been meeting without the quorum over the years. It was clarified that a meeting of the committee without the quorum entitles the participating members for TA and DA," a senior official said.CPI Parliamentary Party leader Binoy Vishwam, who is a member of the Science and Technology panel, said that he has already written to the Rajya Sabha Secretariat seeking virtual meetings, as it would be difficult for him to travel to Delhi at this point of time."It is unscientific, unethical and morally incorrect to hold a meeting and insist on physical presence now in Delhi where the Covid-19 situation remains serious. We are told there is no convention for holding online meetings of Parliamentary committees. This situation is now different. The pandemic has introduced several new practices, which were not used to earlier. So there is no point in holding on to conventions," he told DH.A meeting of the Standing Committee on Petroleum headed by BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri was held on Tuesday in which 14 of the 31 members attended.A similar meeting of the Sharma-led Home panel is also scheduled on July 15 to discuss management of Covid-19. Senior DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran on Monday wrote to Sharma seeking digital meeting, citing that Tamil Nadu has strict lockdown rules and he would have to be in quarantine on return that would "severely affect" his Parliamentary duties in his constituency.Maran said he would not be able to attend the meeting physically if quarantine regulations are not waived for him.There have been demands for holding the Parliamentary Standing Committee meetings through video conference but it did not go forward as the Parliament had to pass a resolution in this regard, officials said. Also, questions about confidentiality of proceedings were also raised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-officials-say-quorum-not-necessary-for-all-parliamentary-panel-meets-jairam-calls-it-silly-bogus-argument-858646.html
08-07-2020||National||Indo-Nepal standoff overboard at border||Close on the heels of Nepal Parliament approving a new political map, wherein it claimed its territorial jurisdiction over Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakhand, the Nepal government erected a board on the no-man’s land near Bihar’s Raxaul district. The board, put up by the Nepalese government on Tuesday, was clearly an attempt by the Himalayan Kingdom to usurp the no-man’s land near Raxaul’s Customs Office. However, the matter was brought to the notice of the Sashtra Seema Bal (SSB). The Deputy Commandant of the SSB, Manoj Kumar, rushed to the disputed site and foiled Nepal’s attempt to encroach upon the no-man’s land on Bihar-Nepal border. “Office of the District Police, Parsa, Birganj. The border starts,” read the new board put by the Home Department of Nepal government near Raxaul’s Custom’s office. “India’s Immigration Office is also a stone’s throw from the disputed site,” said a senior SSB official. Bihar and Nepal share around 850 kms long porous border. This is the fourth major dispute with the neighbourly nation on the border since last month. More recently, on June 26, the Nepal Police withdrew its temporary camp it had set up at Pankotia village in Raxaul. Apart from these incidents, the Nepalese authorities in the last week of June prevented Bihar engineers to carry out fortification of 2.5 km-long embankment on Lal Bakey river, claiming the 500 metres of the embankment fell in the Nepalese territory. Prevention of fortification may lead to flooding of Bihar areas during monsoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indo-nepal-standoff-overboard-at-border-858652.html
08-07-2020||National||Cannot be intimidated, says Rahul Gandhi on RGF probe||Congress on Wednesday hit back at Modi government that ordered a probe into the functioning of Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) and two other trusts, asserting that it had nothing to “hide” and won’t be intimidated by the “blind witch-hunt”. Rahul Gandhi accused the Modi government of trying to intimidate “those who fight for the truth”. “Mr Modi believes the world is like him. He thinks everyone has a price or can be intimidated. He will never understand that those who fight for the truth have no price and cannot be intimidated,” the former Congress president said. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi asserted that Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust have nothing to fear and can answer every question like law-abiding citizens. The strong statements came after Modi government set up an inter-ministerial team to coordinate a probe into the alleged violation of various laws like money laundering and foreign contributions by the three trusts associated with the Gandhi family. Singhvi wondered why the government was not asking the same questions of the “blue-eyed, sanctified holy cows” such as the RSS, Vivekananda Foundation, India Foundation and Overseas Friends of the BJP. “We are here as law-abiding persons to answer. But, you need to be exposed fully, in that you don't ever ask these questions of many holy cows,” he said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala described the probe against the three trusts as a “blind witch-hunt by a panicked Modi government”. Surjewala said the Congress’ determination to hold the government accountable to the people of India and to speak for the deprived, the underprivileged and the downtrodden will only get strengthened by these “desperate actions of a government too petrified to answer its own people”. “Nations remember their Martyrs with gratitude for their sacrifices. Smt Indira Gandhi and Shri Rajiv Gandhi gave their lives for India. Targeting the trusts dedicated to honour their rich legacy is unfortunate and vindictive, which must be condemned,” senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cannot-be-intimidated-says-rahul-gandhi-on-rgf-probe-858654.html
08-07-2020||National||Cabinet nod for extension of PMGKAY for till November||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to extend distribution of free foodgrains and pulses under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) to 81 crore PDS beneficiaries for five months till November. The scheme was initially rolled out for three months till June to ensure no poor goes hungry during the Covid-19 crisis. Under the scheme, five kg of wheat or rice and one kg of pulses per month are being provided free of cost. "The Prime Minister had announced that this scheme will be extended and the same has been approved by the Cabinet today," Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said in a media briefing. The PMGKAY has been extended for another five months till November. About 203 lakh tonnes of foodgrains and 9.70 lakh tonne of chana will be given for free in the next five months, he said. The distribution of free ration under the PMGKAY would cost Rs 1.49 lakh crore to the exchequer, he added. The estimated cost is for providing eight months of ration under the scheme. Stating that this is the most popular scheme, the minister said, "For the first time since (India's) independence, free foodgrains are being distributed for eight months. No country has such a big scheme." In a televised address to the nation on June 30, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced extension of the free ration scheme PMGKAY till the end of November 2020 to ameliorate the hardship faced by the underprivileged or poor on account of economic disruption caused by the lockdown due to Covid-19.  In a statement, the government said the extension of PMGKAY is in line with the commitments of the government not to allow anybody, especially any poor family, to suffer on account of non-availability of food grains due to disruption during the next five months. Free distribution of chana will also ensure adequate availability of protein to all the above-mentioned individuals during these five months, it said. All expenses on the extended PMGKAY will be borne by the central government, it added. Free ration provided under the PMGKAY is in addition to the subsidised grains given through Public Distribution System (PDS) under the National Food Security Act. With regard to distribution of free ration to 8 crore migrant labourers, Javadekar said about 8 lakh tonne of foodgrains has been allocated for this purpose and migrants can avail their quota till August. About 5 kg foodgrains per beneficiary and 1 kg pulses per family is being distributed at free of cost to migrants who neither have centre or state ration cards under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-nod-for-extension-of-pmgkay-for-till-november-858655.html
08-07-2020||National||Two civilians injured in ceasefire violation by Pakistan in J&K's Kupwara||Two civilians were injured when Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district on Wednesday, the Army said. "Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Tangdhar sector in Kupwara district on 08 Jul 2020 in the afternoon hours by firing mortars and other weapons," an army official said. The official said two civilians were injured in the firing and shelling by the Pakistani troops. "The Indian Army was giving a befitting response to the unprovoked aggression," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-civilians-injured-in-ceasefire-violation-by-pakistan-in-jks-kupwara-858657.html
08-07-2020||National||Kerala: UAE consulate officials to be quizzed in gold smuggling case||An official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapurm is likely to be quizzed by the Customs in connection with the smuggling of 30 kilogram gold from UAE to India through Thiruvananthapurm airport under the cover of diplomatic baggage. According to sources, the Customs have sought MEA nod to quiz the consulate official with diplomatic immunity. Once the nod was received he would be quizzed. With the smuggling using diplomatic baggage assuming international ramifications, various central agencies, including the Intelligence Bureau, were also looking into the case. Sarith Kumar, a former PRO of the consulate who was already held in connection with the smuggling, reportedly turned up for clearing the diplomatic cargo from Thiruvananthapuram airport with an official authorisation letter issued by an attache of the consulate. Hence the attache needs to be quizzed to know if it was a genuine letter or a forged one. The consignment was addresed to Charge d’ Affairs. Meanwhile, the baggage from which the gold were seized was not a diplomatic baggage, but was only addressed to the consulate official. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said that the baggage was not in the diplomatic baggage category as it was not sent by the embassy officially, but was only addressed to an official in the UAE. It was only written on the baggage that it was diplomatic baggage and hence the customs sought MEA's nod. He also said that central agencies were seriously probing into all aspects of the case. A former consulate employee, Swapna Suresh, who is a key accused in the smuggling was still absconding, while one of her accomplice, identified as Sandeep Nair, who runs a automobile carbon cleaning centre in Thiruvananthapuram, was also wanted by the customs in the case. It was suspected that around ten consignments were sent by a person in UAE by misusing diplomatic cover. Opposition demand CM's resignation Opposition Congress in Kerala demanded resignation of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan taking moral responsibility for his the nexus of his office with gold smuggling accused as well as the appointment of one of the accused in an agency under the CM. Vijayan could not evade from the responsibility by maintaining that he was not aware of the appointment, said Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-uae-consulate-officials-to-be-quizzed-in-gold-smuggling-case-858660.html
08-07-2020||National||Coronavirus: Indian Navy culminates Operation Samudra Setu, brings back 3,992 Indians||The Indian Navy has scripted yet another successful story of a humanitarian mission when it concluded Operation Samudra Setu by bringing back as many as 3,992 citizens from various countries. Indian Navy ships Jalashwa, Airavat, Shardul and Magar steamed more than 23,000 kilometres during Operation Samudra Setu and undertook the evacuation operation in a smooth and coordinated manner. Operation Samudra Setu, was launched on May 5, as part of the national effort to repatriate Indian citizens from overseas during the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Indian Naval ships Jalashwa (Landing Platform Dock), and Airavat, Shardul and Magar (Landing Ship Tanks) participated in this operation which lasted over 55 days and involved traversing more then 23,000 kilometers by sea - bringing back 3,992 Indians.   Indian Navy has previously undertaken similar evacuation operations as part of Operation Sukoon in 2006 (Beirut) and Operation Rahat in 2015 (Yemen). "The Covid-19 pandemic has had significant impact on ships and seafarers due to the compact environment and forced ventilation systems onboard ships.  It was in these trying times and difficult conditions that the Indian Navy took up the challenge to evacuate our distressed citizens from overseas," an Indian Navy spokesperson said on Wednesday. The greatest challenge for the Indian Navy was to avoid any incident of outbreak of infection onboard the ships during the evacuation operation.  Rigorous measures were planned and medical/safety protocols unique to the operating environment of ships were implemented.   Operation Samudra Setu was undertaken utilising Indian Naval ships best suited for the operation, catering for Covid-19 related social distancing norms vis-à-vis medical arrangements and carrying capacity.  Ships used for the operation were specially provisioned and the clinics onboard the ships were especially equipped with equipment and facilities needed to treat Covid-19 patients. Women officers and military nursing staff were also enlisted to treat female passengers.  Basic amenities and medical facilities were provided to all evacuees during sea passage on these ships.   One of the expectant mothers who undertook passage on Jalashwa, Sonia Jacob, also gave birth to a baby boy within a few hours of reaching Kochi on International Mother’s Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indian-navy-culminates-operation-samudra-setu-brings-back-3992-indians-858664.html
08-07-2020||National||India's Cipla set to undercut rivals with low-priced generic remdesivir: Sources||Pharma major Cipla on Wednesday said it has launched its generic version of antiviral drug remdesivir at Rs 4,000 per vial, which is among the lowest globally, and is looking to supply over 80,000 vials within the first month. Cipremi is priced at Rs 4,000 per 100 mg vial, Cipla said in a statement. "We are proud to commercially launch Cipremi today (on Wednesday); amongst the lowest priced globally, and aim to supply over 80,000 vials within the first month itself," Cipla Executive Vice-President and CEO (India Business) Nikhil Chopra said in an e-mailed statement. To further ensure equitable distribution, the drug will be available through government and hospital channels only, he added. "Cipla will also be donating some amount of the drug as part of its efforts to support the community in this time of need," Chopra said. Cipremi has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for restricted emergency use in the country as part of the accelerated approval process considering the urgent and unmet medical need. Pharmaceutical major Mylan NV on Monday has said that its generic version of remdesivir will be priced at Rs 4,800 per 100 mg vial. Hyderbad-based drug firm Hetero has earlier said it has fixed a maximum retail price of Rs 5,400 per vial for the drug. Remdesivir is the only United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA)-approved Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) treatment for adult and paediatric patients hospitalised with suspected or laboratory confirmed Covid-19 infection. In May, domestic pharma firms Hetero, Cipla and Jubilant Life Sciences entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements with drug major Gilead Sciences Inc for manufacturing and distribution of remdesivir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-cipla-set-to-undercut-rivals-with-low-priced-generic-remdesivir-sources-858666.html
08-07-2020||National||Supreme Court asks Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to look into plea seeking action against illegal ashrams||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to look into a plea seeking action against illegal ashrams run by bogus ‘Babas’ across the country and rescuing women from jail-like conditions in ‘Adhyatimik Vidyalaya’ at Rohini here. "Look into this, what can be done. This gives a bad name to everyone," the top court told Mehta. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna asked the copy of the petition to be served to Mehta and posted the matter after two weeks. The plea filed by one Dumpala Ramreddy claimed in his petition that his daughter, a post-doctoral scholar from Iowa State University, USA, has been living in a jail-like condition from July 2015 in ‘Adhyatmika Vidyalaya’, founded allegedly by a rape accused. He said the founder of the ashram has been declared as absconding for about three years and a Joint Committee formed by the Delhi High Court had submitted a report giving details of the pathetic conditions prevailing in the ashram run by Veerendar Dev Dixit. The plea said the apex body of sages -- 'Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad’ -- has declared a list of 17 fake ‘babas’ in the country which include the name of Veerendar Dev Dixit. Ramreddy, appearing in person, sought to rescue of his daughter along with about 170 women inmates from Adhyatmika Vidyalaya as it was done in the case of inmates of jails across the country. “Take stringent action on 17 illegal Ashrams in India run by “bogus Babas”...”, his plea said, adding, that hundreds/thousands of disciples are residing in 17 fake ashrams in the country and national capital and his daughter is one among such persons trapped by these fake ‘babas’. “That due to inaction of the Respondents and government authorities, fake ‘Babas’ are running the ashrams and trapping the innocent people particularly women. "Thousands of women have been forced to stay in the ashrams and they were given drugs and narcotics so that they will not leave the place,” he alleged in his plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-solicitor-general-tushar-mehta-to-look-into-plea-seeking-action-against-illegal-ashrams-858670.html
08-07-2020||National||Govt allows Ujjwala beneficiaries time till Sept to avail free LPG||The government on Wednesday allowed poor women beneficiaries of the Ujjwala scheme time till September-end to avail the unclaimed LPG cylinders out of the quota of three free cooking gas bottles that were given as pandemic relief. The government had in March announced three 14.2-kg LPG cylinders free of cost to about 8 crore Ujjwala beneficiaries from April to June to help them cope with the economic pain of the coronavirus lockdown. But since not all rural and poor households -- the principal beneficiaries of the Ujjwala scheme -- consume one cylinder every month, some could not avail their full quota of three cylinders, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters here. To help such people, the Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the period for availing the free cooking gas by three months till September-end, he said. An official statement said the relaxation would be available only to those beneficiaries who have been credited with the advance for buying the cylinder but have not been able to purchase the refill. According to the procedure, the price of one cylinder is paid as advance into bank accounts of beneficiaries. Once the beneficiary uses this amount to buy a cylinder from the market, the advance amount for the next refill will be credited to bank accounts. Some of the beneficiaries could not use the money in their account to buy an LPG refill before June 30. They have now been given an opportunity to do so by September 30. "On review of the scheme, it has been observed that a section of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) beneficiaries are yet to utilize the advance credited into their account to purchase the cylinder refill within the scheme period. "Hence, the Cabinet has approved the proposal of the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas to extend the time-limit for availing the advance by three months. This will benefit those PMUY beneficiaries who have been credited with the advance for buying the cylinder but have not been able to purchase the refill. "Thus, the beneficiaries who already have the advance transferred to their account can now take the free refill delivery till September 30," the statement said. Officials said no fresh transfer of money will be done into bank accounts and only unutilized credits for the purchase of LPG have been allowed till September. In March, the government had announced a relief package 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana' aimed at providing a safety net to the poor and vulnerable who had been hit the hardest by the pandemic. Besides free ration, the package included relief for poor families who had availed an LPG connection under PMUY. Under the PMGKY-Ujjwala, it was decided to provide free of cost refills for PMUY consumers for a period of three months with effect from April 1, 2020. "Under the scheme, Rs 9709.86 crore was transferred directly into the bank accounts of Ujjwala beneficiaries during April-June 2020 and 11.97 crore cylinders were delivered to the PMUY beneficiaries. The scheme went a long way to ameliorate the suffering and disruption caused due to the coronavirus pandemic," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allows-ujjwala-beneficiaries-time-till-sept-to-avail-free-lpg-858671.html
08-07-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for guidelines to check custodial crimes||A PIL has been filed in Supreme Court to lay down guidelines to fill the gaping legal lacunae, and ensuring an effective framework to prevent custodial torture, deaths and rapes, following the alleged killing of father-son duo in police custody in Tamil Nadu's Thoothukudi district. NGO 'People's Charioteer Organisation' and advocate Devesh Saxena also sought a direction to the Union Government to form an independent committee of members from all the relevant departments and ministries to review the entire legal framework and find pitfalls to curb the menace. The petitioner claimed the recent incidents of custodial crimes have traumatised all those who respect the rule of law and personal liberty in the country. "It is noteworthy to mention here that Indian police are well known for gratuitous beatings, custodial torture, custodial deaths, fake encounters and other blatant state violence...we failed to eliminate the colonial attitude of our police and allowed it to continue with same archaic law such as the Police Act, 1861," it claimed.  The murderous police assault, unending beatings and brutal torture, which caused the death of two innocent traders, a father and a son, Jayaraj, aged 62 years and Bennix, aged 32 years, at Sathankulam Police Station, near Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu, has brought the issue of custodial deaths to the limelight, the petitioner said. "It underlines afresh the urgent need for institutional correctives within the policing system in this country and the acute need for Union government to enact a strong law to prohibit and prosecute cases of torture and custodial deaths, in fulfilment of its legal obligations, both national and international, to guarantee protection to right to life," it said. The petitioner cited the Law Commission's 152nd and 273rd reports, as well as other committee reports along with statues of foreign jurisdiction to buttress its points. It also cited the NHRC's report between 1994-95 to 2017-18 which enlisted the number of death and rapes in judicial custody and police custody as 29979 and 3642 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-guidelines-to-check-custodial-crimes-858672.html
08-07-2020||National||Coronavirus: AIIMS doctors to guide states on reduction of Covid-19 deaths||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Wednesday began tele-consultation sessions for doctors across states with an aim to reduce mortality due to Sars-Cov-2. Specialist doctors from AIIMS guided doctors from 10 hospitals with more than 1,000 beds across Maharashtra and Goa to kick start the process that is scheduled to cover 61 more hospitals across 15 more states, including Karnataka. The Health Ministry stepped in with these special lessons in clinical management of Covid-19 patients as the number of infections surged to 7,42,417 on Wednesday morning, an increase of 22,752 cases since Tuesday morning. The DH Covid-19 Tracker put the total number of confirmed cases at 7,52,118 at 8:00 pm on Wednesday. The death toll had risen to 20,784 from the 20,642 fatalities on Wednesday morning. The specialist doctors from AIIMS “will handhold the States in clinical management of Covid-19 patients to reduce the case fatality rate”, a Health Ministry statement said. These tele-consultation sessions for providing timely and expert guidance to the doctors in the States shall be conducted twice every week, on Tuesdays and Fridays. Wednesday’s session was meant for hospitals with 1,000 beds for Covid-19 patients, including isolation beds, oxygen supported beds and ICU beds. “This tele-consultation exercise shall be extended to another 61 hospitals which have bed capacity ranging from 500-1000 on twice a week basis,” the statement said.  Up to two doctors handling ICU patients from each hospital along with the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) of the concerned state will participate in the interaction through video conferencing. “A total of 17 such States shall be covered, including Delhi, Gujarat, Telangana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Jharkhand and Maharashtra,” the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-aiims-doctors-to-guide-states-on-reduction-of-covid-19-deaths-858677.html
08-07-2020||National||'Deleted' topics already covered, says CBSE||As the CBSE’s decision to reduce syllabi for Class IX-XII kicked off a political row, the board clarified that each of the subjects “wrongly mentioned as deleted” has already been covered under the alternative academic calendar issued by the NCERT. “The Board has clarified that no question shall be asked from the reduced syllabus in the Board examination 20-21 only,” CBSE Secretary Anurag Tripathi said in a statement here. His statement came after the CBSE decision to drop lessons on democracy and diversity, demonetisation, nationalism, secularism, India's relations with its neighbours and growth of local governments in India among others triggered a political row. "The rationalization of syllabus up to 30% has been undertaken by the Board for nearly 190 subjects of Class IX to XII for the academic session 2020,21 as a one time measure only,” he said. “The schools have also been directed to follow the alternative academic calendar prepared by NCERT for transacting the curriculum. Therefore, each of the topics that have been wrongly portrayed as deleted have been covered under alternative academic calender which is already in force for all the affiliated schools of the board,” Tripathi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deleted-topics-already-covered-says-cbse-858678.html
08-07-2020||National||India wants to build a road through Bhutan's 'Yeti Territory' to counter China's expansionist moves||India is likely to once again nudge a hitherto dilly-dallying Bhutan to allow construction of a strategic road through its “Yeti Territory”  –  in the wake of China’s new claim on the eastern region of the tiny Himalayan Shangri-La.  The proposed road will lessen the distance between Guwahati in Assam and Tawang near India-China disputed boundary in Arunachal Pradesh by 150 kilometres. It will shorten the travel time from 15 hours at present to approximately 9-10 hours. Once the new road is built, New Delhi will be able to mobilize troops faster to respond to China’s military moves, not only across its disputed boundary with India in Arunachal Pradesh, but also towards the eastern region of Bhutan.  The road was conceived long back, and India proposed that its Border Roads Organization (BRO) would lay the stretch in Bhutan.  The project, however, has not taken off yet, as Thimphu has been dilly-dallying on it. New Delhi is now dusting off the proposal in the wake of China’s renewed aggression along its disputed boundary with India and its new territorial claim in far eastern Bhutan.    “India and Bhutan have shared security interests,” a source in New Delhi said, adding that China’s new claim on far-eastern Bhutan was clearly linked to its claim on 90000 sq kms of territory in Arunachal Pradesh of India. “Thimphu will hopefully soon realize how important it is to build the road, not only for India, but also for Bhutan.”    Beijing has of late sought to block funding by an international agency for the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary in far eastern Bhutan. It argued that the sanctuary as well as the areas around it were parts of the disputed territory on the China-Bhutan boundary. Thimphu dismissed Beijing’s new claim, stating that the territorial dispute between Bhutan and China was limited only to 269 sq kms of areas in western sector and 495 sq kms of areas in the north-central sector of the boundary between the two nations. It argued that no part of its territory in eastern sector was ever on the agenda of its boundary negotiation with the communist country. The Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary in Trashigang District in far-eastern Bhutan and the areas around it have traditionally been believed to be home to elusive ‘Yeti’ – or ‘Migoi’ in Bhutanese. The area is also home to a dwindling population of the Brokpas – reclusive, semi-nomadic yak herding tribespeople, who had been preserving a unique pastoral culture and lifestyle in isolation ever since their ancestors migrated from Tibet sometime in 14th century.  The proposed road will connect Lumla near Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh with Trashigang in Bhutan. This will make it easier to travel from Guwahati via Samdrup Jongkhar and Trashigang in Bhutan to the tiny nation’s border with China and India as well as closer to the McMahon Line – the de facto boundary between India and China in the eastern sector.  Bhutan has so far been avoiding taking a call on the proposed road – apparently not only to protect the pristine and fragile ecology of the Himalayan Shangri La and the unique cultural heritage of its pastoral community from external influences, but also to avoid irking Beijing and being caught between India and China.    New Delhi, however, has underlined in its recent engagements with Thimphu that China’s bid to change the status quo along its disputed boundary with India, its new territorial claim in eastern Bhutan and its aggression in South China Sea, East China Sea and Taiwan Strait exposed its expansionist intentions. “We hope that Bhutan will take note of what China is doing and act accordingly,” another source in New Delhi told the DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wants-to-build-a-road-through-bhutans-yeti-territory-to-counter-chinas-expansionist-moves-858681.html
08-07-2020||National||India ranks eighth for cancer preparedness among 10 Asia-Pacific countries: EIU Report||India was ranked eighth as regards cancer preparedness among 10 Asia-Pacific countries, according to a new report. The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) report on "Cancer preparedness in Asia-Pacific: Progress towards universal cancer control", sponsored by Roche, examines the findings from the EIU's Index of Cancer Preparedness. The report describes the complexities of the challenge of cancer facing 10 Asia-Pacific countries -- Australia, China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam. The report has ranked India at the eighth position. "India ranks eighth for cancer preparedness in the region with an overall score of 51.6 out of 100, below the regional average of 66.5, while Australia (92.4), South Korea (83.4) and Malaysia (80.3) lead the region," the report said. The report ranked only Vietnam (44.5) and the Philippines (42.6) after India. It said further progress can be made as India records below-average scores across all three pillars in the index -- policy and planning, care delivery and health system and governance. "India was recognised for its progress in tobacco regulation to address the high prevalence of modifiable risk factors. However, the country still faces the challenge of developing comprehensive cancer control plans and expanding its immunisation and cancer-screening programmes given its vast population," Jesse Quigley Jones, the editor of the report, said. "Like other lower-middle-income countries, India should focus its efforts in closing the persistent access gaps and ensuring the quality of services across the cancer continuum through better infrastructure and service supply, while prioritising on healthy lifestyle promotion," Jones said. The report said it found a strong association between income levels and overall cancer preparedness as measured by the Index of Cancer Preparedness -- that is high-income countries outperform upper and lower-middle income countries. "Furthermore, a strong correlation was seen between the overall score in the Index of Cancer Preparedness and cancer control outcomes as measured by the ratio of mortality to cancer incidence in the countries. This demonstrates that in broad terms, better preparedness to manage the cancer burden equates with achieving better cancer outcomes," it said. The report noted that differences were observed in the ability of the countries to address the cancer burden. "Given that as many as 70 percent of cancer cases in low and middle-income countries in Asia are diagnosed at a late stage, an emphasis on preventive services and moving from opportunistic to population-based screening is needed," it said. While Indonesia and Malaysia have demonstrated strong growth in health spending and China has the biggest reduction in out-of-pocket health expenditure in the analysis, it is still only high-income countries that meet the World Health Organisation-recommended spending for universal health coverage, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranks-eighth-for-cancer-preparedness-among-10-asia-pacific-countries-eiu-report-858687.html
08-07-2020||National||Wednesday's Cabinet decisions will bring positive change in lives of many: PM Modi||The decisions taken by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday for urban migrants and the poor will bring a positive change in the lives of many people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. Referring to the decision of the Cabinet to approve development of Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) for urban migrants and poor that will make housing available at an affordable rent, he said a house is not just a boundary wall made of brick and mortar. "This is where our dreams take shape and our aspirations take flight. Today, important decisions of the cabinet will bring positive changes in the lives of many people," he said in a series of tweets in Hindi. Modi said the decision to extend distribution of free foodgrains and pulses under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) to 81 crore PDS beneficiaries for five months till November is aimed at addressing the concerns of the poor and empower them during the coronavirus crisis. "Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana has been extended till November. This will benefit 81 crore people of the country," he pointed out. The scheme was initially rolled out for three months till June to ensure no poor goes hungry during the Covid-19 crisis. Under the scheme, five kg of wheat or rice and one kg of pulses per month are being provided free of cost. The prime minister had announced that the scheme will be extended till November end in his recent address to the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wednesdays-cabinet-decisions-will-bring-positive-change-in-lives-of-many-pm-modi-858691.html
08-07-2020||National||MHRD wants education based on 'WhatsApp university' forwards: BSP MP Danish Ali on CBSE syllabus||Attacking the government for dropping chapters on secularism and nationalism from the CBSE's syllabus, BSP MP Kunwar Danish Ali on Wednesday took a dig at the Ministry of Human Resource Development, saying it wants education based on 'WhatsApp university' forwards. In the syllabus notified by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for classes 9 to 12 for the 2020-21 academic session on Wednesday, it has dropped chapters on secularism, citizenship, nationalism, demonetisation and democratic rights along with several other chapters from the syllabus to reduce the course load of students amid the Covid-19 crisis. Condemning the government for dropping these chapters, Danish Ali tweeted, "Ministry of Human Resource Development wants education based on 'WhatsApp university' forwards." He also asked if this is an example of turning crisis into opportunity. The CBSE's move to rationalise its syllabus by dropping certain chapters to reduce course load of students in view of the Covid-19 pandemic has been welcomed by various school representatives, but a section of academicians alleged that the exercise appears to be "ideologically driven".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mhrd-wants-education-based-on-whatsapp-university-forwards-bsp-mp-danish-ali-on-cbse-syllabus-858699.html
08-07-2020||National||Have identified high risk buildings in need of seismic stability: Authorities to HC||The civic authorities, DDA, and the state disaster management authority (DDMA) on Wednesday submitted before the Delhi High Court the steps, like identifying high risk buildings, taken by them to ensure seismic stability of the structures in the national capital in the event of a major earthquake. In their respective affidavits filed in the high court, the three municipal corporations said they have included premier educational and research institutes, like IIT, Delhi, for carrying out the structural audits of buildings under their respective jurisdictions. The affidavits were filed pursuant to the high court's order on June 18 directing the corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB), and Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the AAP government to indicate implementation of the action plans devised by them to ensure seismic stability of the buildings in the national capital. The order by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan had come on a plea by lawyer Arpit Bhargava highlighting the lack of seismic stability of buildings in Delhi. On Wednesday, Bhargava sought time from the bench to respond to the various affidavits, filed by the authorities, saying he received it only in the morning and needs to go through them. The high court, thereafter, adjourned the matter to July 29. The corporations have also stated in their affidavits that they have issued a public notice in newspapers informing the people about the need for structural audit of buildings and need of retrofitting, if required, to ensure their seismic stability, They also claimed to have identified some buildings in their respective jurisdictions which needed retrofitting and that they have also issued notices to owners of buildings constructed prior to 2001 which are in a dilapidated condition asking them to get a structural audit done. The NDMC in its affidavit, filed through advocates Anil Grover and Tushar Sannu, has said that it has carried out structural strengthening of two out of 25 high risk buildings identified in its jurisdiction and structural consultants have been appointed in respect of another two buildings out of the 25. For the remaining 21 buildings, the process to appoint structural consultants has been initiated, it said. Besides that, it said it has also requested the heads of institutions in high rise and high risk buildings -- like AIIMS, RML Hospital and Lady Harding Medical College -- in its jurisdiction to undertake structural audit of their respective complexes. The DCB has said, in its affidavit, that it has decided to demolish the 38 structurally unstable buildings in its jurisdiction and has initiated the process to demolish 16 of them. The DDA, in its affidavit, has stated that it has sent letters to owners/occupiers of 32 buildings, all except one are located in Dwarka, which were sanctioned prior to March 2001 and are 15 meters o more in height, to initiate process of structural safety and submit a report. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which comes under the Delhi government, has said that it has been conducting mock drills in all districts regularly to assess earthquake preparedness of the authorities. "Training and conferences are being conducted regularly by districts as well as by the state from time to time. List of all emergency support functionaries with phone number have been updated on DDMA website. ".. and all stakeholders have been directed to necessarily conducted mock drills once in six months to check the preparedness," it has said in its affidavit. The affidavits were filed after the the high court on June 18 pulled up the Delhi government and all the local authorities for non-implementation of the action plans for ensuring seismic stability of buildings in the national capital. Bhargava, in his application filed after the city witnessed several tremors between April and June this year, has claimed that the authorities and Delhi government have not done anything despite several directions by the court to develop an action plan. The application was filed in Bhargava's main petition filed in 2015 claiming that the seismic stability of buildings in Delhi was poor and in case of a major earthquake there could be large number of casualties. The petition is still pending before the high court which from time to time has directed the Delhi government and civic authorities to develop an action plan. In the application, Bhargava has contended that around 11 earthquakes have struck Delhi since April 12 and according to experts a big one was imminent which is why he has moved the court now for urgent directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-identified-high-risk-buildings-in-need-of-seismic-stability-authorities-to-hc-858707.html
08-07-2020||National||Kharif sowing up 88% so far despite Covid-19 crisis: Tomar||Area sown to Kharif crops like rice has shot up 88 per cent to 432.97 lakh hectare so far despite the Covid-19 crisis, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Wednesday. Sowing of Kharif (summer) crops begins with the onset of southwest monsoon from June. Rice is the main Kharif crop. "Kharif sowing is underway. This time, 432.97 lakh hectare has been covered, up by 202 lakh hectare when compared with the year-ago period," Tomar said in a media briefing. The sowing acreage has increased by 88 per cent so far and the planting is still continuing, he added. Tomar mentioned that India's agriculture has emerged stronger during the Covid-19 pandemic as the sector functioned smoothly while other sectors remained shut during the lockdown period. The estimated higher crop of 152 million tonne during the 2019 rabi season and increase in coverage under summer crops in the ongoing Kharif season shows the strength of the Indian agriculture sector, he added. Tomar also said three recent ordinances that aim to provide barrier-free trading platforms to farmers and Rs 1 lakh crore agri-infra fund will further strengthen the sector. Efforts are being made to provide Kisan Credit Cards to rest 2.5 crore farmers. Already, 6.35 crore farmers have been covered, he added. According to Agriculture Ministry's latest data, area sown to rice rose to 68.08 lakh hectare till last week, up from 49.23 lakh hectare in the same period during 2019. The area under pulses also increased substantially to 36.82 lakh hectare from 9.46 lakh hectare, while that of coarse cereals to 70.69 lakh hectare from 35.20 lakh hectare in the said period. Similarly, area sown to oilseeds increased to 109.20 lakh hectare till last week from 33.63 lakh hectare in the year-ago period. Among cash crops, the area under cotton increased significantly to 91.67 lakh hectare from 45.85 lakh hectare, while that of sugarcane area rose marginally to 50.62 lakh hectare from 49.86 lakh hectare in the said period. However, area coverage under jute and Mesta remained lower at 5.89 lakh hectare till last week as against 6.80 lakh hectare in the year-ago, the data showed. The Met Department has forecast a normal monsoon this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kharif-sowing-up-88-so-far-despite-covid-19-crisis-tomar-858721.html
08-07-2020||National||PM's resolve to ensure nobody stays hungry during pandemic praiseworthy: Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's resolve to ensure that nobody stays hungry during the coronavirus pandemic is praiseworthy and reflects his commitment towards 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas', Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Wednesday. In a series of tweets, Shah expressed his gratitude to the prime minister for the decision taken at a meeting of the Union Cabinet to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till November which will provide ration to crores of poor people. "During the early days of coronavirus crisis, prime minister had taken the decision to provide three LPG cylinders free to poor women for three months under the Ujjwala Yojana. "Many families could not fully avail the three cylinders as a result of which the scheme was extended till September. This would benefit 7.4 crore women," he said. The home minister said the union cabinet's approval to 'Affordable Rental Housing Complex' for urban migrants under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is a historic decision of the Modi government. The PMAY flats built in cities will be available to the migrant labourers at cheaper rent, he said thanking Modi for this decision, which will further strengthen the goal of 'Housing for All'. Shah said that re-emphasizing his commitment to the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas', the prime minister has extended another very important scheme which caters to the cause of small businesses. "The contribution in the EPF account has been extended till August in the cabinet meeting today. This decision of the Modi government will benefit about 72 lakh people of small businesses," he said. The home minister said the cabinet's approval of Rs 1,00,000 crore 'Agriculture Infrastructure Fund' will strengthen the agriculture sector and it reflects Modi's commitment towards all-round development of rural India. It will provide a big momentum to the development of rural infrastructure, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-resolve-to-ensure-nobody-stays-hungry-during-pandemic-praiseworthy-shah-858726.html
08-07-2020||National||Centre floats scheme for affordable rentals to migrants in cities||The Centre on Wednesday approved the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme aimed at providing rental accommodation to migrant workers in urban areas. The scheme is a sub-scheme of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) being implemented by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved Rs 600 crore to build housing complexes to accommodate 3 lakh beneficiaries initially. The scheme will have a two-pronged approach. First will be to convert existing vacant government-funded housing complexes into ARHCs through concession agreements for 25 years. The builder selected through transparent tenders will make the complexes livable by repair/retrofit and maintenance of rooms and filling up infrastructure gaps like water, sewer/ septage, sanitation, road etc.  Complexes will go back to ULB after 25 years to restart next cycle, said the statement. The second approach will be to provide special incentives like usage permission, 50% additional floor area ratio, loan at priority sector lending rates, tax reliefs at par with affordable housing among others to private and public entities to develop ARHCs on their own available vacant land for 25 years. "Usually, migrants live in slums, informal/ unauthorised colonies or peri-urban areas to save rental charges. They spend a lot of time on roads by walking/ cycling to workplaces, risking their lives to cut on the expenses", said an official. “A large part of the workforce in manufacturing industries, service providers in hospitality, health, domestic/commercial establishments, and construction or other sectors, labourers, students etc who come from rural areas or small towns seeking better opportunities will be the target beneficiary under ARHCs,” the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-floats-scheme-for-affordable-rentals-to-migrants-in-cities-858739.html
08-07-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh likely to inaugurate key border infra projects on July 9||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to inaugurate on Thursday multiple border infrastructure projects in strategically key areas including in the western sector, government sources said Wednesday. A number of bridges in the border areas will be virtually inaugurated, they added. The government had told the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to continue with its infrastructure projects in the region near the Line of Actual Control (LAC), even as a standoff began on May 5 between the Indian and Chinese armies in eastern Ladakh. The LAC is de facto border between India and China. Singh had chaired a high-level meeting on Tuesday to review the progress of various infrastructure projects that are under construction in border areas including Ladakh region. Official sources had said the status of ongoing infrastructure projects along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), including the Ladakh region, figured prominently in the Tuesday's meeting. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in the bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last eight weeks. The tension escalated manifold after the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35 The Chinese military has removed temporary infrastructure and continued gradual withdrawal of troops from some face-off sites since Monday, government sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-likely-to-inaugurate-key-border-infra-projects-on-july-9-858751.html
08-07-2020||National Politics||Failure of Modi govt's policies has led to serious employment problem for Indians: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday claimed that Indians are facing a serious employment problem both at home and abroad due to the "failure" of the Modi government's policies. Congress general secretary (Organisation) KC Venugopal said after Indians were hit due to the ban on H-1B visas by the Trump administration, the Kuwait government is seeking to bring a legislation to limit Indians up to 15 per cent of the total expat population. "A bigger tragedy is staring at Indians in the Gulf with the Government of Kuwait bringing about legislation limiting the number of Indians to not exceed more than 15 per cent of the total expat-population. "This in effect would mean that 8.5 lakhs Indians in Kuwait who were till now sending home hard currency and sustaining the economy of many states like Kerala will be forced to leave Kuwait and come back home where nothing but despair awaits them," he said. Venugopal said in 2018, India received close to USD 4.8 billion (approx Rs 35,939 crore at present rate) from Kuwait as remittances. The failure of the Modi government in not creating job opportunities at home as also buckling to even hitherto friendly states in securing India's interest, is more telling than ever before, he alleged. "It is demanded that Modi government wakes up and takes necessary measures to arrest the continuous down slide by addressing issues at home and standing up to the threats being imposed on the Indian employees abroad," he said in a statement. The Congress leader alleged that the Modi government has proved to be disastrous for the country. "Consistently pulling the country down on all socio-economic indices ever since it came into power in 2014, the thoughtless and mindless decisions taken by it especially during the last three months or so- ever since the COVID pandemic began to wreak havoc," he said. Venugopal said as if the nearly 13 crore domestic job losses were not enough - with many states reaching unemployment figures of 40 percent, the decision by the US to suspend H-1B visa from June 24 will result in about 2 lakh Indians being sent back home. Additionally, of all the 85000 H-1B Visas, since more than 60,000 were being availed by Indians, it would mean as many lost job opportunities for Indians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/failure-of-modi-govts-policies-has-led-to-serious-employment-problem-for-indians-congress-858419.html
08-07-2020||National Politics||IYC activists trying to protest against UP govt detained in Delhi||The Indian Youth Congress activists trying to stage a protest against the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh were detained by police in Delhi on Wednesday. The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) activists were headed to UP Bhawan at SP Marg here to protest against the UP government over poor law and order situation in the state, when they were stopped by the police, an IYC member said. "Scores of IYC members were picked up by the police and taken to Mandir Marg Police Station," IYC media co-incharge Varun Pandey said. IYC national president Srinivas B V, who was among the detained activists, took a dig at the presence of police outside UP Bhawan, in a tweet. "The 8 cops in Kanpur would be alive if the government had deployed as many policemen as were there outside UP Bhawan to arrest me and IYC workers," he tweeted. Eight police personnel were killed and several others injured when they were ambushed by criminals in a village in Uttar Pradesh where they had gone to catch a hardened criminal Vikas Dubey, last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/iyc-activists-trying-to-protest-against-up-govt-detained-in-delhi-858557.html
08-07-2020||National Politics||Small, medium enterprises 'destroyed', had said 'economic tsunami' is coming: Rahul Gandhi||Small and medium enterprises stand "destroyed" and large companies are under severe stress, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi claimed on Wednesday and said he had warned of an "economic tsunami" in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a tweet, Gandhi also claimed that banks are in distress and attacked the BJP for ridiculing him for highlighting the issue of non-performing assets (NPAs) a few months ago. "Small and medium enterprises stand destroyed. Large companies are under severe stress. Banks are in distress," he said. "I stated months ago that an economic tsunami was coming and was ridiculed by the BJP and the media for warning the country about the truth," Gandhi tweeted, citing a media report claiming that additional NPAs of Rs 1.67 lakh crore from top 500 debt-heavy private companies are likely next fiscal. The Congress leader has been targeting the central government over its economic policies and demanding a package for micro, small and medium enterprises to help revive demand in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/small-medium-enterprises-destroyed-had-said-economic-tsunami-is-coming-rahul-gandhi-858569.html
08-07-2020||National Politics||'Atmanirbhar Bharat' being speedily implemented, Congress symbolises 'irresponsible' Opposition: BJP||The Modi government is addressing various economic challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic in a "360 degree" manner, the BJP asserted on Wednesday as it shared details about the implementation of various schemes as part of the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) programme.  Party general secretary P Muralidhar Rao told reporters that within two months of the announcement of the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' programme by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 12, the government has brought the idea of a self-reliant India to the ground by speedily implementing many of its measures.  Rao also hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his frequent criticism of the government's handling of the economy, saying instead of reading about the history of service by his own party, he keeps asking irresponsible questions.  While Prime Minister Narendra Modi is leading from the front in dealing with Covid-19 pandemic and the "China crisis", the Congress has come to symbolise an "irresponsible opposition", he alleged.  The government has already executed all its schemes for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector with credit of over Rs 3 lakh crore guaranteed and Rs 1.10 lakh crore of it distributed by July 1, Rao said.  The MSME sector is the most important aspect of the economy after agriculture, he said, adding that the government is working towards realising its objective of making India a USD 5 trillion economy by 2024-25. The crisis posed by Covid-19 is a reality that nobody is denying, Rao said and stated that the government has identified challenges and begun addressing them in a 360 degree manner.  To help farmers, 70.32 lakh Kisan credit cards have been sanctioned credit limit of Rs 62,870 crore out of Rs 2 lakh crore concessional credit under the 'Atmanirbhar' package, he said.  This will benefit 2.5 crore farmers, including fishermen and dairy farmers, he said.   Under Modi's leadership, the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign is not only playing an important role in fighting the Covid-19 crisis but is also becoming the identity of a "New India", he said.  Rao also noted that free ration scheme for over 80 crore poor people have been extended till November while over Rs 64.5 thousand crore has been distributed among nearly 40 crore people under various welfare measures.  As many as 20 states have already come on board for 'one nation one ration care scheme, which will ensure that beneficiaries can get their share of free grains in any part of the country, he said.  The poor's employment and development is most important for our government, he said, noting that an employment scheme has been started in six states, which have large migrant population.  The government allocated an additional Rs 40,000 crore to MGNREGA to provide more employment in rural sector, he said.  "Not only daily wages were increased by Rs 20 but the rules were also reformed to provide work to the workers and migrant labourers during the monsoon," Rao said.  The government has boosted the defence sector with a host of measures, including removal of 49 per cent FDI cap in defence production, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/atmanirbhar-bharat-being-speedily-implemented-congress-symbolises-irresponsible-opposition-bjp-858591.html
08-07-2020||National Politics||Youths from International Border areas in Jammu and Kashmir eligible for reservation in govt jobs: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Wednesday that youths from the International Border (IB) areas in Jammu and Kashmir are eligible to avail the benefits of reservation applicable for them in government employment. The assertion comes after some candidates raised doubts over the applicability of reservation provided for them. People living in areas adjoining International Border and Actual Line of Control (ALoC) are entitled to reservation in government jobs. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said he had a discussion with Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor G C Murmu and Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam on Wednesday on the matter and the Union Territory administration will issue a clarification accordingly. "Important to clear apprehension of aspirants for jobs advertised by Jammu and Kashmir Govt. Had a detailed discussion with LG Murmu and CS Subrahmanyam. IB reservation for border area candidates will be available in these jobs. The UT Govt will issue clarification accordingly," Singh tweeted. The minister told PTI that there was some ambiguity in recent advertisements for jobs in the union territory which has now been resolved. "I have spoken to the LG and the chief secretary about this ambiguity and they have said a clarification would be issued soon," said Singh, the MP from Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur Lok Sabha constituency. He said existing rules allow for three per cent reservation for people living in areas along the IB and ALoC. As many as 8,575 vacancies for class-IV jobs have been advertised by the Jammu and Kashmir Services Selection Board last month. In April, it had sought applications to fill 1,889 posts of Accounts Assistant (panchayat).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/youths-from-international-border-areas-in-jammu-and-kashmir-eligible-for-reservation-in-govt-jobs-jitendra-singh-858647.html
08-07-2020||National Politics||CBSE move to reduce syllabus is attempt by govt to 'advance' its agenda: Left parties||The Left parties on Wednesday accused the government of using the Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse to "advance" its own agenda by deleting sections in the CBSE curriculum dealing with India's plurality. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday had notified that it has rationalised by up to 30 percent the syllabus for classes nine to 12 for the academic year 2020-21 to reduce course load on students amid the Covid-19 crisis, after suggestions from various quarters, including parents. The Human Resource Development Ministry maintains that the curriculum has been rationalised while retaining core elements. The board in its syllabus rationalisation exercise has dropped chapters on democracy and diversity, demonetisation, nationalism, secularism, India's relations with its neighbours and growth of local governments in India, among others, as per the updated syllabus. "Atrocious. Using the pandemic, Modi government is deleting sections dealing with India's diversity, plurality, democracy etc that uphold our Constitutional values from the Higher Secondary syllabus," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted. "All to advance the RSS vision of an exclusivist, theocratic, intolerant, fascistic nation. This is nothing but the destruction of our Constitution. Unacceptable," he said. The CPI also condemned the syllabus reduction move and said it was a "nefarious attempt to implement the Hindutva agenda of RSS using Covid-19 restrictions in the school syllabus". "The CPI strongly objects to the move to remove chapters on human rights, social movements, citizenship rights, etc. The party condemns the move to condition the minds of our youth so that fascist poison can be easily injected into them," it said in a statement. "Ever since the RSS-BJP government came to power, they have been trying to communalise and commercialise education. The present move is part of their hidden agenda towards that purpose. There is already an attempt to centralise education in the name of New Education Policy," the CPI said. The party demanded an immediate reversal of the move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cbse-move-to-reduce-syllabus-is-attempt-by-govt-to-advance-its-agenda-left-parties-858709.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Day after monuments reopen post lockdown, footfalls barely touch 100 at most sites||A day after monuments across the country reopened their doors for visitors following a gap of more than three months amid coronavirus-induced lockdown, only a handful of people visited these sites. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) which opened its monuments and museums on July 6 has capped visitor entry at every site from 1,000-2,500 per slot --9 am to 12 pm and 12 pm to 6 pm, officials said. Tickets to visit these places can be booked online. ASI’s top sites which generate the maximum footfall and revenue have been hit hard. According to officials, around 60 visitors bought tickets for Qutub Minar in Delhi which had a capping of 1,500 visitors per slot, on Tuesday. The afternoon slot, which is the most sought-after timing, saw only 28 tickets booked till 4 pm. On normal days, the site gets around 8,000-12,000 visitors per day. At Red Fort, the most popular destination for domestic and foreign tourists in the national capital, the footfall barely reached 100, with just around 51 tickets booked for the afternoon slot. Popular monuments like Jodhpur’s twin forts--Chittorgarh Fort and Kumbhalgarh Fort--recorded a footfall of around 150 each, while the Gwalior Fort in Bhopal, Bellary Fort in Hampi and the Mattancherry Palace Museum in Thrissur saw no visitors in the afternoon slot and a handful in the forenoon slot, officials said. The officials, however, admitted that low footfall was expected at most of these sites given the current mood of the country. In fact, around one-third of the top revenue generating monuments are located in the five states that are worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. These include Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, and Uttar Pradesh.  Monuments like the Taj Mahal in Agra, Ajanta Ellora Caves in Aurangabad and Sun Temple in Konark were not open for the public, while the other top grossers like the Group of Monuments in Mamallapuram (in Tamil Nadu) saw no takers in the afternoon slot with the entire 1,000 tickets remaining unsold. The group of monuments in Khajuraho, Madhya Pradesh saw around 350 tickets being sold out of the 1,000 allowed. In Bihar, ASI sites like the Archaeological Site Museum, Nalanda saw around 40 visitors, the Ancient Site Of Vikramshila around 20 visitors and the Archaeological Site Museum, Bodhgaya had very few visitors, officials said. The Cooch Bihar Palace and the Hazarduari Palace in West Bengal saw around 30 visitors each. As many as 3,691 centrally-protected monuments and archaeological sites maintained by the ASI in the country were shut from March 17 in view of the coronavirus crisis. The culture ministry had issued a set of protocols, saying only those monuments which are in non-containment zones will be reopened for public. Entry tickets shall be issued by e-mode and only e-payments will be acceptable at the monument parking and cafeteria. "There will be a cap on the number of visitors in select monuments... The visitors shall follow social distancing. The use of face cover/mask is mandatory. Entrance to have mandatory hand hygiene and thermal scanning provisions. Only asymptomatic persons are allowed. There shall be designated routes for entry and exit and movement within the monument," according to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the ministry. At the entrance of every monument/site, all visitors shall share their phone numbers with the person designated for the purpose by the ASI to help in contact tracing if and when required. The ASI can restrict access to vulnerable and interior parts of any monument while visitors shall be asked to stick to the time limits inside the monument, as far as possible, the ministry said. No group photography and food or eatables shall be allowed inside the premises, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-after-monuments-reopen-post-lockdown-footfalls-barely-touch-100-at-most-sites-858391.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||2,008 fresh Covid-19 cases take Delhi tally to 1,02,831; death toll climbs to 3,165||Delhi recorded 2,008 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.02 lakh, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,165, authorities said. Fifty fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi health department bulletin. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947, till date. However, in the last few days, the number of fresh cases have oscillated, not showing a particular trend in figures. The number of cases reported from June 28-July 6 are - June 28 (2,889), June 29 (2,084), June 30 (2,199) and July 1 (2,442), July 2 (2,373), July 3 (2,520), July 4 (2,505), July 5 (2,244) and July 6 (1,379), with steady rise in death figures. The death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi stood at 3,115 on Monday. The bulletin on Tuesday said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 3,165, and the total number of cases has mounted to 1,02,831.  Meanwhile, Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), a dedicated COVID-19 facility, has received a nod from the ICMR to conduct plasma therapy on 200 coronavirus patients, senior officials said on Tuesday. According to the bulletin, 74,217 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while number of active cases stood at 25,449, while 6,79,831 tests have been conducted. On Tuesday, a total of 22,448 tests were conducted, including 8,795 RT-PCR tests and 13,653 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said. The number of tests per million in Delhi stands at 35,780, the bulletin said.  The number of containment zones in the city on Tuesday stood at 454.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2008-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-tally-to-102831-death-toll-climbs-to-3165-858393.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Amar Dubey, close aide of Kanpur encounter accused Vikas Dubey, shot in Uttar Pradesh||Five days after eight policemen were killed during an encounter with history-sheeter Vikas Dubey in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh Police on Wednesday shot dead the gangster's close aide Amar Dubey in Hamirpur district, about 200 kilometres from here. According to police sources, a special task force (STF) team intercepted Amar while he was on way to a relative's house to hide. He was asked to surrender but he opened fire and was gunned down in retaliatory firing. Police said that an automatic gun was recovered from his possession. It was Amar, who had sprayed Circle Officer Devendra Mishra with bullets killing him on the spot during the encounter last week. Sources said that another close aide of the gangster, Shyamu Bajpai, was also arrested on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Dubey, who continued to remain at large, was reportedly spotted in Haryana's Faridabad town on Tuesday night, sources here said. An STF team raided the hotel, where Dubey was spotted but had escaped from there by then. A massive hunt was on to nab the gangster and cash reward on him was also doubled from Rs 2.5 lakh to 5 lakh. Alert was sounded in the UP districts bordering Nepal as well as on the state's borders with Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan. A probe was also on into the alleged letter written by the slain CO to the then SSP of Kanpur Anat Dev claiming that the SHO of the local police station had a nexus with the gangster. No action was taken on the letter. Vinay Tewari, who was the SHO of Chaubepur police station, has been detained and quizzed by the STF sleuths. "Aide of Vikas, Shyamu Bajpai was arrested after an encounter with police in Chaubeypur area. Bajpai, carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 sustained bullet injury on his leg," SHO Chaubeypur K M Rai told PTI. IG STF, said, "STF was tracking all those named in the FIR and wherever we get information we are taking help of local police. We are also trying to trace weapons of policemen taken away from the spot and also weapons used by the criminals to attack the police force." About the delay in the arrest of Vikas Dubey, the IG said, "He is a hardened criminal and was used to hiding so it is taking time but we will surely nab him. We have started getting success." Eight policemen were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Vikas Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on Friday. Vikas Dubey, the notorious criminal who carries a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh, is still absconding. According to sources, Amar Dubey was involved in the security of Vikas Dubey and travelled with him wherever he went while Bajpai too was close to the gangster. Another two associates of Vikay Dubey -- Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey were killed by police in an encounter in Kanpur on Friday. Vikas Dubey's close relative Shama, neighbour Suresh Verma and domestic help Rekha and her husband Dayashankar Agnihotri, a key member of Dubey's gang, were arrested by police. Agnihotri was arrested on Sunday after an encounter in which police shot him in the leg. On Tuesday, all 68 personnel of the Chaubeypur Police Station were shunted to the reserve police lines amid doubts over their professional integrity. The announcement was made soon after police transferred Anand Deo, DIG STF, who till recently was the Senior Superintendent of Police in Kanpur. Deo was transferred to the Provincial Armed Police (PAC) unit in Moradabad. Deo was the Kanpur SSP in March when Deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Mishra purportedly wrote a damning letter, which surfaced on the social media after he was killed in the Bikru ambush. The unverified letter to the then Kanpur SSP alleged that Chaubeypur station officer Vinay Tiwari had watered down an FIR lodged against the gangster. It suggested that Tiwari and Dubey were close. However, police said there is no record of the purported letter, which is undated and carries no serial number. Deo also said that the signature on it does not match that of the slain officer. But police said they will still investigate the letter. Lucknow Range IG Lakshmi Singh is probing the matter. Police have named 21 people in the FIR registered after the attack. The FIR also mentioned 50-60 unidentified people. Earlier, the Kanpur Police had released the photos of 15 criminals including Amar Dubey who were said to be close to Vikas Dubey. Posters carrying the pictures of the alleged criminals, most of them carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 for their arrest, were put up at road toll plazas, including those in Unnao, Kanpur Nagar, Auraiya, Fatehpur and areas near the India-Nepal border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amar-dubey-close-aide-of-kanpur-encounter-accused-vikas-dubey-shot-in-uttar-pradesh-858426.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||2 criminals arrested after gunfight with police in Uttar Pradesh's Noida||Two alleged criminals were held after suffering injuries in gunfights with the police in Gautam Buddh Nagar in separate incidents on Tuesday, officials said. In the first incident, Suraj Tanwar was held, but his partner managed to escape during the gunfight that broke out on the Yamuna Pusta in Noida's Sector 128 around 8 pm, the officials said. "The duo was on a motorcycle which did not have any registration plate. When gestured by the police to stop for a check, they opened fire and tried to flee instead of stopping, prompting a retaliation by the policemen, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh said. "One of the two men, Suraj, got injured and was held, while his partner escaped. The accused was then taken to a hospital for treatment," Singh said. During initial probe, the accused confessed to his involvement in the June 30 shootout at a fuel station in Noida where a salesman was targeted for money, the officer said. The accused has previously been jailed in a criminal case and was absconding in a murder case too, the ADCP said, adding his police records were being checked further. An illegal firearm was seized from the possession of the accused and further proceedings in the case were being carried out at the local Expressway police station, officials said. Later around midnight, a wanted criminal, allegedly involved in robberies at houses, was injured in gunfight with the police in Greater Noida (West), Additional DCP, Noida, Ankur Aggarwal said. The accused has been identified as Vikram Singh, a native of Ghaziabad, who suffered an injury on his leg during a retaliatory fire by the police, he said. "The accused and his partner were on a motorcycle when they were intercepted near Cherry County police post in Bisrakh area. They opened fire on the police and tried to escape. Vikram was held but his partner managed to escape. A combing operation is underway to find him," Aggarwal said. The accused carried a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-criminals-arrested-after-gunfight-with-police-in-uttar-pradeshs-noida-858429.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Elderly woman killed as Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir||A 65-year-old lady was killed and another critically injured when Pakistani troops violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Balakote sector of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. Officials said Rashem Bi and Hakam Bi, both elderly women, got injured at around 3 AM when Pakistan army resorted to heavy mortar shelling along the LoC villages of Balakote. "Both the injured were shifted to a nearby medical facility where Resham Bi was declared brought dead," police said. Block Medical Officer Mendhar, Dr. Parvez Khan said the intensity of shelling was heavy and they had to rush around eight ambulances to the area to ensure timely shifting of all the casualties. Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said, “around 0200 hours, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and then resorted to intense shelling along the LoC in Balakote and Mendhar sectors. Indian Army retaliated befittingly. The firing stopped at about 0245 hours.” There has been a huge surge in ceasefire violations (CVFs) by Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir this year with 411 instances reported in June only. Official data reveals there have been over 2300 ceasefire violations along the LoC this year. A total of 3168 CFVs were recorded in 2019, and 1629 in 2018. The government of India led by then Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had entered into a border ceasefire agreement with Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir on November 26, 2003. However, according to officials shelling and firing by Pakistani troops since last year is so heavy that virtually it has made the 2003 truce redundant. India shares a 3,323-km-long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elderly-woman-killed-as-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-858468.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||UP STF detain Vikas Dubey's brother-in-law, nephew||The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) on Wednesday detained gangster Vikas Dubey's brother-in-law from Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol district, a local police officer said. Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh STF also took the son of Dubeys brother-in-law into their custody on Monday, Shahdols Additional Superintendent of Police Pratima Mathew told PTI. "Raju Nigam, who is Vikas Dubey's brother-in-law (brother of Dubey's wife), and his son Adarsh have been taken into custody by the UP STF," she said. Nigam was living in Shahdol district's Budhar town since the past 12 years, she said, adding that the UP STF took the action after informing the local police. After his son was nabbed, Nigam told reporters on Tuesday that he was not in touch with Dubey for the past 15 years, and feared he and his son could be booked in a fake case and killed in an encounter. Eight policemen were ambushed at Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur district when they were going to arrest Vikas Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after Friday midnight. Dubey, who carries a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh, is still absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-stf-detain-vikas-dubeys-brother-in-law-nephew-858504.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Reward on gangster Vikas Dubey, accused in Kanpur cops' encounter case, increased to Rs 5 lakh||The Uttar Pradesh government has increased the reward for the arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey, involved in gunning down eight police personnel, from Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 5 lakh, officials said on Wednesday. "Cash reward for the arrest of Vikas Dubey has been increased to Rs 5 lakh. It would be given to those providing information about him," Additional Chief Secretary, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said. Dubey is the main accused in the ambush in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur in which eight policemen were killed on July 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reward-on-gangster-vikas-dubey-accused-in-kanpur-cops-encounter-case-increased-to-rs-5-lakh-858507.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Woman's chopped body found in UP's Barabanki||Chopped body parts of an unidentified woman were found stuffed in a suitcase and polythene bags near a closed factory in Safedabad area here, police said on Wednesday. On an information about a suspicious suitcase lying outside the factory, a police team reached the spot on Tuesday night. "Upon opening the bag, body parts of a woman in her late 20s were found inside," Circle Officer, Sushil Kumar Singh said. According to Singh, some polythene bags found nearby contained the head and one of the legs of the woman while the remaining body parts were inside the suitcase. Superintendent of Police, Arvind Chaturvedi said that the body appeared to be around two days old and locals noticed the bag due to the foul smell emanating from it. "It appears that the lady, who is yet to be identified, was murdered somewhere else and her body was disposed of here. We are probing the matter," the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/womans-chopped-body-found-in-ups-barabanki-858514.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Kanpur cops' encounter accused Vikas Dubey spotted in Faridabad, three persons close to him arrested||Three persons close to gangster Vikas Dubey, who was involved in the ambush of policemen in Kanpur, have been arrested from Haryana's Faridabad in a joint operation by Uttar Pradesh STF and local crime branch team, a senior official said here on Wednesday. Dubey was in Faridabad and had tried to take a room in a hotel, whose CCTV footage went viral, the official said. "Three persons close to Vikas Dubey arrested from Faridabad. They were identified as Ankur, Shravan and Kartikey alias Prabhat," a senior official told PTI. Eight policemen were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-cops-encounter-accused-vikas-dubey-spotted-in-faridabad-three-persons-close-to-him-arrested-858515.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal seeks report from health secretary on Covid-19 deaths||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has sought a detailed analytical report from the Delhi government's health secretary on factors responsible for Covid-19 deaths in the city in the last fortnight, officials said. Delhi reported 736 deaths in the last two weeks, with 397 people succumbing to the disease in the first week of July. Officials said the objective of seeking the report is to take all possible measures to reduce coronavirus deaths in the national capital. A total of 3,165 Covid-19 deaths have occurred in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-seeks-report-from-health-secretary-on-covid-19-deaths-858516.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||SC gives Rajasthan police 2 months to finish probe into NLU student's death||The Supreme Court on Wednesday gave two months time to Rajasthan police to complete its probe into the suspicious death of Vikrant Nagaich, a student of National Law University, Jodhpur, in 2017. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and B R Gavai set the time limit, while hearing a plea for CBI probe into the matter. The top court had on June 8 asked the state government to explain as why they failed to achieve a headway for over three years. Advocates Sunil Fernandes and Astha Sharma, who appeared for Neetu Kumar Nagaich, the mother of the deceased, have accused the state police of "lackadaisical and callous manner of probe" into the FIR lodged on June 29, 2018 with Jodhpur's Mandore police station. The petitioner claimed the state was criminally negligent in the investigation or was trying to cover up for the perpetrators or had some mala fide intention to the detriment of the petitioner who lost her only son. Vikrant, a third year law student, was found dead in August 14, 2017 under unnatural circumstances near Railway track opposite the university. The authorities first tried to present the case as that of suicide due to alleged depression, though there was no such evidence.  After about 10 months of the incident, the FIR was lodged but the CID-CB failed to arrive at any outcome. Petitioner's husband, Colonel Jayant Nagaich procured an Internal Railway Enquiry Report, which showed no record of any incident or accident by any member of lobby crew, locomotive drivers or guards of the trains on the date. The petitioner also approached the Rajasthan HC which on February 24, 2020, disposed of the matter, though the investigating agency amongst other things failed to create a digital footprint, including retrieval of mobile records, of the circumstances surrounding the place of the incident, which would have led to the apprehension of the offenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-gives-rajasthan-police-2-months-to-finish-probe-into-nlu-students-death-858526.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Raipur: 12 workers injured after molten steel falls in factory||At least 12 workers were injured after a ladle containing hot molten steel, being operated by a crane, fell down and caused an explosion at a steel plant in Raipur district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Tuesday at the Indian Ispat Company in Ravabhata area under Khamtarai police station limits, Raipur Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Yadav told PTI. Based on a complaint by an injured worker, the police registered an FIR against the crane operator, Krishna Rai, and the factory owner, he said. According to the complainant, Rai was operating the ladle through a crane for shifting hot molten steel from the blast furnace to a continuous casting machine. Suddenly, the cable snapped and the ladle fell on the ground causing an explosion, Yadav said. Due to the blast, the hot molten steel spread on the ground, causing burn injuries to workers, including Rai, who were present in the vicinity, he said quoting the complaint. Four workers received serious burn injuries, he said. All the injured workers were admitted to a hospital, the official said, adding that they were reported to be out of danger. The complainant alleged that the incident took place due to the negligence of Rai in operating the crane and the factory owner for ignoring maintenance of the machinery in the unit, Yadav said. A case was registered against Rai and the factory owner under Indian Penal Code Sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention), he said. No arrest has been made so far, the official said, adding that a probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/raipur-12-workers-injured-after-molten-steel-falls-in-factory-858528.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Father-daughter duo killed after being run over by train||A 60-year-old man and his 18-year-old daughter died after being run over by a passenger train while they were crossing the tracks in Rajasthan's Bundi district, police said on Wednesday. The incident occurred late on Tuesday night at the Garjani railway gate under Kapren police station, they said. Ghasilal Meena and his daughter Sugna Meena, residents of Jaroda village under Deikheda Police Station of Bundi district, were on a motorcycle, police said. They were crushed under the wheels of Mewar Express train at around 12.40 am, SHO of Kapren Police Station Budhiprakash Nama said. The loco pilot sent a memo on the accident following which police reached the spot at around 1 am and recovered the mutilated bodies which were handed over to the family members after a postmortem examination on Wednesday morning, Nama said. The Garjani railway gate remains closed for public and traffic from 7 pm to 7 am while a railway guard is on duty during the day time, the SHO said. As the incident occurred at night, the father-daughter duo must have managed to slip under the barrier, he said. A case of unnatural death under section 174 of the CrPC has been lodged for further investigation into the matter, the SHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-father-daughter-duo-killed-after-being-run-over-by-train-858544.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||17 villages in HP's Hamirpur to get Rs 3.4 cr under PM Adarsh Gram Yojana||As many as 17 villages in Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur district will be provided Rs 3.4 crore for development works under the Pradhan Mantri Adarsh Gram Yojana. Each village of 15 panchayats of the district will get a sum of Rs 20 lakh during the current financial year, deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena said. Meena stated this during a video conference with block development officers (BDO), officials of the concerned departments, heads of the concerned panchayats and secretaries of different sections of the district. A development plan for the 17 villages was approved in the meeting. Meena said the villages would be rejuvenated and their all round development would be ensured under PM Adarsh Gram Yojana. A sum of Rs 10 lakh is being released as the first installment for these model villages, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-villages-in-hps-hamirpur-to-get-rs-34-cr-under-pm-adarsh-gram-yojana-858548.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Elderly patient with Covid-19 symptoms jumps to death in Rajasthan||An elderly man admitted to a hospital here with symptoms of coronavirus allegedly committed suicide by jumping from second floor of the medical institute on Wednesday, police said. He was admitted to Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) in Pratap Nagar, they said. His Covid-19 test report came negative, minutes before he took the extreme step, police said, adding he was not aware of the test result. Kailash Chand Sharma (78) was admitted to a semi ICU on the second floor of RUHS, they said. “His sample for Covid-19 test was collected yesterday and the report came negative today. The reason behind the extreme step is not clear yet and the matter is being probed,” a police official said.  “The hospital received the test report (negative) just five minutes before he jumped to his death. He was not aware that he was Covid-19 negative,” DCP (East) Rahul Jain said. Sharma was earlier admitted to Kanwatia hospital, Shastri Nagar for two to three days due to breathing problem. He was referred to RUHS on Tuesday after his condition worsened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elderly-patient-with-covid-19-symptoms-jumps-to-death-in-rajasthan-858553.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||MP BJP divided into three camps - 'Maharaj, Naraz & Shivraj', says Shatrughan Sinha||Taking a dig at the BJP in Madhya Pradesh over apparent resentment in its ranks in view of recent expansion of cabinet, former MP Shatrughan Sinha on Wednesday said the saffron party was divided into three camps--"Maharaj, Narazand Shivraj"- in the state. Besides Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Sinha was apparently also referring to former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia whose exit along with 22 MLAs led to the collapse of then Kamal Nath government in March this year. The BJP formed government under Chouhan on the support of these MLAs who have since joined the saffron party along with Scindia, who belongs to the royal family from Guna. "Are you going to say something about this Sir? In Madhya Pradesh, BJP is divided into three camps. 1. Maharaj, 2. Naraz and 3. Shivraj," Sinha tweeted. Are you going to say something about this Sir?👇👇😔मध्य प्रदेश में भाजपा तीन खेमो में बट गयी।1.महाराज,2.नाराज ,और3.शिवराज 🤣 By mentioning 'naraz', Sinha seems to be hinting at heartburn caused among senior BJP leaders who could not be accommodated in the newly-formed council of ministers, which now consists of more than a dozen loyalists of Scindia. The second expansion of the cabinet took place on July 2, nearly three months after the first 'mini' expansion in April this year. Even six days after 28 ministers took oath, Chouhan is unable to allocate portfolios to them. The CM had recently visited New Delhi to meet top BJP brass apparently to discuss the issue. "I am working on it...distribution will take place soon," the CM had said on Tuesday after returning from Delhi. BJP MLA Ajay Vishnoi had last week shot off a letter to the chief minister stating that there was resentment among the people of Jabalpur and Rewa divisions. Asked about the delay in cabinet expansion, Chouhan had cryptically said on July 1, "Only amrit (nectar) comes out of manthan (churning), vish (poison) is consumed by (Lord) Shiva".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-bjp-divided-into-three-camps-maharaj-naraz-shivraj-says-shatrughan-sinha-858573.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Customs seizes 4.5 lakh cigarette sticks from Covid-19 special train at old Delhi railway station||Customs preventive officials have seized 4.5 lakh cigarette sticks illegally brought in a COVID special train at old Delhi Railway Station, officials said on Wednesday. The cigarette sticks of ‘Paris’ brand, valued at Rs 40 lakh, were packed in 15 cartons. It is suspected that they have been smuggled into the country from neighbouring Bangladesh, they said. These cartons were recovered from a goods compartment of a train - that runs from Howrah to Amritsar via Delhi to ferry passengers during coronavirus-induced national lockdown -from the old Delhi Railway Station on Tuesday, the officials said. The cigarettes of Bangladesh-origin are suspected to have been smuggled into the country through the porous India-Bangladesh border in Howrah, they said. The officials said the parcels containing cigarettes were booked from Howrah to Varanasi and then from there to Delhi in a bid to dodge the customs authorities. “No arrests have been made so far. Further investigation in the case is continuing,” an official said. Foreign-brand cigarettes are in demand in the country’s grey market as they are of good quality and nicely packed, he said. “Whereas, cigarettes produced and packed in India have to mandatorily mention specified health warning, both in pictorial and text formats, that acts as a source of discouragement for the smokers,” the official said. Further, there is a requirement of a declaration for imported cigarette packs under the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011. The declaration on the packs should contain the name and address of the manufacturer or importer or packer, quantity of the product, month and year of manufacturing or pre-packing or importation and the retail sale price, among others. Customs officials have been seizing cigarettes of foreign origin, in some cases of the same ‘Paris’ brand, from other places as well. They had last year seized large number of Paris brand cigarettes, in two incidents, from Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/customs-seizes-45-lakh-cigarette-sticks-from-covid-19-special-train-at-old-delhi-railway-station-858579.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Process pregnant women's requests for Covid-19 tests, results quickly: HC tells AAP govt||Pregnant women's request for Covid-19 test should be met immediately and the its results be declared quickly, the Delhi High Court told the AAP government on Wednesday. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said there ought not to be any time lag between receipt of request for testing, sample collection and declaration of results. The court said that when pregnant women go for deliveries they cannot wait five to six days for carrying out the tests and declaration of the results. "Immediately requests should be accepted and immediately results should be given," the bench said. The Delhi government told the court that as per the advisory issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the tests results would be declared within an hour. The advisory was however silent on the timeline regarding processing of requests for testing, the Delhi government said, adding that it has issued a notification which states all applications for tests would be processed within 48 hours. The bench asked the Delhi government to place the advisory and notification before it and listed the matter for hearing on Thursday, July 9. The court also asked it whether negative outcome of a rapid test was acceptable or whether an RT/PCR test result also be required before admitting a pregnant woman. The Delhi government counsel sought time to take instructions on the query raised by the bench. The court was hearing a PIL by a lawyer who has sought that test results of pregnant women be given priority. The high court on June 22 had remarked that 5-7 days cannot be taken for getting Covid-19 results for pregnant women prior to admitting them in hospitals for child-birth and asked the ICMR and Delhi government to look at expediting it. Thereafter, Delhi government filed an affidavit stating that prior Covid-19 test was not mandatory for admitting pregnant women in hospitals for in-patient interventions, including surgery and deliveries, and in emergent situations, treatment would not be denied for want of test results. The test can be conducted simultaneously with the treatment and if the result comes out to be positive, the pregnant woman would ideally be transferred to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital for further management, the Delhi government had told the high court.  It had also said that it has "expanded" the use of Rapid Antigen Testing at hospitals to ensure availability of test results in quick time and this will further take care of difficulties being faced by people/patients, including pregnant women. ICMR, in its response filed through central government standing counsel Vivek Goyal, had said it has issued guidelines for management of pregnant women during the Covid-19 pandemic and there are no restrictions for testing pregnant women for Covid-l9 symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/process-pregnant-womens-requests-for-covid-19-tests-results-quickly-hc-tells-aap-govt-858599.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||SC refuses to interfere with bail to AAP MLA in extortion and suicide case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to interfere with the Delhi High Court's order granting bail to AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal in a case related to extortion and suicide of a doctor. The victim, who used to run a business of water tankers in Delhi, accused the MLA of extortion and termed him responsible for his death in a suicide note. A bench of Justices R Banumathi, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose said that since the MLA was already out of jail, the victim's family may approach the trial court if he violated any of the conditions. Hemant Singh, through his counsel Astha Sharma, challenged the validity of the HC's order of June 24. He is the son of the victim, Rajendra Singh. The top court gave liberty to family to move the sessions court. It also said the trial court won't be influenced by any observations made by the Delhi HC in giving bail to Jarwal. The MLA was arrested on May 9 in the case lodged in April 18 on death of 52-year-old Singh. His brother, Anil Jarwal, whose name was also mentioned in his suicide note, has been granted anticipatory bail on June 2. It was alleged the victim took the extreme step after being fed up with extortion of money by the MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-refuses-to-interfere-with-bail-to-aap-mla-in-extortion-and-suicide-case-858626.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Probe ordered into ''sexual exploitation'' of minors in exchange for work in mines in UP||A magisterial probe was ordered on Wednesday into the allegations of ''sexual exploitation'' of poor minor girls in exchange work in the mines in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot district, about 300 kilometres from here. District magistrate Sheshmani Pandey said that stern action would be taken against the guilty. The probe was ordered after a private TV channel aired a report showing minor girls alleging their ''sexual exploitation'' for providing them work in the mines as stone crushers in the district. The minor girls alleged that they were also threatened with dire consequences if they did not 'offer' themselves to them (members of the mining mafia).  Chitrakoot, which borders Madhya Pradesh, is part of the state's arid Bundelkhand region and is infamous for illegal mining. The report claimed that the minors were not paid their full wages also. The DM said that so far no complaints had been received from the girls or their families in this regard. The local police also feigned ignorance about the alleged ''sexual exploitation''.  A police team, comprising senior officials, visited the families in their village in the district on Tuesday. ''We are investigating the matter,'' said a police official in Chitrakoot. Swati Maliwal, chairperson of Delhi Commission for Women, slammed the district officials for stating that they had no knowledge about the incident. ''How is it possible that the girls are being sexually exploited and the local administration does not have any idea about it,'' she said in a post on her Twitter handle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probe-ordered-into-sexual-exploitation-of-minors-in-exchange-for-work-in-mines-in-up-858638.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Kanpur cops' encounter: 2 policemen held for 'tipping off' gangster Vikas Dubey about police action||Suspended Chaubeypur station officer Vinay Tiwari and another policeman were arrested on Wednesday on charges of leaking information about police action to gangster Vikas Dubey prior to last week's encounter in Kanpur, in which eight policemen were killed. Tiwari and beat in-charge of Bikru KK Sharma, who were suspended soon after the encounter, have also been arrested on charges of fleeing the encounter site and putting the lives of other policemen in danger, Senior Superintendent of Police (Kanpur) Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said. Both the suspended sub-inspectors were detained for questioning and later arrested, he said. A separate FIR has been registered at the Chaubeypur police station against Tiwari and Sharma for allegedly fleeing the encounter site, a police spokesperson said. Both the SIs allegedly tipped off Dubey, a dreaded gangster, about the impending police raid, he added. Tiwari is said to have been grilled by sleuths from the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-cops-encounter-2-policemen-held-for-tipping-off-gangster-vikas-dubey-about-police-action-858639.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Woman killed, three injured in Pakistan shelling along LoC in Jammu and kashmir||A 65-year-old woman was killed and three other civilians were injured on Wednesday as Pakistan violated ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked mortar shelling on forward posts and villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in different sectors in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. While the elderly woman was killed in heavy shelling by Pakistan in Poonch district of the Jammu region, two civilians were injured in Tangdhar sector of north Kashmir's Kupwara district, they said. A police official identified the deceased woman as Resham Bi, a resident of Sagra village. She was staying at her relative's house in the Balakote sector's Lanjot village. She died after a mortar shell exploded in the compound of the house, he said. Another woman, who was identified as Hakam Bi, was critically injured in the incident and was taken to hospital, he added. A defence spokesperson said Pakistan resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars in Balakote and Mendhar sectors of Poonch around 2:00 am. The Indian Army retaliated in a befitting manner and the cross-border shelling between the two sides lasted for 45 minutes, the spokesperson said, adding that casualties suffered by Pakistan in the retaliatory action were not known immediately. In another incident, two civilians were injured when Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the LoC in Kupwara district. "Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Tangdhar sector in Kupwara district on July 8, 2020, in the afternoon hours by firing mortars and other weapons," an Army official said. Two civilians were injured in the firing and shelling by Pakistani troops, he said. The Indian Army gave a befitting response to the unprovoked aggression, he added. Deputy Commissioner, Poonch, Rahul Yadav visited Mendhar sector and handed over an ex-gratia relief of Rs 1 lakh and an amount of Rs 10,000 from the Red Cross fund to the next of kin of the deceased woman, an official spokesperson said. He said Yadav also provided an amount of Rs 10,000 from the fund in favour of the injured woman. Yadav was accompanied by Senior Superintendent of Police, Poonch, Ramesh Angral and Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Mendhar, Sahil Jandial, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-killed-three-injured-in-pakistan-shelling-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-858674.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||BJP leader, his father, brother shot dead by militants in Kashmir||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, his father and his brother were shot dead by the unidentified militants outside their residence in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district on Wednesday evening. Sources said Sheikh Waseem Bari, BJP’s district president Bandipora, his father Bashir Ahmed Bari and brother Umar Bari were shot at by the suspected militants outside their residence in Muslimabad, Bandipora, 56 kms from here, late Wednesday evening. The injured were rushed to a nearby health facility, where they were declared brought dead, they said. The residence of Baris is located just opposite of Bandipora Police Station. Reports said immediately after the incident police and army rushed to the spot and launched a manhunt to nab the assailants. Last month, Ajay Pandita, sarpanch of the Larkipora area in southern Anantnag district and a member of the Congress party, was shot by militants in his native village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-his-father-brother-shot-dead-by-militants-in-kashmir-858698.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 victim cremated by another's family as 2 bodies get swapped at AIIMS; action taken against staff||Moments before the body of 35-year-old Anjum was to be buried, Sharif Khan decided to have one last look at his sister who succumbed to the novel coronavirus. However, he received a rude shock when the corpse lying in a body bag beside the freshly dug grave turned out to be someone else’s. Khan later found out that his deceased sister was cremated by the family of Kusumlata, another Covid-19 victim whose body had been accidentally swapped with Anjum’s by staff at the AIIMS here where both women had been admitted and subsequently died. A doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said there has been a lapse on the part of the staff as they did not carry out the proper process of establishing the identity before handing over the bodies to the families. “On the basis of the initial report, administrative action has been taken against two staff members from the mortuary. One has been terminated while another was suspended. Further, a committee has been set up for carrying out a detailed probe into the incident,” a senior doctor at AIIMS said. Khan said his sister, a resident of Bareilly, was suffering from jaundice and he brought her to the AIIMS on July 4. Anjum was admitted at the emergency ward of the hospital and within two hours, the doctors declared her Covid-19 positive. They admitted her to the Covid-19 ward at the Trauma Centre, he said. Anjum’s husband had died seven months ago. She is survived by her three children. “Late on Monday night, I received a call that my sister had died. The next day, at around 8 am, we reached the hospital and asked the doctors if we could take the body back to Bareilly, but they refused. They gave us four PPE kits and asked to go to ITO graveyard to book a place,” Khan said. Accordingly, the body was taken to the cemetery at ITO, a dedicated graveyard for burying those who die due to Covid-19. Before the body was lowered in the grave, he opened the body bag to see his sister’s face one last time. “When I saw the face, I realised it was not my sister. It was one Kusumlata from Ghaziabad. Her name was mentioned on the body,” he said.  The AIIMS staff was also present during the burial. When Khan told them that the body was not his sister’s, the hospital staff left with Kusumlata’s body and said they would be back. “We kept waiting at the graveyard till 4 p.m., but nobody turned up. We called them several times, but they kept giving us excuses. Finally, we reached the Trauma Centre and called police,” Khan said. “The doctors informed us that the family members of Kusumlata had cremated my sister’s body at the Punjabi Bagh crematorium,” he said, adding that he had called his niece and nephew from Bareilly so that they could see their mother’s face one last time. Khan said he has lodged a complaint at Safdarjung Enclave police station regarding the incident. A senior police officer said, "We have received the complaint and are looking into the matter.” Despite repeated attempts, Kusumlata’s family could not be reached. A senior doctor at the AIIMS said the hospital has ordered an enquiry into the matter. One staff member has been terminated from service while another has been suspended. “Both the bodies along with two other bodies were transported together for cremation and burial. There has been a lapse on the part of the staff as they did not carry out the proper process of establishing the identity before handing over the bodies,” the doctor added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-victim-cremated-by-anothers-family-as-2-bodies-get-swapped-at-aiims-action-taken-against-staff-858705.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Biggest daily spike takes MP tally beyond 16,000||Madhya Pradesh recorded the biggest single-day spike of 409 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, due to which the count of patients in the state crossed the 16,000-mark, a health official said. The state's tally now stands at 16,036, he said. Of the 409 new cases, Morena alone accounted for 115, the official said. With the death of seven Covid-19 patients, the toll in the state reached 629, he said. Indore recorded three deaths, while two persons died in Bhopal and one each in Neemuch and Tikamgarh, the official said. As per the data, of the total number of fresh cases, 115 were reported from Morena, followed by 70 from Bhopal, 68 from Gwalior and 44 from Indore. Meanwhile, a total of 219 patients were discharged from hospitals in the state following their recovery on Wednesday. The state's worst-hit district, Indore, has recorded 4,998 cases so far, while its fatality count stood at 252, a health bulletin stated. At least 3,225 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Bhopal so far, of which 115 patients have succumbed to the infection, the report said. According to the official data, the case count in Morena, which borders Rajasthan's Dholpur district, went up to 833 on Wednesday with the addition of 425 cases in the last eight days. The cases in Gwalior went up to 712.  However, no new coronavirus case was reported in 21 districts of the state since Tuesday evening. While the cases were reported from all 52 districts, only two of them did not have any active cases on Wednesday, the health bulletin said. Currently, there are 1,313 active containment zones in the state, an official said. The coronavirus figures in Madhya Pradesh are as follows: Total cases 16,036, active cases 3,420, new cases 409, death toll 629, recovered 11,987, total number of tested people so far 4,37,930.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-biggest-daily-spike-takes-mp-tally-beyond-16000-858734.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||'Har Ghar Nal' scheme to be completed by 2022 in UP: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the 'Har Ghar Nal' scheme under which the government aims to provide piped water supply to every household in the state would be completed by 2022. The 'Har Ghar Nal' under the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission scheme is the top priority of the state government, he added. It would be taken up in four phases. In the initial phase, the work of laying pipes for drinking water supply will be done in Bundelkhand and Vindhyachal regions, the chief minister said in a video conference interaction with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. He said the work on rural piped drinking water scheme has started in Jhansi, Lalitpur and Mahoba districts of Bundelkhand and in the remaining four districts, it will be started soon. In the Vindhyachal region, the work will soon begin in Mirzapur and Sonbhadra districts, Adityanath said. Shekhawat said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set the target of providing drinking water supply to every household through the scheme by 2024 but efforts are on to complete it by 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/har-ghar-nal-scheme-to-be-completed-by-2022-in-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-858736.html
08-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: 'Complete lockdown' on Sundays in Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to enforce a complete lockdown across the state on Sundays after a spike in Covid-19 cases in some districts during the past one week. In a new initiative, police will provide face masks to people who step out of homes without the protective gear, and recover its cost from them, a minister said. Besides, the government also decided to increase vigil in border districts, claiming the spike in coronavirus cases has been caused due to entry of people from adjoining states. Mostly border districts are affected (now )as we have successfully controlled the Covid-19 spread in cities like Indore and Ujjain. "So, we decided for a complete lockdown on Sundays across Madhya Pradesh. "A public advisory would be issued in this regard tomorrow (Thursday)," Minister for Health Narottam Mishra told reporters in the evening after a coronavirus review meeting. He described the Covid-19 situation in border districts as bad. Due to the spike in cases, the coronavirus growth rate in Madhya Pradesh has gone up to 2.01 per cent from 1.72 per cent earlier, the review meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, was informed.  Mishra said the public advisory will include guidelines related to compulsory use of face masks, availability of hand sanitisers at workplaces, among others. The advisory will also mention that the police will provide face mask if any person is found on streets without it on payment of its cost, he said. Talking about the spike in cases, Mishra said the ongoing Kill Corona campaign of the government has so far covered 42 per cent of Madhya Pradesh's population. During the campaign so far, 40,000 people were tested for Covid-19, of which 583 were found to be positive, he said. The situation in border districts is bad. People came from Dholpur (Rajasthan) to Morena and those from Jalgaon (Maharashtra) to Barwani. This has changed the situation. "Now, people coming from affected areas of other state will have to report to authorities, he said. Mishra said health screening would also be carried out at borders. The minister said the state has now occupied the 15th place as far as nationwide coronavirus cases are concerned, while recovery rate has gone up to 75 per cent. Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday registered the highest single-day spike of 409 new Covid-19 cases including 115 from Morena, taking the infection count to 16,036. The death toll went up to 629 after seven more Covid- 19 patients succumbed to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-complete-lockdown-on-sundays-in-madhya-pradesh-858737.html
08-07-2020||Opinion||Has Jyoti Basu become CPM’s last resort in Bengal?||Jyoti Basu was the only communist in Independent India who could rise to the chair of the prime minister – if only his party had allowed it to happen. In the event, his party declined and Basu would later lampoon the decision openly, describing it as a “historical blunder”. Less than four years after this opportunity in 1996, he was out of office as West Bengal’s longest-serving chief with an impressive scorecard of an unbeaten 23 years (1977-2000). Soon after this, he virtually retired from active politics and died in January 2010, at age 96. Soon after Basu’s death, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or the CPM lost power in the state that was seen as its unbreachable fortress. Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress came to power in 2011 after a 34-year Left reign. A decade since, the CPM is a shadow of its former self. The party has been relegated to the fringes of Bengal politics. As a resurgent BJP eyes the state hungrily, and Mamata Banerjee seeks to defend her turf, the CPM it seems has been left with no option but to turn to Basu to fend off irrelevance in the upcoming Assembly polls.   Jyotibabu’s birthday celebrations In a big break from the past for a group that is avowedly against personality cults and does not even celebrate the birthday of key organisation leader Promode Dasgupta (1910-1982), the CPM has decided to make a splash on the occasion of Basu’s 106th birthday on June 8. Perhaps the only exception is ‘Kakababu’ Muzaffar Ahmed (1889-1973), a revolutionary and a communist. Now Jyotibabu finds himself in his company.    The party has invited photos, videos, graphics and drawings on Basu from the common people, and all these are being exhibited on social media. The whole effort has been named ‘Aapnar chokhe Jyoti Basu’ (Jyoti Basu through your eyes).  This is, without doubt, an effort to rekindle the memory of a legendary Communist, during whose rule the very socio-political character of Bengal underwent dramatic change. During the first ten years of the Left rule, for instance, the bargadars or sharecroppers got tenancy rights over the land, the rights of factory workers were protected by the state and the social rights of the poor were established too. But beyond that the initiative also reveals three other distinct developments as far as current political trends go: First, the Left is so ideologically weak now that it has nothing to attract a new generation of voters. The nuances of Marxist ideology could never be grasped well by the man on the street. Now, the younger generation, who make up a majority of the voters, do not even seem interested. But they too have heard of Jyoti Basu, the only Bengali who got a chance to lead the nation but had to relent to the conservative opinion in his party.  Second, it is likely that in the campaign for Assembly elections early next year, the Left may try to sell ‘Jyotibabu’s dreams’. The younger Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, who succeeded Basu as CM, cannot be used for attracting the masses. It is only Basu and his 24-year rule that can be packaged as the ‘golden days’ of the past when the poor were given priority. Third, it will help them in fashioning a counter to the BJP’s use of Bharatiya Jan Sangh founder, Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, as their icon in the state. BJP leaders often refer to Mukherjee in an attempt to claim that they too have deep roots in Bengal. The Trinamool Congress, unfortunately, has no such icon in their fold, born as it was in 1999. Will the Basu tactic help? When Basu stepped down in 2000, the Left came back to power the next year, thanks to his image and work. Back then, it was the pro-poor attitude that helped sway the people of Bengal to vote for the party. Alongside, it built a strong, intimidating organisation that discouraged many of its opponents from rural areas to come to the booth on polling day. In 2006, Buddhadeb Bhattacharya added a new plank of industrialisation and got huge thumbs up from the people. But Bhattacharya’s desperate attempt to industrialise Bengal, which was the crying need of the hour, forced him to commit certain blunders by allowing the party to usurp the role of the police. Along with this, despite a fierce debate within the party, the message went out that any farmer’s land could be taken away any day by the state. The compensation package for acquisition too was not attractive. So, the people rejected Bhattacharya. The Left’s 49.6 per cent vote in 2006 slumped to 41 per cent in 2011. It lost out to the Trinamool-Congress combination.  Since then it has been a steep descent for the party and the Left alliance. In 2016, when they fought along with the Congress, the Left vote shrunk to 24 per cent. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it could not win a single seat from Bengal. Keeping all this in mind, the party’s use of Basu as an icon is not a bad strategy. But it remains far from clear whether they will be able to convince the people.   (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of books including, A Naxal Story. He is a deputy editor at the Bengali daily, Aajkal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/has-jyoti-basu-become-cpm-s-last-resort-in-bengal-858615.html
08-07-2020||Panorama||Electricity sector needs revamp||India is still struggling to come to grips with the devastating spin-offs of Covid-19, including the slump in economy. Like other sectors, the power sector too has taken a severe hit, with lowered electricity consumption due to semi-operation of industries. In fact, the dynamic trading price of electricity fell to a three-year low of 60p recently, an indicator of the drop in demand. At the same time, the decision of several multinational companies following the pandemic, to shift manufacturing base from China, presents India with a wonderful opportunity to revive the economy. The convergence of national will can invigorate the domestic manufacturing ecosystem, and with it, the demand for electricity. With countries striving to meet United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 7—affordable and clean energy for all—India can tap into the renewable energy (RE) manufacturing business, and become a leading hub. Focus on Make in India The pandemic has brought various activities in the power sector to a standstill. There is an urgent need to revamp the sector and recover revenues by focusing on on-demand creation through Make in India objectives in the commercial and industrial sectors. At present, India’s manufacturing capacity for solar photovoltaic and wind turbines is around 10 GW and 3 GW respectively, with a majority of installations sourcing products from China. We should align our ambitious RE targets (175 GW by 2021-22 and 450 GW by 2030) by ramping up indigenous solar and wind manufacturing. These are energy-intensive processes. Thus, they will not just help increase plant capacity utilisation (plant load factor) but also benefit both generation and distribution companies.  Currently, India imports 80-90 per cent of solar modules from China. The existing indigenous cell and module manufacturing capacities are at 3.3 GW and 10 GW respectively. The key to fulfilling India’s ambitious target lies in a vertical integration of the manufacturing value chain of solar, i.e., from wafer to the finished product. The government should encourage new market players by bringing down RE bidding prices through financial measures such as partial risk mitigation mechanisms, land acquisition framework for wind and solar parks, and low-rate debt.   Currently, the distribution companies (DISCOMs) and generating companies (GENCOs) are riding on pan-India revenue losses of ₹30,000 crores and ₹25,000 crores, respectively. The growing cash deficit due to the decrease in demand and revenue erosion will progressively burden the DISCOMs. As it is, they are reeling under the ‘must-buy’ compulsions under long-term purchase agreements, maintenance of critical infrastructure, and cut-offs for minimum overheads with critical employee workforce. That aside, the waiving off of fixed charges for the commercial and industrial sectors, and the loss of tariff realisation due to availability of only digital payment modes, has only aggravated the situation The DISCOMs already have an outstanding debt of ₹88,311 crores till January 2020.  Restricted commercial and industrial activities of late have seen the operational plant load factor falling from 63% to 35%–40%. The financial situation of the generating companies is further compounded by the decision of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) to waive off the late payment surcharge for DISCOMs by one-third (1% instead of 1.5%) and to offer short-term respite with a 3-month moratorium. This will translate to a top up income loss of 6% per annum for transmission companies such as National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and Power Grid Corporation. At the generation end, the impact is equally grim with plants facing the likely scenario of shutting down due to high variable costs. GENCOs are also losing monies over fixed and fuel cost obligations, due to an overall reduction in demand. With distribution and generation companies struggling to stay afloat, the Union Government should consider measures such as ease of borrowing, advance release of annual revenue subsidy, discount offers for digital payments, and options for one-time settlement of arrears. Besides liquidity injections, the Government should also contemplate directing safeguarding duties collected on imported cell and modules to a fund to support indigenous manufacturers. This will truly help realise the Government’s vision of an ‘aatmanirbhar’ future.  (The writers work at Centre for the Study of Science, Technology and Policy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/electricity-sector-needs-revamp-858415.html
08-07-2020||Panorama||A crude policy: Squeezing common man for oil revenues, profits||Petrol price on July 3 in Delhi was 80.43 a litre, a Rs 9.13 increase in 28 days, from June 6, and has stayed there since even as diesel price, now higher than that of petrol, continues to inch upwards as prices change every day at 6 am.   Why are petrol and diesel prices so high? Is it due to the high import cost and a weakening rupee? It is true that crude price of the Indian basket (what the country imports) increased from $19.90 a barrel in March closer to $40 now. And the rupee has fallen – from Rs 75.27 to the dollar to almost Rs 76. At this increased crude and dollar rates, a barrel (159 litres) of crude oil costs Rs 2,325, which works out to Rs 14.62 a litre. So, import cost and weak rupee are not the reasons for the rise in petrol and diesel prices at the pump. Unfounded excuses Not just today, but these excuses for rising prices have been invalid ever since the government withdrew its price determination role, or the administered prices mechanism. We are made to believe that the high crude prices are the culprit whereas there is no link between crude import price and the price at the pump. Consider the situation in 2013, when crude price was at a high $111.59.  At the then prevailing rupee-dollar exchange rate of Rs 66.89, the per-barrel crude rate was Rs 7,464 and per litre Rs 46.94. But petrol in Delhi was sold at Rs 76.06 then. Similarly, in 2018 the per litre cost, factoring in the extant exchange rate and the crude price at that time, was Rs 33.90, but petrol was still sold at Rs 76. Even in April 2020, when crude price bottomed out to $19.90 and dollar exchange rate was Rs 75.27, imported crude cost Rs 9.42 a litre, but petrol was still being sold at over Rs 70. The second reason often given for the high fuel prices is the heavy subsidies the government gives to the oil sector. The government’s compiled figures, petroleum and natural gas statistics, themselves refute this claim. The oil sector contributed Rs 4,56,530 crore to the government in 2017-18. The contribution included: Royalty from crude oil (Rs 12,057 crore), royalty from gas (Rs 1722 crore), Oil Development Cess (Rs 13,544 crore), Excise and Custom duties (Rs 2,13,012 crore), sales tax (Rs 1,86,394 crore) and dividend (Rs 29,801 crore). Similarly, the provisional estimates of gains for 2018-19 is Rs 4,33,062 crore. Oil pays for all subsidies As per the government’s data, the share of the petroleum sector in total subsidies has increased from 8.3% (Rs 24,833 crore Revised Estimate) in 2018-19 to 11.1% (Rs 37,478 crore) crore in 2019-20 Budget Estimate. But this amount is peanuts compared to what the government gets from the sector, more than Rs 4 lakh crore! The total subsidy of the government in 2017-18 amounted to Rs 2,24,455 crore, which included the subsidy on food (Rs 1,00,282 crore), fertilizers (Rs 66,468 crore), petroleum (Rs 24,460 crore), interest subsidies (Rs 22,146 crore) and other subsidies (Rs 11,099 crore). The total subsidy budgeted for 2019-20 was Rs 3,38,949 crore. This means, the petroleum sector is taking on it the entire subsidy burden of the government. High profits to companies Similarly, the claim of the oil companies sustaining losses is baseless. On the contrary, they are making huge profits. As per the latest official data, the net profit earned by public sector oil companies during 2018-19 was Rs 69,714 crore, which was higher than Rs 69,562 crore in 2017-18; ONGC earned the highest profit of Rs 26,716 crore, followed by IOCL, Rs 16,894 crore, and BPCL Rs 7,132 crore. So, the excuse of losses is an outright false claim. The under-recoveries, to whatever extent they are shown, are also not losses. In simple terms, the under-recoveries are the difference between the actual price the petroleum product is sold at and a notional price, a lower than expected profit, but not loss. Another reason often quoted for high fuel prices is India’s high dependence on crude imports. It is true that India’s dependence on imports is high, but it is not a justifiable cause for high petrol, diesel and other product prices. True, domestic production of crude is only 34.20 million metric tons (MMT) against the consumption of 213.22 MMT (2018-19 figures), which means an 84% import dependence. But India imports more crude than is domestically consumed. It refines the additional volume and sells the products outside India. The Petroleum Oil and Lubricants (POL) exports in 2018-19 were worth Rs 2,67,697 crore; the weak rupee gives additional benefit here, which is not much talked about. Petroleum product exports account for 11.6% of the country’s total exports Rs 23,07,663 crore. So, import dependence is not a good excuse for high petrol and diesel prices. There is, therefore, no justification in not sharing the benefits of low international crude prices with the people by lowering the prices of petrol and diesel. Needless to add, the high petrol and diesel prices have a high cascading effect on prices in general and have the potential to further cripple the Covid-19 ravaged economy. The government will do well to review its fuel pricing policy and make it transparent at least now, and should stop the constant rise in petrol and diesel prices and thereby of other goods. (The writer is a Development Economist and commentator on economic and social affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-crude-policy-squeezing-common-man-for-oil-revenues-profits-858416.html
08-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Online shopping mania||This is the very devil. People spend hours on browsing shopping sites, looking for bargains (which are often otherwise). They buy articles which they don’t need simply because they have got a ‘deal’. Ever since my brother developed a taste for online shopping, I have been on tenterhooks. Parcels—large, medium and small—arrive at the oddest times. One may be eating or sleeping or watching a movie or talking on the phone when the doorbell rings. Because he is in a hurry to deliver the goods, I drop everything and rush to the door to relieve him of his burden.  This is only part of the problem. What you see online is not what you get. My brother has often been a victim. He orders things because they are cheap. Like the time he ordered 20 kgs of wheat flour. He must have thought I was opening an eatery! There are just two of us and even if we ate chappatis morning, noon and night, it would last us forever.  There was a cold wave and he ordered gloves and cap. When the articles arrived, the gloves were much too large and the cap resembled an Eskimo’s headgear. He could have had them exchanged but it was too much trouble, He palmed them off to some unsuspecting person (what the person did with it is anybody’s guess but what my brother doesn’t know can’t hurt him).  When I bought a pair of walking shoes which have served me well for five years and are still ln more or less mint condition, he accused me of being extravagant. He ordered a pair online for half the price plus a pair of slip ons free. He didn’t like the shoes and the slip ons were the wrong size!  Then there was the time he ordered two pairs of glare glasses. It was a buy-one-get-one-free scheme. He asked me to choose one. I bluntly said I didn’t want it, adding for good measure, “Did I ask you for it?” He was furious and said I was very rude but it was his own fault. One would imagine he had learnt a lesson. But it hasn’t. He still orders online and continues to incur losses. Once, I asked him if he could not return the goods. He said, “I can but...” I knew it was too much trouble to do so. Much easier to find unsuspecting persons to give things to. At least it has prevented him from buying things I don’t want for me.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/online-shopping-mania-858414.html
08-07-2020||Second Edit||Covid-19: Rising cases, worsening situation||With the Covid-19 tally crossing the seven-lakh mark, India has overtaken Russia as the third most affected country in the world, behind the US and Brazil. The death count is over 20,000, and the numbers of the affected and the fatalities are set to go further up in the coming weeks. While the number of cases is galloping, India is claimed to be in a better position compared to other countries in the matter of death and recovery rates. But this has been challenged on the basis of some figures, and because the country is in a different stage of the spread of the disease than from other countries with which the comparison is made. With the fast pace of spread of the disease, some of the earlier assumptions, especially that the country benefitted from an early lockdown, have come to be questioned. This is mainly because the lockdown period was not fully utilised for building facilities and making preparations to face the surge of disease that inevitably came with its lifting.  The fast rise in the number of cases is partly because of the increase in testing in many parts of the country, especially in the more affected states like Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. But the testing of over 10 million done till now is still inadequate and more areas and populations need to be covered. It has also been seen that the recovery rate goes up when testing is increased. The decline of the pandemic starts when increased testing starts yielding fewer number of positive cases. While the infections are on the rise, governments need to pay greater attention to management of the situation. There are widespread complaints about the failure of governments to provide affordable and effective treatment to patients and to ensure the safety of health personnel. There is the need to improve all aspects of management of the disease, including disposal of bodies. The spread of the disease is at various stages in the country and no slowdown is expected in the near future. Karnataka and Bengaluru, which were considered to have done well to contain the spread, seem to have lost the early advantage. It is imperative for governments to enforce the protocols and measures to keep the disease in check. Regulated lockdowns are still necessary and isolation and quarantine facilities and arrangements need to be improved. Social distancing, wearing of masks and washing of hands are the only defence against the disease. Neither governments nor people should lower their vigil and guard, because we have to live with the virus for a long time to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-19-rising-cases-worsening-situation-858395.html
08-07-2020||South||Toll from NLC boiler explosion rises to 13; 1 critical||The death toll from a boiler explosion at NLC India has increased to 13, a company official said on Wednesday. Seven people are under treatment and three persons have been discharged, the official said. The mishap occurred on July 1 at the fifth unit of the thermal power station-II when workers were in the process of resuming operations which includes maintenance work following a shutdown. Six people died on the spot while 17 others were injured due to the explosion. "Of the seven still under treatment, the condition of one is critical, three are recovering and the condition of three is stable," the official added. A compensation of not less than Rs 30 lakh each has been announced for the deceased, he said. Regular employment will also be provided to an eligible member of the family of the deceased, he said. An NLC India Director, Power, has been asked to immediately proceed on leave till the finalisation of the enquiry into the explosion of the boiler at thermal power plant. Two executives, a deputy general manager and and additional deputy general manager, of the company have been suspended subsequently, the official said. "Subsequent to a boiler explosion in the Unit V of thermal power station-II (TPS) of NLCIL on July 1, which resulted in loss of lives, a high level enquiry headed by P K Mohapatra, Retired Director (Technical), NTPC has been ordered to look into the cause of the accident," the statement had said. An internal enquiry committee headed by a director level officer has also been constituted to inquire into it. The unit head of TPS-II has been placed under suspension and all the other four units of 210 MW each of thermal power station-II Stage -II have been shut down for safety audit. The incident was the second within two months at the NLC's same plant. On May 7, a boiler explosion at the sixth unit of the Thermal Power Station-II (TPS-II) injured eight men and in about 20 days, five of them, who had sustained severe burns and admitted at a hospital in Tiruchirappalli, died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/toll-from-nlc-boiler-explosion-rises-to-13-1-critical-858457.html
08-07-2020||South||Earthquake of 4.4 magnitude strikes Andaman sea||An earthquake of 4.4 magnitude occurred in the Andaman sea on Wednesday morning, officials said. No loss of life and property has been reported yet, they said. The earthquake took place at 5.19 am and the epicentre was 71-km east of Port Blair, the capital of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, according to the National Centre for Seismology. The depth of the earthquake was 150-km, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/earthquake-of-44-magnitude-strikes-andaman-sea-858493.html
08-07-2020||South||Tuticorin custodial deaths: CBI takes over probe, registers 2 FIRs||The CBI has taken over the cases related to the deaths of a father-son duo due to police torture in Tamil Nadu's Thoothukudi and despatched a special team to the state to probe the police personnel under the scanner. The agency has registered two separate cases in connection with the deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son Bennicks following a recommendation from the Tamil Nadu government. "CBI has registered two cases on the allegations of custodial death of two traders in Kovilpatti district on the request of Tamil Nadu government and further notification from the government of India," an agency statement said. The CB-CID of Tamil Nadu police has been investigating the case so far but Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced that the state government was transferring the case. Local police had earlier registered two cases at Kovilpatti East police station earlier. Jayaraj and Bennicks, who ran a mobile shop, were arrested on June 19 on charges of violating lockdown norms over business hours of their cellphone shop. The son died on June 20 and Jeyaraj two days later. Five police personnel, including an Inspector, were arrested following the intervention of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. According to the CBI FIR, Jeyaraj had complained of fever while in sub-jail on June 20 and was sent to the government hospital in Kovilpatti in an auto along with the escort. The doctor on June 23 informed jail officials that the "medical treatment failed and the prisoner died". In its FIR, the CBI said Bennicks was also taken to hospital on June 20 after he complained about fever. He was reported dead by doctors 90 minutes after his reaching the hospital during treatment. Both the father and son were taken to the sub-jail on June 20 afternoon. The deaths of the father-son duo and the disclosure of torture they underwent in custody in police station had triggered a controversy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tuticorin-custodial-deaths-cbi-takes-over-probe-registers-2-firs-858517.html
08-07-2020||South||CB-CID questioning five more policemen in Sathankulam case||Five policemen were being questioned in connection with the case of deaths of a father and son duo in this district, the Crime Branch-CID, which is presently handling the sensational case said on Wednesday. Days after the arrest and remand of five police personnel, five more policemen were now being "enquired," over the alleged police torture following which Jeyaraj and his son Bennicks died, an official told PTI. While Bennicks died on June 22, his father passed away the next day at a government hospital in Kovilpatti town in Tuticorin district. The duo were arrested on June 19 for alleged violation of prohibitory orders by keeping open their mobile phone outlet beyond the permitted business hours. The case is presently being handled by the CB-CID pending take over by the CBI and the five arrested policemen including aninspector were lodged in Madurai Central Prison. Tamil Nadu government had said on Tuesday that the Centre has issued a notification on CBI's take over of the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cb-cid-questioning-five-more-policemen-in-sathankulam-case-858519.html
08-07-2020||South||Pondy records highest surge of 112 Covid-19 cases||Puducherry registered its highest ever single day spurt of 112 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the aggregate number of those infected by the virus in the Union Territory to 1,151. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said a total of 112 new cases were registered in Puducherry, Karaikal and Yanam regions during the last 24 hours ending 10 am. today, while Mahe continued to have seven cases taking the total infections to 1,151. While 79 new cases were reported in Puducherry region, Karaikal had 25 and Yanam had eight cases. After transferring two cases from Yanam to Andhra Pradesh, the total fresh cases came to 112 while cumulative number of patients stood at 1,151. Active cases were 553 (493 in Puducherry, 33 in Karaikal, 20 in Yanam and 7 in Mahe), while 584 patients were treated and discharged. Fatalities continued to remain 14 as no death was reported during the last few days. A 58-year-old employee of the Raj Nivas, office of the Lt Governor here, tested positive and was admitted to JIPMER. He was among the fresh cases identified during the last 24 hours, an official source told PTI. A release from Raj Nivas said that as per standard operating procedure the contact tracing of the employee was also done. The primary contacts in Raj Nivas have also been identified and sent for testing. "Though asymptomatic they have been quarantined. Raj Nivas is being disinfected and will remain shut for the next 48 hours," it said. "The lone staff who has tested positive has no access to Lt Governor Kiran Bedi and her personal office. The Lt Governor is safe and healthy," it added. However, as a precaution the Lt Governor and also the staff attached to her personal office are being tested. Expressing concern over fresh cases crossing 100-mark, the Minister said the government should declare total lockdown on Sundays so that the spread of the infection could be controlled. "We can have total lockdown on Sundays. I hope Chief Minister V Narayanasamy will make an appropriate announcement on total lockdown sooner than later. Traders and Merchants associations have also expressed cooperation to have the lockdown at a meeting recently," Rao said. He also wanted the people to cooperate and follow safety norms so that there would be no room for the virus to gain grounds. Rao said mobile units to collect samples from people in rural areas were already pressed into service. "To ensure that the swabs were collected at the doorsteps of the people in villages mobile teams were in operation and one more ambulance would be pressed into service in a couple of days," he said. He said three of the 8 new cases admitted to the government hospital in Yanam, an enclave in Andhra Pradesh and home constituency of Health Minister, were workers belonging to the region and were working in a plant in Hyderabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pondy-records-highest-surge-of-112-covid-19-cases-858534.html
08-07-2020||South||SC issues notice to Tamil Nadu, others on DMK plea for disqualification of 11 AIADMAK MLAs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to Tamil Nadu government and others on a plea by DMK leader R Sakkrapani for a direction to Assembly Speaker to decide forthwith upon the disqualification petition pending before him since March 20, 2017 against 11 AIADMK MLAs, including deputy Chief Minister O Paneerselvam. On February 18, 2017, these MLAs have voted against the vote of confidence moved by their own party AIADMK leader and then Chief Minister E K Palaniswami.  On Wednesday, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna sought a response also from Secretary of Tamil Nadu Assembly within four weeks.   Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appeared for the DMK leader. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and advocate Balaji Srinivasan represented the other side. The petition filed by advocate Amit Anand Tiwari contended that the "inaction" of Speaker P Dhanapal in not deciding the issue despite an order of the top court on February 14, 2020, was "arbitrary and violative of Articles 14, 19, 164(1B), 191 and the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution". This was also in the teeth of the judgements of this court, it added. The petitioner claimed the Speaker's inaction clearly violated the constitutional mandate as the Supreme Court in Keisham Meghachandra Singh's case on January 21, 2020 has laid down the law requiring all the Speakers in the country to decide the disqualification petitions within a period of three months. By voting against the Chief Minister of the AIADMK in confidence vote, 11 MLAs had voluntarily given up the membership of the party in 2017. Their subsequent act of coming back to the party will be of no help as issue had to be decided with respect to their act, the plea submitted. The petitioner alleged the "mala fide" on the part of the Speaker was evident from his haste in disqualifying 18 MLAs on apprehension of their voting against the morion, while taking no action with respect to the defection of 11 of these legislators, who actually voted against the motion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-issues-notice-to-tamil-nadu-others-on-dmk-plea-for-disqualification-of-11-aiadmak-mlas-858535.html
08-07-2020||South||US nationals approach Kerala High Court seeking tourist visa extension||A couple of US nationals who came down to Kerala on a tourist visa have approached the Kerala High Court seeking permission for staying back in Kerala as they feel it is safer to be in Kerala. Terry John Converse, a theatre artist aged 76, and Johny Paul Pierce aged 74, who came down in tourist visa have sought permission for an extended stay. While Converse only wants to get his tourist visa extended, regarding which the High Court sent notices to the centre, Pierce wants to convert his tourist visa into business visa as he wishes to spend rest of his life here. His plea is likely to be considered this week.  Advocate K P Santhi, who appeared for Converse, said that he was a retired professor and theatre artist and used to visit Kerala frequently. Pierce's lawyer Saju S Nair said that he was quite impressed with the health care sector of Kerala and hence, he wishes to carry out promotional activities for Kerala's health tourism sector. According to sources at the Bureau of Immigration, as per the existing norms, tourist visas could be extended only for one month from the day international flight services will be resumed. Hence in the present context, the visas of the two could be extended only up to the end of August. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on July 3 had extended the ban on international flights until July 31.  Even as many foreign countries had earlier operated repatriation flights for their nationals held up in India, some foreign nationals at Ashrams who are undergoing Ayurveda Therapy, preferred to stay back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/us-nationals-approach-kerala-high-court-seeking-tourist-visa-extension-858540.html
08-07-2020||South||SC issues notice to Tamil Nadu assembly speaker, others on DMK's plea for disqualification of 11 AIADMK MLAs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought responses from the Tamil Nadu assembly speaker P Dhanapal and others, including assembly secretary, on a plea of DMK seeking a direction to the speaker to "forthwith" decide its pending plea for disqualification of 11 AIADMK lawmakers who had voted against Chief Minister K Palaniswami during the 2017 confidence vote. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and justices R Subhash Reddy and A S took note of the submission of the main opposition party of the state that speaker has not been taking any decision on the MLAs for last three years and issued notices to him, assembly secretary and 11 lawmakers including O Paneerselvam. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal and lawyer Amit Anand Tiwari appeared for the DMK and said that the assembly term will be getting over soon and hence, the matter be fixed for an early hearing. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who appeared on behalf of an AIADMK MLA, opposed the issuance of the notice. The apex court has now fixed the DMK's plea for hearing after four weeks. DMK, in its fresh plea filed through advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, has sought a direction to the Assembly speaker to decide its plea, pending since March 20, 2017, seeking disqualification of the 11 lawmakers including Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam under the anti-defection law for voting against the Palaniswami government. Earlier, the top court had deferred the hearing on the plea after taking into account the prevailing Covid-19 situation. It had said that it will list the petition after 15 days looking at Covid-19 situation. The DMK, in its plea, has referred to an earlier order of the top court which had disposed of the plea after taking note of the submission that the Speaker has initiated proceedings on the disqualification plea. The plea has sought a direction to hold the “deliberate action” of the Speaker in not deciding the “disqualification petition” as “arbitrary and violative” fundamental rights and constitutional schemes. “Issue a writ...directing Respondent No. 2 (Speaker) to declare that Respondent Nos. 3-13 (11 AIADMK MLAs) are disqualified or in the alternative, direct the Speaker to decide the disqualification petition forthwith,” said the plea filed through R Sakkrapani, whip of DMK in Assembly. DMK referred to an apex court order in another case in which it had ordered forthwith removal of BJP lawmaker and Manipur Forest Cabinet Minister TH Shyamkumar, restraining him from entering the Assembly till further orders. The apex court had invoked its plenary power under Article 142 of the Constitution to remove a cabinet minister from any government as the Assembly speaker could not decide the disqualification plea despite its specific directions. “For the last three years and three months, speaker (R-2) has not decided on the issue. This inaction of the Respondent No. 2 assumes greater significance in view of the fact that in the earlier round of litigation, before this Court vide an order dated February 14, the speaker was asked to decide the disqualification petitions in accordance with the law. "Despite that nothing has been done for last 4 months, whereas the law requires the Speaker to decide a petition from disqualification within an outer limit of three months,” the plea said. The speaker has “continued to sit over the issue” and the undertaking given by the Advocate General on his behalf was not followed in letter and spirit, it said. The plea has sought disqualification of Panneerselvam and 10 others for having voted against the Palaniswami government when they were in the rebel camp. It had contended that by voting against the trust motion, these MLAs violated the whip issued by the ruling party and hence attracted disqualification under the anti-defection law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-issues-notice-to-tamil-nadu-assembly-speaker-others-on-dmks-plea-for-disqualification-of-11-aiadmk-mlas-858588.html
08-07-2020||South||Opposition parties in Kerala demand CM's resignation over gold smuggling case||Escalating their attack against the left government in the state in the gold smuggling case, opposition parties in Kerala on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the allegations raised by them against his office in the matter. The opposition has been up in arms against the government over the recent seizure of over 30 kg of gold from the International Airport which was attempted to be smuggled into the state through diplomatic baggage. "The chief minister's office is under the shadow of doubt. The Chief Minister should resign and face the probe. The United Democratic Front demands the resignation and we have planned widespread protests in the state following all the Covid-19 protocols," Leader of Opposition in the Kerala Assembly Ramesh Chennithala told reporters. With the Congress and BJP stepping up their attack, the left government on Tuesday removed M Sivasankar, who was the secretary to the Chief Minister and the IT Principal secretary, after the opposition targeted him for the appointment of a woman official of the IT department, alleged to be the 'kingpin' and who was being investigated by the Crime Branch in another case. Soon after he was removed as secretary to CM, Sivasankar went on leave from his IT post. Subsequently, he was removed from that post too. Vijayan had yesterday dismissed all the allegations and said the "controversial woman" was not associated with the Chief Minister's office. Chennithala, in his press meet at his official residence today, alleged that the woman was a known person to the chief minister and she was appointed in the IT department which came under the CM. "Some media reports have come out citing the illegal dealings of the former IT secretary with the controversial woman. The same woman was the coordinator of the Space Conclave which was organised for the state government. How can the chief minister say that he was unaware of such a person who handled a major event in the state," Chennithala asked. Chennithala has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a CBI probe into the matter, saying the seized gold worth "Rs 30 crore illegally brought to our country" from a consignment was addressed to the "UAE consulate." The UAE Embassy in Delhi in a tweet yesterday said the UAE authorities have launched an investigation to find out who sent the cargo containing gold to the address of the UAE consulate. BJP state chief K Surendran on Wednesday demanded the chief minister's resignation alleging Vijayan's involvement was clear in the matter. He said the Chief Minister should explain the role of his office in the gold smuggling case, which is detrimental to national security. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), an ally of the Congress-led UDF, said a CBI probe was required as the "matter involves relations between two countries." The youth wing of the Congress and the BJP have staged protests at various places in Kerala against the government. Vijayan has said that the case was being probed by the Customs department, a central government agency, and the state government has no role in it. "The consignment was addressed to the UAE Consulate and not to any government agency. How's the state government responsible for that? It's the centre which has to take a call on the probe agency and not the state government. We have extended our full support to the Customs authorities," Vijayan said. He has also dismissed the BJP's allegation that the CM's office tried to interfere in the matter and pointed out that the Customs joint Commissioner had said publicly that no one from the government tried to influence the probe. With the woman, a former employee of a foreign country's consulate in Kerala, on the run, the Customs on Tuesday said it was planning to issue a lookout notice for her. The central agency's move came a day after it arrested a man, who claimed himself to be a former employee of a foreign country's consulate in Kerala, in connection with the seizure of gold worth over Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" at Thiruvananthapuram international airport on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/opposition-parties-in-kerala-demand-cms-resignation-over-gold-smuggling-case-858617.html
08-07-2020||South||Amid anti-Covid-19 work, Chennai corporation official tries to lure student volunteer; suspended||An official of the city civic body was suspended on Wednesday for alleged 'misconduct' after an audio clip in which he purportedly tries to entice a girl student volunteer engaged in anti-Covid-19 work went viral on social media. In the alleged phone call recording, the Greater Chennai Corporation Assistant Engineer tries to lure the student, saying he draws a fat salary and asking her to imagine the kind of life for her with such money. The student asked him why he was teasing her when the man said he "likes her" and that she would have become his spouse had he seen her two years ago, before his marriage. The audio clip has gone viral on social media. "The assistant engineer is placed under suspension for the alleged misconduct based on certain preliminary evidence... a due inquiry into the issue will continue," Corporation Commissioner G Prakash said. A corporation official said she was a volunteer involved in initiatives like fever camps and door-to-door surveys in the city to look for flu-like symptoms among the people. When asked if any complaint has been lodged by her, a police official said the student submitted a petition seeking action. Her parents, however, do not appear to be keen to proceed further since the corporation official has been suspended, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-anti-covid-19-work-chennai-corporation-official-tries-to-lure-student-volunteer-suspended-858651.html
08-07-2020||South||Hubballi trader died in Kasargod tests positive for Covid-19||A Hubli-based trader hailing from Kasargod, who died in Kasargod on Tuesday, was found Covid-19 positive. He was identified as Abdul Rahman, 55. According to a statement from Kasargod district medical officer, the Mogral Puthur native, Abdul Rahman, was running a provision store at Hubli in Karnataka. He developed fever while in Hubli and returned to Kerala by car with two friends on July 6 night. By 3:30 a.m. on July 7 he reached Talapady check post and was taken to Kasargod general hospital as he complained of breathing difficulty. But he died on the way. His specimen was subjected to test and the result that came on Wednesday was Covid-19 positive. The preliminary assumption of doctors was that he died due to heart ailments. He was earlier undergoing treatment for heart ailments and had also undergone angioplasty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hubballi-trader-died-in-kasargod-tests-positive-for-covid-19-858663.html
08-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Concerns of community spread in coastal area of Thiruvananthapuram||Triggering concerns of a community spread in Thiruvananthapuram, 60 fresh cases of community spread were reported in the district on Wednesday, most of which were in the coastal area of Poonthura which is part of the city. The fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala also recorded an all-time high of 301 on a single day, of which 90 were due to local spread, which is also the highest number of infection through local spread on a single day. Kerala Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said that it was a super spread in the Poonthura locality as many persons were got infected from a single person. Steps like deploying police commandos to enforce triple lockdown and ban on fishing boats venturing into the sea from the locality were taken. The primary sources of infection in the locality was suspect to be a person who used to regularly commute to Kanyakumari in Tamilnadu, which is around 70 kilometres from Poonthura, for fish trading purpose. The fresh infected persons included those involved in fish trading in the city and autorickshaw drivers. Meanwhile, nine BSF personnel, three ITBP personnel, one CISF personnel and one jawan were among the 301 fresh cases in Kerala. As many as 107 persons under treatment got recovered from Covid-19 on Wednesday. The active cases in the state reached 2,605.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-concerns-of-community-spread-in-coastal-area-of-thiruvananthapuram-858675.html
08-07-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan urges Centre to dig deep into gold smuggling||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday urged the Centre to conduct a comprehensive probe into the gold smuggling racket in which his staff is alleged to have colluded. In a letter sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said the smuggling using diplomatic cover had many angles that warranted a thorough investigation. Every link of the crime should be unravelled, he urged. Attache to be quized An official of the UAE consulate here is likely to be quizzed by the Customs officials in connection with the gold smuggling case. According to sources, the Customs have sought the MEA nod to quiz the consulate official with diplomatic immunity. Sarith Kumar, a former PRO of the consulate, reportedly turned up for clearing the diplomatic cargo from the airport with an official authorisation letter issued by an attache of the UAE consulate. Hence the attache needs to be questioned to know if it was a genuine letter or a forged one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-urges-centre-to-dig-deep-into-gold-smuggling-858706.html
08-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 3,756 Covid-19 cases, tally now at 1.22 lakh, doubling time increases in Chennai||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported 3,756 Covid-19 cases and 64 fatalities, taking the tally to 1.22 lakh while the death toll went up to 1,700, the health department said. The doubling time of coronavirus cases in Chennai, meanwhile, improved to 25.42 days as of Tuesday from 18 days on June 28, according to the Greater Chennai Corporation. A Central team of officials led by Additional Secretary, Ministry of Health, Arti Ahuja, arrived here today for Covid-19 related inspections and meetings with state authorities. Chennai recorded 1,261 new cases today, Madurai, 379 and nearby Tiruvallur and Chengelpet, 300 and 273 infections respectively, a health department bulletin said. The fresh cases here today conformed to the recent trend of a dip in fresh infections following an intense lockdown between June 19 and July 5. The state capital posted 1,203 cases on Tuesday and 1,747 on Monday. Tamil Nadu's tally stood at 1,22,350 and Chennai's share was 72,500. Those dead include 59 people with co-morbidities, and a 23-year-old woman and a 36-year-old man were among those who died though they had no co-morbidities. With 64 deaths, the toll touched 1,700. In Chennai, 1,146 patients died which includes two cross-notified (to other states) deaths. With two more labs in government hospitals at Harur and Erode getting approved for Covid-19 testing, the number of facilities in the government sector for confirmatory virus examination has gone up to 52 from 50. In the private sector, there are 46 labs and in total, the state has 98 testing centres. As many as 35,979 samples were tested today and in total 14,49,414 specimens have been examined. While there are 46,480 active cases, 3,051 patients got discharged today and cumulatively 74,167 people have got cured. "Doubling time is dynamic and it informs us about the impact of the interventions like lockdown, testing and surveillance on the epidemic growth," the GCC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-3756-covid-19-cases-tally-now-at-122-lakh-doubling-time-increases-in-chennai-858719.html
08-07-2020||South||Online classes for Tamil Nadu govt school students after July 13: Minister||Online classes for government school students in Tamil Nadu would commence soon and five private TV channels have agreed to telecast them for free, state School Education Minister K A Sengottaiyan said on Wednesday. The preparatory work was on for conducting the online classes which would commence after July 13, he told reporters in Gobichettipalayam in this district. Besides the state-owned education channel, the private channels have agreed to telecast the online classes at scheduled time. Textbooks will be distributed to students to facilitate the conduct of the online classes, which will be inaugurated by Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he said. Meanwhile, an official release in Chennai said the board exam for Class XII students who could not appear for it on March 24 due to coronavirus lockdown, will be held on July 27. Hall tickets could be downloaded from the website www.dge.tn.gov.in from July 13 to 17.  Sengottaiyan said about 34,482 Class XII students were unable to write their exam on March 24 and only 718 are willing to appear for the examination now. "The chief minister will announce the date for conducting the exams for these students and after the exam, the results will be declared in four days," he said. The state government had earlier cancelled the Class X board exams and promoted more than nine lakh students in view of the Covid-19 situations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/online-classes-for-tamil-nadu-govt-school-students-after-july-13-minister-858724.html
08-07-2020||State||Covid-19 death rate in Kalyana Karnataka exceeds state’s average||The Covid-19 death rate in Kalyana Karnataka is more than (2.03%) the state’s average of 1.58% as of July 6. According to the daily state bulletin, out of 5,561 positive cases reported in the region with six districts, a total of 113 succumbed to the virus till July 6. In the state, as many as 401 people died of novel coronavirus out of 25,317 positive cases. Of the total cases reported in Kalyana Karnataka, recovery rate of Covid-19 affected people is 68.49% (3,809) while the rate of active cases it put at 29.47 % (1,639 patients) in the region. The death rate is highest in Bidar at 5.50% (44) of the total 799 positive cases. The fatalities are the second highest in the state after Bengaluru. The death rate in Yadgir district is lowest with 0.09%.  The recovery rate is highest in Yadgir district (86.38%) followed by Kalaburagi (77.10%), Raichur (73.39%), Koppal (55.39 %) and Ballari (42.44%). Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner B Sharat had told DH that late reporting to the hospital and co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, chronic kidney failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and others were the main causes for the fatalities.  Of the total deaths in Kalaburagi district, a majority are aged about 50 years. A few deaths reported in the district have neither travel history nor have any proof that they came in direct contact with the infected persons. Their family members spread the virus to them, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-death-rate-in-kalyana-karnataka-exceeds-state-s-average-858400.html
08-07-2020||State||Karnataka govt allows sale of land leased to organisations||In yet another revenue generation measure, the Revenue department has issued an order permitting the sale of government land leased to various religious, industrial and other organisations. Officials say that around Rs 2,250 crore will be generated in Bengaluru Urban district alone, if the order is implemented. While rules for the process are yet to be formed, it has directed deputy commissioners of various districts to submit proposals for the sale of such lands leased by the government to various institutions under the Karnataka Land Grant Rules, 1969. The order came after a recent Cabinet decision.  The order issued on July 6 says that government lands leased to private organisations, trusts, industries, educational, social welfare, religious and agricultural purposes can be regularised by paying the guidance value of the land, provided the organisation continued to use the land for the same purpose it was granted for. If an organisation or trust wanted to convert the land for other purposes, it will be charged twice the guidance value. According to the order, land leased to organisations that are unwilling to purchase the land will be surveyed. “DCs should initiate measures to survey such lands and recover the unused land to the government,” it said. Revenue Principal Secretary N Manjunath Prasad told DH that rules for the sale of such lands will be formulated shortly. “We have directed deputy commissioners to compile the extent of land leased to various organisations in their respective districts,” he said, noting that 921 acres were leased to private parties in Bengaluru Urban district. From the 921 acres, the state government used to receive an annual rent of Rs 6.50 crore per year. Sale of leased land in Bengaluru Urban alone will generate around Rs 2,250 crore at current guidance values, Prasad said.  The government is also pushing for regularisation of unauthorised buildings on Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) land and auction of corner sites to mobilise resources due to the severe economic difficulties in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the state’s reduced share in central taxes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-allows-sale-of-land-leased-to-organisations-858401.html
08-07-2020||State||Covid-19 patients get additional herbal supplements at CCCs||When Covid-19 patients at the designated Covid-19 hospital at Karnataka Intitute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi and those admitted to other allopathy hospitals identified by the district administration get allopathy medicine and vitamin tablets, asymptomatic Covid-19 patients admitted to Covid Care Centres (CCCs) at Ayurvedic hospitals in the City have an added nutrition supplement, as they are getting Ayurvedically prepared immune boosters like Kashaya and Chyawanaprash. Either at KIMS or other recognised Covid Care Hospitals, patients get allopathy tablets having Vitamin C, zinc, B Complex, along with antibiotic and anti-viral medicines. But, asymptomatic patients who are shifted to three Ayurvedic colleges and one homeopathic college in the twin cities are getting Ayurvedic or homeopathic supplements as an additional booster for their immunity level to fight the infection. Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya & Hospital at Heggeri Extension and Sanjeevini Ayurveda College & Hospital on Gokul Road in Hubballi are among the the CCCs identified by the district administration. Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya & Hospital has reserved all its 55 beds for asymptomatic Covid patients, and has stopped OPD and other services. Sanjeevini Ayurveda College & Hospital has has kept 50 beds for Covid, and OPD is shifted to another building. Kashaya, Chyawanprash "Along with medicines prescribed by Health & Family Welfare Medicine, we give patients 60 ml Ojaskara Kashaya made of spices, and Chyawanaprash mainly made of amla daily once, which boost immunity. Our staff are trained, we have 40 patients now, and three persons are discharged," said Sanjeevini Ayurveda College & Hospital principal Shrinivas Bannigol. PPE kits, medicines and other material required are provided to us. A doctor deputed by the Health & Family Welfare Department also visits. Three doctors, three staff nurse, one aya and two government nurses are deputed for Covid ward, and the needy staff stay at hospital premises itself, he said. At Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya & Hospital, all 55 beds are full, and five persons are already discharged. In addition to treatment protocol, Kashaya is also given to patients here, as per AYUSH method. Demand is placed for Chyawanprash also. Staff on Covid duty are given safety material, and accommodation is also arranged in hostels. "We have staff shortage, and we want the government to conduct Ayurvedic research on Covid-19," said the college principal Prashanth A S. Demand According to nurse who is on Covid duty there, "there is little fear, but duty is first. Some patients ask why they are here though they do not have any symptoms, and we convince them. Some are so aware that they demand kashaya and chyawanprash,". At CCC at Shri C B Guttal Ayurvedic College & Hospital in Dharwad, 60 beds are reserved and 19 are occupied. This hospital also gives Kashaya, and plans to give Chyawanprash. At Dr B D Jatti Homeopathic College & Hospital two patients are asymptomatic, and one is mildly symptomatic. They were all corona warriors and they are give arsenicum album tablets. "We are trained to treat very mild symptoms, but we call KIMS or other government doctors for moderate symptoms," doctors said. District Health Officer Yashwanth Madinkar clarified that Ayurvedice hospitals can give Ayurvedic supplements with consent. Covid suspected or patient can voluntarily choose eligible private hospitals, or we send them if needed, he added. Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) medical superintendent Arunkumar C noted that only allopathic medicines are given there, and 250 beds at the designated Covid-19 hospital are almost full.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-patients-get-additional-herbal-supplements-at-cccs-858472.html
08-07-2020||State||KPCC urges Karnataka government to declare 2020-21 'zero' academic year, to not allow online classes||Urging the government to declare 2020-21 academic year as 'zero year', Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) teachers and graduates cell president R M Kuberappa has urged the government not to allow online education, keeping the difficulties of rural students, and problems being faced by students, parents and teachers during the Covid-19 situation. "Many rural areas do not have internet connection, and poor families do not have smart phones. Awareness would be created among teachers also, to ask the government to cancel online classes. The report on online education given by an experts' committee is an unscientific one, and the government should have taken teachers' consent," he said. A teachers' delegation on this issue would be taken to the chief minister and primary & secondary education minister, Kuberappa noted, adding that schools should be reopened from next June. Guest lecturers Nearly 3.75 lakh guest lecturers in Karnataka, who faced hardships even otherwise, are without salary since the lockdown, he said. At least Rs 5,000 compensation per month should be given to each guest lecturer. Their service should be regularised, and age limit for recruitment should be extended by two years. If government fails to meet these demands, a plan to approach teh court is also in place, Kuberappa added||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kpcc-urges-karnataka-government-to-declare-2020-21-zero-academic-year-to-not-allow-online-classes-858561.html
08-07-2020||State||Covid-19 surge was expected later, not now: Karnataka Minister K Sudhakar||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Wednesday said the significant rise in Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru was not in line with what the government had projected or expected.  "In Bengaluru, we knew that the cases would go up soon after the lockdown was relaxed. But such a big rise (in cases) did not figure in the information we had with us. These numbers were for July-end, but they came now,” Sudhakar said.  “Still, there’s no need for panic and we’re making all arrangements. There may be minor shortcomings, but we will address them going forward,” he added.  Of the total 26,815 Covid-19 positive cases recorded in Karnataka so far, over 11,500 have been reported in the last seven days. In Bengaluru, nearly 60% of the total 11,361 cases came in the past one week.  Earlier in the day, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa huddled with Sudhakar, Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan and others to take stock of the situation.  They discussed the preparations at the Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) that is being turned into a Covid Care Centre. “We will have 10,000 beds at BIEC and other basic infrastructure. We also discussed food, hygiene, doctors and health staff that will be required,” Sudhakar said. “We already have 2,000 beds at the Covid Care Centres that are operational. Every day, 200-300 people are getting admitted and the same number of people are getting discharged.”  The government will need more than 1,000 doctors and health professionals at BIEC. “We will need at least one doctor for every 100 people. So, for 10,000, we will need 1,000 people. We’d need 1,500 people in all to work in shifts. I’m calling for a meeting of the medical education department to discuss how this can be arranged,” Sudhakar said.  The minister also clarified that asymptomatic Covid-19 patients do not require an ambulance to be taken to a Covid Care Centre. “A tempo traveller or any other vehicle will do as the patients are asymptomatic...let there be no misunderstanding on this,” he said.  The government is also working on streamlining the process of transporting patients. Some 500 vehicles will be arranged in Bengaluru to ferry patients, Sudhakar said. “In two days, this will be integrated into the dashboard at our war room. As soon as a positive, symptomatic case is reported, the patient will get a call from the war room with details on when s/he will be picked up. This will be done scientifically without any scope for laxity,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-surge-was-expected-later-not-now-karnataka-minister-k-sudhakar-858564.html
08-07-2020||State||New ransomware infecting user files in desktops and laptops: Karnataka puts all depts on alert||Karnataka has asked all government departments to be alert as new ransomware called 'Try2Cry' is said to be infecting computers that function using MS Windows software. “In the wake of new Ransomware 'TRY2CRY' infecting user files in desktops and laptops, it is informed to keep operating systems and antivirus software up-to-date and scan USB drives for virus before using,” the e-Governance department has said in its alert. “It is strongly recommended to use only KSWAN (Karnataka State Wide Area Network) internet service on all the officially provided end user machines viz desktops and laptops.” Apparently, the 'Try2Cry' ransomware infects USB flash drives and uses Windows shortcuts (.lnk files) to worm its way into a targeted device. A ransomware is a malware that locks a user’s access to files or the device; access is restored only upon the payment of a ransom. “There’s no imminent breach or attack,” Centre for e-Governance chief executive officer Vipin Singh told DH. “We regularly receive alerts from central agencies and we got an alert on the 'Try2Cry' ransomware,” he said. “The government largely uses KSWA, but there are officers that are yet to be provided with KSWAN. Also, people having KSWAN may be using other networks. It’s a secure network with filters that control what you can access,” Singh explained. The e-Governance department gets alerts from National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC), the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In). “In the recent past, the number of alerts has increased exponentially,” Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-ransomware-infecting-user-files-in-desktops-and-laptops-karnataka-puts-all-depts-on-alert-858618.html
08-07-2020||State||Bed target increased to 30k in B’luru||Following suggestions from the Central team that home isolation of Covid-19 patients should be avoided to check community spread, the state government has told the task force to add 10,000 more beds to the present target of 20,000 beds in Bengaluru. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday instructed setting up additional beds. An official working closely with level Covid task force said that the central team advised that the number of patients allowed home isolation should not be more than 5% to 7% of the total cases. Task force team head Rajender Kumar Kataria confirmed that the target has now been increased to 30,000 beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bed-target-increased-to-30k-in-b-luru-858700.html
08-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Hoskote MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Hoskote MLA Sharath Bachegowda was tested positive for Covid-19, here Wednesday. "Though I am asymptomatic, doctors have advised me to home quarantine," he said in a statement. His wife, Pratibha Sharath, was also positive for the coronavirus. In a statement, Sharath said that he underwent a Covid-19 test after he had slight body pain on July 6. He and his wife were tested positive on Wednesday evening. "I have provided details of all those who met me during the last few days to government officials. Yet, if any of those who met me had Covid-19 symptoms, I urge them to get tested soon," he said. Sharath is the recent addition to the list of politicians who were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. Mandya MP Sumalatha, Mangalore North MLA Dr Bharath Shetty, Kunigal MLA Dr HD Ranganath and senior Congress leader Janardhan Poojary had tested positive for Covid-19 recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hoskote-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-858701.html
08-07-2020||State||Panel on online education didn't hear us: parents||The RTE Students and Parents Association has said that the 14-member expert committee constituted by the government to frame guidelines for online teaching has not considered the opinion of parents and students. In a statement released to the press, the association stated that despite the petition submitted to the government to consider them, as they represent over 5 lakh parents and students across the state, the committee did not hear them. “As the committee failed to hear us, representing parents and students, we have given our opinion on the report submitted by the expert committee to the government and urged the government to consider our opinion while taking a final decision,” said B N Yogananda, general secretary of the association. The association even urged the government not to consider the report submitted by the expert committee. “The committee has framed guidelines without discussing and debating with parents. So, we urge the government not to consider the report,” reads the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panel-on-online-education-didnt-hear-us-parents-858708.html
08-07-2020||State||RTC employees demand dedicated Covid Care Centres||The union of employees working for the four state Road Transport Corporations has urged the managements to set up dedicated Covid Care Centres for drivers and conductors who are exposed to Coronavirus on the frontline. In a letter to the management of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), the Union said that the management should identify places across the state to make sure the employees contracting the disease get the required facilities, including quarantine and medical aid. Referring to high infections among BMTC employees, the Union said said there was a need to recognise the efforts of the employees and bring the much- needed changes. The Union also urged the managements to increase the dearness allowance paid to the employees and ensure that the BMTC and NWKRTC do not delay depositing the provident fund amount.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rtc-employees-demand-dedicated-covid-care-centres-858711.html
08-07-2020||State||Bridge course on Chandana channel for class 8-10 students||The Department of Public Instruction is all set to launch a bridge course for students of classes 8, 9 and 10 through Chandana channel to engage students during this Covid-19 crisis even as uncertainty over reopening of schoolscontinued. After looking at the video contents prepared by the Department of State Educational Research and Training (DSERT), Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “We will soon launch bridge course through Chandana channel and we have also requested for a dedicated channel to conduct recorded classes.” These recorded classes will be telecast both in Kannada and English medium to reach students across thestate. Meanwhile, the minister reiterated that the government had not taken any decision about reopening of schools. Following rumours about reopening of schools, which went viral on various social media platforms, the minister issued aclarification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bridge-course-on-chandana-channel-for-class-8-10-students-858712.html
08-07-2020||State||Rivers, dams brim as monsoon gains pace||The southwest monsoon has regained its vigour causing a widespread rain in many parts of Karnataka. Most of the west and east-flowing rivers have come alive owing to the copious rain in the last few days. The inflow into Almatti reservoir has clocked 46,106 cusecs after 36,000-plus cusecs was discharged downstream Krishna from Rajapur barrage on Wednesday. Tributaries of Krishna river - Malaprabha, Ghataprabha and Hiranyakeshi - are in full spate following the incessant rain in their catchments in Maharahstra and Karnataka. Meanwhile, the Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigama Ltd (KBJNL) officials have sounded flood alert in the low-lying areas of the downstream. A KBJNL engineer has urged the people living in the flood-prone areas to shift, along with the cattle and livestock, to safer places as the authorities are expcted to release water from Almatti any moment. Many parts of north Karnataka, including Belagavi, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi districts have received moderate to heavy rainfall on Wednesday. West-flowing rivers swell Uttara Kannada district experienced intermittent showers through the day.Kumta recorded a whopping 16.2 cm of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Wednesday). Ankola registered 14 cm, Honnavar 11.8 cm and Siddapur 10 cmof rain. Kali, Gangavali rivers and rivulets are flowing in full glory. The vehicular movement on Yellapur-Mundgod road was badly affected as overflowing streams flooded the stretch at many points. The downpour, coupled with strong winds, that lashed the Udupi district on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday has damaged several houses in Baindoor, Kundapur and Hebri taluks. Most of the rivers in the district are flowing above danger mark. Netravati and Kumaradhara rivers, the lifelines of Dakshina Kannada, have re has exceeded the danger mark received good inflows owing to the incessant showers in their catchments. Tunga dam at Gajanuru in Shivamogga district is full to the brim. More than 25,000 cusecs of water is being released to Tunga downstream. The historic mantap on the bank of swollen Tunga is almost submerged. The district, including Shivamogga Rural, Thirthahalli, Hosanagar and Sagar, continued to witness heavy showers on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy showers in seven coastal and Malnad districts for next two days. Orange alert has been declared for three coastal districts, Hassan, Shivamogga, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru districts for Thursday and Friday. The weather department also forecast moderate to heavy showers in south interior Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rivers-dams-brim-as-monsoon-gains-pace-858714.html
08-07-2020||State||Karnataka HC stays govt order banning online classes||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday stayed the order of the state government banning online classes. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy held that the state government’s decision violated fundamental rights under the Constitution. “The orders of the state government dated June 15 and June 27, 2020 which impose ban on conduct of online classes or coaching by the schools from LKG to class 5 will remain stayed. Prima facie both the orders couldn’t stand the test of legality. When we pass this interim order we make it clear that this order does not construe to mean that the authority of the schools have the right to make online education compulsory or charge extra or construe that the students who do not opt for online training should be deprived of normal education as and when the schools are ready to start academic session,’’ the bench held. On June 15, the state government banned online classes for children from KG to class 5. Subsequently, in the second order issued on June 27, the state fixed hours in a day for online teaching for students from class 6 to 10 and also stated that only parents of pre-primary children appear online to take instructions from the teachers. The state government had relied upon a letter from the Director of Nimhans to ban online classes from KG to class 5. Similarly, the state had quoted the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development - Pragyata - to fix hours of online teaching for class 6 to 10. The bench in its interim order observed that while Pragyata guidelines called upon the states to encourage online learning, the letter by Nimhans Director stated that children below the age of six years should use the screens only for less than one to one and half hours. On the state government’s argument that it was only the elite schools that are demanding online teaching, the bench said that the state should take steps to create infrastructure in rural schools. “As per order dated 29-06-2020 all schools, whether government or private, are closed till July 31, 2020. Considering the situation created by the pandemic there is no expectation that there will be immediate resumption of normal functioning of the schools. In fact, going by the rights conferred by Article 21 and 21A state should take care that students, especially in schools run by the government, are not deprived of their right of education. The state will have to take appropriate steps to create infrastructure to impart education to students even in rural areas. State being not able to extend education is no ground to say that even the so-called elite schools should not provide online teaching,’’ the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-stays-govt-order-banning-online-classes-858715.html
08-07-2020||State||Budding Kannada actor Sushil Kumar ends life||A budding Kannada film actor Sushil Kumar (32) ended his life by hanging at a farmhouse of his friend at Induvala village in the district on Wednesday. After his television stint, Sushil Kumar landed meaty roles in “Kamarottu Checkpost” a 2019 horror thriller, and yet-to-be-released “Salaga.”    According to police, depression forced Sushil Kumar to take the extreme step. Sushil, an engineering graduate, was a gym trainer in Bengaluru. He was into modelling before making his debut on small screen. He had played the role of a police officer in ‘Salaga’, alongside Duniya Vijay. He was married to a woman from Kodagu three years ago. As gyms were closed due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, he had returned to his house in Kallahalli, and was not reachable since three days. The family members had lodged a missing complaint with the police. Sushil was found hanging at a farmhouse in Induvala on Wednesday morning.  The Mandya Rural police have registered a case. Duniya Vijay took to Facebook to condole the death of Sushil: “A young and aspiring actor had donned the role of a police officer in ‘Salaga’. I thought he would become a hero in future. But, he has gone too soon even before the film is released.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/budding-kannada-actor-sushil-kumar-ends-life-858718.html
08-07-2020||State||Publish EIA notification in local languages: HC to Centre||The High Court on Wednesday directed the union government to take steps to give wide publicity for the draft Environment Assessment Notification 2020 (EIA 2020). It directed the union government to publish the notification in vernacular languages. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice M Nagaprasanna ordered issuance of notice to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on a PIL filed by a trust - United Conservation Movement. The petition contended that the draft notification was issued during the lockdown period and that the general public should get sufficient opportunity to file objections. The counsel for the petitioner, Prince Isac, contended that the draft EIA 2020 notification was clandestinely published during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown period with just 60 days time to file objections. He prayed to extend the time to file objections till December 31, 2020 and also to publish the draft in all vernacular languages, including Kannada. The petition claimed that the draft notification is a total overhaul of the existing EIA notification of 2006. It said the postal services for Delhi and Mumbai have been suspended in view of the pandemic and citizens who would like to file objections are deprived of their rights. The draft notification dated March 23, 2020 was published in the official gazette on April 11. “A frightening situation is in existence where one can think only of their safety and protection from the virus. Due to the prevailing situation, it is impossible to meet people who have vast experience in the EIA sector to discuss the draft EIA 2020,’’ the petition stated. The bench observed that the contention of the petitioner had merits. “Prima facie there is merit in the contention that during the pandemic it will be appropriate for the Central government to give wide publicity to the notification dated 23-03-2020, so that the citizens will be in a position to lodge their objections. The time to submit objections has now been extended till August 11, 2020,’’ the bench said. The matter was deferred to July 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/publish-eia-notification-in-local-languages-hc-to-centre-858725.html
08-07-2020||State||FCI scales new heights in food grain supply||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has seen an unprecedented scaling up of its operations over the last three months. To ensure food security in the state during the Covid-19 pandemic, the FCI had to increase its operations by 220%, receiving and distributing 32 lakh metric tonnes of food grains between April and July this year. This, with a storage capacity of just 8.50 lakh metric tonnes across all its godowns in thestate. Usually, the state government requires about 4.50 lakh MT of grains every month for all the welfare schemes. However, in the past three months, officials have received and distributed more than twice this quantity. This meant, 604 rakes of food grains in the three-month period, amounting to 6.40 lakh bags of grains everyday (with each bag containing 50 kgof grains). This includes ration under the National Food Security Act, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (introduced in March this year to address the Covid crisis), special scheme for migrant labourers, the open market scheme under which the state government buys from FCI, among other welfare schemes.  Since the lockdown was in force, the corporation had two challenges to overcome in distributing ration: Time and availability of labour. They were operating with 40% of their regular strength, said G N Raju, general manager of FCI, Karnataka region, recounting how the corporation managed such a massive scale-up of operations. “Many were from other states went back home during this period. Others, who came from far away villages, couldn’t find transport to get to work. Hence, we had to hire workers through contractors,” he explained. In order to save time, they resorted to direct delivery of grains from the goodsheds to the state godowns (as opposed to first storing them in FCI godowns like theynormally do), he added. Further, sometime in May, the FCI also prepared for any eventuality arising from a peak in Covid cases, by stocking up ration. Hence, even as the Centre announced free ration under PMGKAY till November, the FCI has the stock which lasts up to August, apart from a stock of grains available up tgo September for supplying ration under NFSA. The FCI caters to 1.27 crore ration card holders (covering 4.31 crore people) in Karnataka under central NFSA, apart from 8 lakh ration cards (covering 27 lakh people)  under stateNFSA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fci-scales-new-heights-in-food-grain-supply-858728.html
08-07-2020||State||Lack of high-capacity labs delaying Covid-19 lab result||Shortage of high-capacity laboratories in the state has resulted in the delay of Covid-19 results, which in turn is responsible for crowding in designated hospitals. Out of the 80 functional laboratories across the state only four in Bengaluru and the ones in Dharwad and Kalburagi have the capacity to test more than 1,000 samples per day. Nodal officer for lab testing in the state Dr C N Manjunath says this is the reason why samples are dumped on Bengaluru labs. The turnaround time for sample test reports is anywhere between two days and nine now. “All samples are being dumped in Bengaluru labs. All districts have labs now. They have to rope in more technicians, data entry operators and microbiologists and test their respective district’s sample within their district only,” he said. Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute’s Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory, National Institute of Virology, Nimhans, National Centre for Biological Sciences, tested more than 1,000 samples. Outside Bengaluru, the laboratories at Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (in Dharwad) and Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalbaburagi test more than 1,000 sample tests per day. TrueNAT labs, which are around six in number, cannot test more than 30 samples. All 80 labs are not RT-PCR labs. Around 25 across the state are TrueNAT and CBNAAT labs. Hence, we can’t expect each lab to test 300 and more samples,” Dr Manjunath said. According to Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, the labs have a backlog of 15,000 to 16,000 samples as of Wednesday. On the other hand,the delay in getting reports is resulting in crowding at designated hospitals. Covid suspects who do not require hospitalisation are being accommodated in hospitals simply because they’re waiting for results. The wait is often traumatic. Sometimes, patients can unwittingly endup infecting others. In some instances, due to lack of hospitalisation critical patients have died. Hospitals denied them admission in the absence of test results. According to a circular issued by the state health department on Saturday, Covid suspects are also supposed to be shifted to hospitals and if tested positive they should be shifted to the Covid ward there. Doctors say depending on the severity of the symptoms, hospitals should allow home isolation of patients if a Covid suspect is waiting for the report so that beds can be made available for patients who actually need it. Dr Murali Mohan B V, Pulmonologist, Narayana Health, Bommasandra, said patients who are stable are sent to a guesthouse near the hospital until their reports arrive. Dr Padma Sundaram, Pulmonologist, Manipal Hospital, Old Airport Road said, as far as the patient is not above 50, does not have co-morbidities, his/her oxygen saturation level is above 95% which is the normal range and is having a mild fever less than 38 degree celsius, it is safe to send those patients waiting for the Covid report to home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lack-of-high-capacity-labs-delaying-covid-19-lab-result-858729.html
08-07-2020||State||Nirani had documents on Covid-19 irregularities, claims Siddaramaiah||In what could prove to be a major embarrassment for BS Yediyurappa government, Congress leader tweeted proceedings of the Public Accounts Committee, claiming that former minister Murugesh Nirani had possessed documents alleging irregularities in procurement of Covid-19 equipment. While Nirani has subsequently denied submitting any documents to the Public Accounts Committee, the tweet came at a time when the opposition is locked in a pitched battle over corruption charges regarding the issue. Siddaramaiah shared minutes of the meeting of a Public Accounts Committee (PAC) meeting, which said that Nirani told PAC that an official traveling with him had brought 125 pages of documents in his pen drive. The documents highlighted gross irregularities in procurement of PPE kits, sanitisers and other equipment. “The documents in the pen drive could not be downloaded. Or else I would have submitted the papers to the committee,” Nirani is quoted as saying. “Your ex-minister Murugesh Nirani seems to have all the evidence to prove that yours is #100PercentCorruptSarkar. Collect it from him,” Siddaramaiah tweeted. The tweet was among the several in which he attacked the government over delay in furnishing information sought by him from the government regarding Covid-19 procurement. Murugesh Nirani, responding to queries, said that he had not submitted any pen drive which had documents pertaining to irregularities in Covid-19 procurement. “Reports regarding the same are baseless,” he said. Ravi Krishna Reddy, president of Karnataka Rashtra Samithi, who shared the same document, sought to know why Nirani was denying the statements which were officially recorded in the PAC proceedings. Backtracking by the former minister indicates that there is conflict of interest, corruption and destruction of evidence among other violations in the case,he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nirani-had-documents-on-covid-19-irregularities-claims-siddaramaiah-858731.html
08-07-2020||State||3more legislators contract Covid-19||Three more legislators - two MLAs and an MLC -  joined the growing list of high-profile politicians from the state to test positive for novel coronavirus. Hosakote MLA Sharath Bachegowda, Sringeri MLA T D Rajegowda and MLC Bhoje Gowda tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. In the last one week, MLAs Bharath Shetty (Mangalore North), Ranganath (Kunigal) MLC Pranesh, MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, former Union minister Janardhan Poojary and ex-MLC Puttanna have contracted the Covid-19. Sharath Bachagowda's wife Pratibha also tested positive for the virus. Sharath Bachegowda tweeted saying: "On July 6, I developed body ache. Since, I had visited the Covid-hit areas in my constituency, my wife and I subjected ourselves to Covid-19 test. Our reports came back positive on Wednesday evening." MLC Bhoje Gowda (JD-S), a native of Kadur in Chikkamagaluru district, on Wednesday became the fifth legislator from the state to contract Covid-19. Both Bhoje Gowda and Raje Gowda rushed to Bengaluru for treatment after their throat swab sample returned positive for the disease on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/3more-legislators-contract-covid-19-858732.html
08-07-2020||State||All depts on alert as new ransomware infects computers||Karnataka has asked all government departments to be alert as a new ransomware called Try2Cry is said to be infecting the Windows computers.  “In the wake of new Ransomware “TRY2CRY” infecting user files in desktops and laptops, it is informed to keep operating systems and antivirus software up-to-date and scan USB drives for virus before using,” the e-Governance department has said in its alert. “It is strongly recommended to use only KSWAN (Karnataka State Wide Area Network) internet service on all the officially provided end user machines viz desktops and laptops.” Apparently, the Try2Cry ransomware infects USB flash drives and uses Windows shortcuts (.lnk files) to worm its way into a targeted device. A ransomware is a malware that locks a user’s access to files or the device; access is restored only upon the payment of a ransom.  “There’s no imminent breach or attack,” Centre for e-Governance chief executive officer Vipin Singh told DH. “We regularly receive alerts from central agencies and we got an alert on the Try2Cry ransomware,” he said.  “The government largely uses KSWA, but there are officers that are yet to be provided with KSWAN. Also, people having KSWAN may be using other networks. It’s a secure network with filters that control what you can access,” Singh explained.  The e-Governance department gets alerts from National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC), the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In). “In the recent past, the number of alerts has increased exponentially,” Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-depts-on-alert-as-new-ransomware-infects-computers-858733.html
08-07-2020||State||These doctors hardened resolve when emotions hit the rock||It has always been a norm for Dr Justin A Gopaldas, while on his rounds in the intensive care unit (ICU), to shake hands with his patients, joke with them, help them sit up, putting them at ease and bring a light moment into their lives. The pandemic has put limitations on it and Dr Justin, who is Consultant, ICU at Manipal Hospitals and part of the team working for their dedicated Covid Centre in Malleswaram, is worried about it. “The human touch of healing is missing,” he says, which can only be blamed on the nature of the pandemic The anxieties and fears of the patients are as much as it is for the healthcare professionals and their families. “For the ICU patients, it is an emotional roller-coaster ride,” says Dr Justin. “When they come to the ICU, they are so sick. The next day they may be a bit better and are looking for a good word from the doctor. But the following day, the patient is not doing well. It is the same sort of same thing that happens with us emotionally,” he says. Dr Justin works very closely with the Bengaluru chapter of Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine. “They have been active close to four months. The pandemic broke out in February and by the end of the week, we had come together working for the preparedness,” recollects Dr Justin. He had doctor-friends in other countries who were seeing cases three months ahead of India. “There was active research going on there and not just personal accounts. We engaged with our government and could impress upon them that certain things could be done based on certain models,” he says As soon as Covid-19 broke out, there were healthcare professionals who wanted to come and work together. “But that has changed now,” he informs. “Initially, the emotions were pretty high. Quite a few healthcare workers got together and they were all keen to volunteer in the dedicated Covid area,” he says. “Over the next four to five weeks, Bengaluru had remained very sterile. At that point, there was a certain amount of lull. Three weeks back, it hit us big.” Now, that the healthcare workers have experience and they have been hearing about the casualties in Mumbai and other cities, they are more anxious getting into it, he says. Dr Justin had seen massive preparation and quarantining happen in Australia in 2008 when swine flu broke out there. “Quite a few of my colleagues have not had that kind of experience. It’s a first time for them. Whether as an organisation or an individual that probably is going on in our minds,” he said. Covid-19 has brought in a wind of change for the doctors as it has for the rest of the world. “The distance between each of us seems to be increasing,” says Dr Justin. “In our hospital, we used to sit together for lunch every day. Every four to five weeks, we used to get together socially so that people have a debriefing place, to let their stress out. That is not happening now.” “There is no way for the teams to let off what is building up inside them for the last three months,” he says. Since ICU doctors go through a lot of stress, debriefings are essential. “We used to cope with the stress by debriefing to each other or finding ways to debrief. That’s what we are missing,” he says. But personal anxieties slowly permeate to the organisation level, he says “As a unit, they become more anxious resulting in clouded decisions some times,” he adds. While working in a Covid area, he narrates his experience with an elderly patient. “His family wanted to know what he was eating. I put the phone next to him and I heard him tell his son ‘I am a bit better than yesterday’. His son was so appreciative to hear his father speak. That he is able to communicate, made the family calm. It’s better than me telling them that he is in ICU and his vitals are stable. Those things are likely to be less and less these days,” says Dr Justin. In his team, around 10 have very young kids, some have elderly parents and a few are in 50-plus.   “They are vulnerable. We got a lot of limitations and the only way we can get through is by working together,” he says. The situation that you suddenly find yourself in, he says, “makes your character, lets you reflect who you are and brings out your emotions.” “It probably made me a better administrator, collaborator and communicator because I see those deficiencies in the system and continue to work on them,” Dr Justin adds as a parting shot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/these-doctors-hardened-resolve-when-emotions-hit-the-rock-858735.html
08-07-2020||State||Karnataka, Maharashtra to pressurize centre to notify Krishna Tribunal award||Karnataka and Maharashtra will pressurize the central government to make gazette notification of award of Krishna Tribunal that will facilitate use of waters allocated and increase height of Almatti dam. Both the states also agreed to form a committee to manage flood situation faced during monsoon season annually. A delegation from the state led by Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkholi held a meeting with Maharashtra delegation led by Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil in Mumbai on Wednesday. Both were unanimous to put pressure on the centre to make gazette notification of Krisha Tribunal award and to increase height of Almatti dam. Award not being notified has been resulting in both the states not being able to use their share of waters. Meeting also decided to constitute a committee to manage flood situation faced during monsoon season. Proposal given by Maharashtra was accepted by state’s delegation and informed that Karnataka Neeravari Nigam chief engineer and superintendent will be made members of the committee. Maharashtra delegation stated that during summer they release water for meeting the drinking water needs. In the coming days instead of paying for water, Karnataka should release water to meet its needs during the same period. Karnataka delegation asked the officials for preparing study report on the alternatives available to share water with Maharashtra. Along with Jarkiholi, Textiles Minister Shrimant Patil, Slum Development Board Chairman Mahesh Kumathalli, Additional Chief Secretary Rakesh Singh, Water Resources Department Special Officer Rudrayya and Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Managing Director Mallikarjun Gunge were members of the state delegation. The Maharashtra delegation along with Patil comprised of minister Rajesh Patil-Yadravkar, Satej Patil, Balasaheb Patil, Vishwajit Kadam, MP Sanjay Patil, Dhairyasheel Mane, Rajesh Patil and officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-maharashtra-to-pressurize-centre-to-notify-krishna-tribunal-award-858744.html
08-07-2020||State||Hampi varsity researcher finds rare Veeragallu||Out on a field study for her research, Supreetha K N, a PhD student from Hampi Kannada University, discovered a unique hero stone (veeragallu) in a coffee plantation at Hemmakki in Idakani village of Kalasa taluk in Chikkamagaluru. The veeragallu, featuring the motif of ‘Malla Yuddha’ (wrestling), is said to be the oldest veeragallu on wrestling in Karnataka dating back to 12th century AD.  Supreetha, a member of the Karnataka Itihasa Academy, told DH that reference to Malla Yuddha was largely restricted to walls and pillars of the temple and inscriptions. "This is the first time that a Veeragallu has been discovered with reference to Malla Yuddha," she explained.  The hero stone, 4.7 ft tall and 3.3 ft wide, has four layers. "The lowermost layer has the depiction of Malla Yuddha with two wrestlers fighting each other. The depiction of wrestlers in a circular shape is often referred to as Swastika Malla Bandhana fight. The second layer has the scene of Apsaras (angels) taking him to heaven on a palanquin and the third layer has reference to wrestler’s presence in heaven. A part of the top most layer of the hero stone has been damaged. Based on the style of the hero stone, we can establish that it belonged to the 12th century era," Supreetha explained.   Commenting on the discovery, Dr Devarakonda Reddy, renowned epigraphist and president of the Karnataka Itihasa Academy said, "The wrestling motif on this hero stone is similar to the motif that adorns the walls of temple and pillars in the Vijayanagar architecture. The hero stone does not have any inscription on it, hence it is difficult to explain the story behind it. Also, there was no reference to such hero stones in wrestling in the past from the region. Hence it is unique."  Supreetha argued that a Kalabhairava temple near Ballalarayana Durga also has a similar motif on its walls suggesting that the hero stone could have been erected in memory of a wrestler who sacrificed himself in a fight to safeguard his people and attained martyrdom. She and her team comprising Sumanth K N, Avin Gowda Abugudige, Preetham Hebbar and Parameshwar Hebbar also discovered another hero stone dedicated to a hunter who was killed while hunting a deer along with his dogs which is said to be the third hero stone in Karnataka with a reference to deer hunting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hampi-varsity-researcher-finds-rare-veeragallu-858754.html
08-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Man from Mysuru dies in Malaysia, body reaches home after seven months||The dead body of a man who died in Malasiya reached his native in the Mysuru after seven months. Sumanth of Periyapatna died in Malasiya in December 2019. Since then the family members had made several futile attempts to bring back his body. However, the body was airlifted and ended up reaching Tamil Nadu. The body finally landed in Periyapatna on Tuesday and the final rites were performed. Sumanth, a diploma holder, had gone to Malaysia for job. He drowned in a river and his body was retrieved. Malasiyan authorities had informed Sumanth's family members of his demise||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/man-from-mysuru-dies-in-malaysia-body-reaches-home-after-seven-months-858508.html
08-07-2020||West||Mumbai: No need for prescription for Covid-19 test now||People can test themselves for coronavirus infection at designated private laboratories in Mumbai without a doctor's prescription, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Tuesday. The civic body also informed that those kept in institutional quarantine will be discharged only when they test negative for the virus. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal took the decision to allow testing without medical prescription in view of increase in the number of private laboratories and their capacity, it said in a release. It will help people get treatment for coronavirus quicker, it added. Earlier, a doctor's prescription was needed for a test. "If the test comes out positive, a (hospital) bed will be allotted through ward-level 'War Rooms' of the municipal corporation," the BMC release said. Patients in institutional isolation will not be released unless they test negative, it said. For testing, private labs can charge the rates fixed by the government. The Union government has given permission to conduct coronavirus tests to 17 private laboratories in the city. Private labs can charge Rs 2,500 for a COVID-19 test. The rate is Rs 2,800 if the test is conducted at home. As per the BMC, 3,63,120 tests have been conducted in the city so far. Mumbai's COVID-19 case count stood at 86,132 as on Tuesday with 4,999 deaths, as per the BMC. Mumbai added 806 new cases, the lowest singe-day figure in nearly two months, to its tally in the day. Welcoming the BMC move, guardian minister of Mumbai suburban district Aaditya Thackeray said it will make citizens feel safer. "The @mybmc has decided to open up testing to any individual in the city without prescription/ self attestation. Labs can now conduct RT PCR tests as per ICMR guidelines at the will of anyone. This will help citizens feel safer and test when they have a doubt, without any delays," Thackeray tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-no-need-for-prescription-for-covid-19-test-now-858389.html
08-07-2020||West||Vandalism reported at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar's house in Mumbai||In a shocking incident, unidentified persons vandalised the garden premises of the Mumbai home of late Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar,  the chief architect of the Constitution. At least two to three persons were involved in the incident at Rajgruha, the house of Dr Ambedkar, located in the Hindu Colony at Dadar. On Tuesday evening, miscreants hurled stones at glass windows, damaged flower pots and smashed CCTV cameras. By Wednesday morning, the Matunga police station had registered an FIR against the incident. The current residents of the bungalow are Dr Ambedkar's daughter-in-law and his grandsons -- Prakash Ambedkar, Anandraj Ambedkar and Bhimrao Ambedkar -- and their families. The three-storeyed bungalow also has a small museum that has artefacts associated with the freedom fighter, activist and politician. There is also a huge collection of books that Dr Ambedkar possessed. As news of the incident spread overnight, the Maharashtra government appealed for calm. "It is the work of anti-social element with wicked mindset and done with ulterior motives," deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, adding that a probe is underway and the culprits would be nabbed. Condemning the incident, home minister Anil Deshmukh said that he has directed the police to investigate and nab the two culprits at the earliest. दादर येथील 'राजगृह' या डॉ.आंबेडकरांच्या निवासस्थानावर काही अज्ञात व्यक्तींनी आज जो हल्ला केला तो निषेधार्थ आहे. याबाबत पोलिसांचा तत्परतेने तपास सुरु असून दोषींविरुद्ध कठोर कार्यवाही केली जाईल. The Ambedkar family members too appealed people not to come to Rajgruha. "Yes, two people came, they damaged the CCTV,  damaged other things and left. Police has taken cognizance and they are doing a good job. I appeal to everyone to maintain peace," said Prakash Ambedkar, the founder of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi and three-time former MP.   Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis spoke to the family members and police. "What has happened in highly condemnable and the accused must be caught," he said. "Police are investigating the matter," said Anandraj Ambedkar,  the founder of Republican Sena. "Police have taken the CCTV footage and they are examining it," added Bhimrao Ambedkar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vandalism-reported-at-dr-babasaheb-ambedkars-house-in-mumbai-858449.html
08-07-2020||West||No differences among Maharashtra government coalition partners: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday asserted there are no differences among the ruling MVA allies in Maharashtra, and said if coalition governments fall over controversies on some transfers and promotions, it would imply that the national politics is on a weak foundation. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said politics over issues of a few transfers and promotionsis "low level" and "petty". It said there is "no truth" in speculations about lack of co-ordination among the ruling coalition partners and that they can't see eye to eye over several important issues. The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) comprises the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, which came together to form government in the state last year after the Uddhav Thackeray-led party fell out with long-term ally BJP over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. Some media reports claimed there were tensions between the Sena and NCP over the recent transfer of 10 police officials in Mumbai, and five Sena councillors at Parner in Ahmednagar district joining the Sharad Pawar-led party last week. The Sena on Wednesday said, "What is so special if Sharad Pawar meets Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray frequently. The Thackeray sarkar has been formed because of his efforts. Pawar keeps meeting the chief minister over issues of farmers, cooperative sector." "If coalition governments fall over the controversy on two-three transfers and promotions, it would imply that the national politics is on a weak foundation. There are no differences among the MVA allies," the Marathi daily said. To say that state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Pawar met Thackeray to pacify him over the transfers controversy is a "sign of mental confusion of those who say and write this", the Sena claimed, while targeting Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis. It said even though Maharashtra's political reality maybe "unsettling" for Fadnavis and the BJP, it is better they accept the reality. The Sena criticised Fadnavis over his comments that the BJP is not interested in pulling down the MVA government, which would fall "because of its own internal contradictions". "Even though (state Congress chief) Balasaheb Thorat and Sharad Pawar have been saying the government will last its full term, the opposition continues to speak of internal contradictions," the Thackeray-led party said. The chaos or internal contradictions seen by the opposition party could be a sign of the government's "liveliness", it said. The Sena said the BJP in Delhi has been accusing Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of hurting the morale of Indian soldiers (over some of his comments on the border standoff with China). "The BJP in Maharashtra shouldn't do the same to health workers and coronavirus warriors in the state," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-differences-among-maharashtra-government-coalition-partners-shiv-sena-858521.html
08-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Tendulkar inaugurates plasma therapy unit||Cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar on Wednesday inaugurated a Plasma Therapy Unit for treating Covid-19 patients at the Seven Hills Hospital in suburban Andheri and urged those who have recovered from the deadly infection to help save lives by donating blood plasma. The unit is an initiative of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). It will offer convalescent plasma therapy to Covid-19 patients using donated blood plasma from those who have recovered. "We are facing an unprecedented challenge to our health in the form of the Covid-19 pandemic. Rising to the occasion, our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, the police, municipal and government staff are working tirelessly to deliver effective healthcare to all those affected by the virus," said Tendulkar. "Researchers around the globe are working to find an effective vaccine and treatment. In this, plasma therapy has emerged as an option to treat critically ill patients. I congratulate the BMC on starting this service that will save lives," added the former batsman, who has multiple records to his name. He urged those who have recovered to donate their blood and save critically ill patients. "I appeal to people who have recovered completely from Covid to come forward and donate their blood for plasma therapy and help to save lives of patients who are critically ill," said Tendulkar. Plasma of a donor, who has recovered, contains high levels of antibodies against the pathogen that is the cause of the disease. When this convalescent plasma is transfused into another patient with the same disease, it helps in generating immediate immune response. Maharashtra has over 2 lakh Covid-19 cases, the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-tendulkar-inaugurates-plasma-therapy-unit-858530.html
08-07-2020||West||Rajgruha is place of reverence: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Describing Rajgruha as "place of reverence", Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that those involved in vandalism would not be spared.  On Tuesday evening, unidentified persons vandalised the garden premises of the Mumbai home of late Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar,  the chief architect of the Constitution. At least two to three persons were involved in the incident at Rajgruha, located in the Hindu Colony at Dadar. The miscreants hurled stones at glass windows, damaged flower pots and smashed CCTV cameras. By Wednesday morning, the Matunga police station had registered an FIR against the incident. "I have asked police to take strict action," Thackeray said in a press statement. "Goons entering Rajgruha and engaging in vandalism is shocking....the place is not only important for Ambedkarites but also the entire society who consider it as a place of reverence," he said. According to him, the Rajgruha is place of pilgrimage for every person in Maharashtra. "We will not tolerate what has happened and strict action will be taken," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajgruha-is-place-of-reverence-cm-uddhav-thackeray-858558.html
08-07-2020||West||Gujarat minister tests positive for coronavirus||A Gujarat minister has tested positive for coronavirus, state Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said on Wednesday. "The minister has been admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad after he tested positive for coronavirus," Patel, who holds charge of the health department, said ahead of the state cabinet meeting in Gandhinagar. The BJP MLA from Valsad district is the first state minister to have contracted the viral infection. On Tuesday, a senior Congress leader from Gujarat battling Covid-19 was put on ventilator support. A BJP MLA from Surat and a Congress legislator from Banaskantha district also tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-minister-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-858570.html
08-07-2020||West||Suspect held in Ambedkar's Dadar house vandalism case||The police on Wednesday detained a suspect after a man vandalised 'Rajgruh', Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar's residence in Dadar in central Mumbai. The incident, which took place on Tuesday night, evoked condemnation from political leaders including Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray who said strict action will be taken against those involved. As per the complaint lodged by Ambedkar's grandson Bhimrao Ambedkar at Matunga Police Station, the unidentified accused who was captured in CCTV seemed to be mentally unstable. He had spotted the man near the house on Monday evening, Bhimrao Ambedkar told the police, an official said. When he asked the man why he was loitering, he glared at him in anger before leaving, Ambedkar told the police. On Tuesday night, a man entered the premises of `Rajgruh' and smashed flower pots, damaged plants, CCTV camera and pelted stones at a window before fleeing. A case under IPC sections 427 (mischief causing damage and 447 (criminal trespassing) was registered, the police official said, adding that the police were examining the CCTV footage and further probe was on. Earlier it was suspected that two persons were involved, but now it was clear that it was the act of a single man and a suspect has been taken into custody, the official said. Located in Hindu Colony, Dadar, the two-storeyed heritage bungalow houses a museum where Dr Ambedkar's vast book collection, his ashes and other artifacts related to his life are preserved. The architect of the Indian Constitution lived there for two decades. Current residents of `Rajgruh' include Dr Ambedkar's daughter-in-law and his grandsons Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader Prakash Ambedkar, Anandrao and Bhimrao. Prakash Ambedkar, who was in Akola when the incident took place, appealed for calm. Chief minister Thackeray on Wednesday said he had instructed police to take strict action against the culprits. "The premises is not just a sacred place for Ambedkarites, but the entire society. Ambedkar preserved all his writings in this premises. This is like a pilgrimage centre for all Maharashtrians," he said. "The government will not tolerate insult to Rajgruh, and I have asked the police to ensure strict action against the culprits," the chief minister said. Condemning the incident, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said it was an act of "anti-social elements with wicked mindset" and urged people to ensure peace and unity and not to fall prey to the "ulterior motives" of such elements. Ambedkar's work and ideology are deep-rooted in the minds of people and none can remove the faith people have in him, Pawar further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/suspect-held-in-ambedkars-dadar-house-vandalism-case-858633.html
08-07-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Maharashtra hotels open but await footfall||Four months into the lockdown, the hotels in Maharashtra opened their doors to guests on Wednesday. However, a lacklustre footfall and staff a shortage of staff and is low on working capital. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) has asked its members to adhere to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) as has been outlined in the Covid-19 guidelines specifically designed for the hospitality industry.  Hotels are completely geared up for welcoming guests, however, at the moment are unsure how many will actually check in. The HRAWI has said that with travel restrictions and staff shortage, the initial phase after re-opening may remain subdued. The association expects only about 25 to 40% of the hotels across the state to re-open in the first week which may go up to 70% in a month from now. “The decision to allow hotels to re-open has brought the industry a big relief and we thank the Government for it. Our member hotels are geared up to welcome guests and have been prepared for over a couple of months with the trainings provided to them based on Government SOPs. It can’t be said enough, the hospitality industry and especially, its staff has been at the forefront of the pandemic and are the real Corona warriors. Hotels have served people from day one of the lockdown by way feeding the needy and providing rooms for the quarantined and health workers," says Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, HRAWI. "At the moment, we are just glad that the stagnation has ended and things will begin to move. We have also made a strong case for restaurants to open too and hopefully sooner than later, we will be allowed to do so,” he added. The apex association expects only about 25 to 40 per cent of the hotels across the state to re-open in the first week which may go up to 70 per cent in a month from now. “Many hotels are facing shortage of staff and are also low on working capital. This will be the biggest challenge for hotels as they decide to open doors to their guests. So, our estimate is that only about 30 to 35 per cent of the total hotels in the State may immediately re-open and others will gradually join. There are many hotels which have been very hard hit and these may not re-open at all or even if they do, it will take some time. We expect roughly around 70 per cent of the hotels to resume operations in the near future,” says  Pradeep Shetty, vice president, HRAWI. With most offices adopting the work-from-home policy and gatherings not allowed, it anticipates the corporate bookings to be next to nil. “Other than staff deficiency and liquidity issues, the factor which will influence a hotel’s decision to re-open will be the amount of bookings it receives. Demand is anyways very low due to travel restrictions and general restricted activities. We are still in the midst of a pandemic. People are generally wary of everything and experimenting will not be the first thing on their minds. Despite the fact that hotels are fully capable of managing footfall during this phase, it will be a wait and watch game,” adds Shetty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-hotels-open-but-await-footfall-858661.html
08-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Indoors or outdoors, Goa ‘party’ over for now||Even as Goa opened its doors to tourists last week, in an verbal directive issued on Wednesday, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant ordered the police to crackdown on parties in the state, held both indoors as well as outdoors.  The directive comes on the heels of embarrassing moments faced by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, after ruling BJP MLA Glenn Ticlo was caught on video attending a party organised for his political workers at beach guest house in Calangute on Sunday.  "Parties will have to stop, whether it is at homes and outdoors. Police inspectors have been instructed," Sawant told media persons here.  On Monday, Sawant had ordered a probe into the party organised by Ticlo, in which nearly 20 party workers were seen in a leaked video — which went viral — without masks or maintaining social distancing in a confined space.  A probe has also been ordered into an outdoor music event organised on Sunday in the beach village of Morjim, in which more than 100 persons, most of them foreigners, were in attendance.  Sawant has also ordered a general crackdown on groups of people hanging out in public spaces, even as the state is battling to curb the increasing rate of infection spread in the state where the tally of active Covid-19 cases touched 759.  Interestingly, the crackdown comes at a time when the state government has opened the doors of the state to tourist activity. Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code continues to be imposed in Goa, even as Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has also urged denizens of the state to not visit homes of neighbours as well as friends in order to stem the rising rate of infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-indoors-or-outdoors-goa-party-over-for-now-858662.html
08-07-2020||West||278 more cops test Covid-19 positive, tally reaches 5,713 in Maharashtra police||With 278 more police personnel testing positive for novel coronavirus in Maharashtra, the number of the infected cases in the police force has gone up to 5,713, an official said on Wednesday. A total of 71 police personnel have succumbed to the viral infection so far, he said. At 43, the highest death toll of police personnel has been reported from Mumbai. The deceased included two officers, he added. The number of police personnel who have recovered from the infection so far stands at 4,531. "278 more police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus in the state, taking the count to 5,713," the official said, adding that the number of active cases currently undergoing treatment stands at 1,113. However, the exact period during which new detections came to light in the police force cannot be confirmed. In a tweet earlier in the day, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said: "5,713 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19. Of these 4,531 have recovered & 71 have tragically succumbed".  In his tweet on Tuesday afternoon, Deshmukh had mentioned 5,435 as the number of the police personnel found to have been infected in the state. Meanwhile, a total of 1,55,984 cases have been registered under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for violation of prohibitory orders since the lockdown came into force on March 25, the official said, adding that l,29,793 arrests were made. Police have impounded 88,783 vehicles for violation of orders andcollected fine of Rs 11.54 crore, he said. As of July 7, the number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra stood at 2,17,121 with 9,250 fatalities, as per state Health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/278-more-cops-test-covid-19-positive-tally-reaches-5713-in-maharashtra-police-858669.html
08-07-2020||West||Ambedkar's house in Mumbai to get permanent police protection||'Rajgruh', the residence of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar in central Mumbai, will get round-the-clock police protection, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday. A man entered the premises of the two-storey house in Dadar area on Tuesday night and smashed potted plants, damaged CCTV cameras and threw stones at a window before fleeing. The police have detained a suspect. Talking to reporters after a cabinet meeting, Deshmukh said the state government had taken serious note of the incident. The issue was discussed in the cabinet meeting and the government has decided to provide permanent round-the-clock police protection to the premises, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambedkars-house-in-mumbai-to-get-permanent-police-protection-858673.html
08-07-2020||West||Show cause notice to Ahmedabad hospital for fleecing Covid-19 patient||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has issued a show cause notice to a private hospital for allegedly overcharging a coronavirus patient, an official said Wednesday. The civic body had received a complaint from the son of the Covid-19 patient stating that the hospital charged them more than the rates prescribed by the government, he said. The civic body has requisitioned 50 percent of the total beds in more than 50 private hospitals for treatment of coronavirus patients, and also capped the cost of treatment. In its notice, the AMC stated the fact of the private hospital demanding more money from the complainant has been established in an inquiry. Earlier, the AMC had imposed a penalty of Rs 77 lakh and initiated criminal action against a private hospital for the delay in admitting a critically ill Covid-19 patient, leading to his death. Two other hospitals were slapped with fines of Rs 5 lakh each for refusing to admit patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/show-cause-notice-to-ahmedabad-hospital-for-fleecing-covid-19-patient-858679.html
08-07-2020||West||Gujarat records highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases, minister among 783 new cases||Gujarat reported yet another record surge in its daily new confirmed coronavirus cases in the state with 783 cases, its biggest till date, that included a minister in the Vijay Rupani government. The news has led to a panic as the minister Raman Patkar participated in the state cabinet and other meetings at the secretariat and Chief Minister's residence over the last one week.  Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel confirmed on Wednesday that Patkar has been tested positive for the virus and he is admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad. Besides, 92-year-old mother of union minister Parshottam Rupala also tested positive for the virus. BJP office bearers said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Rupala, who is minister of state for Panchayati Raj, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, and inquired about her health. On the other hand, the health condition of former union minister and ex Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki, who is under treatment for the coronavirus virus, remains critical. A senior Congress leader said that Solanki is on ventilator since Tuesday. The doctors have been taking guidance from the expert doctors from AIIMS, New Delhi to treat Solanki who headed the Gujarat Congress twice as its president. He had contested Rajya Sabha polls held on June 19 which he lost. Two days later, he found infected with the virus and since then he is under treatment.  Meanwhile, with 783 new positive cases in the past 24 hours, the state's tally rose to 38,419. The state also recorded 16 fresh deaths, taking the toll to 1995. The number of discharged patients increased to 27,313 while total active cases stood at 9,111. Ahmedabad, the worst-hit city in the state, recorded 149 new cases in the 24 hours, one of the lowest in the more than two months while Surat topped the chart with 215 cases. In terms of deaths, Ahmedabad's toll reached 1,501 after it recorded five more deaths, another lowest in over two months, while three persons died in Surat, taking the city's toll to 242. Over the past two weeks, the state has improved its mortality rate from over 6%, highest in the country, to 5.19% which continues to be highest in the country. Similarly, the death rate of Ahmedabad city, which was once over 7%, has come down to 6.7%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-records-highest-single-day-surge-in-covid-19-cases-minister-among-783-new-cases-858697.html
08-07-2020||West||Ahmedabad Covid-19 cases up by 156 to 22,418; death toll at 1,501||The number of Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad rose by 156 to 22,418 on Wednesday, the State Health Department said. With five more patients succumbing to the viral infection, the death toll in the district has crossed the 1,500-mark and reached 1,501, it said. A total of 170 patients were discharged from hospitals in the day, taking the number of recovered cases in the district to 17,363. Of the 156 new cases, 149 cases were reported from the limits of the Ahmedabad municipal corporation and rest seven from rural areas, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-covid-19-cases-up-by-156-to-22418-death-toll-at-1501-858704.html
