09-07-2020||First Edit||Kashmir: Opportunity in Geelani’s exit||Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s recent resignation from the Hurriyat Conference faction he led since 2003 is an important development in Kashmiri separatist politics. While it is likely that his advanced age and failing health might have played a role in his decision to step down, his resignation letter throws light on the political opportunism and dirty politics that has always defined Kashmiri separatist politics. In the letter, Geelani, a hardline Islamist and hawkish separatist, has accused Pakistan-based separatists of nepotism and corruption, of misinterpreting his speeches and taking decisions without consulting him. He has also criticised the Valley-based separatists for failing to mobilise over New Delhi’s decision of August 5, 2019 to revoke Kashmir’s autonomy. Although Geelani has not mentioned the Pakistan government itself in his letter, his ire with Pakistan is evident. After all, Kashmiri separatists, in general, and the POK-based separatists, in particular, have functioned more or less like agents of the Pakistani State. They would not have kept Geelani out of the loop on decisions, as he alleges, without the consent of ISI, Pakistan’s notorious spy agency. It does seem that Geelani is upset with Pakistani attempts to marginalise him, and he has hit back. This is significant as Geelani has been the standard-bearer of pro-Pakistan politics in Kashmir for decades. Geelani’s exit has implications for separatist politics. It is a setback for Kashmiri separatism as there are few leaders in separatist circles who can match his stature. On the other hand, his exit could pave the way for the rise of younger, more hawkish pro-Pakistan separatists, like Masarat Alam, who are already popular among radicalised Kashmiri youth. Should these younger separatists take charge, it would take the separatist movement towards an even more confrontationist path vis-à-vis India. Will Kashmiri politics turn more conciliatory or confrontationist in the coming months? The Narendra Modi government has marginalised the other well-known but more moderate Hurriyat faces, such as Mirwaiz Umar Farooq. Over the past decade, they allowed stone-pelting and hartals orchestrated by Geelani and Alam to become Kashmir’s standard response to New Delhi. Can they now find a role and a path to dialogue with Delhi? To do so credibly, they will need to air the grievances of Kashmiris, not the interests of Islamabad. Opportunity has opened up for Delhi, too. It must reach out to all shades of political opinion in Kashmir, including the separatists. Geelani was a major obstacle in the way of separatists engaging in dialogue with Delhi so far. With his exit, the road to dialogue and a new Kashmiri politics has opened up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/kashmir-opportunity-in-geelani-s-exit-858762.html
09-07-2020||First Edit||Cops kill criminals, criminals kill cops||The killing of eight police personnel, including a DSP, in a reverse encounter by a criminal gang in Kanpur in UP illustrates not only the breakdown of law and order but of governance as such in the state. The police team, which had gone to arrest a notorious gangster, Vikas Dubey, who faces over 60 criminal charges including murder, extortion and kidnapping, was attacked and mowed down by the gang, and the gangster escaped. The gangster himself, who was charged with shooting a minister in a police station some years ago, symbolises many things that are wrong in the state. He has ruled by terror and threats for many years, and has friends in high places. The police personnel were ambushed because he was tipped off about the raid by someone in the police force. It has now been revealed that he had regular contact with over two dozen personnel in the force. Revelations made by a policeman after the encounter confirm this.    There is a nexus among politics, crime, police and the officialdom in all parts of the country. But it is deeper, stronger and more pervasive in UP than in any other state. Social and economic backwardness, the influence of caste and communal sentiments in society, and the failure of democratic institutions and processes to take hold are some reasons for the growth of such a nexus. It holds sway over the society and controls it, and is part of its entrenched culture now. Dubey is considered a hero by his caste people. Governments have been a part of this nexus. The present government of Yogi Adityanath has openly advocated a tough policy on crime which, in effect, means elimination of criminals and even suspected violators of the law without regard for the norms of law and justice. Many suspects have been killed in thousands of encounters in the last two years. When the police get sanction for summary execution of criminals, the due process of law suffers. Innocent persons also get killed and no one is held accountable for that. The result is all-round lawlessness and anarchy.  Governance takes a backseat in such an anarchic situation where laws do not guide and regulate the conduct and interactions of members of the government, officials, citizens and other elements of society, including criminals. Reacting to the policemen's killing, the administration destroyed the gangster’s house. No law allows for the destruction of a criminal’s house. It is when such illegalities and encounter killings become normal actions that governance becomes dysfunctional. The police kill criminals, the criminals kill the police, and the people are caught in between.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/cops-kill-criminals-criminals-kill-cops-858763.html
09-07-2020||In Perspective||In light of Covid-19, Kerala model vs Gujarat model||Kerala became the toast of the international media for the effective way in which it tackled the Covid-19 pandemic early on. On May 14, The Guardian praised Kerala Health Minister KK Shailaja for her leadership, calling her ‘The Coronavirus Slayer’ and ‘Kerala’s Rockstar Health Minister’. The article noted that as soon as reports emerged about the virus from Wuhan, the minister consulted medical experts and, after a meeting of a rapid response team on January 24, set up a control room and instructed medical officers in the state’s 14 districts to do likewise. Kerala also adopted the World Health Organisation (WHO) protocol of ‘test, trace, isolate and support’ to tackle the pandemic. When the first visitors arrived from Wuhan and later from the Gulf and European countries, Kerala was well-prepared. Kerala’s experience in controlling the Nipah virus in 2018 also proved handy. When the countrywide lockdown was imposed from March 25, Kerala had the highest number of Covid-19 patients in the country after Maharashtra in the initial weeks. Yet, three months later, Kerala ranks among the states with the lowest number of infections, and a Covid-19 fatality rate of just 0.5%, as against the national average of 3%. Whereas Gujarat, with the fourth-highest number of infected persons, reports the highest fatality rate (5.5%), more than that of Maharashtra (4.3%). Despite a spike in Covid-19 cases in Kerala recently due to returning migrants, Kerala has reported only 25 Covid-related deaths so far, as against 1,906 deaths in Gujarat. As is well-known, right from the 60s and 70s, the United Nations and international development agencies have praised the Kerala model of development. Although Kerala lagged other Indian states in terms of economic growth, it was noted that in terms of social and health parameters, such as literacy levels, life expectancy and infant mortality rate, Kerala’s performance was like that of the developed countries. But during the 2014 general elections, Narendra Modi and the BJP unleashed propaganda extolling the virtues of the ‘Gujarat model’ of development. It is therefore appropriate to review how the two states have fared during the Covid-19 pandemic. Although Gujarat ranked among India’s industrially advanced states even before Modi became chief minister there, in terms of quality of life indicators, Gujarat lags Kerala even today. Literacy level in Kerala at 94% is much higher than in Gujarat (79%). As per the 2019 National Health Profile, infant mortality rate (IMR) in Kerala was just 10% as against 30% in Gujarat and 38% in rural Gujarat. Under-5 mortality rate in Gujarat was 49%, compared to 12% in Kerala. Poverty level in Gujarat was 16.6% compared to 7% in Kerala as per 2011-12 estimates. Per capita income (net state domestic product) in Kerala was estimated at over Rs 2 lakh as against over Rs 1.9 lakh in Gujarat during 2018-19. The disparity between the two states is more glaring in terms of health infrastructure. Using data from a study by Princeton University on state-wise hospital infrastructure in India covering the public and private sectors, it is seen that as against the WHO norm of one doctor per 1,000 population, Kerala reported 1.68 registered doctors per 1,000 population, compared to 0.97 for Gujarat. The number of nurses per 1,000 population in Kerala was 8.52, compared to 2.33 for Gujarat. Kerala reported 2.81 hospital beds per 1,000 population, as against Gujarat’s 0.94. In terms of ICU beds and ventilators per 1,000 population these figures for Kerala were 0.14 and 0.07 respectively, compared to Gujarat’s 0.05 and 0.02. The urban-rural divide is also more glaring in Gujarat. As per Rural Health Statistics for 2018-19, although Gujarat had a higher number of Primary Health Centres (PHC) than Kerala, the average rural population served by a PHC in Gujarat is double that in Kerala. Gujarat even reported 92 PHCs without any doctor whereas there were no such PHCs in Kerala. The Niti Aayog’s Health Index (HI) comprising of 23 indicators for 2017-18 clearly show that Kerala leads other Indian states with an HI of 74; Gujarat trailed at 63.5. Kerala’s progressive policies since decades, investment in public health and education, robust local government institutions, a well-functioning public distribution system in urban and rural areas, community mobilisation, apart from aggressive testing, tracing, isolation and treatment of vulnerable or infected people has enabled Kerala to tame the Covid-19 pandemic. While lakhs of jobless, hungry migrant labourers in some states made a beeline to return to their home states, Kerala took good care of them by setting up over 4,600 relief centres housing about 1.5 lakh migrant labourers. Besides, all households were given free rations for three months to cope with the lockdown. The crowning moment for Kerala was the recovery of a 93-year-old man and his 88-year-old wife from Covid-19 despite having co-morbidities. Gujarat’s sorry state of affairs is due to corruption in the purchase of defective ventilators which led to a spike in Covid-related deaths; problems in enforcing social distancing in congested areas of Ahmedabad, return of people who attended a religious convention in Delhi, pressure from some business groups to relax the lockdown conditions, faulty delivery system which hampered aid reaching targeted beneficiaries, and lack of transparency in disclosing the Covid-19 situation in the state. The worst indictment of the state government’s handling of the pandemic was a recent judgement by the Gujarat High Court which branded the civil hospital in Ahmedabad, where more than 45% of Covid-related deaths took place, as “worse than a dungeon”. Covid-19 has punctured an embarrassing hole in the so-called ‘Gujarat model’ of development whereas Kerala’s development experience continues to impress the world. (The author is an economist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/in-light-of-covid-19-kerala-model-vs-gujarat-model-858766.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Five low-lying bridge cum barrages submerged in river waters in Belagavi||Rains in the catchments of river Krishna and its tributaries in Maharashtra have led to an increase in water inflow in the Belagavi district with five low-lying bridge cum barrages getting submerged on Thursday. Bhoj- Kunnur, Bhoj-Karadaga, Malikwad-Dattawad, Barawad-Kunnur and Kallol-Yadur bridge cum barrages were submerged. Alternative roads connected the villages on both the sides of bridge cum barrages and none of the villages were disconnected or isolated. More than 60,000 cusecs water inflow is being witnessed in river Krishna. If this water inflow if increases, more low-lying bridge cum barrages will get submerged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-low-lying-bridge-cum-barrages-submerged-in-river-waters-in-belagavi-858867.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||BJP MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur tests positive for Covid-19||Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur tested positive for Covid -19, said a source. Swab results of personal assistant of Telkur returned positive two days ago. Hence, the MLA underwent Covid-19 test. Telkur tested positive for the virus on Thursday. He is undergoing treatment at Fortis hospital in Bengaluru. However, his family members said he is asymptomatic and is in fine fettle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-mla-rajkumar-patil-telkur-tests-positive-for-covid-19-858926.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||For fear of coronavirus spreading, village in Mandya bans people from entering||With 23 persons from the taluk testing positive for Covid-19, panic has gripped the people pf Mandya. Following this, the residents of Allapattana village in the taluk have put up a banner on the outskirts of the village restricting the entry of people from other districts and states. The banner reads that people from other villages, districts and states are not allowed into the village except those selling fruits and vegetables. It says that push-cart vendors should wear masks and use sanitisers to enter the village. Those violating the rules would have to pay a fine of Rs 2,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/for-fear-of-coronavirus-spreading-village-in-mandya-bans-people-from-entering-858942.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Mysuru's H D Kote Taluk to restrict tourists||Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar has ordered the cancellation of the accommodation facility for tourists visiting H D Kote taluk in the district. The DC has ordered hotels, resorts, home stays in the taluk not to allow any tourists and also directed them to cancel the bookings. The ban order is also applicable for parts of Bandipur and Nagarhole Tiger Reserves coming under the taluk. No safaris will be allowed in the forest region in the taluk, the DC ordered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-mysurus-h-d-kote-taluk-to-restrict-tourists-858949.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Former MLA Ramesh Bandisiddegowda allegedly assaults worker||Former MLA Ramesh Bandisiddegowda allegedly assaulted the driver of an excavator during the road widening works at Arakere in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, on Thursday. His supporters also resorted to stone pelting.  The road widening works were in progress with the permission of the authorities. It is said a few houses were damaged. Ramesh, arrived at the spot and when the driver tried to escape, the former MLA caught hold of him and handed him over to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-mla-ramesh-bandisiddegowda-allegedly-assaults-worker-858961.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Webinar on afforestation success story in Vijayapura on July 18||Vruksha Abhiyana Pratishthana will organise a webinar on Vijayapura-an afforestation success story and the way forward here on July 18 at 6 pm. Former minister M B Patil, film maker and environmentalist Suresh Heblikar and retired IFS officer Krishna Udapudi and others will take part in it. According to a press release, Vijayapura is one of the drought-prone districts in Karnataka and has negligible forest area owing to many adverse factors. Koti Vruksha Abhiyaan, a massive tree planting programme, was launched in 2016 to increase forest cover in Vijayapura. This campaign had set a goal of planting about one crore trees in five years. About 92 lakh trees have already been planted. A 500-acre urban forest has been created with about 65,000 trees through Public Private Partnership (PPP) model under drip irrigation. In this backdrop, a webinar will be organised to get suggestions on taking this movement forward in the district. It will also help the participants learn how massive tree plantation programs can be implemented in drought-prone regions?, the release stated. Environmentalists, IFS officers & other forest department officers, retired IFS & forest officers, senior bureaucrats working for environment conservation, environmental reporters & storytellers can participate in it. Interested can register on http://mbpatil.com/webinar/||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/webinar-on-afforestation-success-story-in-vijayapura-on-july-18-859022.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Doctors threaten to boycott services if stipend not paid||Postgraduate students of JJM Medical college, who have been staging protest seeking release of stipend of 16 months for the past 11 days, have threatened that they would boycott all types of medical services if their demand is not met soon, on Thursday. They beat jagate as part of the agitation and expressed their ire against the government for turning blind eye to their demand. Speaking on the occasion, they said they would boycott all medical services including emergency if they are not paid stipend at the earliest. But they made it clear that they will carry on Covid-19 duty. Dr Harish said Medical Education Minister Sudhakar has given statement in social media that the government can't pay stipend. In stead, he could have addressed the agitating students through social media networking sites. "The government treated 239 students like slaves for the past 16 months. Despite conducting eye, blood donation camps to draw the attention of the government, it has failed to fulfill fair demand of students." They submitted a memorandum to Director of Directorate of Medical Education through deputy commissioner urging the government to pay stipend on the basis of clinical facility fee given by the college to the government so far. Doctors Shivani, Niroop, Sudhakar, Ankith, Nidhi, Deepa, Deepashri and others took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/doctors-threaten-to-boycott-services-if-stipend-not-paid-859081.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan crosses 600-mark; 57 new cases in dists||With 21 new cases on Thursday, the positive cases has crossed 600-mark in Hassan district. Two deaths have been reported. In all, 15 deaths have been reported in the district. A 75-year-old man and a 76-year-old woman from Hassan taluk succumbed to the virus, on Thursday. They were suffering from other commorbidities. Out of 21 new cases, four are from Alur, six from Hassan, six from Channarayapatna taluk, three from Holenarasipur, one each from Arsikere and Belur taluks. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 615. While 390 have been discharged after recovery, there are 210 active cases. Mandya district reported 24 new cases on the day. With this, the total positive cases have increased to 630. While 396 have been discharged, there are 234 active cases. While nine patients have a travel history of inter-district and state, three are ILI cases. Ten people have a contact history with other patients and two patients’ contact is under tracing. Twelve positive cases has been reported from Chamarajanagar district, including a 23-year-old pregnant woman, on Thursday. With this, the total positive cases has increased to 132, and there are 101 active cases. Out of 12, four are from Kollegal, four from Yalandur, three from Gundlupet and one from Chamarajanagar taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-crosses-600-mark-57-new-cases-in-dists-859113.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid test mandatory before delivery: Dr Prameela||Covid-19 test is mandatory before delivery, but there is no need for any fear among pregnant women, said Dr Prameela, Medical Superintendent of Cheluvamba Hospital. Participating in the Deccan Herald-Prajavani (DH-PV) phone-in programme here, on Thursday, Dr Prameela explained the safety measures to be taken by pregnant and lactating mothers during the Covid crisis. She stressed on following government guidelines, like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and staying at home. There were several calls from women, who wanted to clear their doubts related to Covid virus, during pregnancy. The doctor advised pregnant woman not to go out unnecessarily. There is no need to visit hospitals, for problems that are not related to pregnancy. For minor problems, call your doctor. If it is an emergency, the doctor herself would advise you to visit the hospital. Meet the doctor only if it is inevitable, she advised. Women completing 37 weeks of pregnancy should compulsorily undergo Covid test, as a precautionary measure. Test should be done, even if there are no symptoms. Do not neglect coronavirus symptoms like cough, throat infection and fever. Undergo tests immediately, as it is difficult to cure the disease in the later stages, she said. If pregnant woman have to leave for another place, information should be given. It is important to be careful in the hospital. Cheluvamba Hospital in Mysuru performs 30 to 40 deliveries every day. All safety measures are taken, she informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-test-mandatory-before-delivery-dr-prameela-859124.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ex-MLA arrested for ‘assault’ on worker||Police have arrested former MLA Ramesh Babu Bandisiddegowda and his two supporters, for assaulting a worker, during the road widening works, in Arakere, Srirangapatna taluk, on Thursday. The former MLA assaulted the operator of an excavator, right in front of police personnel, during the road widening works. The work was in progress on Thursday morning and the excavator started razing the bus shelter. Ramesh Babu Bandisiddegowda and his supporters opposed it. When the driver continued his work, the supporters started pelting stones. When the operator tried to escape, the irked ex-MLA caught hold of him, assaulted and handed him over to the police, who were mute spectators. There was tension for more than three hours. Additional police have been deployed. Tahsildar M V Roopa, ASP Shobharani and Assistant Executive Engineer of Public Works Department Mahesh convinced the people on the demolition, early during the day. A few shops too were cleared, in the presence of the police. Ramesh said, “Though a woman, A N Suma, a tailor, was inside the building, the driver resorted to raze the structure. To avoid this, we stopped the driver. Let the authorities compensate the people, who are losing their shelter for road widening.” AEE Mahesh lodged a police complaint against Ramesh and his supporters, for assaulting the operator. He has sought action against the ex-MLA for obstructing work and assaulting the operator. Meanwhile, a counter complaint has been lodged by Suma, the affected woman, against AEE Mahesh, and the operator. Mahesh pushed me down, she complained. MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah said, “Unable to tolerate the development works, the ex-MLA assaulted the excavator operator and engineers, and abused them in foul language. Earlier, he had damaged the compound of a school, to pave the path to his house, illegally.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ex-mla-arrested-for-assault-on-worker-859125.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Watch comet Neowise in Northern hemisphere||Comet Neowise is visible in the sky, in the Northern hemisphere this month. The celestial object, perceptible in the night or morning sky, is a bliss to watch, said S A Mohan Krishna, amateur astronomer. Comets mostly remain in deep-frozen ‘sleep’ in the outer space, but sporadically they are dislodged from their orbits and fall forward the inner solar system. Comets are at their brightest, when they are close to the Sun. It is best to search for them after sunset. Comet Neowise is visible throughout July and the first week of August, he said. Mohan Krishna said, “The behaviour of comets is unpredictable. Large comets have thick, insulating crusts, while smaller comets may be like snowballs and melt away as they come closer to Sun. One can expect a ghostly greenish-orange splotch to grow brighter in the sky near ‘Auriga’ as comet C/2020 F3 Neowise will make its closest approach to Earth.” “Comet Neowise was discovered on March 27, by Near Earth Object Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (NEOWISE), a space telescope launched by NASA in 2009. Comet Neowise was closest to the Sun or reached perihelion on July 3, passing at 43 million km from Sun, or a bit closer than the average distance from the sun to Mercury,” he added. As Neowise is one of the few naked-eye comets of this century, it has already been photographed behind many famous sites and cities, just before sunrise. The brightness of Neowise, in coming days, remains ambiguous, but it will continue to be detectable in the early morning sky. It can be located near planet Venus, in the morning sky. After July 15, it will be detectable in the early evening sky. Professional observatories rarely have time to scan the skies in search of new celestial objects, so amateur astronomers, using simple equipment often discover comets, he pointed out. On June 7, the comet was on the far side of Sun, 117 million km from the star and 236 million km from Earth. From June 22 through June 27, it was within the range of the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO). SOHO is an accommodating mission between the European Space Agency (ESA) and NASA. Currently, Neowise is up at dawn. It will be in the dawn sky around July 11. By mid July, the comet will become evident at dusk (just after sunset), low in the northwest horizon, Mohan Krishna said. Neowise will be closest to Earth on July 22-23, at some 103 million km. Although binoculars might be required for a celestial visitor, one can see a beautiful crescent (not too bright) moon also. Comet Neowise might be visible again, from Earth in year 8786 AD, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/watch-comet-neowise-in-northern-hemisphere-859126.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid fear: people seek tourists ban at M M Hills||Demanding a ban on tourists’ entry to Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple, locals, members of women’s organisations and farmer’s associations staged a protest on Thursday. The rise in Covid cases has created fear among the residents about the possibility of the spread of the pandemic through devotees. The protesters, who gathered near Saluru Mutt, took out a jatha up to Kollegal checkpost and staged a road block, for more than two hours. The protesters said, “As Male Mahadeshwara Hill is one of the popular pilgrim centre of the district, a large number of devotees visit the temple every day, even during Covid crisis. As Covid positive cases are on the rise in Chamarajanagar district, it has created fear among the residents.” The protesters said that most of the devotees to the temple are from other districts. “The visitors move around the temple, making purchases at shops. There are possibilities of the visitors spreading the virus. Hence, the devotees should be stopped at Talabetta and sent back,” they stressed. They submitted a memorandum in this regard to Male Mahadeshwara Temple Authority secretary Jayavibhavaswamy. However, the secretary explained to the people, that the precautionary measures are taken to prevent the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-fear-people-seek-tourists-ban-at-m-m-hills-859128.html
09-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||ASHA worker assaulted in Bantwal taluk in Karnataka||An ASHA worker was allegedly assaulted on Thursday while she was on duty in Bantwal taluk, police sources said. The Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) worker, Mamatha Gatti suffered injuries on her head and hand and has been hospitalised. The reason behind the attack is not known. She was assaulted allegedly by a person identified as Kanthappa Poojary using a wooden rod at Chennaithodi in Bantwal taluk at around 10 am. Gatti works with the community health centre at Vamanapadavu in the taluk. Police have registered a case based on a complaint from the medical officer of Vamanapadavu health centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/asha-worker-assaulted-in-bantwal-taluk-in-karnataka-859139.html
09-07-2020||Main Article||Standing up to Beijing: Global pushback against China||After National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi spoke to each other, the two sides “agreed” it was “necessary to ensure at the earliest complete disengagement of troops along the LAC” and “de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity.” The two sides have, once again, decided to “not allow differences to become disputes.” So, even as some preliminary disengagement seems to have begun, it remains a long road to a certain degree of normalcy in Sino-Indian ties. It can safely be assumed that post-Galwan clash, India’s ties with China will never be the same again even though the two sides will try their best to sound reassuring. India would find it difficult to trust anything the Chinese side will commit to and building adequate deterrence will be its top priority. It has also signalled that it is willing to bear economic costs with its decisions to keep Chinese companies out of government contracts, infrastructure and critical strategic sectors. Its decision last week to ban Chinese apps was a symbolic move to underscore to Beijing that in the absence of a resolution to the boundary problem, economic and trade ties would not continue as before. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message from the heights of Ladakh was equally categorical that India was preparing itself for the long haul. China, of course, has its own set of calculations to make. While India’s assertion on multiple fronts is a new reality that Chinese policymakers must confront, it is happening in a wider global context where the world is preparing to challenge China more frontally than ever before. From the West to the East, a new consensus seems to be evolving that China’s challenge to the basic norms of the extant global order cannot go unchallenged as the costs of inaction might be too high in the future. The global landscape, which till a few months back looked remarkably benign for China, has now turned against the Middle Kingdom in a manner that Chinese policymakers can ill-afford to ignore. While it started with the Communist Party of China’s mishandling of the coronavirus pandemic, it has now morphed into a worldwide concern about Beijing’s growing reluctance to abide by even the basic norms of global conduct. As China has been tearing up one international treaty after another, it has been making clear its contempt for those who find in these norms a certain sanctity essential to preserve global peace and stability. But China’s revisionism is too stark to be managed by the liberal idealism of norms, values and institutions. The institutional collapse was reflected in the way the World Health Organisation was manipulated by China during the initial phase of the Covid-19 crisis. The growing divide between China and the rest of the world was reflected in the inability of institutions like the UN Security Council and the G-20 to come up with a coherent response to one of the most significant human security issues of our times. Even as the world was trying to come to grips with Covid-19, China found in the crisis an opportunity to enhance its geopolitical interests by targeting countries it thought were too vulnerable to respond. From the maritime frontiers of the South China Sea to the Himalayan frontiers, from the internal vicissitudes of the European Union to the legal framework of Hong Kong, everything has been fair game for the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) desire to strengthen its hold on a domestic population that was weathering a downturn in economy and a mismanaged health crisis.  But global political realities changed dramatically for China in a matter of months. Today, the pushback against Chinese aggression is at its sharpest. The Scott Morrison government in Australia has unveiled a new, more aggressive defence strategy which squarely targets the threat from China, warning that “coercion, competition and grey-zone activities directly or indirectly targeting Australian interests are occurring now.” Even as China has been intruding into Japan's territorial waters more frequently in recent days, Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force training ships conducted exercises with Indian naval vessels in the Indian Ocean and Japanese Defence Minister Taro Kono made it clear that China was “trying to change the status quo at the India border, in Hong Kong and in the East China Sea, South China sea.” And last month, the ASEAN, too, underlined for China the limits of Beijing’s assertiveness by reaffirming much more robustly than in the past “that the 1982 UNCLOS [United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea] is the basis for determining maritime entitlements, sovereign rights, jurisdiction and legitimate interests over maritime zones, and the 1982 UNCLOS sets out the legal framework within which all activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out.” The US, of course, has continued to pile up pressure on China both with diplomatic engagements as well as with an unprecedented show of force. For the first time since 2014, two US aircraft carrier groups are in the South China Sea soon after the People Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) concluded its five days of drills around the contested Paracel Islands. All this doesn’t imply that the CCP would relent just as a limited de-escalation exercise doesn’t mean that China would be giving up its enhanced claims along the LAC anytime soon. But the pressure on CCP is increasing and the message to China is clear: nations will stand up to coercion and challenge China’s thirst for power. If China’s rise has a logic of its own in exerting pressure on the international system, the pushback against this rise is also a natural culmination of some of the most fundamental laws of international relations. The world must certainly brace for China’s rise, but China should also brace itself for a world that will not easily acquiesce to Beijing’s revisionism. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations, King’s College, London)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/standing-up-to-beijing-global-pushback-against-china-858765.html
09-07-2020||National||Influencer trolled for offering 'love and awareness' sessions for Rs 1,500||Conversation around mental health has increased, especially, within urban India since the novel coronavirus disrupted normal lives. As people lose the agency to travel, socialise, or pay bills due to their employment status being uncertain, there have been several calls for better mental health facilities that can be accessed remotely.  Santoshi Shetty, an influencer with over 7 lakh followers on Instagram, recently stepped in and proposed to 'help' her followers by offering one-on-one sessions for Rs 1500 that would last an hour, in an initiative titled “flying cheese”. These sessions were to focus on “love and awareness” and to the process of “growing together”. The post, which has now been taken down, was attacked on several fronts.  While many found the blogger to be under-qualified to be offering mental-health services, others described her behaviour as 'opportunistic'. Several others pointed out that Shetty, who often takes exotic vacations, may not have the same problems as most of her followers. Amidst this, students pursuing psychology and counselling related degrees, detailed the years of training it would take them before they would be equipped with the skills to offer mental health services.    Shetty hints that she never aimed to offer an alternative to the services provided by mental health professionals and says that her intention to “spread love is still flowing”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/influencer-trolled-for-offering-love-and-awareness-sessions-for-rs-1500-858788.html
09-07-2020||National||Meet the postman who walked 15 kms through forest to deliver letters for 30 years||Few would consider the job of a postman hazardous, that is until they hear the story of D. Sivan, a postman in Tamil Nadu. Sivan held his job for almost 30 years and retired last week. His job description included trekking through the dense forests of Coonoor to take post to remote parts of Singara and Marapallam.  Over the years, as he edged closer to retirement, the number of letters Sivan delivered became fewer and fewer, migration and internet connectivity being the innocuous culprits for this change.  Over the years, the gentleman had been chased by elephants and boars, crossed streams and rivers, to ensure that the plantation workers living in Singara Estate received their post timely.  It is reported that Sivan made a modest amount of Rs. 12,000 for his service.  The story of his dedication touched many hearts and he was widely thanked for his work on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-the-postman-who-walked-15-kms-through-forest-to-deliver-letters-for-30-years-858791.html
09-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 9||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 7.64 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 7,94,204 as of July 9 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 21,600   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 4,76,378 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-9-858797.html
09-07-2020||National||CBSE drops 'nationalism', 'citizenship' from syllabus||The CBSE's move to rationalise its syllabus by dropping certain chapters to reduce course load on students in view of the Covid-19 pandemic has been welcomed by various school representatives, but a section of academicians alleged that the exercise appears to be "ideologically" driven.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-drops-nationalism-citizenship-from-syllabus-858801.html
09-07-2020||National||BJP leader's killing will be avenged by eliminating terrorists: J&K BJP chief||Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina Wednesday said the killings of BJP leader Wasim Bari and his family members will be avenged by smoking out terrorists from their hideouts and eliminating them. He left for Kashmir to meet Bari’s family and be with them in this hour of grief. Bari, his father and brother were shot dead by terrorists on Wednesday night at Musliambad in Bandipora district of north Kashmir, police said. Top central BJP leadership including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and National BJP president J P Naddda called Raina and took stock of the situation. "I am on my way to Kashmir to be with the family and express my condolences to them. He (Bari) was a real tiger of Bharat Mata. He kept the tricolour high. We condemn this cowardly act of Pakistan-sponsored terrorists", Raina told PTI tonight. He said they were true nationalists, who broadened the party’s base in Kashmir which frustrated Pakistan and Pak-sponsored terrorists in the valley. Police said they have arrested seven policemen for their alleged negligence in protecting Bari. Raina said that the terrorists, who are hiding in various places, will be chased out from their rat-holes and eliminated to avenge the killings. He said the killings are a result of the frustration of Pakistan and Pak-sponsored terrorists due to growing footprints of BJP in Kashmir valley. "Pakistan and its terrorists cannot deter us. They want to demoralise us. That is not going to happen. All of those terrorists involved in the killing were be eliminated".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-killing-will-be-avenged-by-eliminating-terrorists-jk-bjp-chief-858802.html
09-07-2020||National||Two aides of Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey killed in encounters||Two aides of gangster Vikas Dubey were killed in separate encounters in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, police said. While Kartikeya alias Prabhat was gunned down in Kanpur when he tried to flee from police custody, another aide of Vikas Dubey, Praveen alias Bauwa Dubey, was killed in an encounter in Etawah, they added. Kartikeya, who was arrested from Faridabad on Wednesday, was being brought to Kanpur on transit remand when he snatched the pistol of a policeman and tried to flee, ADG, Law and Order Prashant Kumar said. "The encounter took place in the Panki area of Kanpur when a police team was bringing Kartikeya alias Prabhat to Kanpur from Faridabad on transit remand. The police vehicle had a flat tyre. Taking advantage of the situation, Kartikeya tried to flee after snatching the pistol of a policeman," he said. Kartikeya opened fire at the policemen accompanying him, injuring two Special Task Force (STF) personnel, and was killed in the ensuing exchange of fire, the officer said. The policemen fired at him "in self-defence", he added. Kartikeya was rushed to the hospital, where he was declared dead by the doctors, the ADG said. Kartikeya, Ankur and Shravan were arrested following a late-night encounter in Faridabad on Wednesday. The police had recovered four pistols, including two taken away after last week's ambush in Bikru village in which eight policemen were killed, and 44 live cartridges from the trio. Meanwhile, another associate of Vikas Dubey, who was wanted in connection with last week's Kanpur ambush, was killed in an encounter in Etawah, the police said. "The police team surrounded a person at about 4.30 am and he was killed in an exchange of fire. The deceased was identified as Praveen alias Bauwa Dubey, who was wanted in connection with the Kanpur ambush. He was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on information leading to his arrest," Etawah Superintendent of Police (SP) Akash Tomar said. The police seized a rifle and a pistol from his possession. Eight policemen were ambushed in Bikru village in the Chaubeypur area of Kanpur, where they had gone to arrest Vikas Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops last Friday. Vikas Dubey, who is carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh on information leading to his arrest, is still absconding. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-aides-of-kanpur-gangster-vikas-dubey-killed-in-encounters-858817.html
09-07-2020||National||Clinical trials for Ayurvedic formulations against Covid-19 to be initiated in India, US||Ayurvedic practitioners and researchers in India and the US are planning to initiate joint clinical trials for Ayurveda formulations against the novel coronavirus, the Indian envoy here has said. In a virtual interaction with a group of eminent Indian-American scientists, academicians, and doctors on Wednesday, Indian Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu said the vast network of institutional engagements have brought scientific communities between the two countries together in the fight against Covid-19. “Our Institutions have also been collaborating to promote Ayurveda through joint research, teaching and training programs. Ayurvedic practitioners and researchers in both the countries are planning to initiate joint clinical trials of Ayurvedic formulations against Covid-19,” Sandhu said. “Our scientists have been exchanging knowledge and research resources on this front,” he said. The Indo-US Science Technology Forum (IUSSTF) has always been instrumental in promoting excellence in science, technology, and innovation through collaborative activities.  To address Covid-19-related challenges, the IUSSTF had given a call to support joint research and start-up engagements. A large number of proposals are being reviewed on fast track mode by the experts on both the sides, he said. “Indian pharmaceutical companies are global leaders in producing affordable low-cost medicines and vaccines and will play an important role in the fight against this pandemic,” Sandhu said. According to the ambassador, there are at least three ongoing collaborations between Indian vaccine companies with US-based institutions. These collaborations would be beneficial not just to India and the US, but also for the billions who would need to be vaccinated against Covid-19 across the world, he noted. Asserting that innovation will be the key driver in pandemic response and recovery, he said tech-companies and start-ups have already begun to take the lead in this direction. "Telemedicine and telehealth will evolve as will other digital platforms across sectors," he said. Noting that there has been a longstanding collaboration between India and the US in the health sector, he said scientists have been working together in several programs to understand important diseases at the basic and clinical level. Many such programs have been focused on translational research to develop new therapeutics and diagnostics. There are over 200 ongoing NIH funded projects in India involving 20 institutions from NIH network and several eminent institutions in India engaged in a wide spectrum of research areas to create health care solutions, the senior diplomat said. The collaboration under Vaccine Action Program (VAP) resulted in the development of ROTAVAC vaccine against rotavirus which causes severe diarrhea in children. The vaccine was developed by an Indian company (Bharat Biotech) at an affordable cost. It has been commercialised and introduced in the Expanded Program on Immunisation. Development of many other vaccines such as TB, Influenza, Chikungunya are also in progress under the VAP, he said. “As I speak, the VAP meeting is in progress where experts from both countries are deeply engaged in technical discussions to expedite development of Covid-19 vaccine,” Sandhu said in his remarks. During the interaction, the eminent experts appreciated India's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and offered their valuable suggestions and best practices in this regard. They shared their ideas on deepening the knowledge partnership between India and the US. The experts who took part in the interaction, were drawn from wide-ranging fields including artificial intelligence, quantum information science, biomedical engineering, robotics, mechanical engineering, earth and ocean science, virology, physics, astrophysics, and health sciences. Prominent among those who attended the virtual interaction were Subhash Kak Regents Professor at Oklahoma State University, Dr Vijay Kuchroo, Samuel L Wasserstrom Professor of Neurology at Harvard Medical School, Dr Ashish M Kamat, Professor of Urology at MD Anderson Cancer Center, Ashutosh Chilkoti, Alan L Kaganov Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Chair of the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke University; and Prof Manu Prakash, a professor in Department of Bioengineering at Sandford University, among others||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clinical-trials-for-ayurvedic-formulations-against-covid-19-to-be-initiated-in-india-us-858872.html
09-07-2020||National||Is this the India of our dreams: Rahul Gandhi on sexual exploitation of girls in UP's Chitrakoot||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the government on Thursday over a media report on sexual exploitation of minor girls in the mines of Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot, asking "Is this the India of our dreams"? "Starving family in an unplanned lockdown...These girls have paid a terrible price to live," the former Congress chief said in the tweet. "Is this the India of our dreams?" he asked. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had also highlighted the media report on Wednesday and urged the government and the commission concerned to take immediate action on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-this-the-india-of-our-dreams-rahul-gandhi-on-sexual-exploitation-of-girls-in-ups-chitrakoot-858885.html
09-07-2020||National||PM Modi to address Global Week summit today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver on Thursday the inaugural address at the India Global Week 2020, a virtual conference being organised in the UK at 1:30 pm.   "The forum brings together global thought leaders and captains of industry, who will discuss aspects relating to opportunities in India as well as the global economic revival post-COVID," the PM tweeted.   Modi's address will also feature a "never-seen-before" performance on the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat campaign, the Prime Minister's Office said. With the theme 'Be The Revival: India and a Better New World', the event will have 5,000 global participants from 30 nations and it will be addressed by 250 global speakers in 75 sessions. Those participating in the event from India include External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Commerce and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor G C Murmu, Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, and spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, the PMO statement said. The UK's Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, Home Secretary Priti Patel, and US Ambassador to India Ken Juster are some of the other participants to the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-global-week-summit-today-858888.html
09-07-2020||National||Pondy Lt Guv Kiran Bedi tests negative for coronavirus||Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi tested negative for coronavirus on Thursday, a day after an employee of the Raj Nivas here was found to be infected with the virus. A release from Raj Nivas said the Health Department has informed that the result of the Covid-19 test, which the Lt Governor had undergone on Wednesday has come out negative. It also said that the office of Lt Governor would adhere to the protocol of keeping all the staff, who were primary contacts, in-home quarantine even though they had tested negative. Bedi and other staff underwent coronavirus tests after an employee of the Raj Nivas tested positive for the infection. Meanwhile, Bedi told PTI, "We did not want to leave anything to chance and hence got tested." After the staff tested positive, Raj Nivas, the office of the Lt Governor was shut for a 48-hour period for sanitisation. A team of doctors and other health professionals from Indira Gandhi Government Medical College hospital here collected the swabs of the Lt Governor and other staff for testing on Wednesday. The result has since shown that Bedi and others tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pondy-lt-guv-kiran-bedi-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-858892.html
09-07-2020||National||WATCH: PM Modi's address at Global Week summit Live||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the inaugural event at the India Global Week 2020, a virtual conference being organised in the UK.  You can watch PM Modi's address Live here:  "The forum brings together global thought leaders and captains of industry, who will discuss aspects relating to opportunities in India as well as the global economic revival post-COVID," the PM tweeted. Modi's address will also feature a "never-seen-before" performance on the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat campaign, the Prime Minister's Office said. With the theme 'Be The Revival: India and a Better New World', the event will have 5,000 global participants from 30 nations and it will be addressed by 250 global speakers in 75 sessions. Those participating in the event from India include External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Commerce and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor G C Murmu, Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, and spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, the PMO statement said. The UK's Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, Home Secretary Priti Patel, and US Ambassador to India Ken Juster are some of the other participants to the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/watch-pm-modis-address-at-global-week-summit-live-858903.html
09-07-2020||National||Key takeaways from PM Modi's Global Week summit address||India will play a leading role in the revival of the global economy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said during his virtual address at the India Global Week 2020. "In these times, it is natural to talk about revival. It is equally natural to link global revival and India. There is faith that the story of global revival will have India playing a leading role," PM ⁦Modi said.  He added that India remains one of the most open economies in the world and that India is laying a "red carpet for all global companies to come and establish their presence in India".  PM Modi said that Indians are natural reformers. "History shows that India has overcome every challenge be it social or economic. On one hand, India is fighting strong battle against the global pandemic. With an increased focus on people's health, we are equally focussed on the health of the economy," said PM Modi. He further explained that when India talks of revival, it's revival with care, with compassion, which is sustainable both for environment and economy. "Indians have the spirit to achieve what is believed to be impossible. No wonder that in India, we are already seeing green shoots of economic recovery," the prime minister said.  The prime minister said that the pandemic has once again shown that India's pharma industry is an asset not just for India but for the entire world. "It has played a leading role in reducing the cost of medicines, especially for developing countries," he said.  "I'm certain that India will have an important role in developing and in scaling up production of the vaccine once it is discovered," PM Modi said. He also clarified that Atma Nirbhar Bharat is not about being self-contained or closed to the world but it is about being self-sustaining and self-generating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-pm-modis-global-week-summit-address-858904.html
09-07-2020||National||Covid-19: India adds 24,879 new cases, total tally 7,67,296||India saw a record single-day surge of 24,879 Covid-19 cases taking the caseload to 7,67,296 on Thursday, with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi, Telangana, UP and Andhra Pradesh contributing to around 75 per cent of the new cases, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 21,129 with 487 new fatalities, the updated data at 8 am showed. The number of recoveries stands at 4,76,377, while there are 2,69,789 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country. "Around 62.08 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases included foreigners. Of the 487 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 198 are from Maharashtra, 64 from Tamil Nadu, 54 from Karnataka, 48 from Delhi, 23 from West Bengal, 18 from Uttar Pradesh, 16 from Gujarat, 12 from Andhra Pradesh, 11 from Telangana, 10 from Rajasthan, seven from  Madhya Pradesh, six each from Jammu and Kashmir and Odisha, three each from Bihar, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana and two from Assam.  Of the total 21,129 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra tops the tally with 9,448 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,213 deaths, Gujarat with 1,993, Tamil Nadu with 1,700, Uttar Pradesh with 845, West Bengal with 827, Madhya Pradesh with 629, Rajasthan with 482 and Karnataka with 470. The Covid-19 death toll reached 324 in Telangana, 282 in Haryana, 264 in Andhra Pradesh, 178 in Punjab, 149 in Jammu and Kashmir, 107 in Bihar, 48 in Odisha, 46 in Uttarakhand and 27 in Kerala. Jharkhand has registered 22 deaths, Assam 16, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry 14 each, Himachal Pradesh 11, Goa eight, Chandigarh seven, Arunachal Pradesh two and Meghalaya, Tripura and Ladakh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 2,23,724 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,22,350, Delhi at 1,04,864, Gujarat at 38,333, Uttar Pradesh at 31,156, Telangana at 29,536 and Karnataka at 28,877, according to the ministry data. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 24,823 in West Bengal, 22,259 in Andhra Pradesh, 22,063 in Rajasthan, 18,690 in Haryana and 16,036 in Madhya Pradesh.  It has risen to 13,336 in Assam, 13,189 in Bihar, 10,624 in Odisha and 9,261 in Jammu and Kashmir. Punjab has reported 6,907 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 6,195 cases. A total of 3,525 people have been infected by the virus in Chhattisgarh, 3,258 in Uttarakhand, 3,096 in Jharkhand, 2,039 in Goa, 1,761 in Tripura, 1,435 in Manipur, 1,101 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,041 in Ladakh. Puducherry has recorded 1,008 Covid-19 cases, Nagaland 657, Chandigarh 513 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 408 cases. Arunachal Pradesh reported 287 cases, Mizoram has 197 cases, Andaman and Nicobar Islands has 149, Sikkim has registered 133 infections so far, while Meghalaya has recorded 80 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 4,385 cases are being reassigned to states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-adds-24879-new-cases-total-tally-767296-858905.html
09-07-2020||National||UP govt should clarify whether Vikas Dubey surrendered or was arrested: Akhilesh Yadav||After gangster Vikas Dubey, wanted in connection with the Kannur ambush in which eight police personnel were killed, was nabbed in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain, Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav asked the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday to clarify whether it was a "surrender" or an "arrest". "News is coming that the main accused in the Kanpur case is in police custody. If this is true, the government should clarify whether it was surrender or an arrest. Besides, the CDR (call details record) should be made public so that those hand in glove with him could be exposed," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Dubey, who was on the run since the Kanpur ambush on Friday and who carried a reward of Rs 5 lakh on information leading to his arrest, was nabbed in Ujjain on Thursday morning. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra confirmed the development, saying the gangster was in the custody of the state police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-should-clarify-whether-vikas-dubey-surrendered-or-was-arrested-akhilesh-yadav-858906.html
09-07-2020||National||Maharashtra govt revises lease rent for food vendors at Juhu beach||The Maharashtra government has decided to revise the lease rent for food vendors operating on its land at the Juhu beach in Mumbai. The decision, taken at the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday, will reduce the government's annual revenue by Rs 6.38 crore, the government said in a statement. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) owns 794 sqm area at the Juhu beach while 489.6 sqm comes under the jurisdiction of the state government. Out of the total 80 stalls there, 42 operate in AAI's area, while 38 stalls are located on the state government's land. The co-operative society of stall owners had earlier moved the Supreme court, saying the lease rent charges at the Juhu beach were high. As per the SC order, the stall owners' society held a meeting with AAI and agreed upon a lease rent. Accordingly, the state government agreed on the lease rent fixed by AAI, the statement said. The cabinet also approved a proposal to extend till July 31 the scheme to convert additional milk stock into milk powder.  In April this year, the government decided to convert 10 lakh litre of additional milk into milk powder, considering the increased milk demand during the lockdown period. The scheme was implemented for two months. Now, the government has extended the scheme and as part of it, 1.6 crore litre milk will be procured in one month and Rs 51.22 crore has been sanctioned for the purpose, the government said. In the wake of the lockdown, the daily sale of milk came down by17 lakh litre due to the closure of shops, hotels and sweet marts. The cabinet also gave a go-ahead to the implementation of the Centre's 'Jal Jeevan Mission' in the state. The scheme aims to provide 55-litre water per day to each family with individual water supply connection by 2024. At present, out of 132.03 lakh families in the state, 50.75 lakh have individual water supply connections. In the next four years, 89.25 lakh more connections are targetted at an expected expenditure of Rs 13,668.50 crore, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-revises-lease-rent-for-food-vendors-at-juhu-beach-858908.html
09-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi applauds role of people of Varanasi in helping needy during Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday applauded the contribution of people, authorities and NGOs of Varanasi in helping the needy during the Covid-19 pandemic, and urged citizens to strictly adhere to guidelines to prevent the spread of the deadly virus. Interacting with representatives of various Varanasi-based non-government organisations via video link, he said Kashi has vigorously countered the unprecedented coronavirus crisis. Varanasi, which is also known as Kashi, is the prime minister's parliamentary constituency. Referring to the size and population of Uttar Pradesh, he said with nearly 24 crore people, the state checked the pace of Covid-19 spread. He also pointed out that those infected with the virus are also recovering fast. Modi said Brazil with an almost similar population has seen thousands of deaths due to Covid-19 but in UP, the deaths were limited to nearly 800. He said Varanasi can emerge as an export hub and develop as a key centre of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-applauds-role-of-people-of-varanasi-in-helping-needy-during-covid-19-crisis-858909.html
09-07-2020||National||India already seeing green shoots of economic recovery: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said Indian economy has started seeing "green shoots" of recovery and that the country remains one of the most open economies in the world. He said that in these times when the world is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, it is natural to talk about revival and there is faith that the story of global revival will have India playing a leading role. "Indians have the spirit to achieve what is believed to be impossible. No wonder that in India, we are already seeing green shoots when it comes to economic recovery," Modi said while addressing the India Global Week 2020. He said that India remains one of the most open economies in the world.  "We are laying the red carpet for all global companies to come and establish their presence in India. Very few countries will offer the kind of opportunities India does today," he added. Modi also said that there are many possibilities and opportunities in various sunrise sectors in India.  "Our reforms in agriculture provide a very attractive investment opportunity to invest in storage and logistics," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-already-seeing-green-shoots-of-economic-recovery-pm-narendra-modi-858914.html
09-07-2020||National||HC directs Delhi University to give schedule of final year UG exams||The Delhi High Court, on Thursday, directed Delhi University to file an affidavit detailing the schedule of final year undergraduate exams which have been postponed from July 10 to beyond August 15. The high court also asked the varsity to explain in the affidavit as to how it proposes to conduct exams -- online, off-line or both modes, besides the complete date sheet, providing clarity to students. “We all have gone through the examination process which is nerve-wracking for the students, especially during the times of Covid-19 pandemic,” a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said. The court allowed the prayer of senior advocate Sachin Dutta, representing the Delhi University, to grant some time as they have to carve out a new plan to conduct examinations in accordance with the latest guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). The court directed the varsity to file the affidavit by July 13 and listed the matter for further hearing on July 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-directs-delhi-university-to-give-schedule-of-final-year-ug-exams-858916.html
09-07-2020||National||Priyanka demands CBI probe to ascertain facts about 'grant of protection' to gangster Vikas Dubey||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded a CBI probe on Thursday to ascertain the facts about the "grant of protection" to gangster Vikas Dubey. She also accused the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of "complete failure" in handling the Kanpur ambush case and arresting Dubey, the main accused who fled the state and was arrested from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday morning. The chain of events in the case exposed the chinks in security and hinted at collusion, Priyanka Gandhi said. The Congress general secretary in-charge of eastern Uttar Pradesh alleged that "no action" on the part of the police on a three-month-old letter and Dubey's name not appearing in the list of noted criminals indicated that his strings were attached with high-ups. "The Uttar Pradesh government has completely failed in acting with alacrity in the ghastly Kanpur massacre. Despite an alert, the gangster reaching Ujjain exposes the chinks in security and points to collusion," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "'No action' on a three-month-old letter and the name 'Vikas' not included in the list of noted criminals indicate that the strings of this matter are linked to high-ups. "The Uttar Pradesh government should conduct a CBI probe to ascertain all facts and bring out the links of protection to him," Priyanka Gandhi said. Dubey, wanted in connection with the Kanpur ambush in which eight policemen were killed, was arrested from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-demands-cbi-probe-to-ascertain-facts-about-grant-of-protection-to-gangster-vikas-dubey-858923.html
09-07-2020||National||Chinese, Indian border troops took 'effective measures' to disengage along LAC: China||China on Thursday said Chinese and Indian troops have taken "effective measures" to disengage at the Galwan Valley and other areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and the situation is "stable and improving," days after the two sides agreed on an expeditious withdrawal of soldiers from all the standoff points. The remarks by Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian came a day after people in New Delhi familiar with the developments said that the Chinese military removed all temporary structures and completed the withdrawal of its troops from the face-off site in Hot Springs in eastern Ladakh. Zhao told a media briefing here that “following the consensus reached the commander-level talks, China, India border troops have taken effective measures to disengage at the front-line at the Galwan Valley and other areas.” “The situation along the border is stable and improving,” he said. Asked about further talks between the two countries, Zhao said the two sides will continue dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels including by holding a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultations and Coordination (WMCC) on the Sino-Indian border affairs. “We hope India will work together with us to take concrete action and implement the consensus reached and jointly work for de-escalation along the border,” the spokesman added. The disengagement process of the troops on both sides began on Monday morning after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday. At the talks, the two sides agreed on an expeditious withdrawal of troops from all the standoff points to bring back peace and tranquillity in the region. Doval and Wang are Special Representatives (SR) for the boundary talks. In New Delhi, the people familiar with the developments said that the two armies are expected to carry out a joint verification in the next few days to assess the implementation of the disengagement process once the dismantling of the temporary infrastructure and withdrawal of troops by China are completed at the friction points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. There has been thinning out of troops from Finger areas in Pangong Tso as well, they said. Pangong Tso has been a major face-off site between the two sides. The two militaries are set to hold extensive talks on finalising modalities for restoring normalcy and bringing back peace and tranquillity in the region after the verification of the disengagement exercise is completed, they added. Government sources in New Delhi said the Chinese military has already removed tents and withdrew its personnel from patrolling point 14 in Galwan Valley, the site of violent clashes between the two armies on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-indian-border-troops-took-effective-measures-to-disengage-along-lac-china-858929.html
09-07-2020||National||32 accidents in industrial units in last two months; 75 killed||India has witnessed at least 32 accidents in industries in the chemical sector since May this year, taking the lives of 75 people and injuring 194 others, indicating a "breakdown" in safety measures taken at manufacturing facilities in the country during and after the Covid-19 lockdown. Of the 32 incidents between May 3 and July 5, according to 'IndustriALL Global Union', the maximum of seven incidents were reported from Chhattisgarh followed by six in Gujarat and four in Maharashtra. The warning sign is that in all of these cases, there is “at least the possibility” that workers and residents of nearby communities have been exposed to toxic chemicals that will cause health issues in the months or years to come. The Bokaro Steel Plant in Chhattisgarh reported four incidents, the highest for any unit, during this period in which one person was killed and seven others injured. According to IndustriALL Global Union's analysis, 20 workers were killed in two fire incidents in Tamil Nadu's Neyveli Lignite Corporation in May and June. The analysis showed that five of the incidents were due to gas leaks in manufacturing units in which 17 people lost lives and at least 111 suffered injuries. In three incidents of boiler blast, 22 people lost their lives and 49 were injured. There were eight incidents of fire in manufacturing units during this period in which 14 people were killed and seven injured. Since May, the government allowed the functioning of industries with restrictions during lockdown and it was fully functional from June when the government started the 'Unlock' process. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month, IndustriALL Global Union General Secretary Valter Sanches warned that the "terrifying reality is that this cluster of serious accidents could easily indicate a pattern of failure, with even more accidents likely to follow." "When this kind of a systemic breakdown in safety controls is observed, the possibility of a major catastrophe on the scale of the 1984 Bhopal disaster, cannot be ruled out," Sanches wrote. INTUC president G Sanjeeva Reddy, who is also the head of IndustriALL affiliate Indian National Metalworkers Federation, said the government should form an expert commission to analyse the industrial accidents, immediately address this safety crisis and stop potential accidents. "The government should involve unions in the decision making process both at the national level and at the factory levels to avoid accidents in the future,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/32-accidents-in-industrial-units-in-last-two-months-75-killed-858948.html
09-07-2020||National||Private trains in addition to existing trains, says Indian Railways||With Opposition political parties criticising the Indian Railways' proposal to allow private players to operate passenger carrying  trains, national transporter on Thursday clarified that these trains will run in addition to existing trains. "151 trains to be run by private operators would be over and above the already existing trains. These trains are going to run on the routes where the demand for trains are already higher than the existing capacity," the Railways said in a statement. Earlier, the Railways formally kickstarted its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network by inviting request for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pairs of routes through 151 modern trains. However, opposition political parties, including Congress and left parties, have opposed the move and alleged that the proposal would  snatch a cheap mode of transportation from  poor. The Railways employees' union also opposed this proposal. The Railways clarified that the introduction of private trains is in addition to existing trains to cater to the increasing demand with quality service. In 2019, a total of 8.4 billion passengers travelled in trains while the number will be 30 billion by 2030. To keep up with the demand, they will continue to introduce new trains, the statement said. "The Indian Railways network is about 68,000 route kilometers. In the year 2018-19, the reserved passenger volume was 16% (0.59 billion) of the total originating non-suburban passengers (3.65 billion). Almost 8.85 crore of waitlisted passengers could not be accommodated," a Railways official said. The objective of this initiative is to introduce modern technology rolling stock with reduced maintenance, reduced transit time, boost job creation, provide enhanced safety, provide world class travel experience to passengers, and also reduce demand supply deficit in the passenger transportation sector. The Ministry of Railways felt the need to introduce private participation in the operation of passenger trains so that new technologies and better service (ensuring improved coach technology and reduced journey time) could be deployed in its operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-trains-in-addition-to-existing-trains-says-indian-railways-858955.html
09-07-2020||National||India-EU summit to be held through video conference on July 15||The 15th summit between India and the European Union will be held via video conference on July 15, officials of the influential grouping said on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold extensive talks with President of the European Council Charles Michel and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen on a range of issues in the summit, they said. The leaders are expected to reiterate their determination to promote effective multilateralism and a rules-based multilateral order, with the United Nations (UN) and the World Trade Organisation (WTO) at its core, the officials said. The summit will be an opportunity to strengthen the EU-India strategic partnership based on shared principles and values of democracy, freedom and rule of law, they said. The summit is aimed at delivering concrete benefits for the people in the EU and India, the officials said, adding the leaders will discuss ways to boost cooperation in areas of security, climate, environment, trade and investment, digital economy and connectivity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-eu-summit-to-be-held-through-video-conference-on-july-15-858972.html
09-07-2020||National||SC to consider plea on 50% quota for OBCs in medical courses on July 13||The Supreme Court on Thursday deferred to July 13 its hearing on a plea for implementing 50% reservation for OBCs in all-India quota seats in medical courses in Tamil Nadu. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat sought to know if the petition filed by Tamil Nadu had any similarity with a pending matter filed by Saloni Kumari in the apex court. Senior advocates P Wilson and V Giri, among others, appeared for the matter. The Tamil Nadu government moved the top court against the Madras HC's order declining issuing an order to the Centre to implement 50% reservation for OBCs in all-India quota seats for medical courses in the state. The High Court had, on June 22, allowed a plea by the Centre, the Medical Council of India and others to keep the petition filed by the state in abeyance since a similar plea was coming up for consideration before the top court. The state government contended that the High Court's decision was tantamount to denying relief as time for filling up the seats was running out. It asked the top court to direct the Centre to provide 50% reservation for backward classes in admission to the seats shared by it in the all-India quota for undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses in academic year 2020-21, subject to the outcome of the matter. Besides Tamil Nadu's plea, another petition by T G Babu also came up for consideration on Thursday. According to the Medical Council of India’s Regulations, 1997, 15% of seats in all undergraduate medical colleges and 50% in all postgraduate medical colleges are surrendered to the all-India quota.  The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993, provided for 50% reservation for OBCs, besides 18% for SCs and 1% for STs.  On June 11, the top court had declined to consider a batch of petitions filed by DMK, AIADMK, CPI(M), the Tamil Nadu government and others for implementing 50% reservations for OBCs in medical courses in all-India quota seats for colleges in the state. The petitioners had then preferred to approach the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-on-50-quota-for-obcs-in-medical-courses-on-july-13-858974.html
09-07-2020||National||Kanpur police murders: Was Vikas Dubey 'arrested' or did he 'surrender'?||Was Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey, who was involved in the killing of eight Uttar Pradesh cops last week, arrested or did he surrender before the police in Ujjain town in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday?  A senior UP police official here said that the state police were gathering information from their MP counterpart. ''We can not say anything at this moment,'' he added, when asked if Vikas had surrendered. Sources, however, said that Vikas feared that he could be gunned down by the UP cops in a staged encounter and so he decided to surrender. The fact that he kept shouting ''main hoon Vikas Dubey Kanpur wala' (I am Vikas Dubey from Kanpur) while being taken into custody, only buttressed the contention that he wanted to identify himself before everyone, especially the local media.  And Vikas's fears were not unfounded.  Since the killing of the cops last week, the UP police had shot dead five aides of Vikas in 'encounters' in different places in the state.  Senior UP IPS officer Amitabh Thakur also said that Vikas had surrendered. ''UP police failed to arrest him and he managed to surrender,'' Thakur said. The family members of the slain CO Devendra Mishra also echoed similar views. ''Someone wants to save Vikas,'' said a member of the family. A senior UP Congress leader questioned the role of an MP minister in the entire matter alleging that the latter had helped Vikas surrender before the cops. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav also demanded that the UP government should come out with all the details regarding 'arrest' of the gangster. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded a CBI probe into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanpur-police-murders-was-vikas-dubey-arrested-or-did-he-surrender-858988.html
09-07-2020||National||Video of a young woman helping a visually-impaired man board bus goes viral||A video of a young woman in Kerala helping a visually-impaired man board a bus has gone viral on social media, an Indian Express article reported. The woman, identified as Supriya, is seen running behind the bus to stop it and asking the conductor to wait while the man walks towards the bus using a cane slowly. she made this world a better place to live.kindness is beautiful!😍 The video took off after IPS officer Vijaykumar shared it on twitter and captioned, “She made this world a better place to live. kindness is beautiful!” The clip garnered lots of attention from twitter where people praised Supriya for her kindness. Working in Tiruvalla as saleswoman, Surpriya told Mathrubhumi, a local news outlet that initially she had helped the man move out of the way of a swerving vehicle.  “I asked him where he needed to go. I needed to know if there was a bus stop there. I thought my husband, Anoop, on his bike can drop him at the bus stand,” she said. “Fortunately, the bus came and stopped a bit ahead. I ran to the bus and told the conductor who was sitting at the back about the blind person. I didn’t think the bus would wait,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-of-a-young-woman-helping-a-visually-impaired-man-board-bus-goes-viral-858997.html
09-07-2020||National||ED attaches over Rs 2,200 crore assets of Rana Kapoor, others in Yes Bank PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs 2,203 of Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan among others in connection with a money laundering case. The assets were provisionally attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Officials said some foreign assets of Kapoor, who was arrested by the ED in March and presently in judicial custody, have also been frozen. The properties of Kapoor that were seized include a bungalow in the national capital among others. Around a dozen flats and individual houses in Mumbai and Pune and some bank accounts of others have also been attached. Kapoor, his family members and others have been accused of laundering proceeds of crime worth Rs 4,300 crore by receiving alleged kickbacks in lieu of extending big loans through their bank that later turned into non-performing assets (NPA). The CBI had on June 25 filed a chargesheet against Kapoor and Wadhawans among others in a quid-pro- quo case involving the private sector lender. It is alleged that Kapoor's family received kickbacks for Yes Bank's investment in DHFL's debentures. Kapoor is charged for entering into a criminal conspiracy with Kapil Wadhawan for extending financial assistance to DHFL through Yes Bank. According to the CBI, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit DHFL between April and June 2018. Wadhawan allegedly "paid kickback of Rs 600 crore" to Kapoor in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures, a firm controlled by Kapoor's wife and daughters, the CBI had claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-over-rs-2200-crore-assets-of-rana-kapoor-others-in-yes-bank-pmla-case-858998.html
09-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: PM Narendra Modi woos global companies||In today's episode, Prime Minister Narendra Modi woos global companies, each zone in Bengaluru to get a minister-in charge to tackle Covi-19 pandemic and China says that Chinese and Indian troops have taken "effective measures" to disengage at the Galwan Valley.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-narendra-modi-woos-global-companies-859010.html
09-07-2020||National||PM Cares Fund, created with voluntary donations, is separate from NDRF: Centre tells SC||The Centre has defended before the Supreme Court the creation of PM Cares Fund during the Covid-19 pandemic, saying existence of statutory funds like the NDRF did not prohibit setting up a fund with voluntary donations. "There are several funds which are either established earlier or now for carrying out various relief works. PM Cares is one such fund with voluntary donations," the Union Home Ministry said in an affidavit. Following the controversy over denial of information on PM Cares Fund, the Ministry said, "it is submitted that there exists a fund stipulated under Section 46 of Disaster Management Act which is called National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). However mere existence of a statutory fund would not prohibit creation of a different fund like PM Cares Fund which provides for voluntary donations.” The response has come on the Supreme Court's notice to a PIL filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of the Centre for Public Interest Litigation. The plea contended that the receipts of PM Cares Fund, not being audited by CAG and even basic information was not being disclosed, should be transferred to National Disaster Response Fund and be utilised from NDRF as per DMA.  It is made clear that a national disaster response fund was created with budgetary provisions without any private contributions. The Ministry said a plea seeking a direction from the court for crediting money received by PM Cares Fund to the NDRF was neither maintainable on merits nor was otherwise maintainable under Article 32 of the Constitution. "All funds other than those stipulated under Section 46 of DM Act, 2005 are separate, different and distinct created separately under separate provisions," it said. The government also listed out various relief measures taken out to deal with unprecedented situations, including PM Garib Kalyan Package and running of 4611 Shramik Special Trains till July 6 to shift 63.07 lakh migrant workers to their native places, and setting up of relief camps and food distribution. "Mere criticism by few may not be enough undermine a humongous and unprecedented response given by our nation which includes central government, state governments, local bodies, healthcare and sanitation workers and individual citizens who are Corona warriors," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-fund-created-with-voluntary-donations-is-separate-from-ndrf-centre-tells-sc-859023.html
09-07-2020||National||Covid-19: India has not yet reached community transmission stage, says govt||Amid a spurt in coronavirus cases, the government on Thursday said India has not yet reached the community transmission stage of Covid-19 and asserted that there have been localised outbreaks in some geographical areas. The Centre's assertion came on a day India registered a record single-day surge of 24,879 Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 7,67,296. The death toll climbed to 21,129 with 487 new fatalities, the updated data at 8 am showed. Asked if India has entered the community transmission phase, Rajesh Bhushan, Officer on Special Duty in the Union Health ministry said, "Even today, the health minister (Harsh Vardhan) clearly said after the GoM that India has not reached the stage of community transmission. In some geographical areas, there have been localised outbreaks. "We should not forget that in our country, 49 districts alone account for 80 per cent of Covid-19 cases. In a country of more than 733 districts, if 49 districts account for 80 per cent cases, then it is not justified to talk about community transmission," he said at a press briefing. Wherever there are active cases, if the prescribed protocol is followed, in three days close contacts of active cases can be traced and tracked, he said.  "So in such a situation in which you can trace and track close contacts of active cases, talking about community transmission is not justified," Bhushan asserted. He said India's Covid-19 cases and deaths per million population are amongst the lowest in the world. On an average, India is testing more than 2.6 lakh samples per day for Covid-19, an ICMR official said at the briefing, asserting that testing has been ramped up in the country in a big way. Covid-19 recovered cases are 1.75 times that of active cases, Bhushan said. People over 60 years account for 53 per cent of India's Covid-19 deaths, he said. Asked about a WHO spokesperson saying that there are indications that the virus may be airborne, Bhushan said, "We are keeping abreast with the information coming out of WHO headquarters on this particular aspect, but you would all appreciate and realise that even during the initial stages of the outbreak, we and the PM had repeatedly emphasised 'do-gaz doori' (Two-metre distance). "So this concept protects you from small droplets that may remain suspended in air for longer period of time." It is an evolving and dynamic situation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-has-not-yet-reached-community-transmission-stage-says-govt-859047.html
09-07-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: PM Modi will dedicate to nation 750 MW Rewa solar project on July 10||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday dedicate to the nation a 750 MW solar project at Madhya Pradesh's Rewa, and Delhi Metro will be one of its institutional customer outside the state, the Prime Minister's Office said. The project comprises three solar generating units of 250 MW each located on a 500-hectare plot inside a solar park. "This project will reduce carbon emission equivalent to approximately 15 lakh tonne of CO2 per year," according to a PMO statement on Thursday. Prime Minister Modi will dedicate the solar project to the nation virtually. It is the first renewable energy project to supply to institutional customers outside the state, including Delhi Metro, which will get 24 per cent of energy from the project. The remaining 76 per cent is being supplied to the state distribution companies of Madhya Pradesh. It also exemplifies India's commitment to attaining the target of gigawatt (GW) of installed renewable energy capacity by the year 2022, including 100 GW of solar installed capacity, the statement noted. It is an example of the excellent results that can be achieved due to synergy between the central and the state governments, it said. It was the first solar project in the country to break the "grid parity barrier". Compared to solar project tariffs of approximately Rs 4.50 per unit in early 2017, the Rewa project achieved the first-year tariff of Rs 2.97 per unit with a tariff escalation of Rs 0.05 per unit over 15 years and a levelised rate of Rs 3.30 per unit over the term of 25 years, the statement explained. The Rewa project has been acknowledged in India and abroad for its robust structuring and innovations. Its payment security mechanism for reducing risks to power developers has been recommended as a model to other states by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, it said. It has also received World Bank Group President's Award for innovation and excellence and was included in the Prime Minister's 'A Book of Innovation: New Beginnings'.  The solar park was developed by the Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Ltd (RUMSL), a joint venture of Madhya Pradesh Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd and Solar Energy Corporation of India, a central undertaking, the statement said.  Central financial assistance of Rs 138 crore has been provided to RUMSL for development of the park. After the park was developed, Mahindra Renewables Private Ltd, ACME Jaipur Solar Power Pvt Ltd, and Arinsun Clean Energy Pvt Ltd were selected by RUMSL through reverse auction for developing three solar generating units of 250 MW each inside the solar park.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-pm-modi-will-dedicate-to-nation-750-mw-rewa-solar-project-on-july-10-859048.html
09-07-2020||National||India to focus on health and economy as coronavirus surges, says Prime Minister Narendra Modi||With India now one of the world’s top three Covid-19 hotspots, the country is focused on controlling its pandemic and reviving stalled economic growth, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. India’s coronavirus epidemic spiralled when the nation began easing its strict and sweeping lockdown in late April in order to reverse an economic collapse that has left millions destitute. The South Asian nation has since set an ambitious timeline to produce an indigenous vaccine that it hopes will go from human trials to being available for general use by Aug. 15. “Today our companies are active in international efforts for development and production of Covid-19 vaccine,” said Modi addressing the opening session of India Global Week, a three-day conference organized by India Inc. Group, a UK-based media house. “I am certain that India will have an important role in developing and scaling up production of a vaccine once it is made.” “The pandemic has once again shown that India’s pharma industry is an asset not just for India but for the entire world,” Modi said in video address. “It has played a leading role in reducing the cost of medicines especially for developing countries.” India’s economy, which is heading for its first contraction in more than four decades, is seeing green shoots of recovery while the country is becoming more investment friendly and competitive, Modi said. “India is laying a red carpet for all global companies to come and establish their presence in the country,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-focus-on-health-and-economy-as-coronavirus-surges-says-prime-minister-narendra-modi-859049.html
09-07-2020||National||ICSE, ISC results: Board to announce results for class 10, 12 on July 10||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CICSE) will announce class 10 and 12 board results on Friday, Board Secretary Gerry Arathoon said. "The results of the Class 10 (ICSE) and Class 12 (ISC) year 2020 examinations will be declared on Friday, July 10 at 3 pm. The results will be made available through the board website and SMS facility," Arathoon said on Thursday. The board had last week announced an alternate assessment scheme for the two classes after the pending exams were cancelled in view of a spike in COVID-19 cases. As per the scheme, candidates will be assessed based on best three percentage marks obtained in subjects for which board exams have been conducted and the marks of their internal assessment as well as project work will be taken into account. The internal assessment formula will be applicable for class 12 which is the Indian School Certificate (ISC) exam, while for class 10 which is Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE), the project work will be taken into account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icse-isc-results-board-to-announce-results-for-class-10-12-on-july-10-859050.html
09-07-2020||National||Centre tells e-commerce companies to display country of origin or face penalties||The Centre on Thursday asked e-commerce websites to mention the country of origin on products and warned that violation of the directives can attract penalties between Rs 25,000 and Rs one lakh and a one-year jail term for repeat offences. Addressing a press conference, Consumer Affairs Minister Ramvilas Paswan said the rules in this regard, including the penalty clauses, were already in place and the government was now moving in to make it mandatory. Paswan said the provision was made in June 2017 by amending the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules which came into force from January 1, 2018. However, the rules were not strictly implemented and the renewed push for implementation comes amid calls for boycott of goods manufactured in China following the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh last month. The Commerce Ministry, which registers e-commerce entities, is leading the discussions with e-commerce companies with support from the Consumer Affairs Ministry to ensure that there are no “different voices” on the issue. “We have reiterated that we have rules in place and have now directed state governments to strictly enforce the provisions and take action against the violators,” Paswan said. The sub-rule 10 of Rule 6 of the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules state that an e-commerce entity shall ensure that mandatory declarations, including country of origin shall be displayed on digital and electronic networks used for e-commerce transactions. “This will help consumers make an informed choice,” Consumer Affairs Secretary Leena Nandan said. On the penalties for violation of the Rules, Nandan said the first offence will attract a fine of Rs 25,000, which will be not less than Rs 50,000 for the second violation. The third offence will attract a fine of Rs one lakh or with imprisonment for a term of one year or with both. On Wednesday, Commerce Ministry officials had held discussion with representatives of e-commerce companies who have reportedly sought more time to comply with the rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-tells-e-commerce-companies-to-display-country-of-origin-or-face-penalties-859061.html
09-07-2020||National||Air pollution increases risk of Covid-19 infection, death: Study||Air pollution in Bengaluru is linked to the loss of an estimated 6,300 lives in the first half of 2020 and 3.7 percent decline in the city's annual GDP despite strictly enforcing Covid-19 related lockdown, a study has revealed. According to a new online tool by IQAir AirVisual and Greenpeace-Southeast Asia, research shows that long-term air pollution exposure increases the risk of severe Covid-19 infections and death. "Air pollution in Bengaluru is linked to the loss of an estimated 6,300 lives in the first half of 2020 despite a strict Covid-related lockdown," the two organisations claimed in a statement. It is also revealed that air pollution took a major toll on the city's economy at a cost of approximately Rs 6,973 crore over the last six months, an equivalent of 3.7 percent of Bengaluru's total annual GDP, the statement said. The study claimed that the health damage from air pollution is expected to cost 1-5.8 percent of cities GDP in the major metropolitan cities of the world in the first half of this year. Of all the 28 cities studied, Delhi bears the highest economic cost of air pollution as a percentage of GDP due to the impacts of PM2.5 and NO2 pollution. While some cities have seen a temporary return of blue skies as a result of Covid-19 related restrictions, these gains were reversed as soon as lockdowns ended, the organisations observed. "... Chronic air pollution exposure is associated with diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and chronic lung disease. Patients with these conditions are at a greater risk of hospitalisation with Covid-19," they claimed. The study observed that it is more important than ever that investments are directed towards green, just and sustainable sectors of society. "Now is the time for a rapid shift away from polluting fossil fuels for our health, community, and for our economies, Greenpeace India's Avinash Chanchal was quoted as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-pollution-increases-risk-of-covid-19-infection-death-study-859064.html
09-07-2020||National||Mobile apps help improve government efficiency, says study||The use of mobile applications offered by the central and the state governments will help improve the efficiency of government administrative machinery by 80%, a study has said. The study report titled Contribution of Smartphones to Digital Governance in India, prepared by the India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) and KPMG India, said, "smartphones and e-services can be leveraged by the government to unlock 80% improvement in the efficiency." At present there are over 300 government applications, both by the Centre and states, facilitating essential citizen services including information dissemination, direct benefit transfers, education and healthcare. Key services such as education, healthcare, finance, utilities, justice and transport have become more accessible to the general public through mobile applications, the report said. The report also highlighted the efficiency of online processes like land-use change, water connection, passport issuance in paperless government offices. "Smartphones have facilitated access to a rapidly expanding range of digitally delivered services through apps, like Umang, Digilocker and Bhim, and also through mobile-friendly websites," said Ajay Sawhney, Secretary Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, while commenting on the report. India’s smartphone base is likely to touch 820 million in the next two years. The growth in the number of internet users in India is expected to be driven by rural users, many of whom will use devices in local languages. Rural India has witnessed a year-on-year growth of 35% in 2018 as opposed to 7% growth in urban India in the same period in terms of internet users. Smartphone penetration in rural India has risen from 9% in 2015 to 25% in 2018, said the study.  "The prevalence of Open OS in smartphones has facilitated the inclusion of vernacular languages and reduced the time taken to build supporting mobile apps. With the goal to digitally equip and connect every citizen, India is using smartphones and technologies to stride towards a truly digital nation," said Pankaj Mohindroo, ICEA Chairman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mobile-apps-help-improve-government-efficiency-says-study-859084.html
09-07-2020||National||NIA to investigate gold smuggling in Kerala through diplomatic baggage||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday asked the National Investigating Agency (NIA) to probe the gold smuggling using diplomatic baggage from UAE, as the "organised" operations might have "serious" national security implications. The order came as a political controversy erupted over the gold smuggling case unearthed at Thiruvananthapuram airport where gold was smuggled from UAE using diplomatic parcels to its consulate in the Kerala capital. The Customs had recovered the gold from the diplomatic baggage meant for the UAE consulate. With the case having links to a foreign country, several central agencies like the Enforcement Directorate, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Intelligence Bureau and Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) were also looking into the case. A Home Ministry spokesperson said the MHA has "permitted the NIA to to investigate the Thiruvananthapuram Airport Gold smuggling case, as the organised smuggling operation may have serious implications for national security". The office of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was also dragged into the case after some of the accused had links with senior state government officials. Vijayan on Wednesday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the smuggling using diplomatic cover had many angles that warranted a thorough investigation. One of the accused Swapna Suresh, who is on the run, was working as a consultant in a project under the IT Department and now removed IT Secretary M Shivashankar was said to be close to her. Swapna, who is also considered close to a number of politicians and senior bureaucrats, was a former employee of the UAE consulate and is accused of running the racket along with a former PRO of the consulate Sarath and others. The baggage had landed in the airport earlier but the Customs had not released it after it found the baggage suspicious. Sarath had allegedly approached the Customs officials on behalf of the consulate for clearing it. The Customs officials then approached the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to open the baggage as per the procedure. Once it got the nod, it opened it and found that the baggage contained smuggled gold weighing around 30 kg along with food items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-to-investigate-gold-smuggling-in-kerala-through-diplomatic-baggage-859086.html
09-07-2020||National||India again rejects China's Galwan Valley sovereignty claim||India on Thursday once again dismissed China’s claim on Galwan Valley as “exaggerated and untenable”, even as it underlined that respecting and observing the Line of Actual Control (LAC) were key to keeping the disputed boundary between the two nations calm. New Delhi reiterated its position on Beijing’s claim on Galwan Valley two days after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi criticized Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government for not asserting India’s sovereignty on the area in the statement released by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on the phone-call between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on July 5. The statement released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government on Wang-Doval talks, however, had a not-so-subtle reference to Beijing’s claim of sovereignty on Galwan Valley. Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the MEA, on Thursday said that the Government had noted “some inaccurate and uninformed comments” about the process of disengagement of Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on the scenes of the face-offs along the LAC and its implications. He recalled the several statements issued by the government in the last few weeks, spelling out “categorically” the position of the government that China’s recent claims on the Galwan Valley area were “exaggerated and untenable” and that the LAC must be strictly respected and observed as it was “the basis for peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. He also recalled New Delhi’s position that neither side should take any unilateral action to alter the LAC. China in early May started claiming sovereignty over Galwan Valley, which was under effective control of the Indian Army for the past six decades. The talks between Doval and Wang – the Special Representatives of New Delhi and Beijing for boundary negotiations – added momentum to the “disengagement” along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, with both the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) pulling back front-line troops from the scenes of the face-offs. The senior diplomats of India and China are likely to hold a video-conference on Friday under the framework of the “Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on Border Affairs. After the Chinese PLA pulled back its troops from the scene of the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley, the Indian Army too withdrew troops 1.5 kilometers away from the spot, in keeping with the disengagement understanding reached between the senior military officials of the two nations during the three meetings they had last month to resolve the nine-week-long stand-off.  The withdrawal of Indian Army troops from the area to reciprocate to pullback by the Chinese PLA as well as the moratorium on patrolling triggered speculation about an understanding between the two sides to create a “buffer zone” to avoid flashpoints. "We remain convinced of the need for maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue,” Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson, said in New Delhi on Thursday. “At the same time,” he added we are also strongly committed to ensuring India's sovereignty and territorial integrity”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-again-rejects-chinas-galwan-valley-sovereignty-claim-859089.html
09-07-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh govt imposes lockdown in state from July 10 to 13||The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed a lockdown in the state from 10 pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday, except for essential and some other services. “The curbs have been imposed in the state to check the spread of Covid-19 and other communicable diseases,” Chief Secretary R K Tiwari said in an order communicated to all district authorities in the state. The government, however, insisted that it is “not a lockdown”. The decision was taken after reviewing the present state of Covid-19 and to effectively check its spread, the chief secretary said in the order, adding all offices and markets will remain closed during this period, although medical and health services and essential services will continue as before. All the offices, markets in urban and rural areas, ‘galla mandis’ (grain markets) and other business establishments will remain closed, the order said, adding there will be no restriction on movement of those working in essential services, corona warriors, sanitation and the door-step delivery staff. The movement of railways would continue and Uttar Pradesh Road Transport Corporation would make arrangement to operate buses to carry passengers arriving at the railway stations. International and domestic air services would also continue as before and there would also no curbs on movement of people from airports to their destination, the order said, adding that goods carrier vehicles would also not be restricted. The traffic on national and state highways too would continue and petrol pumps and 'dhabas' would also remain open, the order said. A campaign for sanitation and supply of potable water would be carried out from July 10 to 12 and all officials and employees involved in it would be exempted from these restrictions, the order said, adding the concerned offices too will remain open. The ongoing campaign of medical screening and surveillance too would continue unhindered, it said. Industrial units in rural areas would remain open, the order said, adding that barring the industrial units which work continuously, other units in the urban areas would remain closed. All big construction works of expressways, bridges, roads and private projects would also continue. The identity cards of the staff involved in providing essential services would be considered as their valid duty passes, it said. At every public place, an awareness program would continue with the help of the public address system against Covid-19 and communicable diseases. The magistrates and police officers would hold joint patrolling and the teams of police and UP-112 would ensure these restrictions, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-govt-imposes-lockdown-in-state-from-july-10-to-13-859095.html
09-07-2020||National||Keeping abreast with information from WHO: Health ministry on speculations of coronavirus being airborne||With scientists from several countries claiming that coronavirus is airborne, the Health Ministry on Thursday said it is an "evolving situation" and the government is "keeping abreast" with the information coming from the WHO. According to a report in the New York Times, 239 scientists from 32 nations have written to the World Health Organisation, saying there is evidence that the virus is airborne and even smaller particles can infect people, a significant departure from the UN health agency's claim so far that Covid-19 is spread primarily through coughing and sneezing. When asked about it, Officer on Special Duty in the Health Ministry Rajesh Bhushan said it is an "evolving situation" and the government is "keeping abreast" with information coming from the WHO. "We are keeping abreast with the information coming out of WHO headquarters on this particular aspect, but you will all appreciate and realise that even during the initial stages of we and the PM (Narendra Modi) repeatedly emphasised on 'do gaz doori'. "So this concept protects you from small droplets that may remain suspended in air for a longer period of time," he said at a media briefing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keeping-abreast-with-information-from-who-health-ministry-on-speculations-of-coronavirus-being-airborne-859108.html
09-07-2020||National||Infrastructure construction along northern border to get a boost as BRO budget likely to get 50% hike||The Border Roads Organisation’s annual budget is likely to be increased by nearly 50% to boost infrastructure construction along India’s northern border, notwithstanding the Chinese frowning. "With focus of the government in improving infrastructure in border areas, BRO’s budget for 2020-2021 is likely to be Rs 11,800 crores. This will give a major boost to ongoing projects and will expedite the construction of strategic roads, bridges and tunnels along our northern borders,” said a defence ministry official in a statement. The agency’s budget in 2019-20 is just above Rs 8,000 crore. Improvement of infrastructure along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – India’s disputed boundary with China – is considered one of the key factors that contributed in the nine-week long Sino-Indian stand-off in eastern Ladakh. Sources said since the budget exercise was yet to begin within the government, disclosing BRO’s possible budget enhancement in the later part of the current fiscal was meant to send a clear message to China that India would not shun developing its border infrastructure. The border road construction agency’s allocation has already been augmented after it was administratively brought under the Defence Ministry. With increased budgetary support, the BRO has executed 30% more works in 2019-20 as compared to 2018-19. Its annual budget that varied from Rs 3,300 crores to Rs 4,600 crores between 2008-2016, saw a substantial rise to Rs 8,050 Crores in 2019-2020. On Thursday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated six small bridges constructed by the BRO in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir to aid faster military movement in the strife-torn territory. Built at a cost of Rs 43 crore, two bridges are on the Tarnah Nallah in Kathua district and four bridges located on Akhnoor-Pallanwala road in the Akhnoor-Jammu region. Their length ranges from 30 to 300 metres. The six bridges will be followed by 11 more. “We are making 17 bridges, of which six have been completed, five of them will be completed by next month and others will be completed by March 2021. All bridges are being made much before time,” said BRO Director General Lt Gen Harpal Singh. Constructed under Project Sampark, the bridges would facilitate movement of the armed Forces in this strategically important sector and will also contribute towards the overall economic growth of remote border areas. "The construction of these bridges were completed within time notwithstanding regular firing from across the border,” said the minister who asked the BRO to expedite the construction of strategic roads, bridges and tunnels in the border areas at a review meeting on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/infrastructure-construction-along-northern-border-to-get-a-boost-as-bro-budget-likely-to-get-50-hike-859120.html
09-07-2020||National||Localised outbreaks, says Centre as Covid-19 cases surge||India is witnessing “localised outbreaks” of Covid-19 and the highly infectious disease has not entered the “community transmission” phase, the Health Ministry said on Thursday as the total cases were galloping towards the eight-lakh mark. “There may be some localised pockets, where transmission is high, but there is no community transmission in India,” Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said after chairing the 19th meeting of the group of ministers (GoM) on Covid-19. At a media briefing on the Covid-19 situation, Rajesh Bhushan, Officer on Special Duty in the Health Ministry, said that 49 out of the total 733 districts were reporting 80% of the Covid-19 cases which was a clear indication that the outbreak had not entered the community transmission phase. Bhushan said the government was also planning to launch a fresh sero-survey across several states to assess the prevalence of the disease that had infected 7,88,585 persons as of 8:30 p.m. on Thursday and claimed 21,518 lives. He said the gap between the active and recovered cases was widening progressively every day which was an indicator that India had managed the pandemic “relatively well”. However, Bhushan cautioned against letting the guard down and insisted on following social distancing norms amid reports that the Sars-Cov-2 virus was airborne. He also held out a warning for people between the age of 45-75 who were most affected by the disease. He said the people in the age group of 45-75+ constituted 25% of the country’s total population, but accounted for 85% of Covid-19 related deaths. As of Thursday morning, India had a total of 7,67,296 cases of which 4,76,377 or 62.09% have recovered while 2,69,789 were under active medical supervision. A DH Covid-19 Tracker put the total Covid-19 cases at 7,88,585 at 8:30 p.m. on Thursday. Eight states and union territories – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat – contribute to around 90% of the active caseload, while six – Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal – account for 86% of deaths, the health ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/localised-outbreaks-says-centre-as-covid-19-cases-surge-859131.html
09-07-2020||National||India exploring legal options in Kulbhushan Jadhav case: MEA||India Thursday said it was exploring legal options in the case relating to Indian death-row convict Kulbhushan Jadhav, a day after Pakistan claimed that he refused to file a review petition against his sentence by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage. "At this stage, we are assessing our legal options. We will do our utmost to protect the life of the Indian national," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said at an online media briefing. Jadhav, a retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. Weeks later, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The ICJ, then, restrained Pakistan from executing him. In July last year, the Hague-based court ruled that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. On Wednesday, Pakistan said Jadhav refused to file an appeal in the Islamabad High Court against his conviction despite being offered the option. Hours later, India called Pakistan's claim a "farce" and said Jadhav was "coerced" to forego his rights. Srivastava on Wednesday said Pakistan's claim reflected its attempt to "mask" its continuing "reticence to implement" the judgment of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the case in "letter and spirit". He said Pakistan is only seeking to create an "illusion of remedy" in the case, and asserted that India will do its "utmost" to protect Jadhav and ensure his safe return to India. "Pakistan's claim that Jadhav, who is incarcerated in Pakistan's custody, has refused to initiate review petition is a continuation of the farce that has been in play for the last four years," Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-exploring-legal-options-in-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-mea-859142.html
09-07-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for restricting Shri Amarnath Yatra 2020 in view of Covid-19 pandemic||A plea has been made before the Supreme Court to restrict the access of the general public, devotees and pilgrims for the Shri Amarnath Yatra 2020, in view of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Shri Amarnath Barfani Langars Organisation and its general secretary Rajan Gupta sought a direction to the Union government and Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and others to provide for live darshan of the Lord Shri Amarnath Ji Shrine by way of the internet and the television, so that there can be access to crores of people across the country. The petitioners cited the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines which stated there cannot be more than 50 people attending a marriage ceremony, and 20 people in a funeral. "This is primarily done to ensure that the outbreak of the pandemic is not furthered. Even applying these standards, the petitioners seek restrictions to be imposed, and close the Yatra for devotees and pilgrims," the petition drawn filed by advocates Amit Pai, Rahat Bansal and Rajesh Inamdar stated. More so, they said, in the absence of proper transportation and lodging facilities, such pilgrims and devotees will be put to great hardship. It would be impossible to implement the norms of social distancing at the Base Camps, Access Control Gates or the Holy Cave, due to heavy volume of pilgrims, the petitioners said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-restricting-shri-amarnath-yatra-2020-in-view-of-covid-19-pandemic-859155.html
09-07-2020||National||INS asks Centre to ban Chinese-funded digital news apps||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) has asked the Centre to ban Chinese-funded news aggregator applications contending that they have no accountability and make no effort to curb the proliferation of “fake news” on their platforms. In letters to Home Minister Amit Shah, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar and Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, the INS also said that news aggregator apps such as Dailyhunt and InShorts have nearly 80% foreign ownership and do not adhere to the FDI norms for digital news media ownership. “Additionally, they accumulate Indian consumer data and attempt to monetise it and potentially share it with foreign partners,” the INS, a body that represent Indian newspapers publishers, said. They said over the last few years, Chinese and foreign-owned news aggregators have spent almost 200 million dollars promoting these apps in India. “...and we believe this has been extremely detrimental to national interest as they have compromised our country’s public discourse through the spread of misinformation and fake news,” said the letter signed by INS President Shailesh Gupta. The INS also highlighted attempts by China to gain direct publishing access in India, to disseminate incorrect maps and venture investments as a backdoor route to gain influence over the Indian news media and industry. “The majority of these investments were made when laws around foreign investment in digital media were still nascent and ambiguous,” the INS said. “Now that we understand China’s intentions, we believe it is time to reverse this historical mistake and ban media assets which have taken this form of tainted foreign funding,” it said. The INS noted that China had recently censored and banned Indian news sources and websites and welcomed the government’s initiative to ban Chinese backed social media apps as an “extremely prudent measure.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-asks-centre-to-ban-chinese-funded-digital-news-apps-859157.html
09-07-2020||National||China speeds up spreading tentacles in India's territory occupied by Pakistan||Even as its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is now pulling back front-line troops from the face-off scenes along its disputed boundary with India in Ladakh, China has over the past few weeks stepped up spreading its tentacles in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) areas currently under illegal occupation of Pakistan. China’s state-owned companies have over the past few weeks committed themselves to building three major hydro-electric projects in J&K areas, which India claims to be its own and accuses Pakistan of illegally occupying. India is keeping watch on China’s involvement in infrastructure projects in its areas illegally occupied by Pakistan. “It has already been conveyed to China that the role of its state-owned companies in construction of hydro-electric plants and other infrastructure projects in areas illegally occupied by Pakistan infringes on the sovereignty of India,” a source in New Delhi said. Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan was present when officials of his Government signed a $ 1.5 billion deal with the China Gezhouba Group Company Limited in a ceremony in Islamabad last Monday for construction of the 700 MW Azad Pattan Hydroelectric Project. China’s ambassador to Pakistan, Yao Jing, was also present in the ceremony. The Azad Pattan hydropower plant is proposed to be built on Jhelum River near Sudhanoti in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Khan and Yao were also present in a similar ceremony a few days earlier when Pakistan Government signed a $ 2.4 billion agreement with a subsidiary of China Three Gorges Corporation for construction of the 1124 MW hydropower plant on the Jhelum River itself at Kohala near Muzaffarabad in PoK. Earlier, the Power Construction Corporation of China, a.k.a. “Power China”, has tied up with the Frontier Works Organization (FWO), a construction farm of Pakistan Army, to float a consortium, which was awarded by Khan Government on May 13 a $ 2.75 billion contract to build the controversial Diamer Bhasha dam on Indus River in Gilgit-Baltistan. The Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) of Pakistan signed the agreement with the consortium on Wednesday, awarding it the contract to build the main dam of the Diamer Bhasha hydroelectric project and an access bridge. The contract awarded to the consortium of the Power China and the FWO also covers construction of the 21 MW Tangir Hydro-Electric plant, which was envisaged to power the construction of the main 4500 MW Diamer-Bhasha project at a later stage. New Delhi has since long been opposing the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which passes through the areas of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh under illegal occupation of Pakistan. The CPEC is one of the flagship projects of China’s ambitious cross-continental Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). New Delhi opposed the BRI, primarily because the CPEC undermined the sovereignty of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-speeds-up-spreading-tentacles-in-indias-territory-occupied-by-pakistan-859164.html
09-07-2020||National||India expresses concern over US decision on foreign students' visas||India on Thursday said it was concerned over the decision of the US to withdraw visas from foreign students whose courses moved fully online as it may lead to return of a large number of Indian students studying in that country. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla raised the issue with US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs David Hale during an online meeting on Tuesday. In a move that is expected to adversely impact hundreds of thousands of Indian students, the US immigration authority has announced that foreign students will have to leave the country or risk deportation if their universities switch to online-only classes in this fall semester due to the coronavirus pandemic. "We are concerned over the possibility that it may lead to return of large number of Indian students studying in the US. We have conveyed our concerns to the US side. The issue was raised by the foreign secretary during the foreign office consultation on July 7," Srivastava said at an online media briefing. He said India conveyed to the US that there is a need to keep in mind the role of educational exchanges and people-to-people relations between the two countries as they played a key role in development of the overall ties. "The US side has noted our concerns in this regard," he said. According to a recent report, around 1.94 lakh Indian students were enrolled in various academic institutions of the US in January this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expresses-concern-over-us-decision-on-foreign-students-visas-859168.html
09-07-2020||National||'Call me once you reach the temple' - hilarious delivery address leaves netizens in splits||A package ordered in Kota, Rajasthan left netizens in splits due to the unique address it was posted to. Coordinating one's address with the delivery person is often a task in India. Inaccurate pincodes, strange landmarks, and bizarre delivery instructions are not unheard of. However, Udayveer Shaktawat of Kota, Rajasthan, took the game to a whole new level.  Instead of hassling his delivery person with confusing instructions that would make his job more difficult, he wrote the following - “mandir ke saamne aate hi phone laga lena mai aa jaunga” (call me as soon as you are in front of the temple, I’ll come).    In a country infamous for its “jugaad” (improvisation), it is hardly surprising that Shaktawat solved his problem with this creative solution. Not to mention, he made the job of his delivery person considerably simpler!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/call-me-once-you-reach-the-temple-hilarious-delivery-address-leaves-netizens-in-splits-859176.html
09-07-2020||National||PM Modi rolls out red carpet for investors||In an apparent bid to cash in on the highest ever global anti-China sentiment amid Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday tried to hard-sell India as the most important investment destination and a country that is expected to lead the post-Covid global economic revival. Fresh from opening the country’s sunrise sectors like defence, space and agriculture to private players, the prime minister boasted to a gathering of around 5,000 global participants that India was one of the most open economies in the world. “We are laying the red carpet for all global companies to come and establish their presence in India. Very few countries will offer the kind of opportunities India does today,” Modi said. He was speaking at the India Global Week 2020 in UK through video conferencing. India, meanwhile, is luring firms quitting China with a promise of robust infrastructure and policies.  Modi highlighted how vaccines developed in India have catered to two-third of the needs of the world’s children and said the pandemic has that India’s pharma industry “is an asset not just for India but for the entire world”. It has played a leading role in reducing the cost of medicines, he said. Modi said that the Indian economy had begun to see green shoots of revival in the midst of a global slowdon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-rolls-out-red-carpet-for-investors-859178.html
09-07-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh gangster 'arrested' from MP temple after week-long chase||Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey — who was on the run after killing eight policemen in an ambush in Kanpur — was nabbed from a temple in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday after a five-day chase across four states. The dramatic circumstances under which he was caught have raised questions whether it was an arrest or a surrender.   The Madhya Pradesh police claimed that Dubey was apprehended by a security guard at the famous Mahakal Temple and handed over to cops. A senior UP police officer said they were gathering information from their MP counterparts and they "cannot say anything at this moment". But sources here said that Dubey decided to surrender as he feared he could be gunned down by cops in a staged encounter. The fact that he kept shouting "Main hoon Vikas Dubey Kanpur wala (I am Vikas Dubey from Kanpur)" while being taken into custody buttressed the contention that he wanted to identify himself before everyone, especially the local media.  Dubey's fears were not unfounded. After he and his men killed eight cops last week, the UP police have shot dead five of his aides in "encounters" in different parts of the state.  The gangster, who carried a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head, gave a slip to the UP police and travelled around 1,300 kilometres to reach Ujjain, traversing three states — Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan. He was earlier spotted in Faridabad in Haryana but escaped just before the cops reached his hideout. "The Uttar Pradesh police failed to arrest him and he managed to surrender," UP IPS officer Amitabh Thakur said. The family members of slain circle officer Devendra Mishra expressed doubts over Dubey's arrest. "Someone wants to save him," said one of them. Congress leaders alleged that the arrest was staged. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded a CBI probe while Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav asked the UP government to come out with the details of the "arrest".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-gangster-arrested-from-mp-temple-after-week-long-chase-859179.html
09-07-2020||National Politics||New F-1 visa regulations likely to cause uncertainties, difficulties for some Indian students: Official||The new visa regulations requiring international students in the US with an F-1 visa to take at least one in-person course or face the prospect of deportation is likely to "cause uncertainties and difficulties" for some students, the Indian Embassy here has said. "These new modifications at a time when many of the US universities and colleges are yet to announce their plans for the new academic year are likely to cause uncertainties and difficulties for some Indian students wishing to pursue their studies in the US," said a spokesperson of the Indian Embassy. Responding to media queries, the spokesperson said the Indian government has taken up the matter with concerned US officials. At the India–US Foreign Office Consultations held on July 7, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla conveyed India's concerns on the matter to Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs David Hale. According to a recent report of Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP), there were 1,94,556 Indian students enrolled in various academic institutions of the US in January this year. Of these 1,26,132 were males and 68,405 were females. Noting that partnership in higher education is a key component of the strong people-to-people ties between India and the US, the spokesperson said in the last two decades Indian students in American universities and colleges have been the harbingers of a strong partnership between technology and innovation sectors between the two countries. The spokesperson hoped that the US authorities would provide adequate flexibility in their visa rule, keeping in mind the extraordinary circumstances created by the Covid-19 pandemic for the Indian students community. “We continue to engage all the stakeholders in the matters, including the US administration officials, Congressional leaders, universities and colleges as well as the Indian students community in the US as we move forward towards the 2020-21 academic year to further strengthen our bilateral partnership in higher education,” the spokesperson said. Announced by the SEVP on July 6, the new rules provide temporary exemptions for nonimmigrant students on F-1 and M-1 visas taking online classes due to the Covid-19 pandemic for the fall semester of the 2020 academic year. “While these modifications do provide some flexibility for US universities and colleges to adopt a hybrid model -- that is a mixture of online and in person classes -- they also restrict international students on F-1 and M-1 visas from taking courses entirely online,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-f-1-visa-regulations-likely-to-cause-uncertainties-difficulties-for-some-indian-students-official-858849.html
09-07-2020||National Politics||ED questions Congress leader Ahmed Patel for 4th time in PMLA case||ED sleuths began the fourth round of questioning of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel at his official residence here on Thursday in connection with the Sandesara brothers' bank fraud and money-laundering case, officials said. A three-member team of the federal probe agency reached the Rajya Sabha MP's 23, Mother Teresa Crescent residence in the Lutyens' zone of central Delhi around 11 am. Patel (70) was last questioned in connection with the case on July 2 for about 10 hours. He had told reporters that the ED investigators had posed 128 questions to him over three sessions. "This is political vendetta and harassment against me and my family and I do not know under whose pressure they (investigators) are working," Patel had said.  The Congress party treasurer has faced ED questioning for about 27 hours till now during sessions held on June 27, June 30 and July 2. Patel was allowed to be quizzed at home after he refused to visit the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office, citing the prevailing Covid-19 guidelines that discourage senior citizens from going out. The officials said the Congress leader's statement is being recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). He is being questioned about his purported links with the Sandesara brothers, promoters of the Vadodara-based Sterling Biotech pharmaceutical company, and alleged dealings of his family members with them. The agency had questioned Patel's son Faisal and son-in-law Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui in connection with the case and recorded their statements last year. The two were questioned in the context of the statement of one Sunil Yadav, an employee of the Sandesara group, which was recorded before the agency. In his statement to the ED, Yadav had said he bore the "expenses of Rs 10 lakh" for a party which was attended by Faisal, "arranged" entry into a night club for him and once delivered "Rs 5 lakh" to his driver in Delhi's Khan Market on the instructions of Chetan Sandesara, one of the promoters of Sterling Biotech, sources had said. He had told the agency that the cash was "meant for Faisal Patel", the sources had said. The ED was also told by Yadav that Siddiqui "occupied" a house in Delhi's Vasant Vihar, which reportedly belonged to Chetan Sandesara. The money-laundering case pertains to the alleged Rs 14,500-crore bank-loan fraud, said to have been perpetrated by Sterling Biotech and its main promoters and directors -- Nitin Jayantilal Sandesara, Chetankumar Jayantilal Sandesara and Deepti Sandesara -- all of whom are absconding. Nitin and Chetankumar are brothers. The ED has alleged that this is a bigger bank scam in volume than the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud involving fugitive diamantaires Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. The amount involved in the PNB case is pegged at about Rs 13,400 crore. The Sandesaras are also facing separate probes by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Income-Tax department for their alleged nexus with high-profile politicians and charges of corruption and tax evasion respectively. At present, the Sandesaras are stated to be based in Albania in Europe. Efforts are on to extradite them. The ED registered a criminal case in connection with the alleged bank-loan fraud on the basis of an FIR and a chargesheet filed by the CBI. It is alleged that the company took loans of over Rs 5,383 crore from a domestic consortium led by the Andhra Bank, which later turned into non-performing assets, and the ED has alleged that the promoters laundered the money using shell or dubious firms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ed-questions-congress-leader-ahmed-patel-for-4th-time-in-pmla-case-858917.html
09-07-2020||National Politics||8 states account for 90% of active coronavirus cases in India: GoM on Covid-19 informed||Eight states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka and Telangana, account for around 90 per cent of the active Covid-19 cases in the country and 80 per cent of the active cases have been reported from 49 districts, the Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19 was informed on Thursday. Besides, the GoM was told that six states -- Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- account for 86 percent of the deaths caused by Covid-19 and 32 districts account for 80 percent of such fatalities, the Union health ministry said. The GoM, which held its 18th meeting under the chairpersonship of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday, was informed that there was a special focus on the regions showing a higher Covid-19 fatality rate, the ministry said. The GoM was also briefed on the current Covid-19 status in India. "A global comparison between the five most-affected countries clearly depicted that India has one of the lowest numbers of cases per million (538) and deaths per million (15), compared to the global average of 1,453 and 68.7 respectively," the ministry said in a statement. Within the country, eight states -- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat -- account for around 90 percent of the active coronavirus cases, it said. As regards the Covid-19 healthcare infrastructure in India, the GoM was informed that as on Thursday, there were 3,914 facilities across the country with 3,77,737 isolation beds (without ICU support), 39,820 ICU beds and 1,42,415 oxygen-supported beds, along with 20,047 ventilators. Over 21.3 crore N95 masks, 1.2 crore personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 6.12 crore hydroxychloroquine tablets have so far been distributed, the GoM was told. "As we move forward, our focus shall be on the management of Covid-19 through strict containment measures and surveillance, utilising the full testing capacity, monitoring of the co-morbid and elderly population, predicting the emerging hotspots, leveraging digital tools such as Aarogya Setu, ensuring seamless patient admission processes and infrastructure preparedness (critical-care beds, oxygen, ventilators and logistics)," Vardhan said. "Along with the states and Union territories, our aim is to reduce and keep the case fatality rate low by early identification and effective clinical management," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the ministry. During Unlock 2.0, the future steps would include a sharp focus on containment and surveillance, including demarcation of containment zones and notifying such areas on the health ministry website. It includes strict perimeter control with only essential activities allowed, intensive contact-tracing, house-to-house search or surveillance and buffer zones to be identified outside the containment zones. Dr Sujeet K Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control, presented a detailed report on the surveillance efforts undertaken in India during the pandemic, the ministry said. The focus was on a strict containment strategy and surveillance through SARI/ILI cases, serological survey and enhancing the laboratory network for testing. The major concern areas in the country were highlighted and the measures to be taken listed, including a timely clinical management, along with testing and surveillance in the high-risk population with co-morbidities, to reduce the case fatality ratio. In a detailed presentation by Amit Khare, Chairman of the Empowered Group-8 (on information, communication and public awareness), the GoM was briefed on the key steps taken regarding communication of information and raising public awareness.  The group received 6,755 alerts of fake news, of which 5,890 were replied to directly and rebuttals published to 17 foreign media stories. The group also coordinated the issue of 98 daily Covid-19 bulletins, 92 media briefings and 2,482 press releases.  The group played a pro-active role in the behavioural change campaign during the pandemic and creating awareness regarding the relief measures among farmers and MSMEs under the "Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan" launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the ministry said. It was highlighted that the mental health issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic will be a major part of the communication strategy going forward through discussions in the media, the ministry said. There was also a special focus on dissemination of messages and information in regional languages, it added. India saw a record single-day surge of 24,879 coronavirus cases on Thursday, which pushed the country's Covid-19 tally to 7,67,296, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 21,129 with 487 new fatalities, according to the health ministry data updated at 8 am. Vardhan was joined by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey and Minister of State, Chemical and Fertilisers and Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya. Dr Vinod Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, joined the meeting through video-conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/8-states-account-for-90-of-active-coronavirus-cases-in-india-gom-on-covid-19-informed-858934.html
09-07-2020||National Politics||India plans rental homes to entice migrant workers back to cities||India has approved a plan to develop affordable rental housing for migrant workers after millions of labourers fled the nation's cities for villages amidst coronavirus lockdowns that left many of them without jobs and homes. The scheme, part of a federal housing project aimed at providing housing for all by 2022, aims to convert existing vacant government housing into affordable rental housing complexes (ARHC). Private developers can also participate. The programme will benefit about 300,000 workers initially, according to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. "The Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in massive reverse migration of workers and urban poor who come from rural areas or small towns seeking better employment opportunities in urban areas," the ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. "Usually, these migrants live in slums, informal or unauthorised colonies or peri-urban areas. ARHCs will create a new ecosystem in urban areas making housing available at affordable rent close to the place of work." No timeline was provided. The abject housing conditions of migrant labourers has come under scrutiny during the pandemic, with virus hotspots in slums from Brazil to the Philippines, to foreign-worker dormitories in wealthy Singapore. Creating affordable housing to tackle inequality is one way governments can help economies recover from the coronavirus crisis, according to economists. Spanish authorities this week said they will lease public land to private companies and waive royalty fees on commitments to build and manage social housing. The Indian plan, announced initially in May as part of a coronavirus stimulus package, will offer subsidised loans, tax incentives and additional floor space allowances to developers. But low returns on rental housing are likely to be a "major deterrent" and make it unviable for developers who bought land in cities at high prices, said Anuj Puri, chairman of property consultancy ANAROCK. "The scheme is clearly an attempt to bridge the shortfall of dwelling units across the country," he said. "The government had to shift gears on their Housing for All initiative and include affordable rental housing." The Housing for All scheme aims to create 20 million new urban housing units and 30 million rural homes. Land rights groups have said the plan's focus on ownership excludes the homeless and the urban poor, including migrants. But S. Irudaya Rajan, a professor at the Centre for Development Studies, said rental housing alone would not be enough to entice back millions of migrant workers who were forced to walked hundreds of miles to homes in distant villages after the government imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 24. He estimated about 140 million migrants were directly impacted by the lockdown in India, one of the world's strictest. "Covid-19 made migrant workers highly visible, and showed they were treated very badly by employers and authorities - they had to beg for food, beg for transport, and go home empty handed," Rajan told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "Housing alone won't bring them back. This experience has scarred them badly."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-plans-rental-homes-to-entice-migrant-workers-back-to-cities-858990.html
09-07-2020||National Politics||Gangster Vikas Dubey's arrest suspicious, should be probed: Congress||Alleging that gangster Vikas Dubey's "safe exit" from Kanpur and the sequence of events leading to his arrest in Ujjain seemed suspicious, senior Congress leaders in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday demanded a high-level probe into it. One of the Congress leaders said that the gangster's links with politicians and policemen should also be probed. Taking to Twitter, former MP chief minister Kamal Nath said the gangster's safe departure from Kanpur, arrival at Ujjain and the manner of arrest gave birth to a lot of suspicion. "Such a big criminal whom the police are searching for day and night, his safe exit from Kanpur and arrival in Ujjain and later entry into the temple and the way he shouted to get himself arrested gives birth to a lot of suspicion. It hints at some protection and it should be probed," Nath tweeted. The previous Congress-led state government had acted tough against mafia who left Madhya Pradesh, but after the BJP returned to power, the state has become a safe haven for them, he said. Congress's Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh demanded that Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan order a judicial probe into Dubey's arrest. "I demand from Shivrajji a judicial probe into the arrest or surrender of Vikas Dubey. His connections with politicians and policemen should also be probed. During judicial custody, adequate security measures should be taken so that all secrets come out," Singh said in a tweet. The senior Congress leader also slammed Chouhan for taking credit for Dubey's arrest, and said that state Home Minister Narottam Mishra should be credited for that. Carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh for information leading to his arrest, Dubey had been on the run since last Friday night when a police party, which had gone to arrest him from his house in Bikru village in the Chaubeypur area of Kanpur, was ambushed. The group was caught in a hail of gunfire from rooftops, which left eight policemen, including a deputy superintendent, dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gangster-vikas-dubeys-arrest-suspicious-should-be-probed-congress-859026.html
09-07-2020||National Politics||Withdrawal of Chinese troops in Gogra and Hot Springs complete: Sources||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army on Thursday moved its troops back at least by one km at the Finger Complex on the northern banks of the Pangong lake besides withdrawing the soldiers at Galwan, Hot Springs and Gogra post, the three friction points in eastern Ladakh which witnessed a tense stand-off between the troops for the past nine weeks. The development at the Pangong Tso is significant because for the first time since the stand-off began in April, the PLA has shifted its troops backwards. Most of the PLA soldiers are now at a base in Finger 5, one kilometre away from Finger 4 while some men have been left on the ridge line at Finger 4. Correspondingly, the Indian Army too moved its men back from their positions at Finger 4 and cleared all the friction areas in the Galwan valley. However, there is no official word on the PLA move at the Pangong Tso with the sources observing that even though there are some thinning of the PLA troops, the reduction has not led to any discernible change in the Chinese positions on the northern banks where the PLA had heavily fortified its positions. In Galwan valley, the Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army pulled back their troops and vehicles. They removed all temporary structures at patrol point-17 and PP-17A too. The same exercise was conducted at PP-14 and PP-15 in the last two days. As a consequence, a 2 km buffer zone has come up at all the three locations that won't be patrolled by either side. The disengagement at the two most crucial locations will pave the way for the next round of meeting between the Corps Commanders from both sides in which the two armies would confirm the disengagement process and decide on the future course of action. At each of the withdrawal sites, a buffer zone has been created which won’t be manned by either side for the time being. Indian Army sources insisted that creation of such a space was a stop-gap measure, necessary to avoid any unwarranted conflict. Once the issues are settled the Army would do the patrolling as per the traditional practice. At Depsang Bulge, north of Galwan, there was no change in the ground position with the PLA troops blocking India’s age-old patrolling points. The two Corps Commanders will also discuss reduction of the troops as well as artillery guns, howitzers and tanks from the depth area. Both armies had brought in two Divisions (nearly 30,000 men and additional hardware) on both sides of the LAC in anticipation of any contingency. However, the withdrawal would take more time because of the lack of trust that currently exists between the two armies following the June 15 clash at Galwan that led to killing of 20 Indian soldiers and a significant number of PLA troops, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/withdrawal-of-chinese-troops-in-gogra-and-hot-springs-complete-sources-859045.html
09-07-2020||National Politics||India, UAE allow their airlines to carry people on both legs of charter flights between Jul 12-26||India and the UAE have agreed to allow their airlines to carry eligible passengers on both legs of their charter flights between the two countries to be operated from July 12 to July 26, the Ministry of Civil Aviation said on Thursday. Currently, an Indian carrier operating a repatriation flight from the United Arab Emirates is not allowed to carry any passenger from here to the Gulf country. Similarly, a UAE carrier cannot carry passengers on the first leg of the charter flight -- from the UAE to India. Many Indian nationals who have valid residence permits of the UAE and are currently in India have been complaining on social media for the last few weeks about the lack of flights between the two countries. India suspended all scheduled international passenger flights on March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Air India Express CEO K Shyam Sundar said on Twitter: "Happy to announce Air India Express has opened its flights between 12th and 26th July from India to UAE for sale to Indians with UAE Resident Permits." Sundar's tweet came after the Civil Aviation Ministry announced on the microblogging site, "As part of the close strategic partnership between the governments of India and the UAE, and with a view to assisting UAE resident nationals who are at present in India to return to the UAE, the civil aviation authorities of both countries have agreed to operationalise the following arrangement from 12 July 2020." Charter flights operated by UAE carriers will now be permitted to bring Indian citizens from the UAE to India and carry 'ICA-approved UAE residents' on their return leg, the ministry said. ICA stands for the UAE's Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship. A passenger having a valid residency permit of the UAE needs to take ICA approval before taking any flight to enter that country. The Civil Aviation Ministry said, "Indian carriers operating repatriation flights to bring Indian citizens from UAE to India will be allowed to carry the ICA-approved UAE residents (returning to UAE from India) on the outward journey from India to UAE." On India to UAE journey, all these flights will carry only those passengers who are destined for the Gulf country, the Civil Aviation Ministry noted. This arrangement will be initially in place for a period of 15 days -- from July 12 to July 26 -- and will be reviewed after that, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-uae-allow-their-airlines-to-carry-people-on-both-legs-of-charter-flights-between-jul-12-26-859063.html
09-07-2020||National Politics||BJP attacks TRS govt over handling of Covid-19, no relief to poor||BJP in Telangana on Thursday hit out at the TRS government for alleged failure to contain the spread of Covid-19 and lack of special relief package to the common people. State BJP President Bandi Sanjay Kumar, MP, also accused the government of not conducting adequate Covid-19 tests and not providing required health care facilities to the people. The Centre has announced a package of thousands of crores of rupees. Has this state government announced any special package to give relief to the people in view of Covid-19? Has this state government introduced any scheme as a special measure? Has it given any special fund? he asked. Talking to reporters here, he claimed the Centre had provided funds to the tune of thousands of crores to Telangana. When the Prime Minister announced a Rs 20 lakh crore package under Atma Nirbhar Bharat, the Chief Minister (said), this is bogus. This is bogus package. The people of the state are specially observing as to who is bogus and whose package is bogus. This Chief Minister is bogus, he alleged. He also said Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was not "coming out in public" at a time when people were waiting to see him and work for them during the pandemic. The state government can seek more funds from the Centre if it needs, he said. Because of this chief ministers functioning and inefficiency, a situation (requiring) imposing a health emergency has befallen this state, the BJP leader said. The BJP and Congress have been critical of the TRS government, alleging failure to check spread of Covid-19 and for starting the demolition of secretariat buildings for constructing a new complex in the midst of a pandemic. Meanwhile, dismissing the opposition criticism, state Animal Husbandry Minister T Srinivas Yadav said the government activities were going on normally. when they say the chief minister is not to be seen, what is their problem? Did the Chief Minister not speak to farmers in a tele-conference yesterday, he said. Referring to opposition suggestions that some of the old secretariat buildings, being demolished now, could have been converted into a Covid-19 hospital, he alleged Congress did not set up any hospital when in power. The TRS government has set up a special hospital for Covid-19 in the city, he said. Taking exception to the criticism by BJP leaders, he said the 'failures' of the NDA government at the Centre can also be debated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attacks-trs-govt-over-handling-of-covid-19-no-relief-to-poor-859078.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi revises Covid-19 response plan; to screen daily wagers, domestic helps, auto drivers||The Delhi government has revised its 'Covid Response Plan' and will now enlist and screen for the novel coronavirus daily wagers, domestic helps, auto drivers and food suppliers, according to an official order issued on Wednesday. It will also enlist and screen people in high-risk groups (HRGs)  -- those aged above 60 or having comorbid conditions --  through house-to-house surveys in containment zones, buffer zones and areas with isolated cases. The city government revised its 'Covid Response Plan' following suggestions from the National Centre for Disease Control, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and NITI Aayog in view of a significant number of cases being reported as isolated cases in Delhi. According to the modified plan, Special Surveillance Groups (SSGs), including rickshaw pullers, auto drivers, taxi drivers, domestic helps, plumbers, electricians, carpenters etc, and those who supply essentials, parcels and posts will be enlisted with the help of municipal corporations, transport department, resident welfare associations and police. The Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) has asked the districts to screen the SSGs. "Major points of conglomerations of SSGs in the districts should be compulsorily covered," it said in the order. "If a positive case is found in the SSGs, the patient should be taken care of as per the Covid protocol. His/her workplace and home should be immediately disinfected followed by enhanced surveillance and aggressive contact tracing," the order read. The primary contacts in such cases should be traced and strictly quarantined for 15 days, the DGHS said. According to the order, points of conglomeration of SSGs will be identified and mass disinfection exercise will be carried out on a regular basis at such spots. The authorities have also called for organising an aggressive awareness programme and media campaign to popularise social distancing norms, hand hygiene and respiratory etiquettes in the SSGs. All district administrations have also been asked to enlist and screen those aged above 60 or having comorbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes and cancer. The district administrations have been asked to regularly visit or contact all the enlisted cases to assess their medical condition and maintain proper medical records. The HRGs should be promptly isolated if their immediate contacts are found positive or symptomatic, the order said. The District Surveillance Units have also been directed to make arrangements to collect detailed information about areas reporting isolated cases for over 28 days. Enhance and effective contact tracing will be undertaken in such areas and completed within 72 hours. House-to-house surveys will be conducted to detect cases of severe acute respiratory infection and influenza-like illnesses through Assess-Corona app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-revises-covid-19-response-plan-to-screen-daily-wagers-domestic-helps-auto-drivers-858795.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||10 cops in charge of protecting J&K BJP leader killed by militants arrested||While blaming Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) for killing a local BJP leader and his kin in Bandipora, Jammu and Kashmir police on Thursday dismissed all the 10 personal security officers (PSOs) deployed for slain leader’s protection. The PSOs have also been arrested and an inquiry into the killing of BJP leader Waseem Bari, his father Bahir Ahmad Bari and brother Umar Bari has been initiated. The attack happened at around 8:45 pm on Wednesday when the three were present at their family shop right outside the Bandipora Police station in north Kashmir.  Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said two LeT militants carried out the “pre-planned” attack on Bari family.  “The BJP leader had visited his ward and returned to his home along with all the PSOs. After entering his house, his PSOs had gone to their room and Bari went to his shop where his father and brother were also present,” he told reporters in Bandipora. The IGP said as per the CCTV footage, two militants from Lashkar-e-Toiba carried the attack.  “One is a local who has been identified as Abid and another is a foreigner. Abid fired at the trio from a close range with a pistol, while the foreign militant was guiding him. The trio sustained head injuries and succumbed on the way to the hospital. We will track both the militants soon and eliminate them,” Kumar asserted. He said all the 10 PSOs of the slain BJP leader have been dismissed from their services and arrested as well. “They are being questioned,” the IGP said. Junior Bari, who was earlier appointed president of the BJP’s Bandipora district unit, was associated with the saffron party for over four years. After losing the 2014 Assembly elections as an Independent candidate, he joined the BJP and emerged as a leading face of the party in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-cops-in-charge-of-protecting-jk-bjp-leader-killed-by-militants-arrested-858838.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Kanpur encounter accused Vikas Dubey held in Ujjain||According to the UP additional director general of police (ADG) Prashant Kumar, the gangster was 'nabbed' after he came out of the famous 'Mahakal Temple' (Lord Shiva temple) in Ujjain around eight in the morning. Police officials here claimed that Vikas was 'recognised' by a temple security guard, who apprehended him and handed him over to the local police. Four others, including two lawyers from Lucknow, were also arrested on charges of allegedly providing shelter to the gangster, police sources here said. Sources said that the gangster, while being apprehended, kept shouting that he was  ''Vikas Dubey from Kanpur''. Senior police officials here refused to elaborate on the alleged 'arrest' of the gangster saying that they were still gathering information from their counterpart in MP. Vikas and his goons had shot dead eight UP cops, when the latter went to his residence at Bikaru village in Kanpur district to arrest him last week. Sources said that the gangster, who had a cash reward of rs. five lakh on his head, managed to slip away from the police dragnet after the encounter and travelled around 1300 kilometres to reach Ujjain traversing three states-Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan. He was earlier spotted in Faridabad in Haryana but escaped just before the cops reached his hideout.  A team of UP police left by a chartered flight to bring Vikas here on a transit remand, officials said. The killings of the cops triggered widespread outrage and prompted the opposition parties to demand resignation of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. From killing of cops to arrest July 3-Police raid Vikas Dubey's house at Bikaru village in Kanpur district. Eight cops killed in encounter. July 4-The gangster's maternal uncle Prem Praksh Pandey and aide Atul Dubey gunned down by police in encounter. July 8-Vikas's key aide Amar Dubey shot dead in encounter with the police. July 9-Two more aides of the gangster, Prabhat Mishra and Baua Dubey killed in encounter with police, Vikas 'arrested' from Ujjain||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-encounter-accused-vikas-dubey-held-in-ujjain-858843.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Two more Covid-19 deaths take J&K toll past 150||The two patients, who died on Thursday, include a 60-year-old lady from Baramulla and an 80-year-old lady from Srinagar, they said. Dr Saleem Tak, Medical Superintendent at Chest Diseases hospital in Srinagar said that the lady from Baramulla, who was admitted on June 29 after testing positive for Covid-19, was suffering from hypertension, hypothyroidism and bilateral pneumonia.  Dr Nazir Ahmad Choudhary, Medical Superintendent at SMHS hospital said the lady from Srinagar, who was admitted on July 1 was suffering from hypertension, T2DM and bilateral pneumonia. With these two deaths, the toll due to the virus reached 151, including 14 from Jammu region and 137 from Kashmir. On Wednesday, J&K recorded 330 new cases of Covid-19, which included security and police personnel. A month after J&K witnessed its highest single-day spike of cases on June 7, when 620 were confirmed, 330 new cases became the second-highest rise for a day in the Union Territory. Srinagar district had 119 new cases on Wednesday, the highest for any district till date on a single day. In the past 20 days, more than 3.400 new cases have been recorded in J&K. While the total number of cases was 5,834 in J&K on June 20, 20 days later, on Wednesday, the number of cases was 9,261.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-covid-19-deaths-take-jk-toll-past-150-858853.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Fire at Delhi's Mundka warehouse under control||A major fire at a warehouse in west Delhi's Mundka has been contained after an eight- hour operation, a Delhi Fire Service official said on Thursday. No casualty has been reported, he said. A call about the fire was received at around 10 pm on Wednesday and 34 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, Director of the Delhi Fire Service. The fire was brought under control by 6 am on Thursday. It is suspected that medical equipment was stored at the warehouse. The cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-at-delhis-mundka-warehouse-under-control-858876.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||FinMin asks states to ensure safety of bankers, take stern action against unruly people||The Finance Ministry has requested states to ensure safety and security of bank officials and take stern action against perpetrators following incidences of attack on bankers in some parts of the country in the recent past. The Department of Financial Services, in a letter to chief secretary of states, said that incidences of unruly behaviour of anti-social elements against the bankers needs to be responded with stern action taken against such elements, sources said. "Amid challenges, banks are extending all services to our people. Nothing should threaten their safety and dignity," she had said. Few incidents, including attack on Bank of India staff in Maharashtra, were reported after the Surat attack. Citing recent news reports and social media coverage, the letter said it has highlighted instances of anti-social elements behaving in an unruly manner with bankers within bank premises. "You would agree that such incidents need to be responded to proactively and with a firm hand, stern action taken against such elements with full force of law so that bankers are protected and the public assured of secured access to banking services," the letter dated July 7 said. Securing the availability of banking services to the public at all times is essential for households to meet their expenses and access benefits through DBT and for traders, farmers industries etc to carry on economic activities. Delivery of essentials services including banking is all the more important in the present context of the Covid-19 pandemic, it emphasised. "...I request to appropriately sensitise and instruct district magistrates and the state police to take all necessary measures for prevention of timely and effective response and deterrent actions. Public communication of the state’s resolve and actions to deal firmly with miscreants would also help in deterring and instilling confidence in the public and the banking community," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/finmin-asks-states-to-ensure-safety-of-bankers-take-stern-action-against-unruly-people-858883.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Indian Army asks personnel to delete Facebook, TikToK, PUBG, 86 other apps||The Indian Army has asked its men to delete 89 mobile apps including Facebook, PUBG and Truecaller from their smartphones in an effort to prevent leakage of information. Some of the other apps which are on the chopping block for men and women in uniform are Viber, IMO, TikTok, Xender, Tinder, Club Factory, Instagram, SnapChat, Hungama, Tumblr and Reddit. The instructions from the Army Headquarters came days after the Centre announced banning of 59 mobile apps, mostly Chinese origin, in India. The apps on the Army radar belong to 18 categories raging from messaging platforms like We Chat, Viber and Nimbuzz to networking places such as Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Baidu. This is not the first time for the Army to warn its men about the lure of social media, online platforms and mobile applications. But such an exhaustive list has been drawn up for the first time. Seven months ago, Indian Navy banned use of Facebook for all its personnel besides instructing its officers and sailors not to carry smartphones to the bases, dockyard and on-board warships. The directive from the Naval Headquarters was issued after seven sailors from Visakhapatnam, Mumbai and Karwar and a Mumbai-based hawala operator were nabbed for leaking information to Pakistan after being virtually honey-trapped on social media. Meanwhile, one of the banned platforms, Truecaller has reacted to the decision. “It is disappointing and saddening to learn that Truecaller is among the list of 89 apps being banned by the Indian Armed Forces for their personnel. Truecaller is an app of Swedish origin that considers India its home,” a spokesperson of the company said in a statement. “We also have immense respect for the Armed Forces and we stand in solidarity with them and the Indian government. We would like to reiterate that Truecaller remains safe to use, both for our citizens and for our esteemed armed forces personnel. We see no reason for Truecaller to be on this list and will investigate the matter further,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-army-asks-personnel-to-delete-facebook-tiktok-pubg-86-other-apps-858884.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Leave politics out of education: HRD minister on CBSE syllabus row||HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Thursday dismissed the row over reduction of CBSE syllabus as “uninformed commentary” and asked detractors to keep politics out of education. Nishank said the controversy over the exclusion of certain topics from the CBSE syllabus was an attempt to portray a “false narrative” and the exclusion of certain topics was only a one-time measure and that too for examinations. “The exclusions are merely a 1-time measure for exams, due to the #COVID19 pandemic,” the minister said even as opposition parties saw a conspiracy in dropping topics such as federalism, secularism, democratic rights, citizenship from the syllabi for classes IX to XII for the 2020-21 academic year. “There has been a lot of uninformed commentary on the exclusion of some topics from CBSE Syllabus. The problem with these comments is that they resort to sensationalism by connecting topics selectively to portray a false narrative,” Nishank said. The minister said while it was easy to misconstrue exclusion of 3-4 topics like nationalism, local government, federalism, and build a “concocted narrative”, a wider perusal of different subjects will show that this exclusion had happened across subjects. “Let us leave politics out of education and make our politics more educated,” Nishank.   The minister said the CBSE had already clarified that schools have been advised to follow the NCERT Alternate Academic Calendar, and all the topics mentioned have been covered under the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/leave-politics-out-of-education-hrd-minister-on-cbse-syllabus-row-858894.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||All you need to know about UP gangster Vikas Dubey||''Vikas snatched the pistol of a cop and tried to escape after the vehicle overturned. The special task force (STF) jawans travelling in the other vehicle challenged him and asked him to surrender but he opened fire. The cops fired in self-defence. Vikas suffered bullet injuries in the shoot out and was rushed to the hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead,'' a senior police official said. He had come to Ujjain to offer prayers at Mahakaal Temple and was identified by the security guard on Thursday. The guard called the police after which the Superintendent of Police Manoj Singh arrived a large force to nab the gangster. Necessary steps to hand him over to Uttar Pradesh Police were initiated. Dubey had to be taken into custody by the Uttar Pradesh Police on transit remand as there was no case registered against him in Madhya Pradesh. On the way to UP, the accused was shot as their convoy overturned and he allgedly tried to flee. More details on the encounter are awaited. Here's all you need to know about Vikas Dubey: Who is Vikas Dubey? He fled after the encounter and a massive hunt, which spanned three states, was launched with a bounty of Rs 5 lakh for his capture.  Chasing Dubey through three states The police cast a wider net after Dubey was seen at a hotel in Faridabad near Delhi on Wednesday morning. They managed to arrest Vikas Dubey's closest aide, Amar Dubey, who was later killed in an encounter. Vikas Dubey escaped just before police reached the location.  On Thursday morning, two aides of gangster Vikas Dubey were killed in separate encounters in Uttar Pradesh, police said. While Kartikeya alias Prabhat was gunned down in Kanpur when he tried to flee from police custody, another aide of Vikas Dubey, Praveen alias Bauwa Dubey, was killed in an encounter in Etawah, they added. Kartikeya, who was arrested from Faridabad on Wednesday, was being brought to Kanpur on transit remand when he snatched the pistol of a policeman and tried to flee, ADG, Law and Order Prashant Kumar said. “At around 3 am, a Swift Dzire was looted by four armed men on a Scorpio. They were stopped about an hour later by cops when they tried to escape. The police chased them and an unidentified man suffered multiple injuries in crossfire. He was declared brought dead at the hospital," senior police officer Akash Tomar said. The man was later identified as Praveen, Dubey's aide. Dubey was later seen wearing a mask in a CCTV footage, being led away by half a dozen cops from the Mahakaal Temple in Ujjain. On Friday morning, Vikas Dubey was killed allegedly in an encounter as he tried to flee from police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-you-need-to-know-about-up-gangster-vikas-dubey-858901.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Gangster Vikas Dubey to be brought to Uttar Pradesh on transit remand: Police||After the arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey, wanted in connection with the Kanpur ambush in which eight policemen were killed, in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain on Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh police said he would be brought to the state on transit remand. "Dubey will be brought to the state on transit remand. Our campaign against all those involved in the Kanpur case will continue till not even a single member of the Dubey gang is left," ADG, Law, and Order Prashant Kumar said. "Stricter punishment will be ensured against Dubey," he added. Asked whether anyone else was arrested in Ujjain besides Dubey, the officer said, "We have come to know about it through the media. No official paper has been shared with us yet." Asked whether it was a joint operation of the Madhya Pradesh police and Uttar Pradesh police, he said, "No, our team was not there." Quizzed on how the dreaded gangster managed to reach Ujjain, Kumar said it would not be possible to throw light on that, adding that "it will be part of the probe".   A police team, led by the investigation officer (IO) in the case from Kanpur, will reach Ujjain as soon as possible to bring Dubey to Uttar Pradesh, the ADG said. Dubey, who was carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh on information leading to his arrest for his alleged involvement in the Kanpur ambush on Friday night, was on the run since then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gangster-vikas-dubey-to-be-brought-to-uttar-pradesh-on-transit-remand-police-858910.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||FIR against 6 people in woman panchayat officer suicide case||An FIR has been registered against six people in connection with the alleged suicide of a woman panchayat executive officer here, police said on Thursday. Mani Manjari Rai, 27, allegedly died by suicide at her rented accommodation here on Monday, with her father claiming that she was "murdered". "An FIR was lodged against chairman, Maniyar Nagar Panchyat, Bheem Gupta, executive officer, Sikandarpur Nagar Panchyat, Sanjay Rao and four others under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide) at the Ballia police station on Wednesday," Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said. The FIR was registered by the officer's brother Vijayanand Rai, who alleged that "these people put undue pressure on her for payments and tender for new work". The officer's family stays in Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh. In her suicide note, which was recovered from the spot, she said that she was "cheated and had to do some wrong work". Her body was found hanging in a room at her rented accommodation at Awas Vikas Colony on Monday night. Rai was the executive officer of the Maniya Nagar Panchayat and this was her first posting to Ballia. Earlier, the executive officer's father, Jai Thakur Rai, had claimed that his daughter did not die by suicide but was "murdered" and "hanged". "My daughter cannot commit suicide. She was murdered. I don't know who murdered her. It was done for payment and wrong work in the panchayat. I want justice," he had alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-6-people-in-woman-panchayat-officer-suicide-case-858912.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Maoist couple surrenders in Dantewada||A Maoist couple surrendered in Chhattigarh's Dantewada district after being impressed by a rehabilitation campaign being run by police here, a senior official said on Thursday. Prakash Kartami alias Pandu, who was carrying a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head, and his wife Hadme Kartami turned themselves in before police on Wednesday, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said. Pandu, a member of Maoist military platoon number 24, was involved in several deadly attacks on police personnel, including the Cholnar blast in Dantewada in April 2015 in which five jawans were killed and eight others were injured. He was also involved in the ambush in NMDC mines area of Dantewada in 2012 in which six policemen and a civilian driver were killed, the official said. His wife, a native of neighbouring Sukma district, was a member of the Chetna Natya Mandli (cultural wing of Maoists) and was associated with the outlawed outfit since 2012. She was tasked with spreading Maoist propaganda, conducting recee on police personnel, arranging meetings of villagers and damaging roads, the official said. Pandu and his wife in their statement said they were disappointed with the "hollow" Maoist ideology, and at the same time were impressed by 'Lon Varratu' (term coined in local Gondi dialect which means 'return to your village') campaign being run by police in Dantewada, Pallava said. Both were given immediate assistance of Rs 10,000 each and will be provided facilities further as per the government's surrender and rehabilitation policy, he said. Under the 'Lon Varratu' initiative, the police have been putting up posters and banners in the native villages of Naxals, who carry cash rewards on their head. The posters mention the names of rebels and appeal to them to join the mainstream, the police official said. So far, 28 Naxals have surrendered under the drive, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-maoist-couple-surrenders-in-dantewada-858943.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Attack on BJP leader Waseem Bari 'pre-planned' by LeT, says IGP Kashmir||The attack on BJP's Bandipora district president Waseem Bari was "pre-planned" by Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar said on Thursday, adding that the policemen posted for the personal security of the politician were being dismissed from service. Three more policemen were arrested in connection with Wednesday's attack, taking the total number of the arrested cops to 10. "We came here and checked the site of the incident. We have checked the CCTV cameras as well and after watching the footage, it seems that it was a pre-planned attack," the IGP told reporters in Bandipora district of north Kashmir. Bari, his father Bashir Ahmed and brother Umar Bashir were injured when militants opened fire on them outside Bari's shop opposite police station Bandipora at around 9 pm. They were taken to Bandipora district hospital where they succumbed to injuries. Kumar said the militants were keeping a close watch on Bari's movements and fired upon him when he came out of his house. "We saw in the CCTV footage that when he left for his in-laws' place from his house, a person was watching him and when he returned, the person was there again. "When Bari reached his house, his PSOs went to their room and when he came to the shop, his brother and father were there. A militant came and fired upon them from a close range. All three suffered injuries in their head and they were rushed to a hospital, where they succumbed," he said. The IGP said the police have identified the militants behind the killing and they belong to LeT terror outfit. "We have identified the militants who are from LeT group. A Pakistani militant and a local militant, Abid, were involved. We are tracking them and very soon the police, the Army and CRPF will neutralise them," he said. The IGP said that while one militant fired upon the three, another, whom the police are calling a supporter, was guiding him from a distance and added that the militants were on foot. Kumar said while there was no shortcoming in providing security to the slain BJP leader, it was a lapse on part of the ten PSOs and they had been arrested and were being dismissed from service. "We have analysed the CCTV footage from the camera at the police station. There was no shortcoming in (providing) security. He had 10 PSOs, two from security wing and eight from district police, which was more than enough. "Even if only two PSOs were with him, they would have killed the militant. It is a lapse from our side, our jawans and we are taking action. The SSP (Bandipora) has suspended all the 10 PSOs and we are dismissing them from service. They all stand arrested," he said. Asked if there was militant presence in the district and whether political activists were under threat, Kumar said, "There is militant presence and as I said, it seems (like) a pre-planned attack." However, he said there was no need to worry and "we will develop the inputs and neutralise the militants soon". The IGP said the police were providing protection to everyone who was under threat. "He had security as well. If anyone gets a threat, we appeal them to contact the SSP concerned and they will be provided with the security," he said when inquired whether the security of protected persons in the valley would be reviewed. To another query on whether the security detail of BJP leaders in the valley would be increased, the IGP said, "increasing or decreasing security does not stop incidents frankly. What matters is how alert a security personnel is and how bravely he fights".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/attack-on-bjp-leader-waseem-bari-pre-planned-by-let-says-igp-kashmir-858946.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Rajnath Singh inaugurates 6 bridges in Jammu and Kashmir||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday inaugurated six bridges in border areas of Jammu and Kashmir and asserted that development of remote areas in the region will continue to be a key priority for the NDA government. The defence minister dedicated the bridges through video conferencing in presence of Chief of the Army Staff Gen MM Naravane, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar, Director General of Border Roads Organisation Lt Gen Harpal Singh among others. Four bridges were constructed on the Akhnoor-Pallanwala road in Akhnoor, while two bridges were built on the Tarnah Nallah in Kathua district, the Defence Ministry said in a statement. The total cost of construction of the bridges was Rs 43 crore. The inauguration of the bridges, built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) comes at a time when India and China are engaged in a border row in eastern Ladakh. Officials said the dedication of the bridges to the people of Jammu and Kashmir carries a bigger message that India will continue to develop key infrastructure in border areas notwithstanding hostilities by any adversary. “Our government is committed to promoting infrastructure on our borders and the necessary resources will be provided for this. Our government has a keen interest in the development of Jammu and Kashmir," Singh said in his brief address. "Keeping in mind the needs of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and Armed Forces, many other development works are also in the pipeline, which will be announced in due time. About 1,000 kilometre long roads are currently under construction in Jammu region,” he said. The defence minister said the government has ensured that sufficient resources are provided to the BRO for the construction of strategic roads. Despite the Covid-19 epidemic, the government will not let the resources of the BRO fall short, he added. According to the ministry, the annual budget of the BRO ranged from Rs 3,300 crores to Rs 4,600 crores from 2008 to 2016. However, the allocation was hiked to Rs 8,050 crore in 2019-2020. The budget for the BRO for 2020-2021 is likely to be Rs 11,800 crore, the ministry said, adding the higher allocation will expedite the construction of strategic roads, bridges and tunnels along our northern borders. In his remarks, Singh congratulated the BRO for construction of the bridges in "record time". He said that roads and bridges are the lifeline of any nation and play a vital role in the socio-economic development of far-flung regions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is regularly monitoring the progress of these projects and adequate funds are being provided for their timely execution, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajnath-singh-inaugurates-6-bridges-in-jammu-and-kashmir-858958.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||One tower in Vasant Vihar's CBI colony in Delhi declared as Covid-19 containment zone||The authorities have declared one of the towers in the CBI colony in Vasant Vihar here a Covid-19 containment zone after an agency official and his family members tested positive for the coronavirus, officials said on Thursday. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has asked at least 12 officials living in the area to avoid office during the self-quarantine period as a precautionary measure, they said. Rapid response teams (RRTs) and epidemiologists visited the area on Wednesday to assess the situation and observed that because of a "high movement of public" there, the "spread of Covid-19 is inevitable". It was also observed that a lot of people living in the area had come in contact with the affected persons. However, the survey of all the residents of the area did not show anyone else with Covid-19 symptoms, the officials said. After considering all inputs, the Delhi government declared the area a containment zone in "view of public safety" and to "prevent community spread of Covid-19", they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-tower-in-vasant-vihars-cbi-colony-in-delhi-declared-as-covid-19-containment-zone-858962.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police ASI dies after testing positive for Covid-19||A 53-year-old assistant sub-inspector of Delhi Police died on Thursday morning at a hospital here, weeks after he tested positive for Covid-19, officials said. Jeevan Singh, posted at Delhi Police's Special branch, was attached with the Motor Transport section of the department, they said. According to the police, Singh tested positive for Covid-19 on June 21 and was admitted at IBS Lajpat Nagar on June 23. On June 27, he was shifted to Gangaram Hospital where he underwent plasma therapy but could not recover. He was on ventilator support and died on Thursday around 4.30 am, said Suman Nalwa, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Branch). Singh joined Delhi Police on July 10, 1991. He lived with his family in Noida and is survived by his 49-year-old wife, 19-year-old son and a 23-year-old daughter who is working with a private firm in Noida, police said. Around 2,000 Delhi Police personnel have tested positive for the virus, out of which, 1,300 policemen have resumed their duties after recovery. At least 12 policemen have died due to Covid-19 so far, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-asi-dies-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-858970.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Govt decides to not proceed with proposal to amend disability law for decriminalising minor offences||The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities on Thursday said it has decided to not proceed with a proposal to amend the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016 to decriminalise minor offences. The Finance Ministry last month proposed to decriminalise minor offences, including those relating to cheque bounce and repayment of loans, in as many as 19 legislations. In line with that, the department under the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry put out a proposal last week on its website for amendments to the RPwD Act and sought feedback by July 10. The DEPwD on Thursday said that during the consultation process, it received feedback from various stakeholders, majority of whom opined that the existing provisions of the RPwD Act, 2016 are appropriate safeguards for PwDs and essential for the effective implementation of the act. "They were of the view that compounding of offences would dilute the spirit of the said act for protecting and preserving the rights of persons with disabilities," the DEPwD said in a statement. "Keeping in view the overall sentiments of the majority of stakeholders, the department is now of the considered view, that going ahead with the proposed amendment for compounding of offences may not be in the interest of persons with disabilities," it said. Therefore, it has been decided that there is sufficient ground to close the consultation process and not to pursue the proposed amendment to the RPwD Act, 2016, it added. The proposal had evoked sharp response from activists and civil rights bodies who saw it as a means to dilute the legislation. In a joint statement, around 125 disability rights organisations, civil society organisations and activists last week said they unequivocally register their strong protest against the proposal to "dilute and nullify" penal provisions contained in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. They said the government was proposing to "drastically alter the very nature of the act". The DEPwD had proposed amendments to RPwD Act under provisions 89, 92(a) and 93 and suggested insertion of a new section 95A in the act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-decides-to-not-proceed-with-proposal-to-amend-disability-law-for-decriminalising-minor-offences-858971.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Body of woman found near canal in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district||The body of a 55-year-old woman has been found near a canal at a village in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, police said on Thursday. She was missing since Tuesday, they said, adding that the body was sent for post-mortem. In a separate incident, a married woman committed suicide by consuming poison at a village under the Jhinjgana police station in Shamli district, the police said.  Circle officer Prashant Kumar said the body has been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-woman-found-near-canal-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-district-858980.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Narendra Modi woos global companies with investment-friendly business environment||Wooing global companies, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said Asia's third-largest economy is one of the most open in the world and offers investment friendly, competitive business environment and immense opportunities. Speaking at the India Global Week 2020, he said green shoots of economic revival are already visible in India that is coming out of coronavirus lockdown. "India remains one of the most open economies in the world. We are laying a red carpet for all global companies to come and establish their presence in India. Very few countries will offer the kind of opportunities India does today," he said. He listed recent reforms in agriculture as well as those in defence and space sectors to seek global capital. "We are making the economy more productive, investment-friendly and competitive," he said. "There are many possibilities and opportunities in various sunrise sectors in India." Reforms in the agriculture sector provide a very attractive investment opportunity to invest in storage and logistics, he said. "We are opening the doors to investors to come and invest directly." Also, reforms have been brought in the small, micro and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, which will complement big industries. "There are investment opportunities in the defence sector," he said, referring to opening up of certain parts of defence manufacturing to the private sector. Also, there are opportunities for private investment in space sector. "This will mean greater access to commercial use of space tech for the benefit of people," he said. Modi said the talk of global economic revival after the pandemic is often linked to the revival of the Indian economy. Indians, he said, have the spirit to achieve what is believed to be impossible. "No wonder that in India we are already seeing green shoots when it comes to economic recovery." "When India talks of revival it is a revival with care, revival with compassion, a revival which is sustainable - both for the environment and the economy," he said. "On the one hand India is fighting a strong battle against the global pandemic. With an increased focus on people's health, we are equally focussed on the health of the economy." History, he said, has shown that India has overcome every challenge, be it social or economic. During the last six years, India has made great gains in areas such as financial inclusion, housing and infra construction, ease of doing business and bold tax reforms like the GST, he said. "India is ready to do whatever it can to further global good and prosperity. This is an India that is reforming, performing and transforming," he said. The Prime Minister also spoke of his government's coronavirus relief package comprising free ration, cooking gas and cash to poor. "In this time of a pandemic we have provided relief to our citizens and undertaken big structural reforms," he said. "Our relief package has been smart and targeted to provide the most poor with the most help. Thanks to technology every penny has reached the beneficiaries directly." The relief package was named Aatmanirbhar Bharat or self-reliant India. "Aatmanirbhar Bharat is not about being self-contained or being closed to the world. It is about being self-sustaining and self-generating," he said. And when the lockdown restrictions were eased, the government launched one of the world's largest public works programmes to provide employment to millions of workers. "This will not only re-energise the rural economy but also help in the creation of a durable infrastructure in rural areas," he said. The pandemic has once again shown that India's pharma industry is an asset not just for India but for the entire world, he said adding it has played a leading role in reducing the cost of medicines, especially for developing countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/narendra-modi-woos-global-companies-with-investment-friendly-business-environment-859000.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Enforcement Directorate questions Ahmed Patel for fourth time in 12 days||Senior Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel was on Thursday questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for the fourth time in 12 days in the bank fraud and money laundering case involving Sandesara brothers of Sterling Biotech. He had denied any involvement and accused the government of targeting the Opposition, which raised questions about the handling of Covid-19 pandemic and other issues. Last year, the ED had questioned Patel's son Faisal and son-in-law Irfan Siddiqui in this case and recorded their statements based on a statement from Sandesara group employee Sunil Yadav who claimed he bore expenses of Rs 10 lakh for a party attended by Faisal, arranged his entry in a night club and once delivered Rs five lakh to his driver in Delhi. The initials 'AP' in a diary seized from Sterling Biotech in 2011, which indicated payments to politicians and officials, is claimed to be that of Patel. The money laundering case involving the Sandesara brothers is the offshoot of a CBI case and chargesheet filed in court against them in connection with the Rs 14,500 crore bank loan fraud. Patel was earlier asked to appear before the investigators on June 9 but he responded saying he is above 65 years and it would be risky for him to step out due to Covid-19 following which the agency decided to go to his residence for questioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/enforcement-directorate-questions-ahmed-patel-for-fourth-time-in-12-days-859007.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court disapproves "unwarranted" police allegations in affidavit on plea by Pinjra Tod member||The Delhi High Court Thursday termed as "unwarranted" the allegations in the police affidavit filed in response to a plea by a Pinjra Tod group woman member, arrested in relation to communal violence here during anti-CAA protests, accusing the agency of leaking certain claimed evidence against her to the media. "The allegations in the affidavit were unwarranted in view of the limited scope of the petition," Justice Vibhu Bakhru said. The court said the police cannot say that since the petitioner wanted a media trial therefore it was putting out information in the media. "You cannot support a media trial. That cannot be the approach of the police. There has to be some restraint that they (police) have to follow. Your affidavit goes way beyond..," the judge said. The court said that multiple allegations have been made in the affidavit which go beyond the scope of the petition and suggested that it be withdrawn. It said that in the instant matter it was only going to examine under what circumstances the police can issue official communiques or press notes about a case and in what manner. The court said it was not going to prohibit police from issuing any official communiques in any case. However, if the affidavit remains on record, without any officer taking responsibility for the allegations made therein, it will comment upon its contents, the court said. "We are not sure the facts (in the affidavit) have any basis. Some of the allegations have been made irresponsibly," the court said. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi, appearing for the police, said the statements in the affidavit were made in response to the allegations in the petition that there has been a witch hunt against the petitioner - JNU student Devangana Kalitha. The court said every accused disputes the case against him/her and makes allegations that the investigation and prosecution was biased. "However, this is not the kind of affidavit expected from the police," the court said. Subsequently, ASG Lekhi said he will not rely upon the affidavit and will confine his arguments to the point of law. The court, thereafter, listed the matter for hearing on July 15. In the affidavit, Delhi Police said Kalitha herself started a ‘media trial’ in her favour to gain sympathy and generate public opinion in her favour. The affidavit was filed in response her plea alleging that the probe agency was selectively leaking, to the media, certain information regarding allegations against her and the evidence allegedly collected against her. The high court had earlier issued notice on her plea to the Delhi Police seeking its response. It had also passed an interim order restraining it to share any information related to the case with a third party. On Thursday, the court said the interim order will continue to operate till the next date of hearing. Responding to the notice, Delhi Police said: “The petitioner (Kalitha) herself is guilty of peddling a false social media narrative of state sponsored oppression and subjugation against a particular community which incited the Delhi riots, and after the riots, she is guilty of peddling of a false narrative of a political vendetta, state sponsored pogrom, persecution and malicious prosecution against the said community.” Explaining the circumstances relating to issuance of a press note on June 2 about the case against Kalitha, it has said that it was only an attempt on the part of police to put the things in the right perspective to prevent any flare of public sentiments and to bring out the true facts regarding the offences for which she was arrested. "The said note was necessary in peculiar facts and circumstances which prevailed in the aftermath of the Delhi riots and was in discharge of the constitutional obligation of respondent (police) to satisfy the right of the citizen to know about the affairs of the society and the right of the journalist to ensure an informed society,” said the police affidavit, filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair. The affidavit, by G Ram Gopal Naik, Deputy Commissioner of Delhi Police (Crime), has said the press note was necessary in the circumstances which prevailed in the aftermath of the Delhi riots and was in discharge of the constitutional obligation of the police to satisfy the right of the citizen to know about the affairs of the society and the right of the journalist to ensure an informed society. “As such it does not lie with the petitioner to now invoke the equity jurisdiction of this court to gag information which she herself had been publishing on social media platforms to gain sympathy and generate public opinion and to dispel false notion fed by the petitioner and her affiliate groups in the minds of the general public,” it has said. Pinjra Tod (break the cage) group is a collective of women students and alumni of colleges from across Delhi. Kalitha, who was arrested on May 23, is lodged in Tihar Jail under judicial custody in a case associated with violence in old Delhi''s Daryaganj area during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December last year. Three cases have been registered against her in relation to north east Delhi riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-disapproves-unwarranted-police-allegations-in-affidavit-on-plea-by-pinjra-tod-member-859015.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Examination process nerve wracking, students' career at stake: Delhi High Court to Delhi University on postponing exams||Examinations are nerve-wracking and career of thousands of students is at stake, the Delhi High Court said on Thursday, pulling up the Delhi University for repeatedly postponing the exams of final year undergraduate courses in the last few weeks. The court questioned the varsity on pushing the exams from July 10 to a date beyond August 15, even when it kept maintaining that it was ready to conduct the Open Book Examinations (OBE) on July 1 as well as on July 10. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad directed Delhi University to file an affidavit detailing the schedule of final year undergraduate exams which have been postponed from July 10 to beyond August 15 in view of persisting Covid-19 pandemic. The high court also asked the varsity to explain in the affidavit as to how it proposes to conduct exams -- online, off-line or both modes, besides the complete date sheet, providing clarity to students. It allowed the prayer of senior advocate Sachin Dutta, representing DU, to grant some time as they have to work out a new plan in terms of July 8 circular issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for declaring the manner in which the forthcoming exams are to be conducted. The court directed the DU to file the affidavit by July 13 and listed the matter for consideration on July 14. “We all have gone through the examination process which is nerve-wracking for the students, especially during the times of Covid-19 pandemic,” said the bench, which was conducting the hearing through video conferencing. “Why are you pushing the exams to a date beyond August 15, knowing that careers of thousands of students are at stake,” the court said, adding that the final year students have to be given passing out certificates and degrees to enable them to pursue higher education. It asked the varsity to mull over the schedule given by the UGC and come back with a firm date sheet and examination schedule. The court was also critical of the way mock exams were conducted by the DU and referred to technical glitches during the tests. The bench did not appreciate the conduct of the varsity which has been “turning turtle” and changing stands frequently. It noted that on June 26, DU informed the court that it will go ahead with conducting exams from July 1 and after less than 24 hours, the university postponed the exams to July 10. The court had on June 29 issued notice to the varsity asking why contempt proceedings be not initiated against it and its officers for trying to mislead the court by withholding information on deferment of the online OBE from July 1 to July 10. The court was then informed that the university was firm on commencing exams from July 10. “We took you (DU) on face value and asked you to file an affidavit for clarity. Now we discover you have again changed the date to beyond August 15 and there is no exact date. What do you expect us to do. You want us to constantly monitor you on conducting exams,” the bench said. It added, “Sorry to say the way the university is conducting itself for the last few weeks, we are not impressed with anything. We have to take it with a pinch of salt.” In the affidavit filed by DU on Thursday morning, it was averred that meeting of a High Powered Committed of the university took place on July 7 at 9:30 PM to access the exam related matters and taking stalk of the developments pursuant to revised guidelines issued by UGC on July 6. Thereafter, the DU has decided to postpone holding of the examination to some date after August 15. Dutta said the university is still working upon the date sheet for the examination to be conducted after August 15. During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the UGC, informed the court that on July 6 and July 8, it has issued a circular/ guidelines to all the universities informing them that the examination process for final year students must be completed by the end of September and the mode of conducting examination could be online, offline or a blend of both the methods. On being asked by the court as to whether the UGC has insisted that exams be conducted for promoting students, Mehta said exams are compulsory for final year students and the process has to be completed by September 30. The high court was hearing various petitions by several final year DU students seeking quashing and withdrawal of the notifications of May 14, May 30 and June 27 for online exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students, including of the School of Open Learning and Non-Collegiate Women Education Board. As an alternative prayer, one of the petitions has sought direction to the DU to evaluate the final year students based on the previous years' or semesters' results in the same manner as the university has planned to promote the first and second year students. On Wednesday, DU had incurred the wrath of a single judge for "playing with the lives of children" by deciding to again postpone the exams. The court had transferred the pleas to the division bench headed by Justice Kohli as it has already issued contempt notice to the varsity. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for one of the petitioners, submitted that DU be directed to follow all the procedures laid down in law and the court should be informed about the mode of conducting the examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/examination-process-nerve-wracking-students-career-at-stake-delhi-high-court-to-delhi-university-on-postponing-exams-859020.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Muzaffarnagar traders on 4-day strike against mandi tax||Traders of the country's biggest jaggery (gud) market have gone on a four-day strike from Thursday to press for removal of mandi tax, an official of a traders' body said. The state secretary of All India Udyog and Vyapar Mandal, Sanjay Mitral, told PTI that trade work in the gud market was hit as mandi traders joined the call for a four-day strike from Thursday till July 12. Besides jaggery, trades in all agricultural produce have been effected here, he added. Mandi traders in the state are demanding the removal of mandi tax of 205 percent, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muzaffarnagar-traders-on-4-day-strike-against-mandi-tax-859046.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||SCAoRA demands enquiry and action on death of lawyer||Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association on Thursday demanded a time-bound enquiry and penal action against those responsible for death of 81-year-old lawyer in the top court's premises, due to non-availability of basic medical assistance. Advocate S K Dhingra died on Wednesday after reportedly suffering from consecutive heart attacks. The government dispensary at the Supreme Court premises "apparently had no medicine, no doctor on duty nor an ambulance," it said.  The association also sought penal action and dismissal from service against the Supreme Court security personnel, who reportedly did not allow entry of vehicle from Gate B despite being told of medical emergency. "It is an utter failure of the Supreme Court administration and security," the association said in a resolution passed on Thursday. It also demanded setting up of a state-of-art emergency medical facility within the SC premises and laying down of Standard Operating Procedure so that no person passed away, awaiting basic medical treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scaora-demands-enquiry-and-action-on-death-of-lawyer-859058.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Nizamuddin Markaz: Delhi court allows 60 Malaysians to walk free on fine of Rs 7k each||A Delhi court Thursday allowed 60 Malaysians to walk free on payment of fine of Rs 7,000 each after they accepted mild charges, under the plea bargain process, related to various violations including visa norms while attending Nizamuddin Markaz here during the Covid-19 lockdown, a lawyer said. Metropolitan Magistrate Siddharth Malik passed the order after the Malaysians sought lesser punishment under the plea bargain process by accepting mild charges, said their lawyer. They were allowed to walk free after the Sub-divisional magistrate of Lajpat Nagar, who was the complainant in the case, Additional commissioner of Police of Lajpat Nagar and Inspector of Nizamuddin, said they have no objection to their pleas, said advocate S Hari Haran, appearing for the foreign nationals. Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence praying for a lesser punishment. The Criminal Procedure of Code allows plea bargaining for cases where the maximum punishment is imprisonment for seven years, where offences don't affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and when the offences are not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years. They were granted bail on July 7 on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 10,000 each.  They were charge sheeted for attending Markaz at Nizamuddin in the national capital by allegedly violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines, issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nizamuddin-markaz-delhi-court-allows-60-malaysians-to-walk-free-on-fine-of-rs-7k-each-859059.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Gangster Sundar Bhati's aide, wanted in extortion cases, held in Noida, say Police||A gangster running an extortion racket was on Thursday arrested in an ongoing drive by Noida police against mafiosos operating in the region, police said. Accused Brijesh alias Billu Fauji, a member of the Sundar Bhati gang, was nabbed near the City Centre by a Sector 39 police station team, an official said. “Brijesh works with Sundar Bhati in running an extortion racket. He was also arrested previously for various crimes,” a police spokesperson said. The accused, a native of East Delhi, has been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 (mischief), among others, the spokesperson added. An illegal firearm along with ammunition was seized from him after the arrest and charges under the Arms Act too were slapped against him, the police said. A drive against mafiosos operating in Gautam Buddh Nagar in the western UP was started on July 4 in line with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's directives which came close on the heels of killing of eight policemen in Kanpur by henchmen of history-sheeter Vikas Dubey, officials said. Police have so far attached properties worth around Rs 14 crore, including vehicles and land, belonging to various gangsters, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gangster-sundar-bhatis-aide-wanted-in-extortion-cases-held-in-noida-say-police-859067.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||NGO chairman arrested for allegedly raping woman employee||The chairman of an NGO was arrested on Thursday on charges of raping a 37-year-old woman employee of his organisation and blackmailing her with a video clip of the alleged act in Chhattisgarh's Raipur district, a police official said. The accused, 31, who originally hails from Nagpur in Maharashtra, had been allegedly raping the victim since the last eight months, the official told PTI. He was arrested based on a complaint of the woman lodged at the Rakhi police station in Nava Raipur on Wednesday night, he said. According to the complaint, the woman, who is married, had started working at the Nava Raipur-based NGO last year, he said. The accused raped the woman on December 29 last year in his office when she went to seek financial help from him, the official said, citing the complaint. The NGO chairman shot the alleged act secretly on his cellphone and clicked her obscene pictures, he said, quoting the victim. Using the video clip and photos, he allegedly blackmailed the woman and sexually assaulted her multiple times, the official added. The accused was booked under section 376 (rape) of the IPC, he said, adding further investigation was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngo-chairman-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-woman-employee-859080.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Despite challenges, Delhi gearing up to revive its economy hit by Covid-19: Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday invited retail and e-commerce players to invest in the national capital and asserted that despite multiple challenges, the city was gearing up to revive its economy hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the 'Invest India Exclusive Investment Forum' via a video link, Sisodia, who also holds finance portfolio, said the adverse financial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic would last longer than the health effects. According to an official statement, the aim of the forum organised by Invest India -- the national investment promotion and facilitation agency of the Centre -- was to bring the state government and potential investors on a common platform to share ideas and to showcase favourable policies, ready infrastructure and other details of Delhi's industrial ecosystem. The deputy chief minister said Delhi was gearing up to revive its economy despite facing many challenges posed by the pandemic.  Highlighting how Delhi offers a great potential investment ecosystem for private firms, Sisodia said, "Delhi is a city of opportunities. Our state GDP has doubled in the past seven years and we have a per capita income of Rs 3,89,000 which is three times the national average." "We also have an effective people-centric government under the leadership of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal," he was quoted as saying in the statement. The highest growth on all economic indicators had been made possible due to the honest and progressive government which has been re-elected for the third time with an overwhelming majority, Sisodia said. Stressing on the variety of trade and service sector opportunities for investment offered by his government, he said, "Contrary to public opinion, Delhi has substantial land bank for investment in sectors like tourism and hospitality, automobile parts, handloom and handicrafts; gems, jewelry and perfumes, packaged foods, leather goods and garments, steel fabrication, e-commerce, retail and information technology." The upcoming industrial hubs in Ranikhera Mundka, Baprola and Kanjhawala along with the Mundka North Warehousing cluster has ample capacity and makes Delhi an ideal destination for companies looking to set up retail or sourcing operations, the deputy chief minister said. The forum was attended by investors from 30 countries around the globe. Twenty industry sectors, including apparels, automobiles, ecommerce healthcare and sportswear from countries such as like the USA, Japan, Germany, the UK, Switzerland and Australia participated in the programme, the staement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/despite-challenges-delhi-gearing-up-to-revive-its-economy-hit-by-covid-19-sisodia-859096.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir: Terrorists target Army QRT convoy in Pulwama; solider, woman injured||A soldier and a woman were injured when terrorists fired upon an Army quick reaction team (QRT) convoy in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, a defence spokesperson said. "An ambulance in the QRT convoy moving from Khrew was fired upon by terrorists from near a mosque at Laddoo Mor, Lethpora, Awantipora, at 6 PM," Col Rajesh Kalia said. He said one soldier was injured in the firing and he has been evacuated to the Army's 92 base hospital here and is stated to be stable. "One civil lady received injuries in the crossfire," the spokesman said, adding her condition is stable. The woman has been identified as Rafeeqa Bano, a resident of Ladoo area. The area is being searched, Col Kalia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-terrorists-target-army-qrt-convoy-in-pulwama-solider-woman-injured-859099.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||2 junior engineers, 9 others arrested for stealing, selling govt bitumen supply for Ladakh||Two junior engineers of the Border Roads Organisation’s engineering wing GREF and nine others were arrested for allegedly stealing and selling government bitumen supply meant for Ladakh, police said on Thursday. They said 480 barrels of bitumen worth Rs 36 lakh were seized during a raid in Leh district on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The raids were carried out after a Leh Police Station patrolling party spotted eight suspicious trucks and got alerted by their movements towards a crusher plant, they said. The patrol unit found that each truck was carrying 60 barrels of bitumen and they were being illegally unloaded at the crusher plant, they said. On further enquiry and perusal of the tax invoice vouchers produced by the drivers, it was found that these bitumen barrels belonged to the Garrison Reserve Engineers Force, Ladakh, and were meant to be unloaded somewhere else, they said. A case was lodged against 10 people including two JEs of the GREF at Police Station Leh and an investigation was taken up against them for allegedly stealing and illegally selling government supplies, they said. The owner of the crusher plant and the eight drivers were also arrested from the spot and they are under custody at the Leh Police Station, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-junior-engineers-9-others-arrested-for-stealing-selling-govt-bitumen-supply-for-ladakh-859117.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Haryana to reduce syllabus for Classes 9 to 12||To make up for the loss of studies due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Haryana government has decided to reduce the syllabus of Classes 9 to 12 in the current academic session. Education Minister Kanwar Pal said the government has instructed the Board of School Education to set up a panel in coordination with the State Council of Educational Research and Training, Gurgaon, to work out modalities for it. The government believes that in view of the coronavirus situation, students should not feel any kind of burden or mental pressure, he said. It was a major factor taken into consideration when the decision was taken, which will be applicable to all schools affiliated to the board, the minister said. The Minister said schools continue to remain closed across the state during the coronavirus lockdown due to which regular classes could not be held. He said that the syllabus that has been taught online should also be included in the syllabus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-to-reduce-syllabus-for-classes-9-to-12-859127.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: 27 Naxals surrender in Dantewada||As many as 27 Naxals, four of them carrying cash rewards on their heads, have surrendered at two places in Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh, a senior official said on Thursday. They surrendered saying they were impressed by a rehabilitation campaign being run by the police here, the official said. While 25 cadres, including four women, turned themselves in before senior administration, police and CRPF officials at Kuakonda police station on Thursday, a Maoist couple surrendered in Dantewada town on Wednesday, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said. Of the 25 cadres, Budhram Tamo (48)- head of Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan (DAKMS- a frontal wing of Maoists), Manjhi Barse (35)- head of janmilitia group and woman cadre Deve Sodhi- head of Krantikari Mahila Adivasi Sangthan (KAMS- another offshoot of Maoists) were carrying rewards of Rs 1 lakh each on their heads, he said. The rest of them were lower-rung members, mostly belonging to DAKMS, KAMS and janmilitia groups, he said. They were allegedly involved in several Naxal incidents, including the Mailwada landmine attack in March 2016, wherein seven CRPF personnel were killed, he said. On Wednesday, Prakash Kartami alias Pandu, who was carrying a reward of Rs 2 lakh on his head, and his wife Hadme Kartami had surrendered, he said. Pandu, a member of Maoist military platoon number 24, was involved in several deadly attacks on police personnel, including the Cholnar blast in Dantewada in April 2015, in which five jawans were killed and eight others injured. He was also involved in the ambush in NMDC mines area of Dantewada in 2012 in which six policemen and a civilian driver were killed, the official said. His wife, a native of neighbouring Sukma district, was member of the Chetna Natya Mandli (cultural wing of Maoists) and was associated with the outlawed outfit since 2012. She was tasked with spreading Maoist propaganda, conducting recee on police personnel, arranging meetings of villagers and damaging roads, the official said. All 27 ultras in their statement said they were disappointed with the "hollow" Maoist ideology, and at the same time were impressed by 'Lon Varratu' (term coined in local Gondi dialect which means 'return to your village') campaign being run by police in Dantewada, Pallava said. They all have been given an immediate assistance of Rs 10,000 each and will be provided facilities further as per the government's surrender and rehabilitation policy, he said. Under the 'Lon Varratu' initiative, the police have been putting up posters and banners in the native villages of Naxals, who carry cash rewards on their head. The posters mention the names of rebels and appeal to them to join the mainstream, the police official said. So far, 53 Naxals have surrendered under the drive, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-27-naxals-surrender-in-dantewada-859130.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||CBI court orders to trace Babri Masjid case accused||A special CBI court hearing the Babri mosque demolition case on Thursday ordered to trace accused Om Prakash Pandey, who is said have become a monk years ago. Pandey is one of the 32 accused in case, whose hearing is being held on a day-to-day basis to conclude the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by "kar sevaks" who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple. Earlier, Special Judge S K Yadav had issued a non-bailable warrant against Pandey. The court was told that members of the Pandey's family claimed that he had become a monk 25 years ago and they were not in contact with him. The court was also told that Pandey is said to have sometimes visited his guru’s ashram in Allahabad and his brother said he would try to find him and let the court know in a week. Taking all aspects into consideration, the court directed the CBI to inquire about the matter and furnish a report before it. Meanwhile, no accused turned up before the court on Thursday to depose in the case. An application was moved on behalf of accused Santosh Dubey that his wife was taken ill and he will appear before the court on July 13. The court has already directed accused Pawan Kumar Pandey, a former legislator, to appear before it on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-court-orders-to-trace-babri-masjid-case-accused-859146.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey flown to Kanpur after dubious arrest in Ujjain||Nearly 10 hours after his highly questionable arrest in Ujjain’s famous Mahakal temple on Thursday morning, the UP Special Task Force (STF) took Vikas Dubey to Kanpur in a chartered plane, the main accused in an incident where eight policemen gunned down. The kingpin of Kanpur shootout was reportedly going to Mahakal temple when he was identified by security personnel on the tip off from a shopkeeper in the temple’s vicinity. The security guard reportedly had a scuffle with the gangster, according to eyewitnesses. Soon after, Ujjain police stepped in and took the man with a Rs five lakh bounty on his arrest under custody and grilled him for two hours.   While MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and home minister Narottam Mishra have credited state police for the dramatic arrest, the opposition is smelling foul play in the way the dangerous gangster ended his five-day run for life in the face of the UP police’s hot pursuit in the pilgrim town of Madhya Pradesh. What has deepened suspicious over the entire arrest drama was the fact that Vikas Dubey himself cried out loud his identity in public while the police was nabbing him.   The police have also arrested two lawyers from Lucknow who had reached here by a car. A liquor contractor and his manager have also been detained on suspicion of helping Vikas Dubey. Home minister Narottam Mishra said the police were alerted by the intelligence agencies. A video clip showed Dubey being held by the scruff of his collar by the police, shouting, "Haan main Vikas Dubey hoon Kanpur wala (Yes I am the Vikas Dubey from Kanpur)".Dubey apparently did not use any disguise to evade police and neither did he have any arms as weapons are prohibited inside the temple complex. Ujjain collector Ashish Singh too claimed Vikas Dubey was apprehended by police. However, the Congress leaders including former chief minister Digvijay Singh have alleged that the arrest was stage-managed to save Vikas Dubey from being encountered by the UP police. They have demanded a CBI probe into entire circumstances leading to ‘such an easy arrest’ of the dreaded gangster in MP.  The Congress has alluded to involvement of home minister Narottam Mishra in the ‘surrender drama” by pointing out the fact that the powerful Brahmin leader of Madhya Pradesh was  BJP in charge of Kanpur region in the 2017 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubey-flown-to-kanpur-after-dubious-arrest-in-ujjain-859152.html
09-07-2020||North and Central||UP: Gangster Vikas Dubey's wife, son arrested||Hours after the arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey from Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain, his wife, son and a servant were held by the Uttar Pradesh STF here on Thursday evening. Vikas Dubey’s wife Richa Dubey was arrested from her Krishna Nagar residence on Thursday evening by a team of the Special Task Force (STF) on charges of harbouring the gangster and conniving with him, police sources said. The gangster's son and a servant were also arrested, sources said. Richa is said to have supported Dubey in his unlawful activities. She is allegedly the part of the conspiracy that led to the killing of eight policemen at Kanpur’s Bikru village on July 3. She had connected her mobile phone to a CCTV camera installed in their now-demolished house at Bikru village and kept an eye on the activities there even from her absence. Richa had gone missing immediately after the Kanpur ambush. She will be taken to Kanpur and interrogated along with her husband, sources said. Earlier, police had visited the gangster’s Krishna Nagar residence twice but could not find Richa or their son. Vikas Dubey is being brought to Kanpur on a transit remand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-gangster-vikas-dubeys-wife-son-arrested-859156.html
09-07-2020||Opinion||Covid-19 is changing economic activity in small town and rural India - Will these changes become permanent? ||The spread of Covid-19 to the small towns and rural areas of the country may be altering the nature of economic activity of people living in these areas. All round disruption caused by lockdowns, rising prices of frequently consumed items due to supply shortages and the increased pressure on employment are the main causes for these changes.  Until recently, education and migration to large cities was the road to socio-economic improvement and better consumer-oriented lifestyles for people from small towns and rural areas. But Covid-19 is altering, at least temporarily, how people negotiate their dependence on large cities or even the closest large urban centre, especially in the context of their daily economic struggles.   The suspension of the weekly village and town fairs along with the disruption of transportation has hurt access to markets for both buyers and sellers. The relaxation in lockdowns and permission for transportation of goods has not altered economic dynamics since reopening has been slow. This has largely, if not completely, reduced the interactions between the nearest metropolitan or large city and small town or village – unlike in the pre-pandemic era.  The lack of healthcare infrastructure adds to overall fears and concerns of people.  All this is leading to a number of important, albeit gradual, changes. If this trend persists, it could even alter the economic changes of the past two decades.  Economic impact Let’s look at what these changes are. First, the decline in migration to large urban centres has depressed employment avenues and there is an increased dependence on the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and agricultural work, which is just starting. Second, not all businesses are suffering in small towns and rural areas. Shops and establishments dealing with daily household items have seen a sharp increase due to the inability of people to travel to large urban areas to source their needs.  Third, there is an exponential increase in the demand for credit, which has been aggravated by the complete unwillingness of the formal banking sector to lend – except for “evergreening” of old loans. Credit is now mostly provided by the pawn brokers and the occasional branch of the gold loan non-banking finance company. Credit from pawnbrokers and informal money lenders is the most important source of credit for consumption and for working capital. A new feature is that now even informal lenders require gold as collateral. Rising gold prices make this borrowing easier.  Fourth, the dearth of employment avenues has increased the number of people who are taking up petty trade as a livelihood option which entails buying from the small towns and selling in the neighbouring villages. A fifth important discernible trend is the increasing number of people in rural areas, especially those with land holdings, investing in milch animals since there is an impression that additional incomes from petty commodity production is absolutely necessary. Often these purchases are funded by pledging gold. This renewed focus on petty commodity production like milk and animal husbandry augurs well if this becomes a more pronounced feature. It is reminiscent of the 1970s to the 1990s, when this was an important source of income for rural households.  Lastly, shared public transport run mostly by the self-employed is an unfortunate loser, while there is an increased demand for two-wheelers, which has surprised even the local financiers.  Road ahead It is as yet unclear if these changes will gain any level of permanency. That, in turn, will be directly dependent on how quickly the cure reaches these small towns or at the least the ability of a possible cure to instil confidence. One change that is likely to last longer is the importance of petty commodity production because of its ability to quickly generate household incomes. Any household that benefits from an increase in incomes from petty commodity production is unlikely to ignore them in future. However, as of now, the question that is uppermost in the minds is how long these changes, good or bad, will last. That is something which nobody has an answer for or even a clue.   (S Ananth is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh. Views are strictly personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-is-changing-economic-activity-in-small-town-and-rural-india-will-these-changes-become-permanent-858935.html
09-07-2020||Panorama||Prospects for India-China trade after Galwan||Forty years ago, India and China had roughly the same economic size, measured as GDP in dollars. Today, China is five times bigger. This growth has been mainly due to China’s single-minded focus on exporting to the West. It opened the doors to foreign direct investment, created large-sized special economic zones for such investment, fast-tracked approvals, built necessary infrastructure to ensure port and airport connectivity, even large-scale dormitory-style accommodation for millions of workers. As a result, foreign companies rushed in, created large-scale employment for Chinese workers, and made China a low labour cost source for exporting to the whole world. Of course, this is a highly simplified version of a complex story. It wasn’t only foreigners who were investing. It was State-owned Chinese enterprises, too. The GDP was growing at 10% per year, but wages were held nearly constant. So, most of the gains of economic growth was going to capital, not labour, which meant the State. Since the economy had a high savings rate, thanks to a repressed financial sector, the entire amounts saved were re-invested. Thus, China had an investment to GDP ratio at a peak of more than 50%, and even today it is around 44%. As a result of high and sustained growth, the per capita income of a Chinese citizen is five times that of an Indian. The official poverty rate, defined as spending less than two dollars a day, is only 0.5%, whereas in India it is 20%. The massive shift of labour from agriculture to industry moved nearly 200 million workers in one generation. This is the kind of growth story that India would like to emulate. But our political systems are totally different. Even then, India implicitly put its faith in investment-driven growth, setting up of special economic zones, building infrastructure albeit as public-private partnership, and so on. These policy efforts have yielded less bountiful results here than for our northern neighbour. But the unspoken desire to emulate Chinese economic growth remains in the minds of policymakers and Indian businessmen.  This was reflected in the growing trade, commercial and investment ties between the two countries. In 2001, India was ranked No. 19 as an export destination for Chinese exports. But 15 years later, India’s ranking rose to six, inching closer to even 5. It showed that the Chinese producer was giving importance to India. Even the Indian entrepreneur was sourcing more and more from China, mainly for the huge cost advantage as compared to Europe or America. In 1999, only 5.8% of India’s imports came from China, but that climbed to 41% by 2015. So, not just electronics, chemicals, telecom or power equipment but also everything from readymade garments to agarbattis and Ganesha idols were being imported. Most tellingly, India began importing active pharmaceutical intermediates (API) also from China. The APIs are crucial imports required for India’s dynamic and world-leading pharmaceutical industry, which exports generic drugs (i.e. those whose patents have expired). These low-cost generics help keep healthcare costs low for India as well as for our trading partners.  The import dependence on China continues. Across sectors, India’s China dependence for its imports is as follows: in electronics 45%, in capital goods including boilers and turbines 32%, in organic chemicals 38%, in furniture 57%, in fertilisers 28%, in automotive parts 25%, and in pharmaceuticals API 68%. This import dependency will be very difficult to shrug off in a short while.   India-China trade is more than $100 billion but asymmetrically in favour of China. Similarly, despite a bitter trade war, Sino-US trade is still about $650 billion, though the Americans seem to have been able to tilt it somewhat in their favour. It is not possible for India to do the same with China. That is simply because while India’s dependence is about 35%, China’s reciprocal dependence is not even 2%. So, we cannot withhold certain key export items, like America can. The only option for India is to wean dependence away from China. This will unfortunately increase the cost for the consumer in India. Even if China is selling below cost (which is called “dumping” according to WTO rules, and is a crime), the end-user in India enjoys lower-priced goods. It is also important to note here the statement by Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple, the world’s most valuable company. Apple’s value of production in its Chinese factories is about $220 billion, of which about $185 billion is exported. But Cook said that he is in China not because of lower cost, but because he cannot source that talent anywhere else. So, while it may be true that China’s 40 year history of export-led growth was initially all about low-cost labour, an undervalued currency, and perhaps all kinds of subsidies like cheap power, land and capital, the fact now is that China has got an edge in technology and quality as well. In fields like Artificial Intelligence, electric cars and solar energy, it has emerged as one of the top global players. So, for India, this poses a difficult challenge. The border conflict, and the death of soldiers in Ladakh, has triggered trade sanctions against China. The banning of Chinese apps was swift and has supposedly hurt the parent Chinese company. A Chinese newspaper quoted a damage in value to the tune of $6 billion. But clearly, border conflicts cannot be solved by trade sanctions. It is not clear what the Chinese stand to gain by their expansionism. They will certainly stand to lose access to a market which is ranked fifth or sixth for them. In a world facing a recession, and slowing international trade, why would they hurt their own exporters? Even then, the Indian strategy of moving away from Chinese dependence is not going to be easy. Ironically, we had started reducing the trade deficit in the past three years, which was a hopeful sign. All that will have to be reset, in the light of the Ladakh hostilities. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/prospects-for-india-china-trade-after-galwan-858768.html
09-07-2020||Panorama||Wastewater can sound alarms||When infectious diseases go beyond the expected number of cases, like the present Covid-19, they pose overwhelming challenges to public health monitoring bodies. At such times, an active, early alarm system can reduce the adverse effects.     It turns out that what we flush down our toilets has a wealth of information that could caution us about our wellbeing and health, including the impending danger of outbreaks. Our body regularly eliminates byproducts of food and medicines (metabolites), pollutants, and pathogens through urine and faeces. Stool and urine tests are standard, clinical health check investigation methods at an individual level.  Taking cue from this, wastewater analysis relies on a mass urine and stool examination of people. Raw, untreated sewage effluents are a reservoir of public waste matter which, when screened give valuable insights into the general health of the people in a given region. Inputs from such an assessment called Wastewater Based Epidemiology (WBE) are providing valuable data to experts.  In this new method, real-time, spatially distributed data is collected; quantifiable readings of the elements under scrutiny are measured and extrapolated over the population density. A statistical and epidemiological analysis is applied to the readings from which estimates are drawn. Such mathematical models help in computing the level of distribution of the targeted agent among the people.  WBE was proposed by Daughton et al. in 2001, as a non-intrusive tool at the wastewater treatment plants to monitor the use of illicit drugs in a region. Convinced by the reliable results of this novel approach, several European countries, the USA and Australia began implementing the technique to ensure public health and safety. WBE helped them to determine the public profiles of alcohol, tobacco, pollutants, use of specific medicines, lifestyle diseases and the presence of a few recurring infections.   Now, virologists are applying WBE to scrutinize the new coronavirus. By examining the viral shedding that enters the drains, the patterns of how the virus circulated are emerging. Astonishing results are arising out of these studies.  To cite examples, Italy, the Netherlands, and Brazil performed viral screening in old wastewater samples. In all these regions, the tests revealed that remnants of the viral genetic material existed in the sewage waters well before the first clinically detected case. A few samples from Brazil indicate that the viral signatures were present in their sewages since November – even before China reported its first case.  These outputs are indicative that WBE has the potential to be a powerful tool that can ring the necessary alarm bells. This method may prove to be an early warning system as the conventional clinical identification or self-reporting of cases occur after the disease symptoms have manifested in patients.  The epidemiology reports prompted Italy to launch a pilot study to monitor the wastewaters around its tourist areas. They envisage that WBE will be a strategic tool that can check the resurgence of cases well in advance.   WBE is still in its infancy, and there are several hurdles to be overcome before it becomes a well-established methodology. WBE requires the amalgamation of many disciplines like high-quality sensors, rigorous chemical and biological testing protocols, and real-time continuous monitoring facility at the treatment plants. Designing and developing the sensors is an active and on-going research area, with Australia pioneering in presenting studies on ultra-sensitive, cost-effective prototype sensors. As of now, there is no record if similar wastewater analysis is done in India. Given that our country is plagued by several recurring infectious disease outbreaks often, applying WBE may yield valuable inputs. By employing rapid monitoring facilities at several wastewater treatment plants can help formulate a hypothesis of disease patterns and exposure risks.   On a larger scale, with global collaboration, WBE can progress into a well-established robust methodology. Correlating the results from different communities may help to investigate the various factors that influence disease propagation. Not just in containing the present pandemic but also influence policymaking in preparedness for future outbreaks. (The writer is a science communicator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/wastewater-can-sound-alarms-858771.html
09-07-2020||Right in the Middle||No need for quarantine||Do not hold it against me if I talk about a visit to London. It was not recent, and hence there is no need for quarantine. I believe, the Tower is jinxed as many great people have fallen there since the days of William the conqueror, but I did not expect my wife to slip on the polished stone pathway. There is a cruel streak in people as they are not content in looking at the Kohinoor diamond alone, but like to peep into the tower where Sir Walter Raleigh was jailed who had to share the cell with his wife. Back to the slippery pathway, we managed to put my wife back on her feet and continued our tour into Madame Tussauds. She was limping all the way but not showing signs of a breakdown. We took a train from Marylebone to North London. With difficulty, we got her down to platform two and made her sit on a bench. To our great disappointment, we found we had to climb up a staircase of some 40 odd steps and climb down to get a taxi. There was no way she could do that in her condition. We were panicking and it was getting dark and the station was empty. Then it was this engine driver who was walking towards staff room who was curious. On hearing our plight, he suggested we go back to our compartment and he would take the train round three miles and bring it back to platform one so that we may walk out of the station. He said, "I have to get permission from the Stationmaster, though. Oh here he comes!" He talked to the young gentleman who cleared the procedure, though very much out of the way, for our benefit. We climbed back into the compartment and were taken to the yard and brought back to platform one and as lone passengers, we deboarded and walked away. When a lot of waiting passengers tried to get into the train, the stationmaster told them that this was not a scheduled train and that they would have to return to platform two as usual. We wanted to show our gratitude to the staff of the British Rail. So, the next morning rushed to meet them with a cake and a letter of appreciation. The station master beamed at us and said, "we will take the cake, not the letter. What happened last evening was not regular, and should not be on record in anyway. Well, are you fine now madam?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/no-need-for-quarantine-858767.html
09-07-2020||South||Mask-shaped Parottas, the hottest thing on social media now||Of all the creative campaigns aimed to educate people on the importance of wearing a mask, this one takes the cake. After photos of these unique parottas began to circulate on social media, the restaurant noted a spike in home delivery demands.  S Sathish, who is responsible for making these parottas, said that there is no change in the ingredients used.  Social media is abuzz with this innovation with people debating whether they would feel comfortable eating said parottas or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mask-shaped-parottas-the-hottest-thing-on-social-media-now-858764.html
09-07-2020||South||Gold Smuggling case: Central agencies seek Kerala police help to track absconding woman||Central agencies have sought the "assistance" of Kerala police in finding out the whereabouts of a woman, a former employee of a foreign country's consulate in the state, wanted in connection with the sensational gold smuggling case. Sources privy to the development told PTI that central agencies have "written" to the state police seeking its "technical assistance" in tracking down two absconding persons--a woman and her friend-- who are wanted in connection with the case. The Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Wednesday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his "intervention for an effective investigation" into the seizure of gold worth crores of rupees from a "diplomatic baggage" at Thiruvananthapuram international airport. Meanwhile, the absconding woman, who is suspected to be a prime accused in the case, has moved the Kerala High Court seeking anticipatory bail. The woman moved the bail application via online on Wednesday night. The gold, weighing over 30kg, was seized from a "diplomatic baggage" that had landed by air cargo at Thiruvananthapuram international Airport recently. The Customs department has said it suspected a smuggling syndicate had misused the name of a person who enjoys diplomatic immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-central-agencies-seek-kerala-police-help-to-track-absconding-woman-858959.html
09-07-2020||South||Kerala ambulance driver's meeting with family amid Covid-19 duty goes viral||As the fight against Covid-19 continues endlessly in Kerala, an young ambulance driver couldn't resist his desire to have at least a distant view of his one year old baby and wife. Hence while returning after duty, he asked his wife to stand with the baby on the road side so that he could see them after nearly two months. The video of 29 year old ambulance driver Faizal Kabeer having a glimpse of his  baby Noorah and wife Thansila from the other side of the road has gone viral after a family member posted it on the social media. Faizal, who hails from Kayamkulam in Alappuzha district, is among the hundreds of ambulance drivers engaged in the frontline fight against Covid-19 over the last several months. In order to keep his family safe from the risk of getting infected from him when he occasionally visit's his house, Faizal advised his wife and baby to stay with her parents at Ambalapuzha, which is also in Alappuzha district . Faizal, who has been working in Ernakulam district, came to Thirvananthapuram on July 3 as part of his work. While returning to Ernakulam during the early hours of July 4, he rang up his wife and expressed desire to see her as their baby. Thansila, who was also longing to see her husband, quickly went to the side of the national highway with the baby. On reaching the spot, Faizal stopped the ambulance on the other side of the road and had a glimpse of his dear ones across the NH. "Obviously, l wished to go near my wife and child. But owing to the risks of spreading infection, I even did not step down from the ambulance," said Faizal who had to resume the ambulance journey in a few seconds. Faizal said that it was almost four months since he could touch his baby. The last time he saw his wife and baby was about two months back, that too a distant view, while the two were being shifted to Thansila's parent's house. Most ambulance drivers were having similar plight of not able to see their family for weeks and months as they were involved in the fight against Covid-19, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ambulance-drivers-meeting-with-family-amid-covid-19-duty-goes-viral-858969.html
09-07-2020||South||Taking steps for OBC reservation under all-India quota of MBBS and dental seats: TN||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday said all steps were being taken to get reservation for Other Backward Classes under the all-India (AIQ) quota of medical and dental seats. The government impleaded itself in the Saloni Kumari case on quota for OBCs in AIQ in the Supreme Court after writing twice to the Centre urging it to implement the reservation for OBCs, Health Minister C Vijayabaskar said. Also, for the seats surrendered by Tamil Nadu for the AIQ, a petition seeking implementation of the state's reservation model of 50 percent quota for OBCs (30 percent for OBCs and 20 percent for Most Backward Communities) was separately filed in the apex court, he said in a statement. On this plea, the top court directed Tamil Nadu to approach the High Court and a petition was filed accordingly. Besides this legal initiative, the government has again filed a petition in the Supreme Court on July 2 seeking 50 percent reservation, the Minister said. The government continues to strongly oppose NEET and even on Wednesday, Chief Minister K Palaniswami, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, called for medical admissions based on class 12 marks since conducting NEET during the pandemic was difficult, he said. Palaniswami has also urged Modi to not include salary and farm income for determining the "creamy layer" among the OBCs. "Amma's government will forever be a fortress in protecting the welfare of the backward classes," he said. The Tamil Nadu government does not exclude creamy layer and follows 69 percent reservation for employment and admission in educational institutions. The Centre had informed the Madras High Court it is unlikely to admit students of OBC under AIQ for medical seats in all government institutions unless the Supreme Court comprehensively settles the pending issue. Since 1986, OBC medical aspirants were being accommodated in AIQ seats in central institutions only, and not in all state government colleges, it said. Taking a dig at political parties pleas before the court, the Centre said: "The method has been followed even when most of the petitioners (political parties) were in power through their alliance in the past." A submission to this effect was made by the Centre, in response to a batch of PILs filed by major political parties, including the DMK, AIADMK and PMK. Pointing out that AIQ pool seats comprise 15 percent of all MBBS seats and 50 percent of PG medical seats surrendered by state governments to the Centre, these parties have been demanding 50 percent reservation of seats for OBC students, as per the 69 percent reservation formula in Tamil Nadu||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/taking-steps-for-obc-reservation-under-all-india-quota-of-mbbs-and-dental-seats-tn-858987.html
09-07-2020||South||Former UAE consulate employee denies involvement in smuggling||A former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, who is facing probe in connection with bid to smuggle 30 kilogram gold under cover of diplomatic baggage, has alleged that she enquired about the baggage with the customs officials as per the instruction of the consulate officials. It was in an anticipatory bail plea filed before the Kerala High Court that Swapna Suresh, a former executive secretary to the consul general, maintained that she acted as per the instructions of a senior official of the consulate to clear the baggage. She claimed that even as she quit the job at the consulate, the consulate used to seek her service for various matters. The customs officials had reportedly sought permission from MEA for taking the statement of an official of the consulate to whom the baggage was addressed. Meanwhile, a voice clip, purported to be that of Swapna, came out on Thursday in which she denied her alleged involvement in gold smuggling and nexus with Kerala Chief Minister's office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-uae-consulate-employee-denies-involvement-in-smuggling-859013.html
09-07-2020||South||Five more policemen arrested for custody deaths in Sathankulam||Five more policemen were arrested in a widening investigation into the deaths of a father and his son while in police custody in southern India, an officer said on Thursday, in a case that has put policing in the country under a spotlight. J Jayaraj, 59, and Bennicks Immanuel, 31, were detained for allegedly violating coronavirus lockdown rules in the town of Sathankulam last month and subjected to a brutal thrashing that resulted in rectal bleeding and eventual death, according to a letter to government officials written by Jayaraj's wife J Selvaran. Police Inspector General K Shankar said the five policemen arrested on Wednesday were accused of holding the two men down in a police station in Tamil Nadu state while others beat them. "They have been held for abetment," Shankar said. Five other policemen are already in custody and face charges of murder in a case that people on social media have compared with the death of George Floyd, a Black man, at the hands of police in the United States. India's federal police will soon take over the investigation from the state police. India's National Human Rights Commission says there are nearly 15 cases of custodial violence and torture reported each day from the country and that "it has become almost routine." The father-son duo were accused of keeping their mobile phone shop open despite the lockdown, an offence that at worst would have got them three months in prison, legal experts said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-more-policemen-arrested-for-custody-deaths-in-sathankulam-859024.html
09-07-2020||South||Amid Covid-19 scare, supplementary exams cancelled in Telangana; all second year students pass||The Telangana government on Thursday announced the cancellation of the intermediate second-year supplementary exams and declared every student passed. Education Minister P Sabitha Indra Reddy said as many as 1.47 lakh students, who were supposed to appear for the exams, are considered passed and they can now collect their mark sheets at their respective colleges by July 31. "The chief minister (K Chandrashekhar Rao) took a decision to pass all the students who have failed in the second year exams. These students will be issued a pass certificate under 'compartmental pass' and by July 31, the students will be issued mark memos at their respective colleges," she said. The chief minister took the decision in view of the Covid-19 situation and also not to cause inconvenience to students, Reddy added. Intermediate second-year regular exams were held in March before the announcement of lockdown and subsequently results were declared by the Board of Intermediate Education. The state government last month said all the tenth class (secondary school certificate or SSC) students will be promoted to the next class without any examination, as it would not be possible to conduct it due to the spread of coronavirus in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-covid-19-scare-supplementary-exams-cancelled-in-telangana-all-second-year-students-pass-859029.html
09-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu cop calls woman at midnight for 'enquiry', compulsorily retired||A 48-year old police inspector has been compulsorily retired for alleged misconduct of calling a woman over the phone at midnight and speaking inappropriately in connection with her complaint, an official said here on Thursday. The inspector was compulsorily retired as a punishment and he had spoken to the woman when he was helming a police station in nearby Perambalur district. "We received a complaint that the inspector called up a woman complainant over the phone at midnight for questioning and had spoken unnecessary things. During our enquiry we found that the allegation was true," a senior police official told PTI. The 48-year old inspector belonged to the 1997 batch and the retirement order has been handed over to him. Earlier, the inspector had been transferred from Ponmalai here to Perambalur following an allegation and there were accusations against him even before that, he said. Such allegations in the past were also looked into before taking a decision on punishing the inspector by compulsorily retiring him, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cop-calls-woman-at-midnight-for-enquiry-compulsorily-retired-859044.html
09-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Tirumala not a containment zone, clarifies Chittoor collector||Chittoor collector Dr Bharath Gupta has clarified that Tirumala is neither designated as a Red Zone nor is a containment cluster. A list of containment clusters released by the officials earlier on Thursday mentioned Tirumala, creating confusion among the locals and a prospect of panic among the pilgrims. The famous Lord Venkateswara temple, located on the Tirumala hill in Chittoor district, reopened for the public on 11 June after an 80-day break because of the Covid-19 lockdown. “Tirumala was added to the list by mistake. Only the 200 meters area around the Andhra Pradesh Special Police barracks, where 39 security personnel have tested positive, has been marked as a containment zone as per the ICMR guidelines,” Gupta said. These barracks are located on the way to Papavinasanam, far away from the temple, officials said. “There should not be any misunderstanding for the pilgrims. Proper arrangements with safe distancing are in place for darshan,” the collector said. 17 TTD employees tested positive till Saturday, according to TTD board chairman YV Subba Reddy who pointed that “the affected acquired the virus in their respective places and not in Tirumala.” The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has decided not to enhance the pilgrim footfalls in the temple till July end, as the Covid-19 cases continue to surge in alarming numbers in AP and neighboring states. Chittoor, bordering Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, is one of the more affected districts with 2,001 positive cases and 17 deaths. Against the about 75,000 pilgrims having darshan daily before the pandemic, TTD is now allowing 12,000 devotees per day, 9,000 of them booking time slot darshans online. Darshans resumed initially with around 6,000 pilgrims. Meanwhile, adding to their Covid-19 eradication measures, TTD officials have arranged a tri-ozone spraying system at the temple entrance. “The Hydroxyl Pre-Radical ion in the system emanates like fog thereby killing the micro viruses if any, in the vicinity. The system acts as a protective shield for the devotees and employees from the dreadful diseases,” officials said. Overall, Andhra Pradesh has, till Thursday morning, recorded 23814 Covid-19 cases and 277 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tirumala-not-a-containment-zone-clarifies-chittoor-collector-859065.html
09-07-2020||South||Kerala reports biggest daily spike of 339 infections,Covid-19 tally crosses 6,500 mark||With Covid19 cases continuing to spiral, Kerala on Thursday recorded the biggest single-day spike of 339 infections, taking the count to 6,534, as Chief MinisterPinarayi Vijayan cautioned that the state was "very close" to the threat of community spread. The state reported 133 cases through contact today. As many as 149 people have recovered from the infection on Thursday and 2,795 people are under treatment, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here. In at least seven cases, no source of the infection has been traced yet, he said. Vijayan also said there are possibilities formation of multiple clusters and Covid-19 super spread areas. Of the fresh cases, 117 had returned from abroad and 74 from other states. Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest number of cases for the second consecutive day with 95 being infected today. Of this, 88 were infected through contact from the coastal fishing stretch of Poonthura, which has emerged as a Covid-19 'super spread' area. "We are very close to the threat of community spread. An infection at a fish market has resulted in the complete lockdown of the capital city," Vijayan said. The virus has reached various parts of Thiruvanathapuram district, including Aryanad which is in the eastern part of the district. Commandos and 500 police personnel have been deputed in Poonthura to strictly enforce the lockdown there, the chief minister said, adding police has distributed one lakh free masks in the area and in Aryanad also. The situation in Kochi was also precarious and at any time the government can impose further stringent restrictions, he said. District wise break-up of cases: Malappuram 55, Palakkad 50, Thrissur 27, Alappuzha 22, Idukki 20, Ernakulam 12, Kasaragod 11, Kollam 10, Kozhikode eight, Kottayam seven, Wayanad and Pathnamthitta seven and Kannur eight. In the last 24 hours, 12,592 samples have been tested.So far, 2,20,677 samples have been tested and results of 4,854 are awaited. About 1,85,960 lakh people are under observation in various districts and 3261 are in various hospitals, including 471 admitted today. There are 151 hotspots in the state as of today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-biggest-daily-spike-of-339-infectionscovid-19-tally-crosses-6500-mark-859109.html
09-07-2020||South||Kerala CM raises alert against chances of super-spread Covid-19 clusters||A grim scenario is prevailing in Kerala with fresh Covid-19 cases steadily increasing day by day with 339 more on Thursday. More disturbing was the steep hike in spread due to local spread as 133 such cases were confirmed on Thursday. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the chances of formation of more Covid-19 clusters with super spread was very high. Already super spread was conformed at the coastal area of Poonthura in Thiruvannathapuram city limits and there was a spike at some other parts of the district also. In the last three days 213 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Thiruvananthapuram, of which 190 were due to local contact. Of the 95 fresh cases in the district on Thursday, 88 were due to local contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-raises-alert-against-chances-of-super-spread-covid-19-clusters-859132.html
09-07-2020||State||Karnataka: University exams by end of September||State-run universities are making preparations to conduct examinations for final year undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the last week of September. Following the revised guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC), all state-run universities are awaiting standard operating procedures (SOP) from the state higher education department. Though online mode of examinations is under discussion, vice-chancellors are favouring pen and paper mode. Physical classes will be held at least for three weeks before allowing them to appear for exams. Bangalore University vice-chancellor Prof K R Venugopal said, “All universities have to follow UGC guidelines and according to revised guidelines, we need to conduct exams during the last week of September by adopting the SOP issued by the government during this Covid-19 pandemic situation.” However, the heads of universities feel that it would depend on the Covid situation at that time and in case there is a spike, UGC may revise the guidelines again. Meanwhile, Bangalore University is all set to conduct examinations for UVCE and University Law College.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-university-exams-by-end-of-september-858773.html
09-07-2020||State||Karnataka sees record 54 coronavirus deaths, 2,062 Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 2,062 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far since the start of the pandemic. The state also reported a record 54 deaths, which raised the total toll to 474.  A 14-year-old from Bengaluru was among the 23 who succumbed to the disease in the state capital. The city saw 1,148 cases on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said that the Covid surge, especially in Bengaluru, came much earlier than what the government had projected or expected.  “In Bengaluru, we knew the cases would go up soon after the lockdown was relaxed. But such a big rise did not figure in the information we had with us. These numbers were for July-end, but they came now,” he said.  “Still, there’s no need for panic and we are making all arrangements,” he said.  Last month, the Karnataka Covid-19 War Room that Sudhakar manages had projected that the number of cases in the state was likely to touch 25,000 by mid-August. But there are 28,877 positive cases now, whereas the number of active cases is 16,527 already.  In Bengaluru, three-fifths of the total Covid cases were reported in the past one week.  Earlier in the day, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa huddled with Sudhakar, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and others to take stock of the situation.  While expressing confidence that the government had the situation under control, Narayan asked citizens not to head out of Bengaluru for now. “Compared with Hyderabad, Chennai and Mumbai, the situation in Bengaluru is under control,” he said.  The Cabinet, which is scheduled to meet on Thursday, is likely to discuss the situation. The government might resort to stricter curbs, especially on the movement of people. One speculation is that the Sunday lockdown might be imposed on Saturdays as well given that government offices will be closed anyway. “There might be clamour for a lockdown,” one IAS officer conjectured. Speculation is also rife that the government might consider withdrawing permission for dine-in services at hotels and restaurants.  The Cabinet is also expected to discuss recruiting doctors to ramp up the state’s health infrastructure, sources said.  100 more ambulances for Bengaluru Yediyurappa has ordered adding an additional 100 ambulances for Bengaluru. “We had said 400, but the CM has said another 100 to be added,” Sudhakar said.  “In two days, this will be integrated into the dashboard at our war room. As soon as a positive, symptomatic case is reported, the patient will get a call from the war room with details on when s/he will be picked up. This will be done scientifically without any scope for laxity,” hesaid. The minister also clarified that asymptomatic Covid-19 patients do not require an ambulance to be taken to a Covid Care Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sees-record-54-coronavirus-deaths-2062-covid-19-cases-858777.html
09-07-2020||State||Pandavapura sugar factory to start crushing from August 11||Crushing of sugarcane at the Pandavapura sugar factory in Mandya district will start on August 11, BJP leader and MLA Murugesh Nirani, whose Nirani Sugars recently won the bid to operate the unit for a 40-year period, said.  The agreement copy of the same will be handed over on Friday. The company plans to invest around Rs 600 crore in the coming years to upgrade the capacity of the plant.  Speaking to DH, Nirani said that three of the nine sugar factories in South Karnataka were sick. “When government invited a global tender to revive Pandavapura Sahakari Sakkare Karkhane (PSSK), Nirani Sugars’ bid of Rs 405 crore for 40 years was the highest among three bidders,” he said. It was a qualified technical bid by Nirani Sugars, Nirani said, denying charges that the factory was offered as a favour after he was denied a Cabinet berth in the BS Yediyurappa government formed in 2019. PSSK, which has a crushing capacity of 3,500 tonnes, will be upgraded to 10,000 tonnes. The factory had never crushed more than 3,000 tonnes. “There are plans to generate 40 MW power, two lakh litre of ethanol per day, 100 tonnes of CO2 and 150 tonnes of compressed natural gas," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pandavapura-sugar-factory-to-start-crushing-from-august-11-859116.html
09-07-2020||State||Quoted out of context, says Murugesh Nirani||BJP MLA Murugesh Nirani has dismissed Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s claim that he wanted to submit a pen drive that supposedly had proof of irregularities in Covid-19 procurement. In a statement, Nirani said that his remarks about a person from Vijayapura - who had come to Bengaluru to submit documents over irregularities in Covid-19 equipment procurement to the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) - were misinterpreted. ““I neither met that person after the meeting nor am I acquainted to him,” he said, adding that the Opposition must refrain from using his remarks for political gain. On allegations that disgruntlement over being left out of the cabinet had triggered the remarks, he said that the incident was not connected to the issue. “Inducting me to the Cabinet is left to the discretion of high command and the chief minister,” he added. On Wednesday, Siddaramaiah tweeted a document purported to be the minutes of the PAC meeting to claim that Nirani had submitted a pen drive with documents regarding Covid-19 irregularities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/quoted-out-of-context-says-murugesh-nirani-859118.html
09-07-2020||State||Overnight downpour pours misery on Uttara Kannada||Heavy showers on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday in Uttara Kannada flooded National Highway 66 and left several villages in Karwar and Ankola taluks marooned. The overnight showers turned Avarsa, Hattikeri and surrounding villages in Ankola taluk and Kinnar in Karwar taluk into islands. Police and Fire personnel, joined by the locals, evacuated the marooned villagers. The vehicular traffic on NH 66 was stalled for over two hours after the rainwater that cascaded down the hills near Amadalli in Karwar, flooded the highway. Also, the ongoing four-laning of highway made the matters worse. Vehicles were lined up for 3 km on either side. Landslide at Dabguli and overflowing streams affected traffic on Yellapur-Mundgod road. Inflows into Supa and Kadra reservoirs have increased significantly. Kadra dam is just three metres shy of reaching its full reservoir level (FRL). While Kadra recorded a whopping 17 cm of rain in the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Thursday), Jagalbet received 11 cm of rain. Bhatkal and Honnavar witnessed 8 cm each. Udupi and Dakshina Kannada received intermittent showers on Thursday. Almatti inflow increases  Meanwhile, seven low-lying barrage-cum-bridges across Krishna river and its tributaries in Belagavi district have gone under water. Torrential rain in the Western Ghats of Maharashtra has upped the water level in the rivers.Inflow into Almatti dam on Thursday clocked 49,636 cusecs. The reservoir is three metres short of reaching its FRL. With Ghataprabha river flowing at danger level, as many as 10 villages have been cut off following the submergence of two bridges Mirji-Mallapur and Mahalingapur-Yadwad in Bagalkot district. Many parts of Dharwad district experienced heavy showers on Thursday. Commuters had a tough task in negotiating the waterlogged Toll Naka in Dharwad. Kalaghatagi town recorded 12.2 cm rain on Thursday while Dharwad and Hubballi cities registered 5 and 4 cm respectively. With the exception of Hosanagara in Shivamogga, Malnad districts - Kodagu, Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru - witnessed moderate rain on Thursday. It poured in Hosanagara, which according to weather department recorded 15 cm in the last 24 hours. Several parts of Kolar district, including Srinivaspura taluk, received a few spells of moderate to heavy rain on Thursday. IMD predicts morewet days The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rain for seven districts in coast and Malnad from July 10 to 14. The south interior Karnataka is also likely to receive moderate to heavy rain in the next five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/overnight-downpour-pours-misery-on-uttara-kannada-859119.html
09-07-2020||State||Hubballi trader dies of Covid-19 in Kasargod||A 55-year-old Hubballi-based trader died of Covid-19 at his native Kasargod, Kerala, on Tuesday.  According to a statement from Kasargod district medical officer, the Mogral Puthur native was running a provision store at Hubballi. He developed fever while in Hubballi and returned to Kerala by car with two friends onJuly 6 night. He developed breathlessness after reaching Talapady check-post in the early hours of July 7. He, however, died en route to Kasargod general hospital. His swab samples was subjected to test and the result returned positive for Covid-10 on Wednesday. He was earlier undergoing treatment for heart ailments and had also undergone angioplasty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-trader-dies-of-covid-19-in-kasargod-859121.html
09-07-2020||State||DC orders closure of forest safari, lodges in HD Kote taluk||With cases of Covid-19 spreading, the district administration has taken certain measures to contain the disease. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar has issued orders to the authorities of the tiger reserves and accommodation facilities to suspend their activities in HD Kote and Hunsur taluks. The DC has ordered the authorities of Bandipur and Nagarahole Tiger reserves to suspend safari camps from Friday. The safari camps, resorts and hotels were closed in March as a precautionary measure. Even though they were allowed to function, since June 17, tourists footfall is less.  The DC issued the orders to accommodation facilities to suspend their activities under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases (Covid-19) Regulations-2020 and Disaster Management Act of 2005. The DC also ordered hotels, lodges, resorts and homestays in HD Kote taluk not to provide accommodation facility to tourists. The accommodation facilities must cancel online and offline bookings. The tourists who are already staying in the resorts are allowed to complete their stay. Appeal to cancelprogrammes The DC has urged the MLAs of the district and Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha to either postpone or cancel their public programmes. The district has 11 MLAs. Progammes, such as foundation laying ceremony, inaugural ceremony and others are requested to be suspended. In a communication, the DC has stated that Covid virus is resulting in deaths and to contain the spread of the infection, it is requested either to cancel or postpone the scheduled programmes. It is required to control large gatherings, to contain the spread of Covid. A maximum of 20 persons can gather in case of emergency, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dc-orders-closure-of-forest-safari-lodges-in-hd-kote-taluk-859122.html
09-07-2020||State||Brace for heavy rains this weekend||The Indian Meteorological Department has sounded a high alert for heavy rainfall over coastal and south interior Karnataka this weekend. Further, the forecast issued by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC) has revealed widespread heavy rainfall for the next five days in Bengaluru and adjoining districts.  According to officials of KSNDMC, Ghadasai village near Karwar witnessed the highest rainfall of 109.5 mm. “Rain is likely to occur at most places over coastal, south interior Karnataka and at many places in north interior Karnataka in the next 24 hours. Thundershowers and heavy rainfall are expected in coastal and south interior Karnataka,” a senior meteorologist from IMD said.  “Monsoon has been active and the weather has also favoured the advancement of monsoon."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/brace-for-heavy-rains-this-weekend-859140.html
09-07-2020||State||Cabinet clears greenfield Vijayapura airport||The Cabinet on Thursday accorded its approval for a civilian airport at Vijayapura at a cost of Rs 220 crore. “The Cabinet has given administrative approval for the airport project that will cost Rs 220 crore. Of this, Rs 95 crore will be released in the first year for civil works including leveling of grounds, construction of runway, taxiway, aprons and passenger terminal,” Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters.  The greenfield airport project is being executed by the Public Works Department that hopes to finish works in one year. According to Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who is also the PWD minister, the airport will come up near the Buranapur and Madhubhavi villages.  Some 727 acres were acquired for the project and work was entrusted to MARG Ltd in 2010, which was cancelled in 2014.  Once completed, the Vijayapura airport will function under the UDAN regional connectivity scheme.  The Cabinet also gave administrative approval for the Indian Institute of Information Technology at Raichur. “Over four years, we’ve committed to spend Rs 44.8 crore on infrastructure,” Madhuswamy said.  Madhuswamy said the Cabinet decided to give an interest-free loan of Rs 2,500 crore to help Escoms pay off debt - Bescom (Rs 500 crore), Hescom (Rs 400 crore), Gescom (Rs 1,000 crore) and Cescom (Rs 600 crore). Other decisions Develop, implement ‘e-Procurement 2.0’ project on PPP basis - Rs 184.37 crore.  Karnataka Vidyuth Karkhane (Kavika) and Mysore Electrical Industries (MEI) to come under the energy department from commerce & industries department.  Reduce the market cess atAPMCs from 1.5% to 1%. Approval to take up infrastructure works worth Rs 12.8 crore at Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences. Transfer the ownership of 4.34 acres of land to Tiptur Guru Pardeshikendra Swami Rangapura Kshetra, whose lease has ended, at 50% guidance value.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cabinet-clears-greenfield-vijayapura-airport-859144.html
09-07-2020||State||Now, Sedam MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur on Thursday joined the growing list of people's representatives from the state to test positive for Covid-19, reports DHNS from Kalaburagi. The BJP MLA's wife and their eight-year-old son also tested positive for the virus. A couple of days back, Patil Telkur's personal assistant had contracted the disease. The MLA, his wife and their child are asymptomatic and are undergoing treatment at a Bengaluru hospital. Patil Telkur is the sixth lawmaker from the state to contract Covid-19. In the last one week, Bharath Shetty (Mangalore North), Ranganath (Kunigal), Sharath Bachegowda (Hosakote) and MLCs Pranesh and Bhoje Gowda have tested positive for the virus. Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, former Union minister Janardhan Poojary and ex-MLC Puttanna also have contracted the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-sedam-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-859145.html
09-07-2020||State||Bangarpet tahsildar stabbed to death by retd teacher||In a ghastly attack carried out in broad daylight on Thursday, Bangarpet Tahsildar Chandramouleshwar (53) was stabbed to death during the survey of disputed land in the taluk. Suspect Venakatachalapathi, a retired school teacher, stabbed the officer with a knife in front of the Revenue staff and policemen on Thursday evening. Following the incident, the officer was rushed to R N Jalappa Hospital in Kolar. But the doctors pronounced him dead. The Kamasamudra police have registered a case and launched a hunt to nab the suspect. Following an application by one Ramamurthy for the survey of the land bearing survey numbers 5/4 at Kalavanchi village, the tahsildar, along with Revenue staff and police personnel, went to the site to conduct the survey. The land had a history of disputes between the applicant and Venkatachalapati. During the survey, the suspect abused the officers and the applicant. When the tahslidar was about to leave, Venkatachalapati stabbed the officer in chest, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bangarpet-tahsildar-stabbed-to-death-by-retd-teacher-859147.html
09-07-2020||State||Vehicular movement banned on Charmadi Ghat||Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham has issued an order banning the movement of vehicles on Charmadi Ghat section road between 7 pm and 7 am. The move has been taken as a precautionary measure as the soil in the region has loosened due to heavy rains, stated a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vehicular-movement-banned-on-charmadi-ghat-859148.html
09-07-2020||State||BoM opens branch in Shivamogga||Bank of Maharashtra on Thursday opened its 1,835th branch in Shivamogga. This is also its 57th branch in Karnataka. It was opened by the bank's executive director Nageswara Rao, the bank said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bom-opens-branch-in-shivamogga-859159.html
09-07-2020||State||Water release: HC tells state govt to get inputs from M'rashtra||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the state government to be in touch with the officials of government of Maharashtra calling upon them to immediately give information on release of water from the reservoirs. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M Nagaprasanna passed the direction on a PIL filed by A Mallikarjuna. During the hearing, the petitioner stated that the Maharashtra has been receiving torrential rains in the last few weeks and there was all likelihood of release of water this year. The bench observed that none of the documents submitted by the central and the state government throw any light on the mechanism that directs immediate intimation to the neighbouring states about the release of water. "We therefore issue directions to the Central Government to ensure that appropriate directions are issued by the National Executive Committee to intimate the states under Section 10 of the act (Disaster Management Act). Till the directions issued by the National Executive Committee, it is necessary that officers of the government of Karnataka to be in touch with the Chief Secretary or the officials of Maharashtra calling upon them to immediately give information on the decision taken to release water from the reservoirs or dams from the state of Maharashtra,’’ the bench directed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/water-release-hc-tells-state-govt-to-get-inputs-from-mrashtra-859160.html
09-07-2020||State||Asha workers' legwork leveraged like never before||Shantha (name changed), 36, an Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) worker in a village in Bagalkot district visits around 50 houses in a day. Working for long hours has become a norm for her since the Covid-19 outbreak in March. During the course of a day, she counsels an elderly couple, delivers medicines to a pregnant woman, takes newborns and mothers to the district hospital, keeps a watch on city-returnees who are home quarantined, enforces social distancing and educates a small crowd of people near the village bus stand about using sanitisers and masks.  She also documents each activity by taking photographs and videos, to be submitted to a higher official. Shantha does all this with ease and without complaining, because she knows she is responsible for the village’s health.  With over 40,000 Asha workers across Karnataka working tirelessly to protect the communities from Covid-19, administration and society look at them in awe. “Our work has suddenly become visible. But does appreciation ensure our safety? Does recognition fill our stomach?” Shantha asks. She gets a monthly salary of Rs 4,000. Though she is eligible for some incentives, she doesn’t get them due to technical glitches.  With masks and sanitisers in limited supply, she is forced to buy low-priced items on her own. “I can’t afford to buy more effective masks. I haven’t got gloves,” she says.  A steady flow of people returning to the villages demands that Asha workers are alert 24x7. “Many of them don’t inform about their return fearing home quarantine. Thankfully, villagers have remained vigilant even after the lockdown period and update me,” she says.   During our 30-minute telephonic conversation, Shantha had got four calls from her fellow villagers informing her about a family that will return the next day.  Shantha, however, feels her situation is much better than those who have to work in coronavirus-affected areas. Though her village has not recorded a Covid-19 case so far, she is anxious and worried about her health, that of her family and hundreds of people she meets every day. A sense of resilience, however, obscures her fears.  Over 1.25 lakh Anganwadi workers, who work alongside Asha workers on Covid-19 duty, have not been provided with even basic protective gear - be it sanitiser or mask, says S Varalakshmi, president, Karnataka State Anganwadi Workers’ Association.  Now, Covid-19 cases are emerging among these frontline warriors. Equally worrying is the toll that the extra work and stress is taking on their heath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/asha-workers-legwork-leveraged-like-never-before-859162.html
09-07-2020||State||K'taka sees highest single-day tally of 2,228 cases; B'luru logs 1,373||Karnataka on Thursday recorded highest single-day tally of Covid-19 cases at 2,228 with Bengaluru Urban alone accounting for a whopping 1,373 fresh infections. Thursday's cases took the state tally past 30,000-mark (to be precise 31,105). The state reported 17 Covid fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking its toll to 486. While Dakshina Kannada witnessed 167 new cases as many as 21 districts saw cases in two digits with three of them reporting more than 50 cases. On the bright side, 957 patients were discharged post recovery across the state. According to the Health department's bulletin, a total of 18,952 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters, "30,000 to 40,000 samples will be tested through antigen test kits in Bengaluru. The city's mortality rate is currently 1.28%."  The minister admitted that contact tracing was not as robust as before. "Looks like BBMP workers are exhausted," he said.   On the facilities available for asymptomatic Covid patients in the city, the minister said, five Covid Care Centres in the city have 2,088 beds, including 552 beds in Karnataka Haj Bhavan. Engg college hostels on standby The covid care centre (CCC) will soon be operational at UHS boys hostel, GKVK campus, UHS girls hostel, Koramangala indoor stadium, Gnanabharathi, Gnanabharathi girls hostel, and police quarters complex, KR Puram. The Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) will be tentatively opened by July 17 or latest by July 21, Sudhakar said. This apart, hostels of PES College, RV Engineering College, BGS Engineering College, RNSIT College, Dayananad Sagar University and Palace Grounds have been kept on standby. These centres can provide 5,640 more beds, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ktaka-sees-highest-single-day-tally-of-2228-cases-bluru-logs-1373-859166.html
09-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 going out of control in some districts: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||“In some districts, it’s getting out of control a little. But the district administration and police are working day and night,” Yediyurappa said before the Cabinet meeting where the Covid-19 situation will be discussed.   Speculation is rife that the government might consider stricter measures to curb the movement of people to try arresting the rising number of Covid-19 cases.  Later in the day, Yediyurappa is slated to inspect the Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre, which has been converted into a Covid Care Centre with 10,000 beds. The chief minister said he had ordered “immediate” arrangement of more ambulances for Bengaluru, where cases are rapidly shooting up. “A team from the Centre had come. They’ve made some observations and they also appreciated us for some of the things we’ve done,” he added.  On Friday, Yediyurappa has convened a meeting of all Bengaluru ministers, legislators, MPs and councillors to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-going-out-of-control-in-some-districts-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-858897.html
09-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka approves enhancing contingency fund limit to Rs 500 crore due to Covid-19||The Karnataka cabinet on Thursday gave its approval for "The Karnataka Contingency Fund (Amendment) Bill, 2020" to enhance the contingency fund limit to Rs 500 crore in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This will be an ordinance making one-time enhancement in the limit as the government needs money to make payments immediately, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy told reporters after a cabinet meeting. Under the contingency fund, the government had room to spend up to Rs 80 crore without budget provision. ".. but this time due to Covid-19 as we had to give money to some sections that were in distress like barbers, flower and vegetable growers, taxi drivers, among others, we have decided to increase the limit to Rs 500 crore,"l Madhuswamy said. "As the assembly was not in session and as we had to make payments to those in distress immediately, this decision has been taken," he added. The cabinet today ratified the administrative approval given to carry out civil and electrical works to install medical gas pipeline with high flow oxygen system at district hospitals, taluk and community health centres coming under Health and Family welfare department in view of Covid- 19. The minister said about Rs 207 crore is being approved for this purpose. It also ratified the procurement of medical equipment and furniture for public healthcare institutions of the health and family welfare department worth Rs 81.99 crore. According to the minister, the cabinet has decided to bring in an amendment to section 9 of the Lokayukta Act, which mandates that the preliminary inquiry contemplated by Lokayukta or Upalokayuta should be completed in 90 days and charge sheeting should be completed within six months. Noting that at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) cess was being collected, he said as the government had brought in an amendment to the APMC act, there was a demand to reduce the market cess. "So we have reduced it from 1.5 percent to one percent." Approval has also been given by the cabinet to bring Karnataka Vidyuth Kharkane (KAVIKA) and Mysore Electrical Industries (MEI), which are presently under the control of Commerce and Industries department, under the administrative control of the energy department. Other decisions taken by the cabinet include deployment and implementation of "e-procurement 2.0" project on PPP at a cost of Rs 184.37 crore and ratification of the action taken to issue orders on March 24 to release interest-free loan of Rs 2,500 crore to ESCOMs for payment of outstanding power purchase dues to generating companies. The cabinet also gave administrative approval for setting up of an Indian Institute of Information technology at Raichur. "Under this, we are committed to providing Rs 44.8 crore in four years for infrastructure," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-approves-enhancing-contingency-fund-limit-to-rs-500-crore-due-to-covid-19-859073.html
09-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka forms Covid-19 crack team for Bengaluru as cases continue to spike||In a new game plan to tame Covid-19, the Cabinet on Thursday decided to form a ministerial team to manage the pandemic in each of the eight municipal zones in Bengaluru, the state capital where cases have been rising rapidly.  There are seven ministers from Bengaluru in Yediyurappa’s Cabinet who along with CM’s political secretary SR Vishwanath will manage the Covid-19 affairs in the east, west, south, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bommanahalli, Mahadevapura, Dasarahalli and Yelahanka municipal zones.  Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan is placed in charge of the west zone, Revenue Minister R Ashoka of south, Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar in Bommanahalli, Housing Minister V Somanna for east, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar in Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Urban Development Minister BA Basavaraja at Mahadevapura, Food & Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah in Dasarahalli and Vishwanath in Yelahanka. The government also appointed senior IAS officers in each of the eight zones to “monitor, review and take immediate decisions” on effectively controlling the spread of Covid-19 in the city.  On Thursday, Karnataka reported 2,228 new Covid-19 cases of which 1,373 are in Bengaluru Urban. With this, the state has 17,782 active cases with the city district alone home to 10,870 of them. This is the highest single day spike so far for both Karnataka and Bengaluru. “The chief minister has appointed the ministers to each zone where they will be in-charge of taking steps to control the Covid-19 pandemic,” Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting.  “Coronavirus is now (spreading) deeply. We discussed that and the steps that are needed. It was decided to increase the number of beds with high-flow oxygen facilities in taluk and district hospitals, do more tests and deliver the results faster,” Madhuswamy said.  The Cabinet approved spending Rs 207 crore to provide “medical gas pipeline with high-flow oxygen” and emergency beds alongside other infrastructure at taluk and district hospitals. The Cabinet also approved Rs 81.99 crore spent by the health department on purchasing medical equipment at public health centres.  The Cabinet approved the promulgation of an ordinance that will increase the government’s contingency fund limit to Rs 500 crore. “Currently, we’re allowed to spend only Rs 80 crore from the contingency fund. But because of Covid-19, we’ve had to provide immediate financial aid to several communities whose livelihood was affected. So, as a one-time measure, the limit of the fund will be increased to Rs 500 crore through an ordinance,” Madhuswamy explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-forms-covid-19-crack-team-for-bengaluru-as-cases-continue-to-spike-859077.html
09-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Biggest single-day spike of 2,228 Covid-19 cases in Karnataka; 1,373 new infections in Bengaluru||The total number of Covid-19 infections in Karnataka on Thursday breached the 30,000 mark as the state reported its biggest single-day spike of over 2,200 new cases and 17 related fatalities, taking the death toll to 486, the Health department said. The day also saw a record 957 patients getting discharged after recovery, out of which 606 were from Bengaluru Urban. Out of the 2,228 fresh cases reported on Thursday, a whopping 1,373 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on July 8 with 2,062 cases. As of July 9 evening, cumulatively 31,105 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 486 deaths and 12,833 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 17,782 active cases, 17,325 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 457 are in ICU. "Death rate in Karnataka is 1.49 percent, while in Bengaluru is 1.28 percent, and our target is to bring it below 1 percent," Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar told reporters. "The reason for spike in cases in Bengaluru and other places in recent days is because during the last four months of lockdown we had controlled it very well, but as we relaxed lockdown for economic activities we did not follow certain precautionary measures like distance among other things," he said. The Minister also conceded that there were lapses on part of the government also in terms of tracing and tracking. "It has to be improved especially in Bengaluru and we are taking steps in this regard." Among the 17 dead seven were from Dharwad, two each from Hassan, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, and one each from Raichur, Uttara Kannada, Tumakuru and Davangere. The deceased include 13 men and 4 women. The dead are all either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Out of 2,228 fresh cases today, contacts of the majority of the cases are still under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,373, followed by Dakshina Kannada (167), Kalaburagi (85) and Dharwad (75). Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 13,882 infections, followed by Kalaburagi (1,901) and Dakshina Kannada 1,701. Among discharges Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 2,834, followed by Kalabuagi (1,392) and Udupi (1,206). A total of 7,79,209 samples were tested so far, out of which 20,028 were tested on Thursday alone. So far 7,28,887 samples have been reported as negative, and of them 17,568 were reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/biggest-single-day-spike-of-2228-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-1373-new-infections-in-bengaluru-859153.html
09-07-2020||West||Goa Board may reduce class 10, 12 syllabus to make up for academic loss||The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Examination (GBSHSE) is contemplating to reduce the syllabus for classes 10 and 12 for the academic year 2020-21 in view of the closure of schools due to the Covid-19 outbreak, a senior official said. The board will consider views of the Principals Forum and the Goa Headmasters Association before taking any final decision, GBSHSE Chairman Ramakrishna Samant told reporters on Wednesday. "We will come up with a decision in the next few days, he said. The 2020-21 academic session, which was supposed to begin from the first week of June, is yet to commence. As per the Goa education department's order issued last month, schools in the coastal state will remain closed till July 31. On Tuesday, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has rationalised the syllabus for classes 9 to 12 for the academic year 2020-21 by upto 30 per cent to make up for the academic loss caused due to Covid-19. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the central government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24. While the government has eased several restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-board-may-reduce-class-10-12-syllabus-to-make-up-for-academic-loss-858875.html
09-07-2020||West||Three girls make paintings to raise funds for Covid-19 battle||Three-teenaged friends in Maharashtra's Nagpur district have used their creative skills to raise funds for those at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19 and for mentally challenged children and an orphanage. Soumya Dalimya (17), a Class 12 student, Presha Bhattad (15), a student of Class 10, and Ditya Thapar, who is in Class 8, utilised the lockdown time to make 44 paintings. They have so far raised Rs 84,000 through the sale of their art works. They intend to donate 50 per cent of the amount to the Prime Minister's CARES Fund and the remaining to an orphanage for girls and a centre for mentally deranged children. Soumya, who has been painting since she was in class 3, told PTI that after seeing people suffering at this time of crisis, she and her two family friends thought of using their creative skills to help the needy. "We made 44 paintings and promoted their sale through social media. I have an art page on Instagram through which the paintings were put up for sale. We also made paintings on order," she said. Initially, they faced problems in getting the painting material during the lockdown, but a shop owner helped them by fulfilling all their requirements, considering the cause taken up by them, she said. They also came to know about an orphanage for girls in the city and another centre for mentally challenged children through 'Swacch Nagpur' NGO and decided to contribute money to them also. Soumya said they plan to donate 50 per cent of the amount to the PM CARES Fund and from the remaining amount, they will provide health care necessities, like sanitary napkins and hygiene kits, as well as books to the orphanage for girls and the centre for mentally challenged children. Talking about their initiative, Presha said after seeing people losing jobs and many not having enough food, they decided to help them. "We started painting and selling our art works. We got a good response and got more painting orders. I was also inspired by my mother as I have seen her doing a lot of charity work," she said. "It feels nice to do our bit for the society, and people are supporting us a lot," she added. The girls said they still have a lot of painting orders to complete and their target is to raise Rs 1 lakh for the causes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-girls-make-paintings-to-raise-funds-for-covid-19-battle-858881.html
09-07-2020||West||No source of income: Diamond industry workers leave Surat in large numbers||With diamond units closed in Surat in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, a number of workers employed in these units are leaving the Gujarat city every day as they are now left with no source of income, those associated with the business claimed. Surat Diamond Workers Union president Jaysukh Gajera said they fear 70 per cent of the workers who are leaving the city may never come back. Over six lakh people are employed in more than 9,000 diamond cutting and polishing units here which remained shut from March-end till the first week of June. But, since the business activities resumed in the second week of June, over 600 workers and their families have tested positive for coronavirus so far. As a precautionary measure, the Surat Municipal Corporation earlier this week ordered the diamond polishing units to remain closed till July 13. Surat Luxury Bus Operators Association president Dinesh Andhan claimed that on an average, 300 buses carrying nearly 6,000 people, mostly diamond industry workers, leave from Surat every day for Saurashtra and north Gujarat, from where these workers had come here in search of work.  "While nearly 6,000 workers are leaving the city in luxury buses, some 4,000 are leaving in cars, trucks and other vehicles every day. Many are leaving with their belongings. Bus operators are not charging them for their luggage and belongings being accommodated on top of the buses," he told PTI. When contacted, Surat Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said they don't have the figures of those leaving the city. However, Andhan said they are witnessing a greater rush of people leaving the city now than what it used to be during the Diwali vacations. As the diamond polishing units are now shut, the workers who were living in rented houses are unable to sustain their livelihood, Gajera said. "They have been jobless for almost four months and there is little hope the situation will improve in the near future. Nearly 1,500 families are leaving for their native places in mini-trucks every day with their belongings," he claimed. "This is unprecedented. We believe 70 per cent workers who are leaving with their belongings may never come back. Even if they do, they will not return with their families," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-source-of-income-diamond-industry-workers-leave-surat-in-large-numbers-858907.html
09-07-2020||West||Eight Sanjay Gandhi National Park staffers down with Covid-19||Around 8 employees of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) have tested positive for Covid-19. The SGNP is the only national park that is located within metropolitan limits, in the green lung of Mumbai. It has the largest leopard density of the world - with 47 leopards roaming the jungles in the middle of urban expanses. The SGNP and its larger periphery - spread in three districts of Mumbai Suburban, Palghar and Thane - is frequented by people including for morning walks, but has been shut since the lockdown. Over the past few weeks, the demand is growing to open the gates for morning walkers but the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) is deterring the SGNP to allow visitors. The entire spread includes (103 sq km), Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (85.7 sq km) of Maharashtra State. There are three territorial ranges in this division - Yeoor range, Tulsi range and Krishnagiri Upvan range that have been divided into 9 rounds and 25 beats. "Eight guards have tested Covid-19 positive and some are in quarantine. It is difficult to open the park areas at this stage," SGNP sources said. Monsoon attracts huge crowd at the park because of lush green cover and flowing streams. Besides leopards, the SGNP and its neighborhood which include the Aarey Milk Colony and FilmCity is home to more than 275 species of birds, 35 species of mammals, 80 species of reptiles and amphibians, 170 species of butterflies, several species of fish and a staggering 1,300 species of plants. Lakhs of people stay around the SGNP - where the number of Covid-19 cases is high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eight-sanjay-gandhi-national-park-staffers-down-with-covid-19-858931.html
09-07-2020||West||Seven more Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan||Rajasthan reported seven more Covid-19 deaths and 149 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Thursday, taking the death toll to 489 and total tally to 22,212, officials said.  There are 4,846 active cases in the state. While three deaths were reported in Pali, two were in Jodhpur, one each in Nagaur and Udaipur.  In Jaipur alone, the death toll due to coronavirus infection has increased to 169 followed by 64 in Jodhpur, 40 in Bharatpur, 26 in Kota, 22 in Ajmer, 18 in Bikaner, 15 in Nagaur, 15 in Pali and 11 in Dholpur.  According to an official report, 29 new cases were reported in Nagaur, 25 in Jaipur, 21 in Alwar, 20 in Ajmer, 16 in Bharatpur, 13 in Bikaner, 11 in Dausa and eight in Jhunjhunu besides cases in other districts.  A total of 16,504 people have been discharged after treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/seven-more-covid-19-deaths-in-rajasthan-858950.html
09-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Palghar receives 3,000 antigen testing kits||As many as 3,000 antigen testing kits have been given to Maharashtra's Palghar district and 10,000 more will be procured for the detection of Covid-19 infections, collector Dr Kailash Shinde said on Thursday. In a recorded message, Shinde said the administration is doing its best to bring down the mortality rate, which is at 1.3 per cent, while the recovery rate was at 62 per cent. The district has received 3,000 antigen testing kits under the state government's "Chase the Virus" campaign and 10,000 more will be procured by the district administration to screen suspected patients in the district, he said. Moreover, an auto RT-PCR machine, with the capacity to test 500 samples a day, has been requisitioned at a lab in Dahanu, the collector said. Apart from this, 50 patients will be tested daily using a TrueNat machine at a hospital in Wada, he added. Shinde also urged people to contact the nearest fever clinic if they experience symptoms of SARI (acute respiratory disease) or influenza. As per official data, 1,542 Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths have been reported in the rural areas of Palghar district. Meanwhile, Thane district has seen a 36 per cent rise in Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the month, while the toll has risen by 28 per cent, a district official said. The tally in Thane city and Kalyan town has already crossed the 10,000-mark and the two places account for 25 per cent and 22 per cent of the total 47,063 cases in the district, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-palghar-receives-3000-antigen-testing-kits-858963.html
09-07-2020||West||Supreme Court pulls up Maharashtra government for claiming everything fine on migrant workers' issue||The Supreme Court Thursday pulled up the Maharashtra government on the migrant workers' issue and refused to accept its claim that there was no problem in the state on this front, saying it is its duty to find out the lapses and act on them. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah asked the state to file a fresh affidavit listing the steps taken to mitigate the problems of migrant workers wanting to return to their native places amid the Covid-19 crisis. It is not adversarial litigation, the bench said, posting the matter for further hearing on July 17. During the hearing of the case taken up suo moto (on its own) by the top court on the miseries of migrant workers during the Covid-19 lockdown, the bench said: “What is happening in Maharashtra? Large number of migrant workers are still in the state." Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state, said that the latest affidavit has been filed on July 6 in compliance with the apex court’s order. He said that a list was provided to the Centre with regard to migrant workers, who have been sent to their native places by the state. Mehta said the crux of the affidavit was that the migrants who wanted to leave earlier have now decided to stay back as the state opened up employment opportunities and since May 1, around 3,50,000 workers came back to work in Maharashtra again. The bench said it is the responsibility of the state to find out which group of migrants are getting food, transport and other facilities or not getting them. Mehta said that whoever wanted to shift has been shifted and those who went back may not be getting jobs as per their skills like a carpenter cannot work as a labourer in an agricultural field. “Your affidavit is not up to the mark... We cannot accept the State’s claim that there is no problem in the State of Maharashtra. They have treated this as adversarial litigation. You (Mehta) must advise them to file a proper affidavit by next date of hearing,” the bench said. Mehta said he would do so and personally do the vetting of the State’s affidavit and ensure that more relevant details are provided on the issue. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for Bihar government said that reverse migration has started happening in the state and most of the trains originating from Patna to other cities are running full. Mehta said that this is a healthy thing as the reverse migration is happening because industries and business are now opening up. Meanwhile, the top court tagged the PIL filed by NGO CPIL, seeking various reliefs including a national plan on Covid-19 management with the suo moto case. During the hearing of the PIL, senior advocate Kapil Sibal said that there is a theoretical national plan on Covid-19 management and want that Solicitor General Tushar Mehta places it on record. Mehta said that the national plan for Covid-19 management as averred for in the PIL filed by Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) has already been placed on record in other matter. The bench accepted the contention of Mehta and told Sibal that this issue has come up earlier also and now they have placed the plan on record. Sibal said that they need a system in place which are in consonance with the Statutes, in this case, it is a national plan. The bench asked Mehta to supply the copy of the Covid management plan to Sibal and senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing in the matter. Singhvi added that he wanted to give some suggestions that help and rehabilitation should work in tandem and registration should not be the basis for availing government schemes as it excludes lots of people. He said that the government can consider a constructive scheme for insurance for migrants and a work plan and centralised system to rehabilitate the migrants. Mehta told Singhvi that he should go through the reply affidavit as it contains all the relevant details. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on July 17. On June 19, the top court had asked the Centre and all the State to ensure that all stranded migrant workers willing to return must be sent to their native places without any fare being charged from them. The top court, on June 9 had directed the Centre and state governments to identify and send back within 15 days by train or bus the stranded migrant workers willing to return to their native place, and also asked them to help the returnees find jobs lost during the national lockdown. Noting there have been instances of “excess" by police and paramilitary personnel against the migrant workers, the court also asked authorities to consider “withdrawal” of criminal cases against some of them for violating social distancing norms. The suffering people without jobs have to be dealt with in a "humane manner", it had said. A help desk should be set up for those who wanted to return to their old places of work, it had said while taking suo moto (on its own) cognisance of the “problems and miseries” of lakhs of migrant workers. The top court, which had on May 28 passed a slew of directions including asking the states not to charge any fare from the returning workers, had noted that fresh requests for 171 ‘Shramik Special’ trains have been made so far by the states from the Centre, and directed that any additional demand be fulfilled by the Railways within “a period of 24 hours”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/supreme-court-pulls-up-maharashtra-government-for-claiming-everything-fine-on-migrant-workers-issue-858965.html
09-07-2020||West||Supreme Court pulls up Maharashtra government for claiming 'everything fine' on migrants issue||The Supreme Court on Thursday rapped the Maharashtra government on claiming that there was no deficiency in providing help to migrant workers after the lockdown and there was no one left to be sent back to his or her native place. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah did not appreciate the affidavit filed by the state government wherein it claimed that everything was fine over there and every worker was provided food and transportation following the lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic on March 25. The court said that it had got the information that there were still migrant workers who were stuck and willing go back to their homes. "It is duty of the state government to find out problem areas and take corrective action," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Maharashtra government. The bench also pointed out that the state has taken the Suo Motu matter being examined by the court on problems and miseries of workers as adversarial litigation. Mehta told the court an additional affidavit would be filed with details. He, however, maintained those wanted to return have been provided with adequate facility. As many as 3.5 lakh workers have returned to work after easing of the lockdown measures. Earlier on June 9, the Maharashtra government again came in criticism by the court which asked it to be more vigilant and make concentrated efforts to addressing the problems of the workers. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for Bihar government, submitted that the state was making efforts to provide jobs as per the skills of the workers. He said that the workers have also started returning back to cities and trains from Bihar were running in full capacity. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal emphasised for creating a national plan to meet challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Senior advocate A M Singhvi favoured for a scheme to provide insurance cover to the migrant workers and a centralised plan for their rehabilitation. The top court fixed the matter for further consideration on next Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/supreme-court-pulls-up-maharashtra-government-for-claiming-everything-fine-on-migrants-issue-858968.html
09-07-2020||West||Form citizens' vigilance committee: Uddhav Thackeray||In yet another trend-setting initiative, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray called for setting up of "citizen's corona vigilance committee" to combat and check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. "The fight against Covid-19 is not alone of the government... there has to be citizen's Corona vigilance committees in hamlets, villages, colonies," Thackeray said while reviewing the pandemic situation of Thane district. According to Thackeray, it is essential to know whether anyone in the neighborhood is running a fever. The municipal commissioners must involve the citizens of their respective cities and towns along with local NGOs. It will then be easier to control this scourge, Thackeray said. Making the first-of-its-kind suggestion in the country to set up citizens committees, the chief minister, during a review meeting of the situation in Thane district, pointed out how such mass participation had helped during the country’s Independence movement, and recently the public boycott of Chinese goods had sent a big message across. Thackeray said that locals, youth and NGOs should join hands in this kind of an initiative. "Check the health of high-risk persons like senior citizens, their chronic ailments, their oxygen levels, hygiene, whether they wear masks and take other precautions,” said Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/form-citizens-vigilance-committee-uddhav-thackeray-859002.html
09-07-2020||West||Maharashtra govt aims to bring down Covid-19 mortality rate: Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the state government's main aim is to bring down the  Covid-19 mortality rate in Aurangabad. A total of 7,504 cases of coronavirus have been recorded in Aurangabad so far, of which 330 patients have died of the infection. According to the official data, the fatality rates in Aurangabad city and rural areas were at 5.7 per cent and 4.5 per cent respectively. The state government's priority is to bring down the mortality rate in Aurangabad and the entire state, Tope said, while addressing a press conference along with guardian minister Subhash Desai and minister of state Abdul Sattar. Contact tracing of Covid-19 patients needs to be ramped up and quarantine facilities in the district have to be used to their fullest capacity, the health minister said. Although quarantine centres have the capacity of over 2,200 beds, only 688 persons were presently admitted at these facilities, he said.  Speaking about steps taken during the lockdown, Desai said people entering Aurangabad city will have to undergo antigen tests and suspects will be shifted to treatment facilities. As many as six entry points will be monitored by 12 teams round the clock during this lockdown period, he said. Vehicles transporting essential commodities and those belonging to pharmaceutical, export and agro-based companies are being permitted to ply, he added. Speaking about charges for Covid-19 treatment, Tope said bills of all Covid-19 patients at private hospitals should be verified and signed by auditors appointed by the administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-aims-to-bring-down-covid-19-mortality-rate-tope-859071.html
09-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra adds 6,875 new cases; 219 die, 4,067 recover||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 2,30,599 on Thursday with the addition of 6,875 new cases, while 219 deaths took the toll to 9,667, the state health department said. A health department statement here said 4,067 patientswere also discharged from hospitals, taking the total recoveries to 1,27,259 in the state. There are 93,673 active cases in the state, it said. So far, 12,22,487 people have been tested for Covid-19 in Maharashtra, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-adds-6875-new-cases-219-die-4067-recover-859123.html
09-07-2020||West||After smuggling over 40 lakh 'ISIS Drug' Tramadol tablets, pharma firms busted||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Ahmedabad on Thursday claimed it has busted two pharmaceutical firms based in Surat and Vapi in South Gujarat and seized 15.20 lakh tablet of Tramadol notorious as "ISIS drug" for it has been reportedly used by ISIS terrorists for fighting pain and fatigue. It has been found that the suspected firms had already smuggled 44.80 lakh tablets in recent past. The officials have also arrested three suspects identified as Mehul Desai, Harshal Desai, who are directors of the firms, and one Shameshwar who is said to be the chemist involved in the offence. The suspect directors have reportedly confessed to have smuggled consignments of Tramadol worth over Rs 4 crore in recent past. Despite repeated attempts, Principal Additional Director General, DRI, Ashish Varma didn't respond to calls and text message. DRI officials said that the two firms based in Surat and Vapi (Valsad district) were involved in "illicit manufacturing and export of Tramadol, a psychotropic substance under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance Act, 1985." They said that a secret information had been received about the two companies smuggling a consignment at Hazira port in two containers." The consignment was supposed to be shipped to Conarkry port, Guinea.   "On examination of the containers, 15,20,000 tablets of Tramadol, worth Rs.122 crore, were found to be concealed with other pharma products such as ORS, multi-vitamins, etc. Searches were also conducted at the factory of the pharma companies where manufacturing of the said psychotropic substance had taken place and packaging was done. During the search, stock of other drugs was also taken in which it was found that other controlled substances-Ephedrine and Pseudoephedrine had also been diverted from the factory for illegal use of such products," the DRI has said in a statement. In the search, nearly 175 kg of Ephedrine and Hydrochloride IP and 137 kg of Pseudoephedrine Hydrocholoride were found short from stock, which the director of the company reportedly admitted to have been smuggled. Officials also claimed that "the director has also admitted to have exported approximately 44.80 lakh tablets of Tramadol (having market price of 3.58 crore) illicitly concealed it in their earlier cleared export consignment." DRI has said in the statement that Tramadol, a synthetic opioid drug, "is popular and in high demand in African nations like Nigeria, Ghana etc. where a large section of population is addicted to this drug. Due to its high international demand it commands a high price in international market." It adds further that "This drug was reportedly also very popular among ISIS terrorists in the war-zones of Middle-East. ISIS fighters used this drug to overcome pain and fatigure. That is why it is sometimes called “”Fighter Drug.” Following reports of its misuse, the government in April 2018 included the drug into schedule of psychotropic substance under the NDPS Act, 1985. Since then, the DRI had filed two cases, both in south Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-smuggling-over-40-lakh-isis-drug-tramadol-tablets-pharma-firms-busted-859138.html
09-07-2020||West||Mumbai's Covid-19 count crosses 88,000-mark; 68 more deaths reported||The tally of coronavirus positive patients in Mumbai rose to 88,795 on Thursday with the single-day spike of 1,282 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. As the virus claimed 68 more lives in the metropolis, its fatality count grew to 5,129, it said. The civic body said that the number of recovered patients in the city increased to 59,751 with 591 persons getting discharged from hospitals in the past 24-hours. With this, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the city district improved to 67 percent, the BMC said in a release. The city has 23,915 active Covid-19 cases, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-covid-19-count-crosses-88000-mark-68-more-deaths-reported-859150.html
09-07-2020||West||Mumbai police arrests one person in connection with vandalism at Ambedkar's house||Mumbai police on Thursday arrested a man in connection with the incident of vandalising at `Rajgruh', the residence of Dr B R Ambedkar here, an official said. Umesh Sitaram Jadhav (35), the arrested man, was allegedly one of the two persons caught in CCTV camera at the spot, the police official said. Search was on for the other person, he added. On Tuesday night, two men entered the premises of `Rajgruh' and smashed flower pots, damaged plants, CCTV camera and pelted stones at a window before fleeing. A case under IPC sections 427 (mischief causing damage and 447 (criminal trespassing) was registered. Located in Hindu Colony, Dadar, the two-storeyed heritage bungalow houses a museum where Dr Ambedkar's vast book collection, his ashes and other artifacts related to his life are preserved. The architect of the Indian Constitution lived there for two decades. Dr Ambedkar's daughter-in-law and his grandsons including Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader Prakash Ambedkar live in the bungalow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-arrests-one-person-in-connection-with-vandalism-at-ambedkars-house-859165.html
