10-07-2020||First Edit||Indian students caught in US President Trump’s politics||US President Donald Trump has taken another decision, after the suspension of the H1-B visa for the rest of the year, with an eye on the Presidential election later this year rather than on public interest. The Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is set to revoke the F1 visas of international students in the US if their institution goes fully online for the upcoming fall season. These students face deportation if they don’t shift to universities and colleges where in-person teaching exists or a blend of in-person and online course work is offered. The condition is almost impossible to satisfy because students cannot shift to other institutions half-way through the course, and even for some who can, it will involve huge financial costs. The move is clearly directed at foreign students and at universities whom Trump has been pressuring to reopen as part of his policy to reopen the economy. It is a coercive action which will leave most students without any good option. They will be forced to quit or will be deported. There are over one million foreign students in the US who will be affected by the decision. The arbitrary and insensitive move will further dent America’s image and do much harm to the education sector in the US, but Trump might have reckoned that it would boost his anti-immigrant credentials. He has been using even the pandemic to pander to xenophobia and strengthen his constituency before the elections, little realising the dangers of promoting hatred and divisiveness in politics and society. With the Covid-19 crisis deepening in the US, most universities had no choice but to switch to the online mode, but Trump has used it as an opportunity to do political grandstanding to win applause from a section of people at the expense of the country’s interests. About half of the foreign students in the US are either Chinese or Indian. About two lakh Indians may be affected by the order and may have to leave the country. Just as the US has benefitted from immigrants working in the country, its universities have benefitted from foreign students studying there. The students have contributed much to the high reputation of its educational institutions. All these institutions are keen to attract foreign students in their own interest and have an inclusive policy of admission. The universities have stoutly opposed the decision of the administration, and indeed the world’s foremost universities such as Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have challenged it in a court. The Indian government should also take up the matter with the US administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/indian-students-caught-in-us-president-trump-s-politics-859194.html
10-07-2020||In Perspective||India-China: Strategic miscommunication and misperception||A crucial determinant of the Sino-Indian border conflict is strategic communication and its interpretation. Prime Minister Modi’s Mann Ki Baat of June 28 suggests that no lessons have been learnt from the past – that maintaining a distinction between domestic politics and foreign policy is a necessary condition to avoid conflicts. Modi said, “…the world has seen India's strength and commitment to protect its sovereignty and borders; in Ladakh, a befitting reply has been given to those eyeing our territory…” During the all-party meeting on June 19, Modi had said, “neither has any outsider come into our territory nor is any outsider on our territory.” Following the violent clash along the Line of Actual Control at Galwan Valley on June 15, Prime Minister Modi’s visit to Leh on July 3 amidst ongoing military-level talks aimed at de-escalation was in Beijing seen, instead, as a signal of intent to escalate. Following this visit, China’s foreign ministry spokesperson stated, “India and China are in communication and negotiations on lowering the temperature through military and diplomatic channels. No party should engage in any action that may escalate the situation at this point.” Prime Minister Modi’s Leh visit underscores the relevance of political will and military power in the present stand-off. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, too, had followed a similar course, which led to an undesired outcome of border conflict with China. While Nehru may have wished for peaceful resolution of the border question, his hardline approach and statements in Parliament presented him as dubious and unpredictable to observers in Beijing. Then, as now, Opposition parties are demanding that the government call out China as the aggressor. A combination of factors – failure of China’s economic and social campaign (Great Leap Forward), Nehru’s forward policy, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the Tibet revolt, and misinterpretation of strategic communication led to the irreversible damage to Sino-Indian ties in 1962. Leaders in a democracy, such as Nehru and Modi, feel the need to present themselves as strong to their electorate, irrespective of the demands of the overall strategic situation. Else, they are portrayed domestically as being weak by the Opposition parties. Chinese analysts have identified Hindu nationalism, the need for domestic stability amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, economic development, the geopolitical challenges arising out of China’s rise, and the pursuit of absolute security in South Asia and the northern Indian Ocean region as the logic behind India’s “aggressive behaviour”, (Hu Shisheng, “The behavioural logic behind India’s aggressive behaviour”). The relative difference between the two countries in Comprehensive National Power is further seen as an explanation for India’s approach. Both India and China have remained steadfast in seeking peaceful resolution to unresolved issues between them and, in the past, have jointly put forward innovative ideas and principles, such as the Panchsheel Treaty. Between 1993 and 2013, India and China signed five agreements to ensure maintenance of peace and tranquillity, confidence-building measures, working mechanism for consultation and coordination, and border defence cooperation. Despite such robust mutual agreements, the deterioration in relations will result from varying subjective interpretations, as it has in the past. In the yet to normalise border stand-off, India has lagged China in containing the flare-up domestically given its political culture and the role of its leadership, which differs from that in China. Analysts in both countries must account for the variation in each other’s political system and devise accurate frameworks to evaluate each other’s strategic intention. While China defends the ‘fundamental interests’ of its citizens (National Security Law of the People's Republic of China, 2015), the Indian State is committed and held responsible by its Constitution to protect the fundamental rights of its citizens, which are also guaranteed. This difference places the notion of ‘public opinion’, ‘freedom of expression’ and ‘role of media’ in India along with ‘State-citizen relationship’ at odds with that of China. In a situation that requires tact and careful articulation of policy, such as border disputes, the Indian leadership’s power to shape or control public opinion is limited and, in fact, at times, held hostage to it. For example, just prior to the high-level meeting between the senior military commanders of the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army on June 6, the Indian Army had to issue a notice – “At this stage, therefore, any speculative and unsubstantiated reporting about these engagements would not be helpful and the media is advised to refrain from such reporting.” External observers attempting to decode India’s intentions must therefore view Prime Minister Modi’s Maan Ki Baat or visits to Leh as an act of internal communication to strengthen his constituency and source of his political power, and understand the political context. The absence of any serious attention to this fundamental problem of strategic communication may lead India on a collision path with China, as it has in the past. Inclusion of variation in politico-strategic culture and associated sociology as factors in the Sino-Indian bilateral relationship will go a long way in reducing misperception with respect to each other’s strategic intention. The central purpose of strategic communication is to reduce uncertainty and not restore it, unless intended otherwise. (The writer teaches history, politics and culture and is a member of the BRICS Advanced Studies Institute at Sichuan International Studies University, China)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/india-china-strategic-miscommunication-and-misperception-859195.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka's Kodagu||According to Kodagu DC Annies Kanmani Joy, owing to the primary contacts of an already infected man from Thithimathi in Virajpet, seven persons between the age group 19 and 65 have been infected with the Covid-19. A 55-year-old woman suffering from fever at Ayyappa Swamy Road in Virajpet and a 34-year-old with symptoms of fever have tested positive for the virus. With the nine more cases, the district administration has notified three more containment zones—Ayyappa Swamy Road in Virajpet, Gonikoppa and Kutta. The total notified containment zones in the district is 53. As already 18 persons have recovered in the district, the total active case in the district is 112, said the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fresh-covid-19-cases-in-karnatakas-kodagu-859284.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Palace to remain closed for two days as family member of staff tests Covid-19 positive||The palace will remain closed as the son of the camel caretaker tested positive for Covid-19. The palace will be open for public from Monday.  Health department and Mysuru City Corporation authorities will sanitise the Palace premises before allowing the public, said an officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-palace-to-remain-closed-for-two-days-as-family-member-of-staff-tests-covid-19-positive-859288.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Former MLA Ramesh Bandisiddegowda, two others get bail in assault case||Former MLA Ramesh Bandisiddegowda and two of his supporters, who were arrested on charges of assaulting a worker and obstructing works, were released on bail on Thursday night.  The former MLA and his supporters had opposed the demolition of buildings as part of the road widening works taken by the Arakere gram panchayat.  In a fit of rage, Ramesh had caught hold of the operator of an excavator and hit him for razing a structure while a woman was inside the building. His supporters too had pelted stones, creating a ruckus. A complaint was lodged against them with the police, who later arrested them. They were produced before the court and granted bail on Thursday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-mla-ramesh-bandisiddegowda-two-others-get-bail-in-assault-case-859311.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Twitter campaign for self-regulated lockdown in Dakshina Kannada||The tweet said " Retweet this with #isupportcoastalcurfew & help us promote Self-lockdown to save our city from the ongoing pandemic. Also please try to follow it and ask your dear ones too. We can fight this together by staying far. #mangalore #udupi." Dear people of coastal Karnataka The hashtag has seen retweets. Many have already initiated self-regulated lockdown in those areas where cases are being reported. When Harekala gram panchayat recorded a few cases, all people irrespective of caste, creed and religion swung into action and formed teams of warriors, to prevent the entry of vehicles from outside the gram panchayat jurisdiction. The warriors team work in two shifts till 7 pm. The body temperature of villagers using thermal scanning is checked at the three temporary checkposts set up for the purpose. The checkposts are on Eliyar Debbeli Road, at Oddedaguli on Konaje Amblamogaru and at Gramachavadi Kotipadavu that connects Konaje-Harekala road. The bus and boat services to reach the village have been suspended temporarily, said Gram Panchayat President Anitha D'Souza. Further, all the shops too will remain closed after 12 noon. On the other hand, Bajpe Gram Panchayat has decided to take up voluntary partial lockdown by closing down all the business establishments after 2 pm till July 22. Even in Mulki, the traders have taken up voluntary lockdown. In Kinnigoli, the traders have decided to carry out business from 6 am to 2 pm only. Similarly, voluntary lockdowns are observed in Moodbidri, Pakshikere and other areas in different parts of the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/twitter-campaign-for-self-regulated-lockdown-in-dakshina-kannada-859312.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||35-year-old man succumbs to Covid-19 in Mangaluru||With this, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in the district rose to 31, of which five were from outside Dakshina Kannada district.  As on Thursday, Dakshina Kannada has reported 1,709 Covid-19 positive cases, of which with 977 cases are active.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/35-year-old-man-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-mangaluru-859318.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||4 police personnel injured in scuffle in Mangaluru's Bantwal||Four police personnel including an ASI was assaulted and a police vehicle was damaged when they tried to stop a lorry driver who had an altercation with the public, at Melkar in Bantwal, on Friday night. On hearing that lorry driver Abdul Salam, a resident of Golthamajalu, had entered into an altercation with the public at Melkar, the police rushed to the spot. When they tried to arrest the driver, the accused with an iron rod assaulted the police personnel, damaged their vehicle and issued death threats. Later, the public at the spot overpowered the accused and trashed him. ASI Shailesh, police personnel Devappa, Mallak Sab and driver Niranjan suffered injuries. The accused, who also  suffered injuries was admitted to a private hospital in Mangaluru. Bantwal police have booked cases under IPC Sections 353, 504, 506, 332, 307, 427 and Section 2 A of KPDLP Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-police-personnel-injured-in-scuffle-in-mangalurus-bantwal-859329.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||One more Covid-19 fatality in Karnataka's Chikkamagaluru||A 62-year-old man with Covid-19, died at a hospital in Chikkamagaluru on Friday. The man hailing from Shankarapura was tested positive for the virus eight days ago and was undergoing treatment at the designated Covid-19 hospital. He failed to respond to the treatment and passed away on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-more-covid-19-fatality-in-karnatakas-chikkamagaluru-859336.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 cases: Dharwad stands top in Mumbai-Karnataka region||During peak summer on May 1, Dharwad district had 10 Covid-19 cases, and was in the 14th position among the districts in the State, forming just 1.69% of State's total cases. Belagavi was in third position with 70 cases, and Vijayapur and Bagalkot stood in fifth and sixth places, respectively. In two months and a week later, Dharwad district's position in daily reported cases had jumped to the third position in the State with a record 89 new cases on Wednesday, and its place was fourth place with 75 daily cases on Thursday. With regard to total cases, Dharwad has 832 cases, which is 2.67 % of State's total figure (31,105). Seven districts in the region recorded 169 cases by May 1, which is 28.69% of total cases in the State (589) till that day. Haveri was in the green zone then. Belagavi, Vijayapur, and Bagalkot in the region were in the top 10 list at the State level, regarding the number of cases. As many as 38 persons were discharged in the region by that day, and five deaths had taken place. However, the region's share in total number of Covid-19 cases had come down by nearly 16% by May end. Belagavi district, which was in the third position in State in the first week of May, is now not at all in the Top-10 list, while in two months and one week, Dharwad district has jumped to fourth position regarding number of cases by July 9. This shows how rapidly the Covid-19 cases increased in the district, when compared the data of the Health & Family Welfare Department. Rise in Dharwad When July began, Belagavi came down to 22nd position in the State in terms of daily positive cases, while Dharwad district jumped to the fourth place with 35 cases. Vijaypur and Uttara Kannada districts also reported considerable number of cases. The district's total share in State's Covid load on July 1 was 2.30% (380 cases in district). By that time, the discharge rate in the district was 37.36% (180 discharges), and the State rate was 48.82%. Total cases were 380, and eight deaths had taken place. When the fresh report came on July 9 evening, the new cases in seven districts of Mumbai-Karnataka region were 168 cases (7.50% of State's fresh cases), which was much lesser that Tuesday's figures. Out of total 31,105 positive cases in Karnataka, 3,238 are from this region. In the region, Dharwad district recorded highest number of Covid-19 cases (832). When the State's recovery rate is 41.25%, it is 35.25% in Dharwad district. It has 512 active cases. Of 486 Covid deaths in the State so far, 27 are in Dharwad district. Ten Covid patients in the district are in ICU (second place in State). Seven deaths were reported in the district on Wednesday, while 17 persons were discharged. Health Department officials claim that more cases came here as more testing compared some other neighbouring districts was done, but several asymptomatic persons coming from Bengaluru and other areas have become a headache now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-cases-dharwad-stands-top-in-mumbai-karnataka-region-859352.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Actor Darshan visits Chamundeshwari Temple, violates Covid-19 rules||The actor along with Deputy Mayor C Sridhar visited the temple and offered a special prayer to the goddess.  It has to be noted that following the outbreak of Covid-19, the district administration has banned the entry of people to the temple.  Thousands of people visit the temple on the occasion of Ashada Fridays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/actor-darshan-visits-chamundeshwari-temple-violates-covid-19-rules-859364.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Malavalli saloon owners decide to close shops till noon in the wake of Covid-19||The decision, which came into effect from today (July 10), will continue till July 30. The office-bearers of the Savitha Samaja, who held a meeting on Thursday, decided to observe half lockdown and close the shops after 12 noon, to prevent further spreading of the virus, both in the town and in the rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/malavalli-saloon-owners-decide-to-close-shops-till-noon-in-the-wake-of-covid-19-859376.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coal India will not be privatised; given target of billion tonnes output by 2023: Pralhad Joshi||Making it clear that discussion is on to give some exemption for expansion of non-coal mining block to some extent from public hearing and environmental clearance, Union Parliamentary Affairs, Coal & Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday stated that satellite cameras observe mining activities and identify violations, which would be conveyed to the State Government. "Out of 204 coal blocks allotted, some are in dispute since 15 years, Without weakeing Coal India Limited, commercialisation of coal mining is allowed, to make India self-reliant in coal production by 2023-24, under 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' slogan. Coal India will not be privatised, and it is given the target of producing one billion tonne coal by 2023," he said. 75 per cent of electricity in India is generated by thermal sector, while more per capita electricity consumption, with sufficient and affordable price is essential. We have enough resources to produce substitute coal, Joshi noted. Foreign companies would not be allowed in any tender upto Rs 200 crore, and priority would be given Indian companies in tenders above Rs 200 crore. Rs 50,000 crore would be invested for coal and mines infrastructure development, while priority would be for local players, he said. Regarding petrol-diesel price hike, he said, "not only Union Government, but State Governments also collect tax, as revenue has dipped in Covid situation, and more welfare schemes have to be implemented. But, we are sympathetic about petrol-diesel price issue. Decontrolling of petroleum products price began in UPA period itself." Under 'Make in India' programme, there is an opportunity for MSMEs to know what is needed in which country and that can be produced here. Challenges posed during Covid-19 situation should be converted into opportunities. In the package of Rs three lakh crore announced for MSMEs, Rs 3,391 crore loan is sanctioned to 66,785 entrepreneurs, and Rs 2,024 crore is already disbursed, while Rs 238 core is given in Dharwad district, Joshi said. All departments are working on a war footing to implement Rs 20 lakh package announced by Prime minister NArendra Modi, and implementation has begun fast. Rs one lakh would be spent to build agricultural infrastructure like cold storage and supply chain, Joshi assured. In reply to Congress leader Siddaramaiah's allegation about BJP government regarding a scandal in purchasing material related to Covid-19 management, Joshi said, "let him file a complaint. They do politics even in Covid-19 situation, and the allegation is baseless".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coal-india-will-not-be-privatised-given-target-of-billion-tonnes-output-by-2023-pralhad-joshi-859390.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||CISF official succumbs to COVID-19 in Mangalore; ninth death in the force||A 58-year-old official of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll in the paramilitary force because of the disease to nine, officials said on Friday. Assistant Sub Inspector K B Premsha, posted in the CISF unit that guards the Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL), passed away at a local hospital on Thursday, they said. He was admitted to the hospital on July 5 with fever. His Covid-19 test report arrived on July 7 and it was positive. Premsha breathed his last on Thursday, officials said. He was a resident of Kodagu in Karnataka. This is the ninth Covid-19 death in the force that has recorded 1,137 cases till now, according to an official data. Of the total cases reported in the force so far, 410 are under treatment across the country, nine have died and the rest have recovered, officials said. They said that 20 personnel tested Covid-19 positive on Friday while 22 have recovered over the last 24 hours. The about 1.62-lakh strong CISF is the national aviation security force guarding 63 airports at present and it is also tasked to guard vital installations in the aerospace and nuclear domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cisf-official-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-mangalore-ninth-death-in-the-force-859398.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Aashada: dignitaries violate norms; visit Chamundi Hill||Despite the district administration and the temple management restricting the entry of devotees to the Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamudi Hill, on all the Aashada Fridays, dignitaries including minister, actor, MP and MLA, visited the temple and had darshan of the goddess. Rural Development and Panchayt Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, actor Darshan, MP Pratap Simha, MLA L Nagendra, deputy Mayor C Sridhar, and also a few devotees visited the temple and offered prayers to the presiding deity. Following the outbreak of Covid-19, the district administration had banned the entry of visitors to the temple, on all the Aashada Fridays. Despite ban, the dignitaries visited the temple, clearly violating the norms. People expressed anguish against them for violating the norms and questioned about their responsibility. Chandrashekar of Gokulam wanted to know, how can they visit the temple despite ban orders in place. The people’s representative and actors should be role models for the common people, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aashada-dignitaries-violate-norms-visit-chamundi-hill-859555.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rajamudi Utsava will be simple ceremony: DC||Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh told the officials that it is not possible to consider the request of the Parakala Mutt to conduct Krishnarajamudi Utsava at Deshikara Sannidhi like every year. He said that it would be conducted within the temple premises, in a simple manner. The DC visited the Melkote temple on Friday, and reviewed the preparations for the Rajamudi Utsava. He told the temple officials to explain to the Parakala Mutt that it has become inevitable to conduct the festival in a simple manner, in the wake of Covid pandemic. The Mutt and devotees should cooperate, he appealed. He directed the temple officials to conduct the ceremony in a symbolic manner and the Brahmotsava inside the temple premises. “Please do not allow devotees to enter the temple,” he said. Assistant Commissioner Shivananda Murthy sought police security, explaining that the diamond-studded crown and ornaments should be brought on Saturday evening, as Sunday is a lockdown, from Mandya treasury.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rajamudi-utsava-will-be-simple-ceremony-dc-859556.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid Hospital full, active cases diverted to CCCs||The number of Covid-19 active cases have exceeded the number of beds available for isolation in the Designated Covid Hospital, the district hospital in Mysuru, and thus, only serious patients are accommodated here. The number of Covid active cases exceeded the capacity of 250 beds of the district hospital on July 8, and became 253 in Mysuru district, when the overall Covid positive cases reached 589. Up to July 8, a total of 322 patients recovered and discharged, while the total deaths, due to Covid-related ailments were 14. Meanwhile, the district administration and the Health department had already started isolation and treatment of some patients at their respective home. When the first Covid case was identified in Mysuru on March 21, Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC and RI) was used for isolation and treatment. However, as the district hospital, which was formally inaugurated in February, was available, it was transformed into an exclusive Covid Hospital for the authorities and the healthcare staff to make concerted efforts to treat the patients. District Surgeon Dr Rajeshwari, in-charge of district hospital said, “Besides the 250 beds in the wards of the hospital, the beds available in the post-operative wards and other sections of the hospital are used for Covid patients. At present, only serious patients are admitted to the district hospital." "We have maintained a minimum of 10 empty beds for emergency. We have established Covid Care Centres (CCC) like the one at the new building of the ESI Hospital, Basappa Memorial Hospital and the Primary Health Centre at Hoskote of Nanjangud taluk. Another CCC is being readied at Mandakalli.” District Health Officer Dr R Venkatesh said that most of the milder cases of Covid are being treated at their respective homes. “There are 50 beds at the ESI Hospital. Another 50 beds will be available in the same hospital soon. Plans are chalked out and needs are sourced in a systematic manner as the Deputy Commissioner and the Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer are helpful,” he said. Meanwhile, the new building of the Mother and Child Hospital in Lakshmipuram on the premises of Seth Mohandas Tulsidas Hospital, is in the final stages of completion. It is a 100-bed hospital and it is also proposed to be converted as a Covid Hospital. It will have state-of-the-art facilities and is being established at a cost of Rs 20 crore, provided by the Union government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-hospital-full-active-cases-diverted-to-cccs-859557.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||MySugar: Delegation of MLAs to meet CM||MLAs of the district have decided to take a delegation to meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, to hold a discussion on resuming MySugar factory, and to urge the government to operate it. Participating in a meeting, convened by Jilla Raitha Hitharakshana Samiti president G Madegowda, they held a discussion on resuming the factory. Madegowda said that the MySugar factory should neither be privatised nor resumed on Operation and Management (O&M) mode. "The government should take the responsibility of running the factory. A delegation should meet the CM and stress on it. The MLAs should join the delegation, on the day fixed by the CM," he said. The Chief Minister should be explained that the people of the district would raise in rebellion, if the government decides to run the factory through O&M. All MLAs should cooperate, he said. The MLAs, in unison, opined that they would urge the government to resume the factory and agreed to be a part of the delegation to meet the CM. MLAs C S Puttaraju, D C Thammanna, M Srinivas, K Annadani, Ravindra Srikantaiah and MLC Marithibbegowda were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysugar-delegation-of-mlas-to-meet-cm-859558.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Divya Sara Thomas, first woman SP of Ch’nagar||Divya Sara Thomas, an IPS officer of the 2013 Karnataka batch, took charge as the first woman Superintendent of Police in Chamarajanagar on Friday. She was DCP of Central Armed Reserve Force in Bengaluru, earlier. H D Anand Kumar has been transferred as SP of Internal Security Division (ISD), Bengaluru. The government has issued transfer orders on June 26, but further orders was not received. Thus, it was said that the transfer order of Anand Kumar was cancelled. But, movement order was issued on Thursday. Divya Sara Thomas had served as Assistant SP in Nanjangud, Mysuru district, in 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/divya-sara-thomas-first-woman-sp-of-ch-nagar-859559.html
10-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ package guidelines in a month, says Angadi||Guidelines for the Rs 20 lakh crore ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ package will be issued by respective states and banks in about a month's time. Entrepreneurs and youth who want to establish small-scale industries to become self-reliant and provide employment for others should be ready with their project reports and proposals as licenses too have been eased by the centre to ensure that all avail benefit of the package, Suresh Angadi, Minister of State for Railways, said. Angadi told reporters on Friday that the Covid-19 pandemic needs to be converted into an opportunity to become self-reliant. Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package has taken a step towards reviving the economy by providing collateral-free loans to micro, small and medium enterprises, small-scale industries, one-time partial credit guarantee and funds for the agriculture sector. To support MSMEs, collateral-free loans of Rs 3 lakh crore have been announced and Rs 1.10 lakh crore has been sanctioned under emergency credit line guarantee scheme to more than 30 lakh units, Rs 20,000 crore credit guarantee scheme has been introduced to provide additional credit facility to 2 lakh MSMEs. In government tenders, global tenders will not be allowed in order to help MSMEs grow, he said.  Various other programmes announced include food security for a population of 80 crore, one that was twice the population of United States of America, one-nation-one-ration-card scheme, MGNREGA has been allocated additional Rs 40,000 crore, he stated.  Regarding banks and Industries Department including Small Scale Industries not giving information about the schemes and checklist to apply for the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package, Angadi said, banks at national and state level have been made known about the package and were preparing the guidelines of documents needed and credit eligibility of the applicant. States will also have to prepare guidelines to be implemented for the package through the Industries Department. In a month's time, people could get benefit of the package announced. Youth should be prepared to establish small scale industries at village and small towns that will make them self-reliant and also provide employment opportunity for others. Food processing industry has scope and its high time people from the rural avail the benefit, he expressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/aatmanirbhar-bharat-package-guidelines-in-a-month-says-angadi-859367.html
10-07-2020||Main Article||Diluting Labour Laws: Depriving workers of rights||The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the economy severely, resulting in growth slowdown in major sectors. The agriculture, automobile, hotel, travel and tourism, manufacturing and services sectors are all hit. The suspension of economic activities during the national lockdown period in India has cost the economy $235 billion, Barclays Company estimated. According to the Chicago Booth’s Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation, which analysed data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), has observed that more than 84% of households in India lost income during the lockdown period. In this backdrop, some state governments have passed ordinances and new regulations affecting the labour laws and their application. Some 10 states have brought about changes in the labour laws, mainly in The Factories Act, 1948, The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and The Labour Laws (Exemption from Furnishing Returns and Maintaining Registers by Certain Establishments) Act, 1988. The state governments have claimed that these measures are necessary (i) to kickstart economic activities (ii) to attract foreign investment and (iii) to boost growth prospects.  Soon after promulgation of these ordinances, trade unions across the country, rights activists, labour experts and even industrialists condemned these measures as being contrary to workers’ rights. These measures violate the established standards of International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles of State Policy of the Indian Constitution. Many PILs (Public Interest Litigation) were filed in the respective state high courts and in the Supreme Court. The Allahabad High Court sent notices to the Uttar Pradesh government, following which the UP government withdrew one order, that on the 12-hour work shift.   Labour is a subject in the Concurrent List and hence both Union and state governments are competent to enact legislations pertaining to labour welfare. Item 24 on the Concurrent List specifically mentions provisions for the “welfare of labour, including conditions of work, provident funds, employers’ liability, workmen’s compensation, invalidity and old age pensions and maternity benefits” of Article 246 of the Constitution. Any changes in the laws related to the subjects listed in the Concurrent List have to be made in consultation with the Union government. Otherwise, the law passed by the Union government stands valid as per Article 254(1). The state governments seem to have ignored this while issuing their ordinances.   The weakening of labour laws have severely constrained the welfare and justice agenda embedded in the Constitution. Increase in working hours: The change in working hours from eight to 12 hours is the most serious one. This violates the standards of the ILO Hours of Work (Industry) Convention (No. 1) of 1919 with regard to optimum working hours as a labour right. The additional burden of overtime work puts the worker’s health and safety at risk. It also disturbs the work-life balance, which eventually affects the productivity of the worker. It is surprising to note that a few state governments (Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh) had clearly specified that there would not be any overtime payment for the additional hours of work. Loss of bargaining power: Most of the relaxations curtail the bargaining power of the workers through the means of trade unions and associations. This is contrary to the Tripartite Consultation of ILO Convention No 144. It is a standard requirement that the government (State), employers and workers must all be involved in the formulation of policy changes in the matters of labour working conditions and related matters. Low wages: Many state governments have brought changes in the provision of maintenance of workers’ register. This may help factories and industries to employ more and more workers on contract with lower wages and more work. With this, the probability of discontinuity and irregularity of wages is high, thereby pushing workers into financial marginalisation and exclusion from minimum wages.  Precarious working conditions: The increase in working hours require increase in drinking water, toilet, health and hygiene, medical and other occupational safety measures. With the suspension of industrial ‘inspection’, the worker is forced to adjust to unsatisfactory, hazardous working circumstances. To illustrate, the ILO report on Labour Standards (2019) with respect to SEZ inspections has observed that even with the maintained information, the committee could not make “an informed assessment of the protection of workers in these zones”.      Deprivation of justice: The changes in the labour laws have the potential to take away the rights of workers from approaching the labour court and judiciary. This means the right to seek justice as a citizen would be in suspension for the period the ordinances operate. Uphold labour rights The use of the law to appropriate the rights of working class people is the agenda of neoliberal governance regimes. In the era of contractualisation of labour, workers’ rights are severely compromised as the governing power has shifted from State to the private sector. The withdrawal of the State from welfare is underway, as is evident from these ordinances.  These measures will take away the dignity of labour and its associated rights. In “A Tale of Three States: Labour Reforms in the States of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal,” Kingshuk Sarkar says that attention was given to “ensuring ease of doing business rather than protecting workers’ rights and entitlements.” The real problem lies not with the labour laws but with the nature of the State. With these ordinances, the state governments have eroded the principles of ‘cooperative federalism’. In the context of the Covid-19 crisis, it would be prudent for the Indian State to uphold workers’ rights and dignity to enhance its own social legitimacy and public trust. (The writer is PhD Fellow, Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC), Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/diluting-labour-laws-depriving-workers-of-rights-859196.html
10-07-2020||National||Covid-19: ICMR plans pan-India sero-survey to determine exposure of population to coronavirus||The ICMR on Thursday said a nationwide sero-survey to determine the exposure of the novel coronavirus among the population will be carried out as a follow-up to a similar study conducted in May, the results of which are yet to be released. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct a 'sero-survey' which involves testing of blood serum of people to check for the prevalence of antibodies against coronavirus infection. The final results of the sero-survey conducted by the ICMR in May, which focused on infections of mid-April is still under process, Rajesh Bhushan, Officer on Special Duty in the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.  "The sero-survey that ICMR conducted across the country focused on infections of mid-April and preliminary findings were shared. As you know all such sero-surveillance studies or any other scientific study is subject to peer-review and those inputs are also incorporated. So that process is going on," he told reporters.  "We will be in a position to share it once that gets over," he said. The ICMR had earlier said on the basis of the data compiled from 65 districts out of 83 districts across the country in the first part of the sero-surveillance study, 0.73 per cent of the population surveyed showed evidence of past exposure to SARS-CoV-2.  Bhushan further said the findings of the sero-survey, which has been done in Delhi by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as a part of which 22,000 samples were collected from June 27 to July 5 from 11 districts, is being processed. "In the near future, ICMR is planning a follow up sero-survey pan-India to the earlier sero-survey that they had done for mid-April infections," Bhushan explained.  The sero-survey conducted in May had two parts -- estimating the fraction of the general population that has been infected with SARS-CoV-2 and estimating the number of people who have been infected with coronavirus in containment zones of hotspot cities, ICMR officials had earlier said.   The IgG antibodies against an infection takes around 15 days to develop in the body. India saw a record single-day surge of 24,879 coronavirus infections, which pushed the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 7,67,296 on Thursday, while the death toll climbed to 21,129 with 487 new fatalities, the Health Ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-icmr-plans-pan-india-sero-survey-to-determine-exposure-of-population-to-coronavirus-859186.html
10-07-2020||National||DCGI asks manufacturers to take steps to prevent black-marketing, overpricing of Covid-19 drugs||In order to prevent black-marketing and overpricing of Covid-19 drugs such as Remdesivir, India's drugs regulator DCGI has asked manufacturers to set up a helpline for patients and also put on their websites details of distributors and supply chain. Rajesh Bhushan, the Officer on Special Duty, Union Health Ministry, told an online media briefing Thursday that it has been noticed that certain drugs are not available freely in the market. Therefore, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has written letters to companies manufacturing them with two specific suggestions, he said. "First suggestion was that these companies must put in place a 24x7 helpline where the patients or their family members could contact in case the drug is not available in the market or is being overcharged. "Second suggestion given was that they must proactively put on their website the details of their distributors and their supply lines so that all confusion and anxiety in the market subside," he elaborated. In addition, he said, the DCGI has also directed state governments to instruct drug inspectors to ensure that there is no black marketing of drugs which is being used in treatment of Covid-19 patients. In the letters Bhushan mentioned, DCGI Dr V G Somani has told these firms, “You are…requested to upload the information on your websites regarding the distributors and supply chain details along with quantities where remdesivir has been made available, so as to prevent black marketing and overcharging of the drug.” Somani has also asked them to inform his office the action taken in the matter. Considering the "emergency and unmet medical need" for Covid-19 disease, Somani said, the CDSCO has granted permission to companies to manufacture and market Remdesivir injectable formulation for restricted emergency use for the treatment of patients with severe infection. "This office has received representation raising concerns regarding black-marketing and overcharging of the drug Remdesivir injectable formulation in the country,” he wrote. Responding to a question on whether Remdesivir will be withdrawn from Covid-19 treatment use after its negative impact on liver has been indicated, Bhushan said that it is a rapidly evolving situation.  "Not only in respect of Remdesivir, but in respect of Tocilizumab also, there have been a few studies which have indicated some adverse events. We are aware of this and within the ministry also there is a technical group of domain knowledge experts headed by DGHS that is looking into the evidence as it comes up. "If there would be a requirement to modify or refine our clinical treatment protocols we will definitely do it," he said. The Union Health Ministry in its 'Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19' has allowed the use of Remdesivir for restricted emergency purposes under “investigational therapies". In an answer to a query on plasma therapy, the official said, it has been added as a form of investigational therapy; where it may be used has been specified in clinical guidelines issued by the Health Ministry. Randomized trials are being conducted under the aegis of ICMR, he further added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-asks-manufacturers-to-take-steps-to-prevent-black-marketing-overpricing-of-covid-19-drugs-859221.html
10-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 10||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 7.94 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 8,19,374 as of July 10 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 22,107   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 4,76,378 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-10-859223.html
10-07-2020||National||The Lead: Chingari's Sumit Ghosh talks about the app, it's story and the industry||In today's episode, DH Journalist Ahmed Shariff talks to co-founder of Chingari App Sumit Ghosh about the app, its story and the industry.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-chingaris-sumit-ghosh-talks-about-the-app-its-story-and-the-industry-859224.html
10-07-2020||National||Youth National Conference leader dies due to Covid-19||A Youth National Conference leader died Thursday night due to COVID-19 at the Government Medical College (GMC) hospital here, officials said. However, other details about Rohit Kirni, the Jammu district Youth NC president, like his exact age and medical history did not immediately know. With his death, a total of six people died due to Covid-19 in the Union Territory on Thursday “Sadly we lost Rohit a few minutes ago. He had been put on a ventilator but the medical teams, in spite of their best efforts, couldn’t stabilise him. He leaves behind a wife & two young kids. May his soul rest in peace. #Covid_19 kills. Taking it lightly is suicidal,” former chief minister and NC leader Omar Abdullah wrote on his twitter handle at 7.42 pm. Before that, around 5.20 pm, Abdullah had tweeted, “My young colleague Rohit Kirni has been found #Covid_19 positive & is in a serious condition in hospital in Jammu. The entire @JKNC family joins me in praying for his speedy & complete recovery. Rohit’s condition drives home the point that youth is no safeguard against Covid.” National Conference President Farooq Abdullah also expressed deep grief over the passing away of Kerni, describing his death as a great loss to the party. Provincial President Devender Singh Rana, Provincial Youth National Conference President Ajaz Jan and senior leaders also expressed grief and shock over the demise of Kerni. The government, meanwhile, said that 240 new positive cases of novel coronavirus were reported Thursday -- 55 from Jammu division and 185 from Kashmir division -- taking the total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir to 9,501, officials said. Five Covid-19 deaths were reported from Kashmir division, they added. Moreover, 128 more Covid-19 patients have recovered and discharged from various hospitals -- 54 from Jammu Division and 74 from the Kashmir Division. According to the daily Media Bulletin on novel coronavirus, out of 9,501 positive cases, 3,652 are active cases, 5,695 have recovered; and 154 have died --14 in Jammu division and 140 in Kashmir division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-national-conference-leader-dies-due-to-covid-19-859228.html
10-07-2020||National||Failure of intelligence mechanism, government lacked in disseminating info: Veterans on India-China border row||Pinning the fault with the political, civil and military establishments for the India-China border row leading to the “deeply disturbing” Galwan Valley incident,  a group of around 150 military veterans has put the blame on the intelligence mechanism for the episode while demanding a revamp of the system. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the veterans also found the government lacking in properly disseminating information about the border row and the violent face-off that claimed 20 soldiers and allowing China to take advantage of "contradictions between ambiguous or inaccurate" remarks made by New Delhi, which needed clarifications. The letter signed by 144 veterans, including Admiral L Ramdas and Lieutenants General Suresh Samarth, Narendra Aul and D Raghunath, also demanded that the government should immediately set up a fact-finding team to study the intrusions, incursions and encroachments by China in Aksai Chin, Depsang, Galwan and Pangong Tso and also elsewhere on the long borders up to Arunachal Pradesh in the east and table it in the Parliament. "The incident at Galwan could only have happened because of failure at one or more levels in the political, civil and military establishments, especially in continuous intelligence acquisition and dissemination. While we accept that failures can happen in any system, in the current instance either our intelligence system was found wanting, or the intelligence which it obtained did not reach the field units in time. We therefore urge that our nation’s intelligence system be urgently revamped," they said. The veterans were of the view that the country urgently needed a stated national policy and strategy on neighbourhood management, especially on China and Pakistan, though successive governments have neglected this aspect so far. "Having an overarching national policy and strategy will reduce casualties among our troops, which occur due to the heightened risk of being reactive to conflict situations created by China or Pakistan," they said. The government should take "very early steps" towards concluding boundary agreements with all neighbours by employing all available diplomatic means and pressures, together with the power of India’s membership position for 2021-22 in the UN Security Council. This, they said, does not in any manner imply reduction in deployment of armed forces or let-up in our intelligence systems. The veterans also wanted a reversal of the existing practice of continuously deploying the Army for internal security and counter-insurgency duties at the cost of availability of troops for the primary role of defence of territorial sovereignty. At the same time, large strength of the paramilitary forces are deployed in border areas in an essentially military role. This "anomalous reversal of roles" now demands rationalisation, they said. The veterans also wanted more reliance on indigenous military hardware and software, especially for the command and control structure of the armed forces and intelligence services, and reduce dependence of foreign sources as it makes the country more vulnerable to cyber attack. They batted for political solutions, saying that continuous deployment of the military can never be a long-term solution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/failure-of-intelligence-mechanism-government-lacked-in-disseminating-info-veterans-on-india-china-border-row-859242.html
10-07-2020||National||Nepal stops transmission of Indian news channels, except Doordarshan||Nepal on Thursday stopped the transmission of all Indian private news channels except Doordarshan, accusing them of airing reports hurting the country's national sentiment. There was no immediate reaction from India on the issue. People familiar with the development said the Nepalese embassy in New Delhi apprised its views to the Indian government over coverage of Nepal's political developments by the Indian channels. "We have stopped the distribution of all Indian news channels except Doordarshan," Dinesh Subedi, the chairman of Multi-System Operator (MSO), foreign channel distributor, told reporters here. "We have halted distribution of India's private news channels as they have aired news reports hurting Nepal's national sentiment," he added. The development comes after some Indian channels aired reports critical of Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and his government. However, the Nepal government did not officially announce halting the telecast of the Indian news channels. Minister for Finance, Information and Communication Yuvraj Khatiwada also condemned some of the reports aired by the Indian news channels. "Nepal government condemns such acts," Khatiwada said while responding to a question on the issue during a press meet on Thursday. “The government will seek political and legal ways against such an objectionable act," he added. Earlier in the day, former deputy prime minister and spokesperson of the ruling Nepal Communist party Narayan Kaji Shrestha said that the Indian media “must stop the baseless propaganda” against Prime Minister Oli and his government. "The baseless propaganda by the Indian media against the Nepal government and our Prime Minister has crossed all limits. This is getting too much. Stop with the nonsense,” Shrestha said in a tweet.  The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory. Later, Nepal updates the country's political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating three strategically important Indian areas. India termed as "untenable" the "artificial enlargement" of the territorial claims by Nepal. India has handed over a diplomatic note to Nepal over the map issue, Nepalese media reports said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-stops-transmission-of-indian-news-channels-except-doordarshan-859256.html
10-07-2020||National||ICSE class 10, ISC class 12 results declared: How and where to check||ICSE Class 10 and ISC Class 12 results has been declared today, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) said. ICSE class 10, ISC class 12 results has been declared today: How and where to check Schools can access the results online by logging into the CAREERS portal on the official CISCE website or by SMS. Schools can use the Principal’s login ID and Password to check the results on the portal. Step 1: Log in to CAREERS portal of council using the Principal's login ID and password. Step 2: Click on ‘examination system’. Step 3: To access ICSE 2020 examination results, click on ‘ICSE’ on the Menu bar. To access ISC 2020 examination results, click on ‘ISC’ on the Menu bar. Step 4: Choose ‘reports’ from the menu bar. To view or print the school’s result tabulation, click on ‘result tabulation’. Alternatively, one can also click on the comparison table.  Step 2: After opening the website, one can click on the ‘results 2020’ link. Step 3: Choose ICSE or ISC from the course’ option. Step 4: Enter unique ID, Index number and the CAPTCHA shown on the screen. The result will be shown on the screen.  How to check result via SMS To access results through SMS, one has to type ICSE (seven-digit unique ID) or ISC (seven-digit unique ID) and send it to 09248082883. Pass percentage Students need a minimum of 33 per cent or 33 marks to pass the ICSE and ISC exams 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icse-class-10-isc-class-12-results-declared-how-and-where-to-check-859264.html
10-07-2020||National||India reports record single-day jump of 26,506 Covid-19 cases||India saw yet another record single-day jump of 26,506 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 7,93,802 on Friday, while the death toll climbed to 21,604 with 475 people succumbing to the infection, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has crossed the 11-million mark.   According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,10,24,491 samples have been tested up to July 9 with 2,83,659 samples being tested on Thursday. The number of recoveries stands at 4,95,512 while there are 2,76,685 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country, the updated data at 8 am showed.  "Thus, around 62.42 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases included foreigners. Of the 475 new deaths reported, 219 are from Maharashtra, 65 from Tamil Nadu, 45 from Delhi, 27 from West Bengal, 17 from Uttar Pradesh, 16 from Karnataka, 15 from Gujarat, 13 from Andhra Pradesh, 9 from Rajasthan, eight from Bihar, seven from Telangana, six from Assam, five each from Haryana,Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab, four from Odisha and one from Chhattisgarh, Goa, Jhakhand and Meghalaya. Of the total 21,604 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra tops the tally with 9,667 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,258 deaths, Gujarat with 2,008, Tamil Nadu with 1,765, Uttar Pradesh with 862, West Bengal with 854, Madhya Pradesh with 634, Rajasthan with 491 and Karnataka with 486. The Covid-19 death toll reached 331 in Telangana, 287 in Haryana, 277 in Andhra Pradesh, 183 in Punjab, 154 in Jammu and Kashmir, 115 in Bihar, 52 in Odisha, 46 in Uttarakhand and 27 in Kerala. Jharkhand has registered 23 deaths, Assam 22, Chhattisgarh 15, Puducherry 14, Himachal Pradesh 11, Goa nine, Chandigarh seven, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya two each, Tripura and Ladakh have reported one fatality each, according to the Health Ministry. More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 2,30,599 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,26,581, Delhi at 1,07,051, Gujarat at 39,194, Uttar Pradesh at 32,362, Karnataka at 31,105, Telangana at 30,946, according to the ministry data. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 25,911 in West Bengal, 23,814 in Andhra Pradesh, 22,563 in Rajasthan, 19,369 in Haryana and 16,341 in Madhya Pradesh. It has risen to 14,032 in Assam, 13,944 in Bihar, 11,201 in Odisha and 9,501 in Jammu and Kashmir. Punjab has reported 7,140 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Kerala has 6,534 cases. A total of 3,675 have been infected by the virus in Chhattisgarh, 3,305 in Uttarakhand, 3,246 in Jharkhand, 2,151 in Goa, 1,776 in Tripura, 1,450 in Manipur, 1,140 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,055 in Ladakh. Puducherry has recorded 1,151 Covid-19 cases, Nagaland 673, Chandigarh 523 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 411 cases. Arunachal Pradesh reported 302 cases, Mizoram has 197 cases, Andaman and Nicobar Islands has 151, Sikkim has registered 134 infections so far, while Meghalaya has recorded 113 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 4,161 cases are being reassigned to states.   State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-record-single-day-jump-of-26506-covid-19-cases-859277.html
10-07-2020||National||Akhilesh Yadav questions Vikas Dubey's encounter||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Friday raised questions on gangster Vikas Dubey's encounter killing after an accident, saying the car did not topple but it was an effort to save the government from toppling if facts came to light. Dubey was killed in an encounter after a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot, police said. "Darasal ye car nahi palti, raj khulne se sarkar palatne se bach gayi hai," (Actually, the car did not topple. It is an effort to save the government which would have toppled if facts came to light)," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. Senior Superintendent of Police (Kanpur) Dinesh Kumar P said that the accident took place in the morning when it was raining heavily and the police vehicle overturned near Kanpur. Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-yadav-questions-vikas-dubeys-encounter-859291.html
10-07-2020||National||Fair and unlovely: India confronts dark-skin bias||When Chandana Hiran was a child, strangers would urge her to lighten her skin. Today the Indian student is leading a campaign against whitening creams as global anti-racism protests highlight the obsession with fair complexions for many in Asia. The campaign achieved its first victory when cosmetics giant Unilever dropped the word "fair" from its popular Fair & Lovely skin-lightening cream. L'Oreal and Johnson & Johnson announced similar initiatives. "They have been thriving on selling insecurities to women," 22-year-old Hiran, who launched an online petition against Fair & Lovely, told AFP. "The narrative is that if you are dark-skinned, you cannot achieve anything in life. So being a dark-skinned girl I've always felt that maybe... I need to be fair. If I'm not, then maybe I don't deserve those things." Multinationals have long profited from sales of whitening creams, facewash and even vaginal bleaching lotions, by advertising the message that beauty, success and love are only for pale-skinned people. Unilever made $500 million from Fair & Lovely sales in India last year, according to Bloomberg. Now, after mounting outrage sparked by the Black Lives Matter protests in Western cities, companies like Unilever say they "want to lead the celebration of a more diverse portrayal of beauty". But campaigners warn their fight has just begun and that, without greater efforts to counter entrenched bias against darker skin, the rebranding remains superficial. Colourism -- prejudice against darker skin tones -- in India is pervasive. While British colonialism helped fuel colourism, the bias is deeply rooted in India's ancient caste hierarchies, experts say. "The assumption is the higher castes are fairer than the lower castes," sociologist Suparna Kar of Bangalore's Christ University told AFP. As a result, many associate pale skin with wealth and beauty -- a prejudice bolstered by Bollywood films which rarely make darker-complexioned women the star and frequently portray successful city-dwellers as fair-skinned. Actress Tannishtha Chatterjee, long vocal about colourism, told AFP: "When I have been cast in urban roles, a make-up artist would come and tell me that it's an 'upmarket' role, so 'should I make the skin tone two shades lighter?'" The bias begins at birth, said Kavitha Emmanuel, who visits schools promoting her "Dark is Beautiful" campaign launched in 2009. "You'll hear, 'She's a girl and she's dark, oh my god, who is going to marry her? We have to ... make her look fair. Don't let her out in the sun, don't let her play sport'." The prejudice shows up in school textbooks, she said, with a dark-skinned person used to denote "ugliness". Many Indian women start using whitening products as children. Seema, a 29-year-old domestic worker in New Delhi, has used Fair & Lovely since she was 14. Most of her female relatives use it -- including her 12-year-old daughter. "When I look at the fairness-cream commercials it looks like a good product... they show that when people become fairer, they get jobs, they get proposals for marriage," she told AFP. Indeed, newspaper adverts for arranged marriages regularly call for brides with "milky white" complexions. The obsession is also widespread in Southeast Asia. "Having a whiter skin is seen as... part of what is euphemistically called (a) 'pleasing personality'," University of the Philippines' medical anthropologist Gideon Lasco told AFP. Such prejudices have exposed generations to self-loathing and low self-esteem, experts say. On top of the psychological damage, the products pose significant health risks. Some contain hazardous levels of mercury, which can cause kidney damage, skin ailments and psychosis, the World Health Organization warns. In Indonesia, the pursuit of "white skin" has led to the sale of toxic, unregulated products, prompting a government crackdown. But activists say it will take time to alter such ingrained biases, especially when the sector is so profitable. The skin-lightening industry is one of the world's fastest-growing beauty segments and is forecast to be worth $31.2 billion by 2024, according to the WHO. In India, a nation of 1.3 billion people, whitening products make up about half the skincare market. "There's no letting society off the hook here," activist Kavita Krishnan told AFP. Nevertheless, "corporate companies, commercial interests cannot simply use social bias as an alibi", she added. But change is coming, said campaigner Emmanuel, who believes future generations will see the world -- and themselves -- differently. Her recent visit to a school ended with a lighter-skinned student apologising to classmates for bullying them over their darker complexions, Emmanuel said. "For me, that was a moment... I realise it is having an impact."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fair-and-unlovely-india-confronts-dark-skin-bias-859295.html
10-07-2020||National||India seen as most attractive market for clean energy, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said India has emerged as the most attractive global market for clean energy and maintained self-reliance in electricity is a key component of the Centre's 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign. Launching a 750 MW solar project in Rewa in Madhya Pradesh through video-conferencing, Modi also said the state will emerge as a major hub for clean and cheap power in the country. "Solar energy is sure, pure and secure and the country is now among the top five solar power producers in the world," he said. The Rewa solar power plant will not only supply power to Madhya Pradesh, but also to the Delhi Metro, Modi said. Rewa Ultra Mega Solar (RUMS) project is Asia's largest such power facility and Delhi Metro will be one of its institutional customers outside the state. Modi said self-reliance in electricity is integral for 'Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bharat', adding solar energy will play an integral part in achieving this objective. The world is in a dilemma on whether to focus on the environment or on the economy, Modi said. However, India has shown to the world that the environment and economy are not at odds, but are complementary to each other, the PM said. The country has successfully demonstrated this in implementing programmes like Swachh Bharat, LPG connections to the poor (under Ujjwala scheme), CNG and electricity-based transportation, among others, he said. He said solar energy is sure, pure, and secure and will be a major source of power in the 21st century. "It is sure because the sun would shine throughout the world; it is pure because solar energy rather than polluting the environment, helps replenish it; it is very secure as it is a symbol of self-dependence and fulfils energy requirements," he said. Referring to the "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" campaign of his government, Modi said the country has to produce solar panels, batteries and other equipment on its own and has to reduce dependence on imports in this sector. "Today, Rewa has scripted history. Rewa is identified with the name of mother Narmada and the white tiger. Now, the name of Asias largest solar power project has also been added to it," he said. Modi congratulated the people of Rewa and also Madhya Pradesh, adding the solar plant will help make the area a big centre of energy in this decade. Work is going on for upsetting similar solar power plants in Shajapur, Neemuch and Chhatarpur and also a floating facility in Omkareshwar (a temple town in Khandwa district), Modi said. Once these projects are completed, Madhya Pradesh will definitely emerge as a hub for providing clean and cheap energy in the country, he said. Madhya Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Union ministers R K Singh and Dharmendra Pradhan attended the solar plant inauguration virtually. The Rewa project comprises three solar generating units of 250 MW each located on a 500-hectare plot of land situated inside a Solar Park (total area 1500 hectare). The Solar Park was developed by the Rewa Ultra Mega Solar Limited (RUMSL), a joint venture company of Madhya Pradesh Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (MPUVN), and Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), a Central Public Sector Undertaking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seen-as-most-attractive-market-for-clean-energy-says-pm-modi-859296.html
10-07-2020||National||Hours before Vikas Dubey was shot, PIL filed in SC apprehending his killing||In a PIL, Mumbai-based advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay sought a court-monitored CBI probe into the entire episode including alleged encounter of Dubey's co-accused by the Uttar Pradesh police. He submitted that the killing of the accused by the police in the name of encounter even in howsoever heinous crime was "against the rule of law and serious violation of human right and nothing sort of Talibanisation of the country". Dubey was alleged to be involved in killing of eight policemen in district Kanpur on July 2. He was arrested from Ujjain on Thursday. He was killed in encounter, when he allegedly tried to flee on Friday morning. "During the hunt for Dubey and his co-accused, five accused were arrested/caught and then killed by the police in the name of encounter...Thus, there is every possibility that even accused Dubey shall be killed by Uttar Pradesh Police like other co-accused once his custody is obtained," Upadhyay feared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hours-before-vikas-dubey-was-shot-pil-filed-in-sc-apprehending-his-killing-859298.html
10-07-2020||National||Ashram owner arrested for sexually harassing children in UP||The owner of an ashram in Shukertal was arrested for allegedly sexually harassing four children and forcing them and the others to work as labourers, police said on Friday. Swami Bhakti Bhushan Govind Maharaj was arrested when he was trying to escape from the ashram, they said. According to Additional District Magistrate Amit Kumar, a case was registered against the owner and others under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 377 (unnatural offences), 504 ( intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and sections 5/6 of the POCSO Act. On July 7, a team of childcare helpline and police rescued eight children then and two later. They were aged between seven to ten years and hailed from Tripura, Mizoram and Assam. They were also produced before the children welfare board. In a medical examination, four of the children were confirmed to be sexually harassed. Meanwhile, Subdivisional Magistrate Kuldeep Meena recorded their statement. The district authorities informed the parents of the victims who alleged sexual harassment by Bhushan and claimed that he forced them to lay bricks as part of manual labour. Bhushan, who established the ashram in 2008, denied the charges against him, claiming he was falsely implicated in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashram-owner-arrested-for-sexually-harassing-children-in-up-859308.html
10-07-2020||National||The rise and fall of Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey||Gangster Vikas Dubey, who met with a gory end in an encounter with the UP STF near here on Friday, conjured the image of a typical don who dabbled in real-estate, won a district-level election and rubbed shoulders with political figures. Last Friday, Dubey, who was around 50-years-old, hogged the headlines after his henchmen allegedly shot dead eight police personnel in a botched raid that he had converted into an ambush. An old photo on social media showed him at an event next to an Uttar Pradesh minister, who switched parties to join the ruling BJP.    Congress claimed this showed his political patronage. Another picture showed a poster of him appealing for votes for his wife, Richa Dubey, in a Zila panchayat election which she won from Ghimau under which Bikru village falls.    The poster also carried pictures of two leaders now in the opposition, implying that she had their support.    In 2000, Dubey himself won the Shivrajpur seat in a zila panchayat poll he fought from prison, where he was lodged after a murder charge, according to officials. However, following his arrest on Thursday, Dubey's mother Sarla Devi said, "At this time, he is not in the BJP, he is with the SP."  But, a Samajwadi Party spokesman said Dubey was "not a member of the party" and strict action should be taken against him.  Moreover, his call record details should be made public as demanded by party president Akhilesh Yadav to expose his links, he said. After being on the run for nearly a week, during which he was said to have taken refuge in a hotel in Faridabad on Delhi's outskirts, Dubey was picked up from the holy city of Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Thursday, "Dubey arrived at the (Mahakal) temple in his car. A police constable identified him first, after which three others (security personnel) were alerted and he was taken aside for questioning and later arrested." However, temple sources gave a slightly different account. They said Dubey reached the temple gate in the morning and purchased a Rs 250 ticket from a counter near the police post. When he went to a nearby shop to buy prasad for the deity, the shop owner identified him and alerted police, they added. When policemen asked him his name, he loudly said, "I am Vikas Dubey of Kanpur ", following which the cops and private security personnel deployed at the temple nabbed him. The MP police then handed him over to the UP police. When he was being brought to the state, the police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain overturned at Bhauti area in Kanpur on Friday morning, police claimed. Inspector General of Police (Kanpur) Mohit Agarwal said Dubey tried to flee from the spot after snatching the pistol of a inspector leading to an encounter. "Dubey was injured in the encounter and he was declared dead in the hospital," ADG Kanpur range, JN Singh said. Dubey shot into limelight last Friday when his henchmen ambushed UP policemen who had gone to Bikru village to arrest him in a new case of attempted murder.    Officials said the road was blocked by heavy earthmoving equipment and when policemen stepped out of their vehicles, they faced a hail of bullets, and eight of them were killed. Since then, the UP police have shot dead five of Dubey's alleged accomplices.  Police claimed that Dubey was involved in about 60 cases. But details obtained from officials indicate that he was not convicted even in cases like murder.    He was the prime accused in the murder of BJP leader Santosh Shukla inside the Shivli police station here in 2001, according to an official.    "Dubey had instilled so much fear in everyone that even after being accused of murdering a BJP leader having the status of minister of state, not even a single police officer gave a statement against him," alleged the official who did not want to be named.  "No evidence was put before the court and he was acquitted for lack of evidence," the official said.    He claimed that Dubey used to plot and execute crimes, including murder, from inside the jail.  His clout among police can be gauged from the fact that all the 68 police personnel at Chaubeypur police station near Kanpur were shunted to the reserve police lines on Tuesday with the top brass saying they suspected their integrity after last week's ambush. Even DIG Anant Deo, who till recently was the senior SP in Kanpur, was transferred from the state's Special task Force (STF) to the Provincial Armed Police (PAC) unit in Moradabad. Dubey was also an accused in the murder of Sidheshwar Pandey, a manager at Tarachand Inter College in Kanpur, in 2000. He was accused of plotting the murder of one Ram Babu Yadav from the prison in the same year. His name came up in the murder of Dinesh Dubey, a businessman, in 2004. He allegedly committed another murder in 2013.  He was accused of ordering the killing of his cousin Anurag in 2018, while he was himself in jail.  The victim's wife had filed an FIR against four people, including him, according to his history sheet shared by officials.    A villager said Dubey and his brother Deepu Dubey dealt in real estate. Another younger brother Avinash was killed some time back, the local resident claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-rise-and-fall-of-uttar-pradesh-gangster-vikas-dubey-859320.html
10-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi's 2018 Singapore visit enhanced India's presence in ASEAN: Indian diplomat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's three-day visit to Singapore in 2018 went a long way in enhancing India's presence in the ASEAN region, outgoing Indian High Commissioner to Singapore Jawed Ashraf has said. The 56-year-old career diplomat who served in Singapore for 43 months will leave on Sunday for his next posting to France. "PM Modi's visits to Singapore went a long way in enhancing India's presence in the region, in sending a strong signal of our commitment to the region and in several concrete outcomes that have significantly deepened India's strategic partnership with Singapore and ASEAN," he said in a farewell interview with Singapore's Friday weekly Tabla. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is a regional intergovernmental organisation comprising 10 Southeast Asian countries, which promotes intergovernmental cooperation and facilitates economic, political, security, military, educational, and socio-cultural integration among its members and other Asian states. The ASEAN members are Indonesia, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, The Philippines, Vietnam, Myanmar, Cambodia, Brunei and Laos. "What we have achieved is the result of teamwork between both governments and by tapping the talent and resources outside," Ashraf said. The India-Singapore strategic partnership made progress across several areas, thanks entirely to the vision and leadership of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Prime Minister Modi and is driven by all the ministers on both sides, he said. "I believe it has enormous potential for growth, which can bring great economic and strategic benefits to Singapore and India. I hope I have done my bit among a whole set of leaders, institutions and stakeholders who shape the relationship," he said. K V Rao, resident director (ASEAN) at Tata Sons admired Ashraf's contribution in strengthening India-Singapore ties. "He is multi-faceted and highly energetic. He raised the political, economic, cultural, social and artistic spheres of the Singapore-India relationship to another level. An outstanding orator and a great friend who endeared himself to so many of us, he will be sorely missed. Our loss is France's gain," said Rao. Ashraf played a key role in Indian fintech startups connecting with Singapore and getting global exposure. "Singapore is a leading country in this area and a natural partner for India. The Monetary Authority of Singapore, especially its Managing Director Ravi Menon and Chief Fintech Officer Sopnendu Mohanty and his team, played a pioneering role. We also have a joint working group to steer this cooperation," he said. Ashraf also praised the Indian diaspora in Singapore as "very talented, socially committed and deeply connected with both India and Singapore". "He was a symbol of racial harmony and unity in diversity. He went out of his way to help the needy during the COVID-19 pandemic," Atul Temurnikar, chairman of Global Schools Foundation, said of Ashraf.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-2018-singapore-visit-enhanced-indias-presence-in-asean-indian-diplomat-859321.html
10-07-2020||National||Woman moves HC for aborting abnormal foetus; referred to AIIMS||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought response of the AAP government and AIIMS on a woman's plea seeking termination of her pregnancy as the 23-week old foetus was suffering from various abnormalities. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Delhi government and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) seeking their stand on the woman's plea. The court asked the woman to approach the AIIMS for setting up a panel of experts to examine her and asked the institute to evaluate her and the foetus to ascertain whether it would be safe to terminate the pregnancy. The bench asked the AIIMS to give its report by July 13 after examining the woman and listed the matter for hearing on July 14. The woman, in her plea filed through advocate Sneha Mukherjee, has said the foetus suffers from "spina bifida and Arnold Chiari Syndrome defect" which results in the spinal cord being outside the body and the brain tissue extending into the spinal canal. The foetus also suffers from a deformed skull and a heart defect according to ultrasound reports, the petition has said and added that these abnormalities would make it improbable for the baby to survive after birth. If the pregnancy is allowed to continue, it could also cause irreparable physical and psychological damage or trauma to the woman, the plea has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-moves-hc-for-aborting-abnormal-foetus-referred-to-aiims-859323.html
10-07-2020||National||SC issues notice to Centre, States on cruel practices to ward off wild animals||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre, Kerala and 12 other states on a PIL against use of explosives and other barbaric and cruel ways for warding off wild elephants and other animals. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna sought a response from the Union government and States including Karnataka on the plea by Shubham Awasthi. The petitioner sought a declaration that the practices of filling fruits and food items and chalked off sticks to ward off animals be deemed illegal and unconstitutional, in order to provide a life of dignity to animals.  He also sought a direction for filling up of vacancies of Forest department in their respective States for better management of Animal-Human conflict. He pointed out that the Constitution recognised the lives and welfare of animals by making it a fundamental duty of the citizens of India to respect and treat all living creatures with compassion. Referring to the May 27 incident where a pregnant elephant succumbed to injuries caused by eating an explosives-laced pineapple, he said such instances were antithetical to India’s obligations towards the fulfilment of fundamental rights of  animals. Among others, he sought necessary amendments in the Prevention of Cruelty against Animals Act, 1960 to enhance punishments for causing ill-treatment to animals and make it more stringent according to modern times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-to-centre-states-on-cruel-practices-to-ward-off-wild-animals-859333.html
10-07-2020||National||SC disposes of plea seeking release of Noida ex-engineer after Allahabad HC grants him bail||The Supreme Court Friday disposed of a plea seeking the release of Noida's former chief engineer Yadav Singh from the alleged illegal custody of the CBI in a corruption case after being informed that the Allahabad High Court has already granted him bail on Thursday. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and B R Gavai recorded the statement of Singh's lawyers on the high court bail order and said the petition has now become infructuous and disposed of the matter. A division bench of the high court had granted the bail while hearing a habeas corpus (produce the detained person before the court) petition seeking Singh's release from the alleged illegal CBI custody. The CBI counsel had told the high court Wednesday that the delay in filing of the charge sheet was not intentional as courts were closed due to the coronavirus pandemic. Rejecting the argument, the high court said the probe agency's claim was not justified and directed that the petitioner be set free forthwith on fulfilling the conditions to be laid down by the special court. The top court had on July 8 asked the high court to decide the plea seeking the release of Singh and pass appropriate orders. Singh, the former chief maintenance engineer in Noida, is in judicial custody since February 11, 2020, after the CBI arrested him in the third case of corruption registered against him on January 17, 2018. His son, Sunny, had approached the Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court with a habeas corpus petition alleging that Yadav Singh has been wrongly incarcerated as only 60 days of judicial custody is permissible under Section 167 (2) of Code of Criminal Procedure and that the duration expired on April 10, 2020. Sunny contended that the CBI failed to file charge-sheet within the statutory period of 60 days but the trial court rejected the prayer for default bail. On May 6, the Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court has "dismissed as withdrawn" the habeas corpus petition seeking Singh's release as the CBI raised objections on the court's territorial jurisdiction but granted liberty to the petitioner to move a fresh petition before its principal bench. Besides the latest corruption case wherein Yadav Singh is accused of favouring companies of his friends and associates in doling out lucrative contracts in Noida, the CBI had booked him in two other corruption cases. These cases pertain to misusing his official position to favour firms in awarding contracts worth over Rs 1,000 crore in Noida and amassing illegitimate assets worth over Rs 23 crore. The agency had produced 62-year old Yadav Singh before the Ghaziabad Special court after his arrest which sent him to judicial custody. His bail petition was rejected by the special court on April 17, 2020. Before the Lucknow bench of the High Court, the CBI had contended that the territorial jurisdiction over Ghaziabad Special court is of Allahabad High Court hence, the matter should be heard by it and not by its Lucknow Bench. The agency had also argued that there was no question of illegal detention as the accused was produced before the special court which remanded him to judicial custody. It said the accused was not in CBI custody. During the course of the enquiry, the agency had found that he had allegedly favoured five companies belonging to his friends, associates and family members in awarding huge contracts in Noida.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-disposes-of-plea-seeking-release-of-noida-ex-engineer-after-allahabad-hc-grants-him-bail-859340.html
10-07-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi seeks cancellation of varsity exams, says promote students on past performance||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday demanded cancellation of university exams and urged the UGC to promote students on the basis of past performance during the coronavirus pandemic. Accusing the University Grants Commission (UGC) of creating confusion, Gandhi said it is unfair to conduct examinations during the Covid-19 pandemic and the UGC should listen to the voice of students. "Covid-19 has harmed many people. Students in schools, colleges and universities are being made to suffer. While the IITs and colleges have cancelled exams and have promoted students, the UGC is creating confusion. UGC should also cancel the exams and promote students on the basis of past performance," he said in a video message. Gandhi participated in the 'SpeakUpforStudents' campaign by the Congress party and posted a short video message on Twitter. "It is extremely unfair to conduct exams during the Covid-19 pandemic. "The UGC must hear the voice of students and academics. Exams should be cancelled and students promoted on the basis of past performance," he also tweeted. The Congress has launched a campaign in favour of students, demanding cancellation of exams during the pandemic and urging their promotion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-seeks-cancellation-of-varsity-exams-says-promote-students-on-past-performance-859344.html
10-07-2020||National||India to invite Australia for naval drill, risking Beijing’s ire||By Sudhi Ranjan Sen and Archana Chaudhary India plans to invite Australia to join the annual Malabar naval exercise that has so far included just Japan and the US, in a move that could risk China’s ire. The decision to include Australia in the drills -- the first time all members of the regional grouping known as the Quad will be engaged at a military level -- comes as Beijing and New Delhi are caught up in their worst border tensions in four decades. The exercise will bring together the navies of India, Japan, Australia and the US in the Bay of Bengal at the end of the year, according to senior Indian officials who asked not to be identified, citing rules. New Delhi is expected to clear the way next week for a formal invitation to Australia following final government clearance and consultations with the US and Japan, the officials said. “The timing of India potentially letting Australia into Malabar would be especially significant at this juncture,” said Derek Grossman, a researcher at the Washington-based RAND Corporation who worked in the US intelligence community for more than a decade. “It would send a significant message to China that the Quad -- US, Australia, Japan, and India -- are de facto conducting joint naval exercises, even if not technically conducted under the auspices of a Quad event.” China has been uncomfortable with the informal coalition of four democracies, which was first formed in 2004 to help nations in the Indo-Pacific after the tsunami and revived in 2017. Post the coronavirus pandemic, the grouping has been coordinating efforts every month with Vietnam, South Korea and New Zealand. Indian Navy Spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhawal declined to comment. A spokesperson for Australia’s defence department said in an emailed statement on Friday that while the nation was yet to receive an invitation to Exercise Malabar, “Australia sees value in participating in quadrilateral defence activities in order to increase interoperability and advance our collective interests in a free, open and prosperous Indo-Pacific region.” Strengthening Ties While the Malabar exercises between US and Indian navies were instituted in 1992, they have been more regular since 2004 with other Asian nations joining in the annual event. China had objected to the only other time Australia participated in the drills along with India, Japan, US and Singapore in 2007. India’s inclusion of Australia this year follows a defence agreement and upgrading ties to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. The Mutual Logistics support agreement announced in May by Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Scott Morrison allows access to each other’s bases and ports. India has a similar agreement with the U.S. Canberra’s inclusion in the games was “only a matter of time” given improving defence and economic ties, according to Biren Nanda, former Indian High Commissioner to Australia and senior fellow at Delhi Policy Group. Australia’s merchandise trade with India for the year ended June 2019 was A$21.1 billion ($14.5 billion), according to Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. “There’s no direct relation between inviting Australia and what’s happening at the Sino-Indian border,” said Nanda in a phone interview. “This was a natural progression. Yet the question will be raised: how would the Chinese regard this? And they will react negatively. Just like they had done earlier.” Weaponised Quad China objected to Japan’s inclusion in the US-India annual Malabar event in 2015 with the then foreign ministry spokesperson Hong Lei warning “relevant countries” to not “provoke confrontation and create tension” in the region. Five years later, with an assertive China pushing neighbours across the Asian seas, Nanda expects a similar response. Yet, there may be more acceptance to the idea of “like-minded democracies that seek to keep the Indo-Pacific free and open” amid India’s rapidly souring on China ties, purely out of frustration, said Rajeswari Pillai Rajagoplan, distinguished fellow at New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation and author of ‘Clashing Titans: Military Strategy and Insecurity Among Asian Great Powers.’ Although India and China are now in the process of disengaging along their 3,488 kilometer (2,167 mile) unmarked boundary in the Himalayas after high-level military and diplomatic talks, the deadly clashes that followed the months-long standoff in the Galwan valley was a blow to relations between the nuclear-armed neighbors. “Especially after Galwan, there’s a growing realization in New Delhi’s elite circles that its increasingly difficult to trust China. They have broken more than four decades of agreements. Good trade ties are no guarantee of peace,” said Rajagoplan. “They have time and again tried to interfere in other nations’ foreign policy. But there’s an agreement in India that China should not have a say in who our friends are.” With Washington indicating its willingness to back the region through an increased force deployment in Asia, the Malabar exercises may take on more importance. “The Quad has always been a security platform but didn’t have a military context to it,” said Rajagopalan. “The Malabar exercises may give it just that thanks to China upping its ante and threatening the region’s security.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-invite-australia-for-naval-drill-risking-beijing-s-ire-859349.html
10-07-2020||National||Prohibitory order on fake social media posts not extended: Govt||The Maharashtra government on Friday informed the Bombay High Court that the prohibitory order against spreading of incorrect or false information on social media amid the Covid-19 pandemic has ended and no extension has been given to it. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told a division bench of Justices A A Sayed and M S Karnik that the order dated May 23 passed by the deputy commissioner of police (Operations) under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) had been in effect only till June 8. "The same has not been extended after June 8 and presently there is no prohibitory order in place," Kumbhakoni said. The court was hearing two public interest litigations challenging the legality of the prohibitory order. As per the order, action can be taken against any person who spreads incorrect or fake information on social media. The order had further stated that persons who are administrators of any social media group shall be held personally liable for dissemination of any false or incorrect messages circulated in the group. After accepting the government's submission, the bench disposed of the petitions, noting that as the prohibitory orders have ceased to exist, nothing survives in the plea. According to the petitions filed by advocate Sheshanath Mishra and journalist and co-founder of the NGO Free Speech Collective Geeta Seshu, the order violates the rights of citizens guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India (right to freedom of speech and expression). The petition filed by Mishra claimed that the police order aims to muzzle the voice of common citizens and prevent them from criticising the government's handling of the pandemic. Seshu's counsel Mihir Desai argued that the police have not followed due procedure prescribed under section 144 of CrPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prohibitory-order-on-fake-social-media-posts-not-extended-govt-859356.html
10-07-2020||National||UK, India 'energetic champions' of free trade, says UK Foreign Minister||Britain and India will be the "energetic champions" of free trade to boost small businesses, UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said on Friday as he pitched the two nations as leaders in tackling challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. Addressing the Annual UK-India Day during India Global Week 2020 on Friday, the senior Cabinet minister acknowledged India’s help at the height of the coronavirus pandemic with “vital supplies of paracetamol”. “Britain and India will be energetic champions of free trade, to boost small businesses, to cut the cost of living for consumers and to create the jobs of the future,” said Raab, addressing the event held virtually given the coronavirus lockdown. “As leaders in the international Covid-19 response, the UK and India also co-authored the G20 Action Plan, providing an immediate package of USD 200 billion of global support to the most vulnerable countries around the world. "A vaccine created by British scientists and manufactured in India, if successful in clinical trials, will reach one billion people across the developing world, thanks to Oxford University and India's Serum Institute,” he said.  The UK has committed 313 million pounds to research and development to support the development of a possible vaccine to Covid-19, and British pharma giant AstraZeneca is leading the development work with Oxford University and the Serum Institute of India. The UK Foreign Office said the vaccine tie-up builds on the already “thriving” science and technology collaboration between the UK and India, which has seen joint research and innovation spending increase from 1 million pounds in 2008 to over 400 million pounds by 2021. The Foreign Secretary is leading a senior UK delegation of ministers at this year’s India Global Week, organised by UK-based media India Inc. Group, alongside his Cabinet colleagues Home Secretary Priti Patel, Health Secretary Matt Hancock and International Trade Secretary Liz Truss. Hancock headlined the healthcare session of the event, during which he described India as a “tech powerhouse” and also hailed the contribution of Indian professionals to the state-funded National Health Service (NHS). He revealed the latest government figures that show that India is the second-highest in terms of countries from around the world from which people have come to work in the NHS. Hancock said: “Prime Minister Modi has called India the pharmacy of the world, and it’s true." “Around 40 per cent of UK medicines have some parts of their manufacturing in India.” Lord Tariq Ahmad, Minister of State for South Asia and the Commonwealth, and John Murton, the UK Government’s COP-26 envoy were among some of the other speakers at the annual conference themed #BeTheRevival: India and a Better New World. “There are few countries that share the people-to-people connections as the UK and India. This was demonstrated earlier this year when we repatriated more than 15,000 British people from India – the largest repatriation operation from a single country since the Second World War,” said Ahmad. “As we adjust to the new post-Covid world in the coming months, I know that these people-to-people links will help future generations to build back better. The Living Bridge between our countries – on show at India Global Week – will grow back stronger,” he said. John Murton sought to highlight that the UK is already a top partner for India on climate change issues, having joined the India-led International Solar Alliance last year, which aims to mobiles more than USD 1 trillion of investments in solar energy by 2030||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-india-energetic-champions-of-free-trade-says-uk-foreign-minister-859365.html
10-07-2020||National||Vikas Dubey encounter draws parallels with Hyderabad encounter of four accused in rape and murder of a vet||The Friday encounter killing of dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey has #HyderabadEncounter trending on the social media, in an instant recollection of another sensational Friday encounter that occurred seven months back. Like in the Kanpur incident, the famed Hyderabad “shootout” of the four accused in the monstrous rape and murder of a young veterinarian took place outside the city. It too was an early morning occurrence. Mohammed alias Arif (26) a lorry driver and A-1, and three others – Gollu Shiva, Gollu Naveen and Ch Chennakesavulu – all in twenties and hailing from Maktal in south Telangana were shot dead, just over a week of the gruesome crime on 27-28 November night at Shamshabad on the Hyderabad-Bangalore highway. The suspects were arrested on 29 November and were produced before a court. Like in the Dubey case, the four were in police custody when they were killed. In the pre-dawn hours of 6 December, the men were taken to the underpass where the body of Disha, as the vet was named by the Cyberabad police, was found in half burnt condition.              “As the accused admitted they hid the victim’s mobile and other belongings at the Chatanpally underpass, our police party brought them here this morning. They suddenly started attacking us with stones, sticks. Two of them – (Arif and Chennakeshavulu) - snatched two weapons and started firing at us. We warned them to surrender but the criminals did not heed, forcing us to open fire. They were found dead with bullet injuries. Two of our men suffered grievous injuries and are in hospital,” Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said in explanation of the “encounter.” A majority of the Telangana public who woke up to the dramatic news on TV erupted in joy and locals showered rose petals on cops at the encounter site for the “instant justice.” Nationwide too, the Cyberabad police action was celebrated with Sajjanar, a 1996 batch IPS from Hubballi, hailed as “Singham.” (Sajjanar was SP, Warangal when a similar encounter killing of three men accused of acid attack on two engineering girl students happened in 2008.)   However, the Hyderabad encounter was challenged by civil liberties activists as “extra-judicial killings.” Based on such petitions, the Supreme Court had on 12 December appointed an inquiry commission headed by Justice VS Sirpurkar, a former SC judge. The commission’s first sitting took place on 3 February and the next meeting was to be held on 23 March, which was deferred because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.   “We have, anyhow, collected all the pertaining records, took statements of the accused’s families and the policemen involved,” an official, who is part of the commission told DH. “Since the first sitting was on 3 February, we have the six-month time till 3 August. We are exploring the possibility of virtual conferences for the hearings. If not feasible, an extension would be sought,” the source said. Facing censure, the K Chandrasekhar Rao government had formed a Special Investigation Team headed by Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat, prior to the SC’s commission. When contacted Bhagwat said that their “probe is also going on simultaneously.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vikas-dubey-encounter-draws-parallels-with-hyderabad-encounter-of-four-accused-in-rape-and-murder-of-a-vet-859373.html
10-07-2020||National||Karnataka: CISF personnel dies due to Covid-19 in Mangaluru||A 58-year-old Assistant Sub Inspector of CISF posted in Mangaluru has died due to Covid-19, officials said on Friday. K B Premsha, a resident of Kodagu in Karnataka and posted in Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MPRL), breathed his last on Thursday. He was admitted to a hospital in Mangaluru on July 5 and had tested positive two days later. Officials said this is the ninth Covid-19 death in CISF, which has recorded 1,137 cases so far. CISF said 20 personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours while 22 have recovered during this period. At present, 410 CISF personnel are undergoing treatment while the rest have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-cisf-personnel-dies-due-to-covid-19-in-mangaluru-859381.html
10-07-2020||National||'Secure, observe and act' is mantra of digital protection: Expert||The key elements of digital security is "secure, observe and act", says Col (Retd) Pradeep Bhat, a leading cybersecurity expert. "All the factors that lies behind a cybercrime it is ultimately one’s carelessness and ignorance that leads to such attacks," he said, addressing an online gathering on 'Understanding Cyber Security held as part of its “Lockdown Lecture Series” hosted by Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai. A cyber thief or a threat actor basically tries to exploit the user’s vulnerability to obtain access to digital valuables by studying sensitive passwords or by sending malicious links which the user is asked to click.  This eventually leads to malware installation in one’s smart device and thereby a stalker gets access to a person's valuable data. He also insisted about the do's and don'ts in order to protect oneself and others from cybercrimes.  One should invest in good software utilities, ensure operating system being used is reliable and in good condition, should never leave open the laptops/mobiles which have all personal data.  "Downloading apps from authentic sites and using different passwords for accessing different platforms and changing it periodically can also help in keeping the digital valuables safe and secure," said Col Bhat. He also cautioned about being aware of all social engineering attempts made by people through social media or emails or chats. “These could be from malicious actors trying to gain access to digital valuables,” he said. “The subject of cybersecurity should not create fear and awe in us. Like physical security, cybersecurity too is based on simple principles and practices which we can understand and imbibe in our daily life," the veteran said. He also explained how the same computers, mobile phones or smart devices which help us in executing our day to day activities can become a threat and may pave way to cyber frauds. Smart devices and machines are those that can be programmed to carry out different functions. He spoke about the communication system existing between smart devices, various components involved in the networking system, how the data is collected, processed, stored and used by these devices. “It is very important to know the components and various networks through which smart devices communicate with each other, since these can be used for cybercrimes”, he stressed. He also mentioned how significant it is to protect our personal data from sharing on various platforms. “The first step to protect a ‘valuable’ is to identify it. However unlike physical valuables like gold chain, cash or debit cards, it is very tough to recognise your 'digital valuables'. Digital valuables are nothing but a collection of 0s and 1s stored as binary data which are saved as files or transmitted as streams”, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/secure-observe-and-act-is-mantra-of-digital-protection-expert-859382.html
10-07-2020||National||Rajnath Singh holds telephonic conversation with South Korean counterpart over ramping up bilateral defence cooperation||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday held a telephonic conversation with his South Korean counterpart Jeong Kyeong-Doo with a focus on further ramping up bilateral defence cooperation by launching joint production lines for military hardware and key platforms, officials said. South Korea has been a major supplier of weapons and military equipment to India for the past several years. Last year, the two countries finalised a roadmap for cooperation in joint production of various land and naval systems. In May, the government announced relaxing foreign direct investment norms in defence manufacturing by allowing 74 percent FDI under the automatic route with a view to attract overseas players in the sector. The telephonic conversation took place in the midst of a tense border row between India and China. It is not immediately known whether the issue figured in the conversation. A defence ministry statement said views on the regional developments of shared security interests were also discussed during the telephonic call. The officials said the two ministers reviewed the progress on various bilateral defence cooperation initiatives and expressed commitment to further promote defence cooperation between the armed forces. "It was also agreed to take forward the agreements in the field of defence industry and defence technology cooperation between India and Republic of Korea," the defence ministry said. Officials said the two sides discussed ways to launch joint production lines for military hardware and key platforms. The defence ministry said the ministers also discussed issues pertaining to the Covid-19 and agreed to work together to deal with the complex challenges posed by the pandemic. "Singh informed Jeong Kyeong-Doo on India's contribution to international efforts against Covid-19 and discussed areas of mutual cooperation in the global fight against the pandemic," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-holds-telephonic-conversation-with-south-korean-counterpart-over-ramping-up-bilateral-defence-cooperation-859389.html
10-07-2020||National||Bengaluru's IISC designs robotic arm controlled by eye movement for severe speech and motor impaired||An Indian Institute of Science (IISc) research team has designed a robotic arm that can be manipulated by eye movement using a computer interface, to help people with Severe Speech and Motor Impairment (SSMI). This interface is non-invasive since it is through a webcam and a computer, unlike other eye gaze-tracking devices that use head-mounted systems, according to Bengaluru-based IISc. People with SSMI find it difficult to physically operate devices such as a joystick, mouse or trackball, or use speech recognition systems, it was noted. Eye gaze-controlled computer interfaces can help them perform various tasks on par with their non-disabled peers. To help people with SSMI (a condition caused by disorders like cerebral palsy), a research team at the Centre for Product Design and Manufacturing (CPDM), IISc, worked with young adult students who have SSMI at Vidya Sagar (formerly The Spastics Society of India) in Chennai, an institution for individuals with disabilities. "Many of these students [with cerebral palsy] are not able to precisely focus at a single point in their visual field, due to uncontrolled gaze movement. They are also not comfortable to look at all portions of the visual field equally," says project lead Pradipta Biswas, Assistant Professor at CPDM. Biswas and his team used computer vision and machine learning algorithms to analyse live feeds of facial video from the users, and were able to estimate where the user was looking. They coupled this with an Augmented Reality application to allow the user to use a robotic arm for tasks like picking up and dropping objects, and placing them where they desire, as long as it was within reach of the robotic arm, according to an IISc statement. One of the main applications of this eye gaze-controlled robotic arm is rehabilitation of young adults with SSMI, through tasks such as fabric printing. They usually require assistance in doing such tasks, as they can only do a small part of it by themselves. Using the robotic arm designed by the researchers, people with SSMI can use their eye gaze to perform mechanical tasks that can help them work on handicrafts independently, it said. This eye gaze-controlled interface has been deployed at Vidya Sagar and is in regular use. "This validation and evaluation [of the interface and robotic arm] with end-users is a major contribution of the study," says Biswas. The students with SSMI are able to use the robotic manipulator almost as well as their non-disabled counterparts, and the results were the same during repeated trials. This technology can also be used by younger individuals with SSMI, to move toys like cars. "We are using play as a medium to teach new technologies, which they can use for the rest of their lives," adds Biswas. Further modifications to this tool could also allow young individuals with SSMI to use it for e-learning. The authors believe that this interface is a step towards designing future technologies which ensure that physical impairments do not stand in the way of pedagogical training and professional lives of individuals with SSMI. Biswas also says that such a system could be useful for automotive and aeronautical applications, as well as for developing collaborative robots used in smart manufacturing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengalurus-iisc-designs-robotic-arm-controlled-by-eye-movement-for-severe-speech-and-motor-impaired-859394.html
10-07-2020||National||Maharashtra government-appointed body urges Modi PM to address loan issues||A Maharashtra government-appointed body had urged prime minister Narendra Modi to intervene and address the alleged indifferent attitude on part of banks in providing loans to distressed farmers. Veteran farmers' leader Kishore Tiwari, who heads the Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission (VNSSM), a task force appointed to tackle agrarian crisis in the state, said that bank officials are not responding to state government's instructions to give crop to farmers whose in are in list of loan waiver beneficiaries. Tiwari, who is associated with Shiv Sena, urged that prime minister to arrange to empower Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, as chairman of the State Level Bankers' Committee (SLBC), to address the credit crisis. The SLBC is only body resolve these issues, consider alternative solutions to the various problems in the field of banking development and evolve a consensus for co-ordinate action by the member institutions. The VNSSM, set up by the state government, is empowered to recommend and ensure implementation of a host of measures for the welfare of farmers to prevent more incidents of suicides in the parched farmlands in 14 districts in its jurisdiction. "Despite the chief minister's stress on providing bank finance to all farmers, public sector and other commercial banks continue to ignore the credit issue of distressed farmers who are committing suicides. On an average, five farmers kill themselves per day as per the government data," said Tiwari, who advises Thackeray on agrarian issues. He claimed that most of the PSU banks are yet to start disbursement of fresh crop loans or reconstruction of pending crop loans as per the orders of the RBI and NABARD in drought-hit districts in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions. "District administration and banks should be held accountable for failure to provide crop loans to farmers seeking credit," Tiwari demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-government-appointed-body-urges-modi-pm-to-address-loan-issues-859405.html
10-07-2020||National||Extremely unfair for UGC to hold exams, says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi||Batting for students, Rahul Gandhi on Friday termed the UGC advisory to hold final year university examinations by September end as “unfair” and made a strong pitch for assessment on the basis of past performance. The former Congress President’s remarks came days after Shiv Sena and CPI(M)-affiliated Students’ Federation of India had demanded scrapping the UGC decision to hold final year university examinations. "It is extremely unfair to conduct examinations during the Covid-19 pandemic. UGC must hear the voice of the students and academics. Exams should be cancelled and students promoted on the basis of past performance,” the former Congress President said. Congress also launched an online campaign “SpeakUpForStudents”, urging followers to post short videos giving voice to the demands of the university students. Maharashtra Higher Education Minister and Shiv Sena leader Uday Samant has written a letter to the HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, urging him to cancel the final year university examinations citing the Covid-19 situation in the state. Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena, had launched an online petition against the UGC decision on Tuesday. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Lok Sabha member Manickam Tagore had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding cancellation of the UGC decision to hold final year university exams. West Bengal and Odisha governments too have expressed concern over the UGC decision to hold final year examinations for university students. On Monday, the UGC had issued guidelines that said the final year university examinations can be held in September. As a part of the “standard operating procedure” (SOP) for conducting the final-year or end-semester examinations, the educational institutions have been advised to hold the final-year or end-semester exams by September, 2020 in pen-and-paper, online mode or a “blended” mode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extremely-unfair-for-ugc-to-hold-exams-says-congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-859408.html
10-07-2020||National||Railways claims tribunal likely to process compensation claims of deaths in Shramik special trains||With 110 passengers dead in railway premises during operation of Shramik special trains since May 1, the Indian Railways is likely to refer the issue of giving compensation to the railways claims tribunal. The railway so far collected details, where it found 110 people died on board Shramik special trains or in railways premisis. "The each and every death is being probed by respective state governments where death happened to findout cause, " said an official in the railways. While rejecting the allegation of death due to lack of food and water, the railway official said that most of death occured due to pre- existing heath problems. Since May 1, the railways operated 4,611 Shramik Special trains and ferried 63.07 lakh migrant workers to their home states. Earlier Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav also said that " all these cases are basically referred to the railway claim tribunal and on case to case basis these claims and compensations are decided." The railways provides ex-gratia payment to victims of railway accidents under the Railway Act mainly due to derailment, any other accident or fault. However, for death or injuries caused mostly by passengers or by trespassing or run over or accidentally falling from a train, the compensation can be sought through claims tribunal. In these incidents exgratia will not get, said the offical.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-claims-tribunal-likely-to-process-compensation-claims-of-deaths-in-shramik-special-trains-859414.html
10-07-2020||National||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre, states on cruel practices to ward off wild animals||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre, Kerala and 12 other states on a PIL against use of explosives and other barbaric and cruel ways to ward off wild elephants and other animals. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna sought a response from the Union government and States including Karnataka on the plea by Shubham Awasthi. The petitioner led by advocate Vivek Narayan Sharma sought a declaration that the practices of filling fruits and food items and shaved sticks to ward off animals as illegal and unconstitutional, in order to provide a life of dignity to animals. He also sought a direction for filling up of vacancies of Forest department in their respective States for better management of Animal-Human conflict. He pointed out that the Constitution recognised the lives and welfare of animals by making it a fundamental duty of the citizens of India to respect and treat all living creatures with compassion. Referring to May 27 incident where a pregnant elephant succumbed to injuries caused by the eating of a oineapple filled with crackers, he said such instances were antithetical to India’s obligations towards the fulfilment of fundamental rights of the animals. Among others, he sought necessary amendments in the Prevention of Cruelty against Animals Act, 1960 to enhance punishments for causing ill-treatment to animals and make it more stringent as per modern times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-states-on-cruel-practices-to-ward-off-wild-animals-859429.html
10-07-2020||National||ICSE class 10 and ISC class 12 results out; CISCE Board does away with merit list due to Covid-19 pandemic||As many as 99.34 per cent students cleared the Class 10, while the success rate for Class 12 was a bit lower at 96.74 per cent in the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CICSE), results of which were declared on Friday. The CISCE Board also decided to do away with the merit list given the “exceptional circumstances” posed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “Given the exceptional circumstances, this year CISCE will not be publishing a merit list for either the ICSE or ISC year 2020 Examinations,” CICSE Chief Executive and Secretary Gerry Arathoon said. The board had to cancel its pending exams in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases and the result has been calculated on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme decided by it. As many as 99.34 per cent of the total 2,06,525 candidates have cleared the Class 10 exams, known as the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE), while 1,377 candidates have been unsuccessful. The Class 12 exams, called the Indian School Certificate (ISC) exam, have been cleared by 85,611 candidates while 2,798 students have been unsuccessful. "This year has been an exceptionally difficult year for everyone due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the multiple national and states'' lockdowns, coupled with many other related problems," he added. The board had last week announced an alternate assessment scheme for the two classes after the pending exams were cancelled in view of a spike in Covid-19 cases. As per the scheme, candidates have been assessed based on the best three percentage marks obtained in subjects for which board exams were conducted and the marks of their internal assessment as well as project work was taken into account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icse-class-10-and-isc-class-12-results-out-cisce-board-does-away-with-merit-list-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-859430.html
10-07-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh: Vikas Dubey’s encounter raises doubts||Several people, including politicians, journalists and activists have raised doubts over the nature of Dubey’s death on social media, including eminent lawyer Prashant Bhushan and retired DGP N C Asthana who came to the fore, calling it a fake encounter:      Suspicions have also been raised about Dubey's arrest on Thursday. Prominent politicians have said the arrest may actually have been a surrender. Sources also told DH, Dubey surrendered out of fear that he may be gunned down by the police, just like his aides, Bahua Dubey, Prashant Mishra and Amar Dubey.  The fact that he kept shouting ''main hoon Vikas Dubey Kanpur wala' (I am Vikas Dubey from Kanpur) while being taken into custody, only buttressed the contention that he wanted to identify himself before everyone, especially the local media.  According to the UP additional director general of police (ADG) Prashant Kumar, the gangster was 'nabbed' after he came out of the famous 'Mahakal Temple' (Lord Shiva temple) in Ujjain around eight in the morning on Thursday. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-vikas-dubey-s-encounter-raises-doubts-859432.html
10-07-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat: Court allows 62 Malaysians,11 Saudis to walk free on fine of Rs 7,000 and Rs 10,000||A Delhi court Friday allowed 62 Malaysians and 11 foreigners from Saudi Arabia to walk free on payment of fine of Rs 7,000 and Rs 10,000 each respectively, after they accepted mild charges, under the plea bargain process, related to various violations including visa norms while attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here during the Covid-19 lockdown. A lawyer, who appeared for the foreign nationals, said that Metropolitan Magistrate Siddharth Malik passed the order after the Malaysians sought lesser punishment under plea bargain process by accepting mild charges. They were allowed to walk free after the Sub-divisional magistrate of Lajpat Nagar, who was the complainant in the case, Additional commissioner of Police of Lajpat Nagar and Inspector of Nizamuddin, said they have no objection to their pleas. Senior advocate S Hari Haran, said another Metropolitan Magistrate Ashish Gupta passed the order in the case of foreign nationals from Saudi Arabia who accepted mild charges in exchange for lesser punishment under the plea bargain process. Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence praying for a lesser punishment. The Criminal Procedure of Code allows plea bargaining for cases where the maximum punishment is imprisonment for seven years, where offences don't affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and when the offences are not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years. The court had on Thursday allowed 60 Malaysians to walk free on payment of Rs 7,000 fine each after they accepted a few mild charges under plea bargain process. They were granted bail on July 7 on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 10,000 each. They were charge-sheeted for attending the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event in the national capital by allegedly violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines, issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-court-allows-62-malaysians11-saudis-to-walk-free-on-fine-of-rs-7000-and-rs-10000-859433.html
10-07-2020||National||Delhi riots: Suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain's two employees key witnesses against him||Two key witnesses in a case of communal violence in northeast Delhi in which suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain was booked as one of the main accused, were employed under him and saw him talking to several persons in a "very secretive" manner before the start of the riots on February 24, a charge sheet filed by Delhi Police in a court here has said. Girish Pal and Rahul Kasana said in their statements to the police that on February 24 they were present in the office of Hussain in Khajuri Khas area. "In the afternoon, they saw several persons gathered at the ground floor of the house of Tahir Hussain and he was talking with them in a very secretive manner and accused Shah Alam, Irshad, Abid, Arshad Pradhan, Rashid and Shadab were also present there along with other unknown persons," the charge sheet said. The duo cited as key witnesses by the police, left after hearing the noise of the mob outside and sensing the tension at the office, it said. The Crime Branch of the Delhi police had filed the charge sheet before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat against Hussain and 14 others last month. The court will take up the matter for consideration of the charge sheet in August. According to the charge sheet, the copy of which is made available, another prosecution witness Rajbir Singh Yadav, who was supervising the food preparations for a marriage at a parking lot near Hussain's house stated in his statement that the mob destroyed the food prepared for the wedding of his friend's daughter and accused Riyakat Ali looted Rs 62,000 from him. Accused Shah Alam was also present with Ali along with several others and Hussain was among the mob indulged in riots, it said. It further said that another prosecution witness stated that Hussain was present at the rooftop of his house and throwing stones and directing others present alongside him who were also throwing stones and petrol bombs towards the parking. During the course of the investigation, efforts were made to collect the CCTV footage of the incident from the private and government cameras but no videos could be found due to non-availability of any CCTV nearby, the charge sheet said. Hussain has been charge-sheeted in the case along with 14 others under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including rioting, unlawful assembly, criminal conspiracy, promoting enmity between different groups based on religion, caste, language etc and relevant provisions of the Arms Act. Hussain has also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law -- Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act-- in a separate case related to the riots for allegedly being part of a "premeditated conspiracy" in the violence. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussains-two-employees-key-witnesses-against-him-859435.html
10-07-2020||National||Are Indians more likely to believe in Covid-19 myths?||Indians were most likely to believe six out of nine myths presented to the respondents. Some of the myths were twisted statements like “Eating garlic prevents Covid-19” and “5G mobile technology spreads Covid-19”. The country has experienced circulation of fake news on social media and WhatsApp groups on almost all major issues including elections and the Covid-19 pandemic. Out of the 16 countries surveyed, Indians were also most likely to believe that Covid-19 could spread through parcels from affected countries (54 percent believing this false statement), that hydroxychloroquine (drug to cure malaria) was a “cure” for coronavirus (37 percent exaggerating the role of this mere treatment), that exposure to the sun could prevent Covid-19 (35 percent agreeing with this unproven claim) and that a positive antibody test/exposure to Covid-19 meant that a person could not get infected a second time (around 28 percent in India and in Germany believing this).  Indians were the second most likely to believe pets could transmit Covid-19 after China and that children could not get Covid-19 behind Mexico.  Faring better on the topic of how long Covid-19 could survive on surfaces, a low 26 percent of Indians agreed with the false statement that it was up to three days. Only respondents in Italy, Germany and South Korea were more successful in spotting this myth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/are-indians-more-likely-to-believe-in-covid-19-myths-859437.html
10-07-2020||National||Are Indians more likely to believe in Covid-19 myths?||Indians were most likely to believe six out of nine myths presented to the respondents. Some of the myths were twisted statements like “Eating garlic prevents Covid-19” and “5G mobile technology spreads Covid-19”. The country has experienced circulation of fake news on social media and WhatsApp groups on almost all major issues including elections and the Covid-19 pandemic. Out of the 16 countries surveyed, Indians were also most likely to believe that Covid-19 could spread through parcels from affected countries (54 percent believing this false statement), that hydroxychloroquine (drug to cure malaria) was a “cure” for coronavirus (37 percent exaggerating the role of this mere treatment), that exposure to the sun could prevent Covid-19 (35 percent agreeing with this unproven claim) and that a positive antibody test/exposure to Covid-19 meant that a person could not get infected a second time (around 28 percent in India and in Germany believing this).  Indians were the second most likely to believe pets could transmit Covid-19 after China and that children could not get Covid-19 behind Mexico.  Faring better on the topic of how long Covid-19 could survive on surfaces, a low 26 percent of Indians agreed with the false statement that it was up to three days. Only respondents in Italy, Germany and South Korea were more successful in spotting this myth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/are-indians-more-likely-to-believe-in-covid-19-myths-859438.html
10-07-2020||National||Supreme Court to examine if restriction can be placed on use of social media in bail orders||The Supreme Court on Friday said that it was not too onerous for a man, if a condition was imposed in granting bail to him that he would not use social media on the ground that it may create mischief. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna made the oral observations while agreeing to examine a question of law whether a trial court can restrict a person from using social media on allowing him bail. Another issue was if such restrictions can be imposed when the crime committed has nothing to do with social media access. The court said it would lay down the law in this regard as senior advocate Salman Khurshid, appearing for a Congress leader Sachin Choudhary, questioned such a condition imposed on him client. "We don't think it is too onerous if a person's participation on social media creates mischief. Why can't the court say don't use the instrument by which you caused mischief," the bench asked. Khurshid, for his part, said there was no allegations relating to social media use against his client. The court issued notice to the Center, and Uttar Pradesh government on the petition filed by Choudhary, challenging one such condition imposed by the Allahabad High Court in granting him bail. He was arrested in April after he questioned the relief measures being undertaken by the Yogi Adityanath government following Covid-19 actuated lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-examine-if-restriction-can-be-placed-on-use-of-social-media-in-bail-orders-859455.html
10-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Gangster Vikas Dubey shot dead||In today's episode, Gangster Vikas Dubey shot dead, Delhi court grants bail to 82 Bangladeshis, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to work from home and International Monetary Fund’s Chief Economist Gita Gopinath has urged governments to shift to "equity-like" support from one focused on loans.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-gangster-vikas-dubey-shot-dead-859459.html
10-07-2020||National||Delhi HC rejects plea by Sharjeel Imam against extension of time to complete probe||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed a plea by JNU student Sharjeel Imam against extension of time granted to Delhi police to complete probe against him in a case lodged under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and declining him statutory bail. Justice V Kameshwar Rao rejected his petition filed against the trial court's order of April 25, extending time of investigation by 90 days and denying him bail subsequently on this ground on May 4. The court noted the prosecution has already given grounds for extension of time, including lockdown imposed on March 25 to contain global Covid-19 pandemic, which seriously disrupted the investigation. The trial court, while granting the extension of investigation, has satisfied itself with the application or report of the prosecutor, the judge said. The court also rejected a contention by senior advocate Rabecca M John, appearing for Sharjeel that filing of the report by the prosecutor for extension on 88 th day was mala fide to deny him bail.  "The UAPA provides for extension of the period of investigation for a further period of 90 days i.e. totalling 180 days...it is only when despite efforts, investigation could not be completed in time, that the investigating authority approached the court for extension," it noted. Sharjeel was arrested from his native place at Bihar's Jehanabad district on January 28 after his December 13, 2019 speech during anti CAA-NPR-NRC protest for cutting Chicken's neck, connecting India to North East, had gone viral. He also faced criminal cases in Assam, Imphal and Itanagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-rejects-plea-by-sharjeel-imam-against-extension-of-time-to-complete-probe-859463.html
10-07-2020||National||35 years, 71 cases: Vikas Dubey's writ ran large in Kanpur||Dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey, whose writ ran large in Kanpur and its adjoining districts, had committed his first crime, when he was only 17. He virtually ruled the crime world in Kanpur for almost 35 years during which as many as 71 cases, including those of murder, attempt to murder and robberies, were lodged against him.  Vikas, who carried a reward of rs. five lakh on his head, was gunned down in an encounter with the police near Kanpur on Friday a day after he was 'arrested' in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh. In fact such was the terror of Vikas that he had allegedly shot dead UP status rank minister Santosh Shukla inside the Shivli police station in 2001. He was however, acquitted by the court for want of evidence. The gangster had reportedly amassed huge wealth and owned falts in Mumbai, Kolkata, Lucknow and Kanpur towns besides lands and hotels, sources said. So far the police have seized properties worth rs. 28 crore. The gangster had very close relations with the cops and politicians. He allegedly enjoyed patronage of several senior police officials in Kanpur. In fact he had been tipped in advance by a cop about the raid by the cops on his house last week. The result was that he was well prepared to take on the cops, when they raided his house. Eight cops, including a circle officer, were killed in the gun battle at his native Bikaru village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35-years-71-cases-vikas-dubeys-writ-ran-large-in-kanpur-859465.html
10-07-2020||National||Good Samaritans step in as Hyderabad's Old City struggles with Covid-19||Those with mild to moderate symptoms speak to Khan over the phone, while those with severe symptoms are asked to report to a hospital. However, Dr Khan, who is a general surgeon, is not meeting patients with symptoms in person. He advises the necessary oxygen treatment and medication that patients need. An organisation named Helping Hands Foundation (HHF) run by Mujtaba Hasan Askari offers a free ambulance and oxygen cylinder service. Both the cylinder and it’s refill, which are currently being sold at highly inflated prices due to lack of regulation, are made available for free. A pulse oximeter and telephonic consultation with a team of doctors is provided to patients in the Old City area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/good-samaritans-step-in-as-hyderabads-old-city-struggles-with-covid-19-859484.html
10-07-2020||National||Shipping Ministry issues draft marine navigation bill; Aims to repeal Lighthouse Act, empower DGLL||Aimed at adopting global best practices in marine navigation, Ministry of Shipping on Friday issued a draft Aids to Navigation Bill, 2020 seeking suggestions from stakeholders and general public. The draft bill aims at repealing the colonial Lighthouse Act, 1927, and provides for empowering the Directorate General of Lighthouses and Lightships (DGLL) with additional power and functions. The draft bill, which will replace 97 year old Lighthouse Act,  proposes to incorporate the global best practices, technological developments and India''s international obligations in the field of marine navigation. Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya said the proposed legislation aims to regulate state-of-the-art technologies of marine navigation, which earlier used to get tangled up in statutory provisions of the Lighthouse Act, 1927. The draft bill provides for empowering the DGLL with additional power and functions such as vessel traffic service, wreck flagging, training and certification, implementation of other obligations under international conventions where India is a signatory. It also provides for identification and development of heritage lighthouses. The draft bill comprises a new schedule of offences, along with commensurate penalties for obstructing and damaging the aids to navigation, and non-compliance with directives issued by the central government and other bodies under the draft bill. With the advent of modern technologically improved aids to maritime navigation, the role of authorities regulating and operating maritime navigation has changed drastically, the statement said. Therefore, the new law encompasses a major shift from lighthouses to modern aids of navigation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shipping-ministry-issues-draft-marine-navigation-bill-aims-to-repeal-lighthouse-act-empower-dgll-859488.html
10-07-2020||National||NIOS cancels public exam 2020 amid Covid-19 concerns||The National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) on Friday announced cancellation of its public exams scheduled from July 17 on account of the Covid-19 outbreak. The results will be declared based on the assessment scheme finalized by the competent committee of the NIOS, the HRD Ministry said. “Conduct of the March 2020 Secondary and Senior Secondary course Public Examination rescheduled to commence from July 17, 2020 and further postponed, now stands cancelled,” the NIOS said in a statement here. However, as a one time measure, the learners will have the option to appear in the next public or on demand examination to improve their performance as and when the situation becomes conducive for such an exercise. “The marks obtained by the learner in such examination shall however be taken as final for such of those learners opting to appear in the said examination,” the NIOS said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nios-cancels-public-exam-2020-amid-covid-19-concerns-859493.html
10-07-2020||National||Season of two viruses? Scientists worried that dengue outbreak may aggravate Covid-19 crisis||As dengue season sets in across large parts of India with the onset of the monsoon, scientists warn that Covid-19 and the mosquito-borne disease have overlapping symptoms and worry the country’s healthcare infrastructure won’t be able to cope with this double whammy. The impact of a ‘dengue-Covid-19’ season would entail two different diagnostic tests and extract a huge toll on patients too, each disease making the other more complicated to deal with and perhaps more fatal. While the number of Covid-19 cases races towards the 8,00,000 mark with 7,93,802 cases on Friday and 21,604 fatalities, the incidence of dengue is also high. Based on 2016-2019 data, virologist Shahid Jameel estimated that India gets about 100,000 to 200,000 confirmed cases of dengue each year. According to the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP), 1,36,422 dengue cases were diagnosed in 2019 and an estimated 132 people died.   “The virus is endemic and present around the year in southern India, and in monsoon and early winter in northern India,” Jameel, CEO at DBT/Wellcome Trust India Alliance, a public charity that invests in building biomedical sciences and health research framework, told PTI. Both Covid-19 and have symptoms such as high fever, headache and body pain.   The dengue season may aggravate the Covid-19 situation as both viruses may supplement each other, warned Dhrubjyoti Chattopadhyay, virologist and vice chancellor of the Amity University in Kolkata. “This situation is not yet well studied. But the information available from South America is dangerous and found to create a major challenge to their medical infrastructure,” he said.  “The effect will be very critical. As major symptoms are overlapping, simultaneous infection will be much more fatal. Weakened immune systems will help the other to be more fatal.” Once the dengue season starts, added virologist Upasana Ray, the infection spreads aggressively due to high prevalence of its mosquito vector, aedes aegypti. “Each season, we experience heavy loads in the hospital wards due to dengue outbreak and those times it gets almost unmanageable. So, have we thought about what will happen when we have two menaces to handle together? Both of them have overlapping symptoms. Are we geared to distinguish if a person has dengue or COVID 19?” asked the senior scientist, CSIR-IICB, Kolkata.  The challenges are many. Almost each patient with a three-day fever would need to undergo a test for dengue and another for the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes COVID-19. “Considering the current numbers of Covid-19 patients, will our hospitals have beds available for dengue patients? Or will only severe dengue cases be handled at hospitals?” she asked. Explaining how the viruses manifest in the human body, Jameel said the dengue virus enters via a mosquito bite through the subcutaneous layer of the skin from where it reaches the lymph nodes that are rich in types of blood cells called monocytes, macrophages and dendritic cells. The virus, he said, primarily reproduces in these cells and can severely alter cytokine production by these cells, a fundamental response to injury and infection in the body. On the other hand, SARS-CoV-2 enters the cells primarily through mucosal membranes of the mouth and nasal cavity and initially replicates in the epithelial cells of the upper respiratory tract. “In some cases, however, the infection moves down the trachea into the lungs, where it infects the air sacs that exchange oxygen with blood. This causes inflammation as the immune system tries to fight the virus and leads to fluid accumulation in the lungs, which results in respiratory distress and oxygen demand. “So, you see, both viruses infect via different pathways and different cell types. There would of course be overlaps in physiological effects and immunological responses. They would most likely make each disease worse than either infection alone,” Jameel noted. The most likely effect, he said, would be on healthcare capacity. “Since initial clinical presentation is similar -- high fever -- one would be ignored at the expense of the other. With hospitals mainly in COVID-19 mode, they may also refuse dengue patients,” Jameel said. He said this has been already seen in connection with pregnancy care and deliveries, dialysis and tuberculosis  treatment. “We need to be careful and deploy tests for dengue also for febrile illness. Thankfully, India makes some very good tests for dengue virus, e.g. NS1 antigen test that is positive on the first day of fever,” said Jameel. Ray pointed out that there is no vaccine available clinically for either and no specific antiviral to treat them. “This infection may show low to severe forms of infection including simple dengue fever, severe dengue and the haemorrhagic fever,” said Ray. “We are already amidst the SARS-CoV2 pandemic and hospitals are running out of beds although the government is trying its level best. We are yet to attain enough facility to handle the increasing coronavirus cases every day in India,” she said. According to Ray, careful preparation is needed as the country has very little time before a full-blown dengue season starts. “While many dengue patients don’t end up in critical care units (CCUs), a good fraction do. Do we have enough ICUs and CCUs to tackle dengue and COVID 19 together? Do we have enough trained manpower?”   Healthcare and research, she said, need to gear up to fight this “upcoming very realistic situation”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/season-of-two-viruses-scientists-worried-that-dengue-outbreak-may-aggravate-covid-19-crisis-859494.html
10-07-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea against delimitation in Assam||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from the Union government and others on a plea challenging the order to start the process of delimitation for Assembly and Parliament seats in Assam. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna also issued a notice to the Assam government on a petition filed by the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and its general secretary Md Aminul Islam.  The petitioners claimed that the February 28 order, rescinding the deferring of the delimitation exercise, was "not arbitrary and hasty but it also stands contrary to the exercise for being undertaken on the basis of 2001 census when 2011 census has already been undertaken and process for 2021 census was on". They contended that the order issued by the Union Law Ministry was liable to be quashed as being in violation of Article 14, 19 and Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which guaranteed equality, freedom of speech and expression and right to life respectively. They asked the court to direct the Centre to defer the exercise until the National Register for Citizens (NRC) exercise was completed and Assam was relieved of disturbance; and the ill-effect of Covid-19 pandemic was over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-delimitation-in-assam-859498.html
10-07-2020||National||3 coronavirus patients die at Nizamabad govt hospital in one night due to alleged lack of oxygen supply||Three Covid-19 patients died at the Nizamabad government hospital in Telangana, on Thursday night following alleged lack of oxygen supply. Local media reports claimed that four deaths, including that of the three coronavirus patients, in a single night at the hospital were allegedly due to the oxygen cylinder not being replaced. Hospital superintendent Dr Nageshwar Rao, however, denied the reports and said that the deaths of the coronavirus patients -- a 75-year-old woman and two men (aged 58 and 50) -- were because of their co-morbid conditions of diabetes, hypertension, among others. “There cannot be a situation of oxygen supply dearth at our hospital as we have a centralized automated supply, which alerts if the levels are falling. And to supplement in contingency, we have regular cylinders available,” Dr Rao told DH. The superintendent, who said that the patients had shortness of breath, admitted that all three deaths took place within a span of two and half hours — at around 11 pm, 12 am and 1:30 am.  “The fourth death is of a patient who was brought dead,” the official claimed. All the deceased are from Nizamabad district, which on Thursday reported 18 new coronavirus cases. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 tally in Telangana has crossed the 30,000-mark to stand at 30,946 as of Thursday evening. The total deaths reported are 331.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-coronavirus-patients-die-at-nizamabad-govt-hospital-in-one-night-due-to-alleged-lack-of-oxygen-supply-859500.html
10-07-2020||National||Mahadayi project: Centre asks Karnataka to submit fresh proposal for green nod||The Union Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) has asked the Karnataka government to submit a fresh proposal seeking forest clearance for the Mahadayi drinking water project. The Deputy Inspector General of Forests in the MOEF, in his letter to the Additional Chief Secretary Water Resources Department, Karnataka government, has asked for a new proposal about the project in the "Parivesh" portal of the Ministry to get the green nod. Karnataka had submitted a detail proposal seeking forest clearance for the project more than two decade ago but the same had been returned to the state in 2003 following pending resolution of disputes between the state and Goa. Since then, no proposal of the project is pending with the Ministry and the state could send a fresh proposal, said the Ministry in its communication to Karnataka. The state had sought MOEF permission to divert 501 hectares of forest land for the Mahadayi project (258 hectares of forest land to build the Kalasa Nala Dam near Kanakumbi village and 243 hectares of forest land to build Bandura Nala Dam near Nersa village in Belagavi district). The Mahadayi project involved building dams across Kalasa and Banduri, two tributaries of the Mahadayi river in Belagavi district and divert water to the Malaprabha river. The project proposes to supply drinking water to the parched areas of Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and the surrounding region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahadayi-project-centre-asks-karnataka-to-submit-fresh-proposal-for-green-nod-859506.html
10-07-2020||National||India, China agree on complete disengagement of troops from eastern Ladakh||The senior diplomats of India and China had a video conference on Friday and reviewed the progress made in withdrawal of soldiers by the two sides from the face-off scenes along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. They agreed that it was necessary for both sides to sincerely implement the understandings reached between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) for “disengagement” of troops along the LAC, the de facto boundary between the two nations in western sector, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stated in a statement issued in New Delhi. The video conference was the 16th meeting the Working Mechanism for Consultation and coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), which was instituted in 2013. Naveen Srivastava, who heads the East Asia division at the MEA led the delegation of the Government of India in the video conference. The delegation of the Chinese Government was led by Hong Liang, the Director General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They earlier had a video conference within the framework of the WMCC on June 24. The WMCC video conference on Friday saw New Delhi and Beijing reaffirming that both sides would “ensure complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols. Srivastava and Hong also agreed that for the overall development of bilateral relations it was essential to maintain enduring peace and tranquility in the border areas, according to the MEA statement. They noted that the senior military commanders of India and China would have another round of meeting to follow up on the three rounds of talks they had held on June 6, 22 and 30 last, as agreed by the Special Representatives of the two governments for boundary negotiations and strategic consultations. The two Special Representatives – India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and China’s Foreign Minister and State Councilor Wang Yi – had a two-hour-long phone-call last Sunday. Srivastava and Hong on Friday agreed to maintain the ongoing communication both at the diplomatic and military level to ensure early resolution of the situation. They agreed to hold another meeting of the WMCC in the near future, said the MEA spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-agree-on-complete-disengagement-of-troops-from-eastern-ladakh-859511.html
10-07-2020||National||Supreme Court allows service of summons through email, fax, instant messaging apps||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed sending of summons through email, fax and instant messaging applications. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna passed the order in a Suo Motu matter related to extension of limitation due to Covid-19 pandemic. Attorney General K K Venugopal sought such a direction, while maintaining that the government was not comfortable with issuance of notice through WhatsApp messenger as it was a completely encrypted platform. The court, however, said the blue tick feature would prove that summons has been served.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-allows-service-of-summons-through-email-fax-instant-messaging-apps-859541.html
10-07-2020||National||Galwan Valley clash a situation neither China nor India want, says Beijing's envoy to India||The clash between the soldiers of the two nations at Galwan Valley on June 15 was a “situation” neither China nor India would like to see, Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, Sun Weidong, said on Friday. He, however, tacitly re-asserted China’s claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley just a day after India dismissed it as “exaggerated” and “untenable”. “The right and wrong of what recently happened at the Galwan Valley is very clear. China will firmly safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity and ensure the peace and tranquility in the border areas (with India), he said. The Indian Army lost 20 of its solders in the violent face-off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Galwan Valley on June 15. The PLA too suffered casualties, although it never made public the number of soldiers killed or injured in the clash. Sun noted that some people in India had been trumpeting the so-called “decoupling” of the country’s economic and trade relations with China. “One basic fact they ignore is that the current global industrial and supply chains are formed in a process of natural selection by market optimization over the past decades,” he said, underlining that the business community and people of India were the beneficiaries of China-India economic and trade cooperation. “Any self-protection, non-tariff barriers and restrictive measures against China are unfair to Chinese enterprises, unfair to Indian employees who lost their jobs as a result, and unfair to Indian consumers who cannot get access to the products and services they deserve,” he said, adding: “It will only harm others without benefit to oneself, and it will eventually hurt oneself as well.” The nine-week-long military stand-off between the two nations eastern Ladakh and the killing of the Indian Army soldiers by the PLA personnel in Galwan Valley on June 15 triggered clamours in India to lessen economic relations with China. The government already banned use of 59 Chinese apps in India. Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi issued a video statement to clarify “some fundamental points” as he noted that the Galwan Valley clash had made “some quarters in India” to doubt about the consensus reached by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during the informal summits in April 2018 and October 2019. He said that some people in India had wrong perception of the direction of China-India relations. “These have brought disruptions to the bilateral relationship.” The video-statement was circulated by the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in New Delhi as the two nations started withdrawing soldiers from the face-off scenes along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. “I believe China and India have the wisdom and capability to properly handle differences and not fall into the trap of conflict,” said Sun, adding: “We should seek common development as partners rather than opponents or adversaries. Why should we fight against each other that will only hurt those close to us and gladden the foes?” He referred to “some emerging opinions” in recent days which repudiated “the essence of China-India friendship due to the border-related incidents, make false assumptions about China's intentions, exaggerate conflicts and provoke confrontations, and regard a close neighbor over thousands of years as "enemies" and "strategic threats". “It is not the fact. It is harmful indeed and not helpful.” Sun said that China and India needed to pursue a “win-win cooperation” instead of indulging in a “zero-sum game”. “As two major neighboring countries, it is natural that China and India may have some differences. We have been holding dialogues and negotiations to manage differences. We should always bear in mind the overall bilateral relations, put differences in an appropriate place and not allow differences to interfere with bilateral relations.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-clash-a-situation-neither-china-nor-india-want-says-beijings-envoy-to-india-859551.html
10-07-2020||National||Robots step in and assist doctors in fight against Covid-19||Doctors, nurses, and others working in the healthcare field are at a great risk as they provide their services. Amidst reports of healthcare professionals working long hours, being overworked, and fainting whilst wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), an innovative solution has come around to reduce their workload. Humanoid robots, which were tested in AIIMS Delhi from the month of April, are 92-cm tall bots that can do tasks ranging from disinfecting to taking temperature checks. With a built-in camera that records all activity and another that allows patients to contact family and friends, these machines are well-equipped to provide hands-on assistance to patients as well. Not only family, these robots can help patients get on a video call with their doctor too. They were developed by Milagrow Robotics and with a charging time of four hours, can perform for as long as 12 hours. They use light-detection and localisation and mapping technologies to avoid accidents and navigate safely. More and more hospitals are welcoming these robots, with Apollo Bangalore using them to disinfect with UV light. The next challenge in front of these humanoids is to improve their facial recognition technology, which would allow them to recognise faces despite masks. The other is making patients, particularly those already hospitalised and distressed, comfortable with humanoids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/robots-step-in-and-assist-doctors-in-fight-against-covid-19-859564.html
10-07-2020||National||Railways rethinking plan to convert diesel locos into electrical; to assess tech, economic viability||The Railways is reassessing if its ambitious plan to convert diesel locomotives into electrical ones is economically and technically the best way to deal with these ageing engines which barely have five to six years of life left, a senior official said. Addressing an online media briefing, Railway Board Chairman, VK Yadav said a high-level committee has been formed to explore the pros and cons of the conversion plan. The Railways had said in 2018 that it was working on a master plan to convert its entire fleet of diesel locomotives into electric ones at less than half the cost of refurbishment of diesel engines. In February last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off the first converted locomotive in Varanasi which was pitched by the Railways as the world's first-ever Diesel to Electric Converted Locomotive. ¨We have formed a high-level committee to explore if converting the diesel locomotives was economically and technically the most viable thing to do,” Yadav said. “These diesel locomotives which are converted are very old and have around five to six years of life left. Upon conversion, they have a lifespan of 5-10 years more. Also, now, we are using 1,2000 HP, 9,000 HP locos, the old ones are around 4,500 HP. We are working on the pros and cons of the conversion,” he said. The committee is expected to provide a report by August 15, he said. ¨We are exploring which is beneficial -- putting in money and converting these low horse power locos and getting only very limited years of working vis-a-vis if we manufacture a new locomotive with higher capacity. We are looking into these things,” he said. As of now, the Railways has converted three diesel locos into electric ones at a cost of around Rs 2 crore each conversion, officials said. The conversion move is part of the Railways’ plan of a total shift to electric traction, thereby reducing its fossil fuel consumption of about 2.83 billion litres per annum. Yadav also said the Railways was discussing if these diesel locos could be exported to neighbouring countries which still use diesel engine. ¨We need to see how we can best utilise these locomotives. We can send them to neighbouring countries which need them. However, they are on standard gauge while we are on broad gauge. So, we need to convert our bogies in that case. ¨We could also do away with the mid-term rehabilitation of such locomotives which are done after 18 years and decide to auction off their parts. We are looking at all possibilities and a final decision has not been taken yet,” he said. The first Diesel to Electric Converted Locomotive was done at Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW) in Varanasi last year under the 'Make in India' initiative. This was done by converting two WDG3A Diesel Locos into a Twin Electric WAGC3 loco of 10,000 HP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-rethinking-plan-to-convert-diesel-locos-into-electrical-to-assess-tech-economic-viability-859570.html
10-07-2020||National||Doctors advised to use Remdesivir on Covid-19 patients strictly under laid-down protocol: Health Ministry||Doctors in state hospitals are being advised to use antiviral Remdesivir on Covid-19 patients strictly as per protocol amid some reports of liver damage in such patients treated with the drug, official sources said. While the health ministry is reviewing the guidelines on the usage of the drug following the adverse reports, states and union territories are also being asked to orient doctors on the protocols of Remdesivir use and not to prescribe it indiscriminately. To prevent black-marketing and overcharging of the drug, India's drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has asked manufacturers to set up a helpline where the patients or their family members can contact in case the drug is not available in the market and also put on their websites details of distributors and supply chain. "AIIMS specialists tasked by the Centre to provide expert guidance are advising doctors in state hospitals to use the drug as mentioned in the protocols stating it has been approved for restricted emergency use purposes in moderate to severe cases of Covid-19 subject to a set of conditions under 'investigational therapies' and not as a mainstream treatment," a source said. Remdesivir has been included as an "investigational therapy" in the clinical management protocols for Covid-19 based on the limited available evidence at present. "The drug is being increasingly prescribed in the absence of any proven treatment leading to a rise in demand. But then the data derived from the studies so far suggest that its use can cut down the duration of the hospital stay and does not have any effect on the mortality," an official explained. Responding to a question on whether Remdesivir will be dropped from Covid-19 treatment protocols after its negative impact on the liver has been indicated, a senior Union Health Ministry official during a briefing on Thursday had said that they are aware of few studies which have indicated some adverse events. "We are aware of this and within the ministry also there is a technical group of domain knowledge experts headed by DGHS that is looking into the evidence as it comes up. "If there is a requirement to modify or refine our clinical treatment protocols we will definitely do it," Rajesh Bhushan, Officer on Special Duty in the Union Health Ministry, said. He also said that the DCGI has written letters to companies manufacturing them with two specific suggestions to prevent the black-marketing and overpricing of the drug. "First suggestion was that these companies must put in place a 24x7 helpline where the patients or their family members could contact in case the drug is not available in the market or is being overcharged. "Second suggestion given was that they must proactively put on their website the details of their distributors and their supply lines so that all confusion and anxiety in the market subside," Bhushan elaborated. In addition, he said, the DCGI has also directed state governments to instruct drug inspectors to ensure that there is no black-marketing of drugs which is being used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Three companies, Hetero, Cipla and Mylan have been given permission by India's drug regulator to manufacture and market the anti-viral drug remdesivir for "restricted emergency use" on hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Written informed consent of each patient is required before the use of the drug while active post-marketing surveillance data and reporting of serious adverse events have to be submitted. In the letters, Bhushan mentioned, DCGI told these firms to upload the information on their websites regarding the distributors and supply chain details along with quantities where Remdesivir has been made available, so as to prevent black marketing and overcharging of the drug. Considering the emergency and unmet medical need for Covid-19 disease, the drug controller said, the CDSCO has granted permission to companies to manufacture and market Remdesivir injectable formulation for restricted emergency use for the treatment of patients with severe Covid-19 infection subject to various conditions and restrictions. "This office has received representation raising concerns regarding black-marketing and overcharging of the drug Remdesivir injectable formulation in the country," the DGCI wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-advised-to-use-remdesivir-on-covid-19-patients-strictly-under-laid-down-protocol-health-ministry-859580.html
10-07-2020||National||India favourably considering Australia's entry into Malabar exercise: Sources||India is favourably considering Australia's keen interest to be part of the next edition of the Malabar naval exercise which is scheduled to be held later this year, people familiar with the development said on Friday. If India decides to include Australia in the exercise, then it will comprise all members of the "Quad" or Quadrilateral coalition which was set up with an aim to ensure peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific and check China's increasing efforts to expand military influence in the region. In November 2017, India, US, Japan and Australia gave shape to the long-pending "Quad" Coalition to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. India is favourably considering Australia's interest to be part of the Malabar exercise, the people cited above said, adding a formal decision is likely to be taken in the next couple of weeks. The indication of India's willingness to include Australia in the Malabar exercise comes in the midst of a bitter border row between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. China has been suspicious about the purpose of the Malabar exercise as it feels that the annual war game is an effort to contain its influence in the Indo-Pacific region. The Malabar exercise started in 1992 as a bilateral drill between the Indian Navy and the US Navy in the Indian Ocean. Japan became a permanent member of the exercise in 2015. For the last few years, Australia has been showing keen interest in participating in the exercise. Defence and security ties between India and Australia have been on an upswing in the last few years. Last month, India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) allows militaries of the two countries to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies besides facilitating scaling up of overall defence cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-favourably-considering-australias-entry-into-malabar-exercise-sources-859609.html
10-07-2020||National||Covid-19 vaccine could be available by early next year: Parliamentary panel told||A vaccine for Covid-19 is expected only by early next year, a parliamentary panel was informed on Friday. Presentations were given by the Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and the principal scientific adviser to the government before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment and Climate on the Centre's Covid-19 preparedness. The panel is chaired by senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, who, along with six other members, attended the meeting. Sources said it was conveyed to the panel that a vaccine for Covid-19 could be available only by early next year. This was the first meeting of the panel since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said the delay in the resumption of parliamentary committee meetings was forced by circumstances beyond control. "I am glad that Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committees have resumed functioning, three and half months since the last sitting of Parliament on March 23rd," he wrote on Twitter. I am glad that Dept. Related Parliamentary Standing Committees have resumed functioning, three and half months since the last sitting of Parliament on March 23rd. Naidu said everyone was keen on resumption of work by these committees, "but the delay was forced by circumstances beyond our control". "Corona pandemic did cast a shadow on the working of these committees, which function on behalf of the Parliament," the vice president said. Naidu said all possible measures were taken to enable the committee meetings by complying with the norms of social distancing, wearing of masks etc. "I am hopeful these committees would now go about examining important issues concerning respective domains," he said. Urging Naidu for the holding of virtual meetings, Ramesh, in a tweet, said, "I would still request you Sir to allow virtual meetings given that Parliament is unlikely to meet for the next month at least." The sources said the other members present at the meet also sought virtual deliberations. A detailed discussion was held at the meeting over the government's preparedness and handling of Covid-19. "Our Parliamentary Standing Committee is having a most informative and useful meeting with @DBTIndia @IndiaDST @CSIR_IND & @PrinSciAdvGoI on the issue of Science & Technology & COVID-19. Too bad we are not allowed to have virtual meetings so that more MPs could have participated," Ramesh wrote on Twitter. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs is scheduled to meet on July 15. While the members of the panels are demanding virtual meetings, the presiding officers of both Houses of Parliament have said this requires a change of rules and endorsement by the Rules Committee of Parliament as also a nod from Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-could-be-available-by-early-next-year-parliamentary-panel-told-859610.html
10-07-2020||National||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan tells Tamil Nadu to step up Covid-19 testing||The Centre on Friday advised the Tamil Nadu government to ramp up Covid-19 testing besides taking up other containment strategies. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, in a tweet, said the spurt in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in rural areas remains a point of concern. The Minister, during his telephonic conversation with his Tamil Nadu counterpart C Vijaya Baskar, also assured any necessary support from the Central government. "Had detailed telecon with Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijaya Baskar on Covid-19 situation," Vardhan said in a series of tweets. While stating that Chennai was still a hotspot due to the number of positive cases, the Union Minister, in another tweet, he said, "The mortality rate low at 1.39 per cent...TN focus on lowering death rate through early diagnosis. Deployed 350 mobile fever clinics on wheels and screening of 35,000-40,000 people daily." "Advised increased testing and other containment strategies. Rural areas with sudden spurt remains a point of concern," he said. Vijaya Baskar said the Union Minister has appreciated the aggressive testing strategy and prevention measures taken up by the state government. According to the state health department, the total number of those affected by the contagion stood at 1,30,261 as of Friday while the number of fatalities due to virus was at 1,829 till date. The total number of recoveries as of Friday was at 82,234 so far. Chennai's tally of Covid-19 cases was at 74,969, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-minister-dr-harsh-vardhan-tells-tamil-nadu-to-step-up-covid-19-testing-859637.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||DH toon: Cannot be intimidated, says Rahul Gandhi on RGF probe||Congress on Wednesday hit back at Modi government that ordered a probe into the functioning of Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) and two other trusts, asserting that it had nothing to “hide” and won’t be intimidated by the “blind witch-hunt”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-cannot-be-intimidated-says-rahul-gandhi-on-rgf-probe-859225.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||Self-reliant India campaign a visionary idea of PM Narendra Modi: Satish Poonia||Describing the 'Self-reliant India” campaign as a ''visionary idea'' of Narendra Modi, BJP’s Rajasthan unit president Satish Poonia on Thursday said under the prime minister’s leadership, India is moving fast towards self-sufficiency/ Lauding Modi for the Centre’s economic package of over Rs 20 lakh crore to the country amid the Covid-19 crisis, he said the amount equals 10 percent of the country’s gross domestic product. He said under Mod’s leadership, India is moving fast towards self-sufficiency in which all products, including PPE kits, are being manufactured in the country. Stating that many “revolutionary and public welfare measures” have been taken by the Centre for the welfare of the poor, Dalits, and deprived, besides the labourers and businessmen, he said the Centre has also implemented 16 schemes for small and cottage industries to fight the pandemic crisis. The state BJP chief said under the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, an advance instalment was deposited in farmers’ accounts, in which a sum of Rs 1,200 crore was spent in Rajasthan alone for the payment to 60.89 lakh farmers in the state. Similarly, under the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme, an amount of Rs 65,027 crore was made available, he said. Under the Ujjwala scheme in Rajasthan, Rs 652.77 crore was provided in three months and Rs 4,685 crore was spent to provide pensions to people of old age besides the differently-abled ones and widows. The BJP leader said the Centre’s ''One Nation-One Ration Card'' scheme will bring radical changes in India’'s food and distribution system, which will benefit the migrant labourers and the poor. He that the Centre was also providing free food grains to the poor, needy and migrants, while the state government has been charging them for the ration. He demanded that the state government should stop charging people for getting ration so that the people of Rajasthan can get relief in this epidemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/self-reliant-india-campaign-a-visionary-idea-of-pm-narendra-modi-satish-poonia-859235.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||Criminal has gone, but what about those protecting him: Priyanka Gandhi on Vikas Dubey's encounter killing||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday took a swipe at the UP government over the encounter killing of gangster Vikas Dubey, saying while the criminal has gone, what about those protecting him. Dubey was killed by the cops after he was trying to escape soon after a police vehicle carrying him overturned on their way back to Kanpur. Four policemen, including an inspector posted in Nawabganj, were injured in the accident, IG, Kanpur Range, Mohit Agarwal said. In a tweet in Hindi, the Congress leader said, "The criminal has gone, but what about the crime and those protecting him. Dubey, the prime accused in the Kanpur massacre of cops, was arrested from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday morning. Gandhi had earlier demanded a CBI probe to ascertain the facts about the "grant of protection" to Dubey. The Congress general secretary had also accused the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of "complete failure" in handling the Kanpur ambush case in which eight policemen were killed. She had alleged that the chain of events in the case exposed the chinks in security and hinted at collusion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/criminal-has-gone-but-what-about-those-protecting-him-priyanka-gandhi-on-vikas-dubeys-encounter-killing-859297.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||BSP chief Mayawati seeks SC-monitored probe into Vikas Dubey encounter, killing of policemen in UP||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Friday demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey. She wanted the inquiry to cover the killing of eight policemen last week in an ambush allegedly masterminded by Dubey. Dubey was shot dead on Friday by police, who claim he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain overturned on the outskirts of Kanpur. The SUV met with an accident at Bhaunti in Kanpur district, overturning on an isolated stretch of the road which was slippery after the rains, police claimed. "There should be an unbiased probe under the supervision of the Supreme Court into the killing of policemen in Kanpur and the encounter of main accused Vikas Dubey while he was trying to flee when the police vehicle overturned," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. In a separate tweet, she said, "This high-level probe is necessary for ensuring justice to eight policemen killed in Kanpur and to identify the nexus between police and criminal political elements. By such steps, UP can become crime free." Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsp-chief-mayawati-seeks-sc-monitored-probe-into-vikas-dubey-encounter-killing-of-policemen-in-up-859342.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviews situation in eastern Ladakh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday carried out a comprehensive review of the situation in eastern Ladakh with top military brass in view of the withdrawal of troops from the friction points by China's Peoples Liberation Army, government sources said. The defence minister carried out the review at a meeting with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria besides several other senior military officials. Gen Naravane gave a detailed account of the implementation of the first phase of mutual disengagement of troops from Galwan Valley, Gogra, Hot Springs and Finger 4 areas in Pangong Tso, the sources said. They said the Army chief apprised Singh about the combat readiness of the Indian Army in the region to deal with any eventualities and presented a detailed update of the situation in all the sensitive areas along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh as well as in Arunachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Sikkim. As the first phase of the disengagement is nearing completion, government sources said the two sides are set to hold the fourth round of corps commander-level dialogue by early next week to finalise modalities for de-induction of troops amassed by both sides in their rear bases along the LAC, the de-facto border between the two countries. Both sides have completed the creation of a buffer zone of three kilometres in the three friction points of Galwan Valley, Gogra and Hot Springs as part of a temporary measure, they said, adding there has been thinning out of troops from Finger 4 area in Pangong Tso as well. The disengagement of troops from the friction points formally kicked off on Monday following eight weeks of eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation between the two armies at multiple locations in eastern Ladakh. The Indian and Chinese armies were locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last eight weeks. The tension escalated manifold after a violent clash in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. Both sides have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-reviews-situation-in-eastern-ladakh-859353.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||Why is Vikas Dubey's encounter being questioned, asks Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said there was no need to shed tears over the killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in an encounter and wondered why the police action was being questioned. Dubey was shot dead by the Uttar Pradesh police on the outskirts of Kanpur city on Friday morning. The police claimed that he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh overturned at Bhaunti in Kanpur district. Talking to PTI, Raut said, "Dubey had killed eight policemen. Attack on the uniform means there is no law and order. Taking strict action is the need of that states police be it in Maharashtra or Uttar Pradesh." "There is no need to shed tears over the killing of Dubey in an encounter. Why is the police action being questioned?" the Rajya Sabha MP asked. Madhya Pradesh police had arrested Vikas Dubey outside the Mahakal temple in Ujjain on Thursday morning and he was handed over to an Uttar Pradesh police late in the evening. The UP police said that the car carrying him overturned and the gangster snatched a pistol from one of the policemen, but was shot dead when he opened fire while trying to flee. Opposition parties, however, targeted the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the encounter. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the encounter as well as the ambush in which eight policemen died last week. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the criminal is now gone and asked what about those who had "protected" him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-vikas-dubeys-encounter-being-questioned-asks-sanjay-raut-859397.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||Only 7 out of 31 MPs in Parliamentary panel attend meeting on Covid-19||Only seven out of 31 MPs could participate in a meeting of a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Friday that looked into Covid-19 situation in the country for the first time, with several lawmakers expressing their inability to attend the deliberations owing to quarantine and other restrictions in their states. The meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology headed by senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh saw presentations from K Vijayraghavan, the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Prime Minister, and top officials from the Departments of Bio-Technology and Science and Technology as well Centre for Scientific and Industrial Research. Besides Ramesh, six other MPs who attended the nearly three-hour long meeting included Sakshi Maharaj, Anurag Sharma, Sudarshan Bhagat, Ashwani Vaishnav and Ram Shiromani (all BJP) and Samajwadi Party's Ravi Prakash Verma. "Our Parliamentary Standing Committee is having a most informative and useful meeting...on the issue of science and technology and Covid-19. Too bad we are not allowed to have virtual meetings so that more MPs could have participated," Ramesh tweeted. Sources said the officials briefed the panel about the steps taken by the government in tackling Covid-19 and the future challenges before the country when it comes to tackling pandemics. The panel has taken up "preparedness to deal with Covid-19 and other pandemics in future" for discussion. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he was glad that the Standing Committees have resumed functioning after a three-and-half month gap. "Covid-19 pandemic did cast a shadow on the working of these committees, which function on behalf of the Parliament. All concerned were keen about the resumption of work by these committees. But the delay was forced by circumstances beyond our control. I am hopeful these committees would now go about examining important issues concerning respective domains," he tweeted. Ramesh renewed his demand before Naidu for virtual meeting, saying "I would still request you Sir to allow virtual meetings given that Parliament is unlikely to meet for the next month at least." Earlier, CPI Parliamentary Party leader Binoy Vishwam, who is also a member of the Ramesh-led panel, told DH, "it is unscientific, unethical and morally incorrect to hold a meeting and insist on physical presence now in Delhi where the Covid-19 situation remains serious. We are told there is no convention for holding online meetings of Parliamentary committees. This situation is now different. The pandemic has introduced several new practices, which were not used to earlier. So there is no point in holding on to conventions." Vishwam, who is in Kerala, could not attend the meeting. The meeting had run into rough weather with a number of MPs demanding that the meeting be held online but it was turned down citing procedures like getting the nod of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha for holding meetings through video conference. Questions about confidentiality have also been raised. Ramesh had written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu seeking a digital meeting, citing there could be a problem of quorum. However, Rajya Sabha officials said that there was no need for quorum for general discussions in the panel. The senior Congress leader had countered that saying several MPs have expressed their eagerness to attend the meeting. "It’s about facilitating those MPs who want to attend and are unable to because of the containment zone and quarantine restrictions in their home states. Very different from not attending due to other commitments in normal times. On those occasions we did not have advance information always on who will attend and who will not. This time around MPs have informed before the meeting. Some have even requested for virtual meetings," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-7-out-of-31-mps-in-parliamentary-panel-attend-meeting-on-covid-19-859434.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||India's Covid-19 fatality rate dips to 2.72%: Health Ministry||From 2.82 percent a month earlier, India's Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 2.72 percent which is lower than that of many other countries, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. It also noted that 30 states and Union Territories have a fatality rate lower than the national average. Also, there is an upward trend in the recovery rate which was recorded at 62.42 percent on Friday. In 18 states and UTs the recovery rates are higher than the national average, the ministry said. "At the national level, the case fatality rate has declined to 2.72 percent. This is lower than the fatality rates observed in many other countries in the world. The focus of Covid-19 management in the country has been to keep the fatalities low," it said. The ministry said with the support and guidance of the Central government, the states and union territories have taken many steps like mapping of communities to focus on high-risk groups like the elderly/aged and population with comorbidities, and providing special care to them. There is a focus on the improvement of quality of medical care for coronavirus patients. The country-wide strong network of ASHAs and ANMs along with Ayushman Bharat  Health and Wellness Centres have helped in effective surveillance and contact tracing of the cases, including the lakhs of migrants and returnees, it said. There are 30 states and UTs which have a fatality rate lower than the national average which includes Kerala (0.41 %), Jharkhand (0.71 %), Bihar (0.82 %), Telangana (1.07 %), Tamil Nadu (1.39 %), Haryana (1.48 %), Rajasthan (2.18 %), Punjab (2.56 %) and Uttar Pradesh (2.66 %). Manipur, Nagaland, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim have zero case fatality rate. There are 18 states and UTs where the recovery rate is more than the national average. They which include West Bengal (64.94 %), Uttar Pradesh (65.28 %), Odisha (66.13 %), Jharkhand (68.02 %), Punjab (69.26 %), Bihar (70.40 %), Gujarat (70.72 %), Madhya Pradesh (74.85 %), Haryana (74.91 %), Rajasthan (75.65 %) and Delhi (76.81 %). On Friday, India registered yet another record single-day jump of 26,506 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 7,93,802, while the death toll climbed to 21,604 with 475 people succumbing to the infection in 24 hours. In the 24-hour period, 19,138 Covid-19 patients got cured, taking the cumulative figure of recovered cases to 4,95,515 on Friday, the ministry said. "The trend of progressive increase in the number of recovered Covid-19 patients continues. The national recovery rate is 62.42 percent today," it said. There are 2,76,682 active cases and all are under medical supervision.  The improvement in recovery rate is the result of a combination of preemptive, proactive and graded steps taken by the Centre in collaboration with the states and UTs, the ministry said. "Aggressive testing that ensures early detection of patients, home isolation for the mild/pre-symptomatic patients, effective clinical management of the severe cases, ramped up hospital infrastructure and regular and seamless coordination between the Centre and states and UTs have together resulted in the continuously rising recovery rate in the country." As of Friday, there are 1,218 dedicated Covid hospitals, 2,705 dedicated Covid healthcare centres and 10,301 Covid care Centres||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-covid-19-fatality-rate-dips-to-272-health-ministry-859439.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||Govt's wheat procurement touches record high of 38.98 mn tonnes so far in 2020-21||The government's wheat procurement has touched an all-time record of 38.98 million tonnes so far in 2020-21 marketing year (April-March), with Madhya Pradesh surpassing Punjab as the country's biggest wheat procuring state. The previous record was 38.18 million tonnes achieved in 2012-13. Wheat procurement stood at 34.77 million tonnes during 2019-20 marketing year. Wheat marketing year runs from April-March, but bulk of procurement is normally done in the first three months. Wheat procurement target has been set at 40.7 million tonnes for the current year. The state-run Food Corporation of India (FCI) and state agencies undertake purchase of wheat at minimum support price (MSP). "We have procured 38.98 million tonnes of wheat so far. The procurement operations are almost complete in major states. Few thousand tonnes more will be brought in the next few days," a senior FCI official told PTI. According to FCI's latest data, Madhya Pradesh became the largest contributor to the central pool with 12.93 million tonnes of wheat, surpassing Punjab which procured 12.71 million tonnes. Haryana (7.4 million tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (3.55 million tonnes) and Rajasthan (2.21 million tonnes) also made significant contributions to national procurement of wheat. FCI has a total stock of 81.25 million tonnes as on July 8, of which wheat comprises 54.52 million tonnes and rice is at 26.72 million tonnes. The central government had relaxed lockdown norms to start agricultural and related activities, with procurement commencing only from April 15 in most of the procuring states. The Union Agriculture Ministry in its third estimate has pegged wheat output to reach an all-time record level of 107.18 million tonnes in the 2019-20 crop year (July-June) as against 103.60 million tonnes in the previous year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govts-wheat-procurement-touches-record-high-of-3898-mn-tonnes-so-far-in-2020-21-859447.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||Of power, politics and patronage in the Vikas Dubey case||The encounter killing of gangsters even in controversial circumstances has not been a new phenomenon in the badlands of Uttar Pradesh but the heat and dust Dubey’s encounter has generated is different.  And it is partly due to his persona, partly due to his political associations of past and partly due to politics of future.  Dubey was closely associated with BSP before he grew close to SP with his wife, having joined it and he spoke fondly of the support some BJP leaders offered him in the past. Dubey episode has brought to fore crime- cops-political nexus is back in debate, which has always been an inseparable part of political discourse in UP, which saw the rise and fall of dons like Shri Prakash Shukla, Brajesh Singh, Munna Bajrangi, Mukhtar Ansari, Atique Ahmed and the list just goes on. Congress, which has been out of power for 31 years in UP,  has sensed an opportunity and pressed on with ‘jungle raj’ charge against Yogi Adityanath government in UP, a campaign latching on to which BJP had brought down the Akhilesh Yadav-led government in the state in 2017. Congress stands at a vantage point in raising the issue of political patronage to criminals, not because it has had no role in the past but mainly because it has been out of power in the state for 31 years and hence has not been in a position to directly patronise such goons in the last three decades. Hence for Congress raising the charge is less risky than the Samajwadi Party, which finds many of its own skeletons tumbling down if it goes too offensive on the campaign about crime in the tenure of Yogi Adityanath rule. As soon as Akhilesh Yadav tweeted “in fact this car has not turned turtle but the government has been saved from turning turtle”, a twitterati posted a screenshot of Samajwadi party membership receipt of Dubeys’ wife Richa Dubey and posters Richa and her husband with Mualyam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav’s pictures. Moreover with Priyanka Gandhi, who is now leading the Congress charge in the state, already having brought a lot of new leadership, the past linkages of some old leaders with such elements in distant past, may not have much of a consequence when the political blame game begins. The Poorvanachal, which is electorally very important for all parties, also had this faultline of Thakur-Brahmin rivalry not only in politics but also in gangwars. Apparently seeking to accentuate it further, former MP and dalit leader from Congress Udit Raj tweeted “Had Vikas Dubey been meted out the same behaviour had he been a Thakur.” In the complex caste dynamics of the state—Thakurs and Dalits have traditionally not been on the very best of the terms in their social relations. In past many Congress leaders had attempted to highlight the Thakur community identity of UP Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath, an attempt trashed BJP which has said being a monk Yogi Adityanath belongs to all and has no particular caste identity. The state has been ruled in the last three decades by BJP, SP and BSP and during the tenure of each of them this charge of patronage to criminals was raised. Even Dubey flourished during the regime of all these parties.  Though Maywati also demanded a probe by a retired Supreme Court judge into the encounter, the fact also remains Dubey was very close to a BSP leader in the nineties while he was rising in the rank of UP crime world. Here lies the comfort of Congress, which may not find itself at the wrong end of the campaign at least on this count in the state.  However, BJP supporters are hailing the encounter and feel the image of a ‘strong governance model’ and a muscular policy of ‘zero tolerance towards crime’ is deepened with this incident and could pay them well in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/of-power-politics-and-patronage-in-the-vikas-dubey-case-859524.html
10-07-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi demands independent fact-finding mission on Chinese intrusion into Indian territory||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday demanded an independent fact-finding mission to identify incursion, intrusion and encroachment by China into Indian territory. Keeping up the heat on the Modi government, the former Congress President also asked it to list out steps taken to ensure that Chinese incursions do not recur. “GOI must listen to the veterans and: 1. Inform India of the steps taken to ensure no more Indian territory is taken by China. 2. Allow an independent fact finding mission to identify incursion, intrusion and encroachment by China,” Rahul said referring to a joint statement by 144 ex-servicemen. The statement by the veterans, led by former Navy chief L Ramdas, said the Galwan incident could only have happened because of failure at one or more levels in the political, civil and military establishments, especially in continuous intelligence acquisition and dissemination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-demands-independent-fact-finding-mission-on-chinese-intrusion-into-indian-territory-859549.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||One of the vehicles of Uttar Pradesh STF convoy bringing back Vikas Dubey overturns in Kanpur||One of the vehicles of the convoy of Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) that was bringing back Vikas Dubey from Madhya Pradesh to Kanpur has overturned. Police are at the spot.  Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) team along with history-sheeter Vikas Dubey who was arrested in Ujjain (Madhya Pradesh) yesterday, reached Kanpur earlier today. Nearly 10 hours after his highly questionable arrest in Ujjain’s famous Mahakal temple on Thursday morning, the UP Special Task Force (STF) took Vikas Dubey to Kanpur in a chartered plane, the main accused in an incident where eight policemen gunned down. The kingpin of Kanpur shootout was reportedly going to Mahakal temple when he was identified by security personnel on the tip-off from a shopkeeper in the temple’s vicinity. The security guard reportedly had a scuffle with the gangster, according to eyewitnesses. Soon after, Ujjain police stepped in and took the man with Rs 5 lakh bounty on his arrest under custody and grilled him for two hours. While MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and home minister Narottam Mishra have credited state police for the dramatic arrest, the opposition is smelling foul play in the way the dangerous gangster ended his five-day run for life in the face of the UP police’s hot pursuit in the pilgrim town of Madhya Pradesh. What has deepened suspicious over the entire arrest drama was the fact that Vikas Dubey himself cried out loud his identity in public while the police was nabbing him.   The police have also arrested two lawyers from Lucknow who had reached here by a car. A liquor contractor and his manager have also been detained on suspicion of helping Vikas Dubey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-of-the-vehicles-of-uttar-pradesh-stf-convoy-bringing-back-vikas-dubey-overturns-in-kanpur-859231.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||UP gangster Vikas Dubey, accused in the killing of 8 cops, shot dead while attempting to flee||Exactly a week after he and his goons shot dead eight Uttar Pradesh cops, gangster Vikas Dubey was gunned down allegedly in a controversial 'encounter' with the police near Kanpur, about 90 kilometres from here, on Friday morning. Vikas had been 'arrested' on Thursday from the famous 'Mahakal' Temple in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain town. He was being brought to Kanpur by a team of Special Task Force (STF) of UP police, when the encounter took place. According to UP additional director general of police, Prashant Kumar, Vikas tried to escape after the SUV carrying him overturned amid heavy rains, and was killed in firing by the cops. ''Vikas snatched the pistol of a cop and tried to escape after the vehicle overturned.....the special task force (STF) jawans travelling in the other vehicle challenged him and asked him to surrender but he opened fire....the cops fired in self-defence....Vikas suffered bullet injuries in the shoot out and was rushed to the hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead,'' Kumar told reporters here. The official said that four STF jawans were also injured in the encounter. Police sources said that the road was slippery and the vehicle carrying the gangster skidded near Bhaunti area, barely a few kilometres from the Kanpur town. and overturned. Vikas was taken to hospital in Kanpur, where the doctors declared him brought dead. There were four bullet marks on his body, according to his postmortem report. Earlier conflicting reports emerged about the death of the gangster. Some reports said that he was seriously injured, when the vehicle carrying him overturned and succumbed to his injuries later. His family members said that they had no information about the killing. ''We have no information....we came to know from the media that the vehicle carrying has overturned,'' said a member of the family. Vikas and his goons had shot dead eight UP cops, when the latter went to his residence at Bikaru village in Kanpur district to arrest him last week. Five key aides of the gangster had already been killed in encounters with the police in different parts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-gangster-vikas-dubey-accused-in-the-killing-of-8-cops-shot-dead-while-attempting-to-flee-859234.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||LG begins public outreach program from South Kashmir's Kulgam district||Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Thursday began a public outreach program in South Kashmir's Kulgam district and met 15 delegations to hear their grievances amid an overall review of the ongoing works of development at ground zero. The Jammu and Kashmir LG visited Kulgam district and interacted with around 15 delegations including representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions and Urban Local Bodies, traders' federation, Awquaf committees, transporters, fruit and vegetable growers association, senior citizens and ST community members to take a first-hand appraisal of the developmental needs of the area, besides taking stock of the various projects and works under execution, an official spokesman said. The visit was also aimed to tone up administrations of the districts of Kashmir valley beginning from terror-infested Kulgam district. The Lt Governor also inaugurated projects and laid foundations stones for various works of public importance. During the interaction, members of the delegations put forth a number of demands such as those relating to drinking water, power supply and package for transporters. The LG assured the delegations about quick redressal of the problems and fulfilment of their genuine demands. He also said a number of Rs 1,200 crore has been already sanctioned for up-gradation of power infrastructure and directed Superintending Engineer PDD to restore power supply to the remote areas within 15 days. He further directed the concerned engineers to complete projects for which funds have already been released. He said the government is providing free health insurance to about 25 lakh families of Jammu and Kashmir under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Further, power, roads, healthcare and education are the priority sectors for the government, he added. He directed DDC Kulgam to identify land for the rehabilitation of victims of 2014 floods belonging to Adigatnoo village. The LG also sanctioned Rs 2 crore for completion of a bypass road from Laroo to fruit mandi, including the construction of embankment at three vulnerable spots at Khudwani on Nallah Veshoo. During his visit, the Lt Governor laid the foundation stone for a 50-bed integrated AYUSH hospital at an estimated cost of Rs 7.50 crore, steel truss bridge over Zadran nallah at Kanchloo Kund with an estimated cost of Rs 45 lakh under the 13th Finance Commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lg-begins-public-outreach-program-from-south-kashmirs-kulgam-district-859238.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Army jawan killed in Pakistani firing along Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir||An army jawan was killed when Pakistani troops resorted to yet another ceasefire violation from across the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. An official said Pakistan army resorted to firing and shelling in Kamal area along the LoC shortly after midnight at around 12:30 am in which Havaldar S Gurung sustained multiple splinter injuries. “He was shifted to a medical facility but he succumbed,” he said and added the body of slain army man has been brought to Nowshera for medico-legal formalities. This is the sixth killing of soldiers along the LoC in Rajouri and neighbouring Poonch districts in Pakistan shelling since June. Last month, India lost five soldiers along the LoC in Poonch and Rajouri sectors. On Wednesday, a 60-year-old woman was killed while another was critically injured after Pakistan targeted forward areas with mortars along the LoC in Mendhar sector of Poonch district. There has been a huge surge in ceasefire violations (CVFs) by Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir this year with over 410 instances reported in June only. Official data reveals there have been over 2,300 ceasefire violations along the LoC this year. A total of 3,168 CFVs were recorded in 2019, and 1,629 in 2018. The government of India led by then Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had entered into a border ceasefire agreement with Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir on November 26, 2003. However, according to officials, shelling and firing by Pakistani troops since last year is so heavy that virtually it has made the 2003 truce redundant. India shares a 3,323-km-long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-killed-in-pakistani-firing-along-line-of-control-in-jammu-and-kashmir-859285.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi court grants bail to 82 Bangladeshi nationals||A Delhi court Friday granted bail to 82 Bangladeshi nationals who were charge-sheeted for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here for allegedly violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines, issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted the relief to the foreigners on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each. The accused will file their plea bargaining applications on Friday, said advocate Ashima Mandla and Mandakini Singh, appearing for the foreign nationals.  Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence praying for a lesser punishment. The Criminal Procedure of Code allows plea bargaining for cases where the maximum punishment is imprisonment for seven years, where offences don't affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and when the offences are not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years. During the hearing, all the foreign nationals were produced before the court through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-82-bangladeshi-nationals-859338.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan records four more Covid-19 deaths||Four more deaths due to coronavirus infection were recorded in Rajasthan on Friday, taking the total number of fatalities in the state to 495, an official said. With 115 new cases have been reported, the total number of people infected with this deadly virus in the state has increased to 22678. One death each was reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner and Sawai Madhopur, the official said.  In Jaipur alone, the death toll from coronavirus infection has increased to 170, while 65 people died in Jodhpur, 41 in Bharatpur, 26 in Kota, 23 in Ajmer, 19 in Bikaner, 15 each in Pali and Nagaur, and 11 in Dholpur.  A total of 115 new cases were reported in the state till 10:30 am on Friday, including 35 in Pali, 22 in Jaipur, 10 in Ajmer, nine in Alwar, seven in Nagaur and six in Kota. A total of 16,782 patients have been discharged after treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-records-four-more-covid-19-deaths-859348.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||8.8 cr footfall recorded at health and wellness centres under Ayushman Bharat since Feb 1||Over 8.8 crore visits by patients have been recorded since February 1 at over 41,000 health and wellness centres (HWCs) made operational under the government's flagship Ayushman Bharat scheme, The Union health ministry said on Friday. This is almost equivalent to the number of footfalls recorded in the previous 21 months -- from April 14, 2018, to January 31, 2020, -- despite restrictions on the movement of people during the lockdown period this year, it said in a statement. In the last five months, 1.41 crore individuals were screened for hypertension, 1.13 crore for diabetes and 1.34 crore for oral, breast or cervical cancer, the ministry said. Despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, medicines were dispensed to about 5.62 lakh hypertension patients and 3.77 lakh diabetes patients at the HWCs in June alone, according to the statement. As many as 6.53 lakh yoga and wellness sessions have also been organised at HWCs since the Covid-19 outbreak. Health and wellness centres form the primary pillar of the Ayushman Bharat scheme envisaging to the provisioning of universal and comprehensive primary healthcare through the transformation of 1,50,000 sub-health centres and primary health centres into HWCs by 2022. Giving an example of the contribution being made by HWCs in the fight against Covid-19 in Jharkhand, the ministry said that as part of a statewide intensive public health survey week, HWC teams screened people for influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) symptoms and facilitated coronavirus testing.  An HWC team at Subalaya in Odisha conducted health check-ups and created awareness among people about preventive measures for Covid-19 such as frequent handwashing with soap, wearing masks or face covers in public spaces and maintaining adequate physical distancing when interacting with people. They also conducted wellness sessions for migrants at the temporary medical camps functioning as quarantine centres.  "During the Covid-19 pandemic, the resilience of health systems was reflected through continued operationalisation of HWCs and continued delivery of non-Covid-19 essential health services while also meeting the urgent tasks of prevention and management of Covid-19. "Between the period of January to June 2020, additional 12,425 HWCs were operationalized, increasing the number of HWCs from 29,365 to 41,790," the ministry said. HWC teams have played a key role in ensuring that non-Covid essential services are provided to the communities. Having undertaken the population-based screenings for non-communicable diseases, the teams have a list of those with chronic disease and are able to rapidly screen individuals with co-morbidities and provide advice for protection against the viral infection.  Immunization sessions are being organized by the HWC teams where medical checkups of pregnant women are ensured. Delivery of essential medicines to tuberculosis, leprosy, hypertensive and diabetic patients is also being undertaken by them. Health and Wellness Centres have demonstrated that creation of a strong primary health care system closer to the community is critical to the delivery of essential primary health care services to the people while also responding to the challenge of managing a pandemic, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/88-cr-footfall-recorded-at-health-and-wellness-centres-under-ayushman-bharat-since-feb-1-859379.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Illegal arms factory unearthed in Uttar Pradesh||Police have unearthed an illegal arms manufacturing factory in Shamli and arrested one person after a brief exchange of fire, an official said on Friday. During the encounter, the accused, identified as Salim, sustained a bullet injury following which he was taken to a hospital, SP Vineet Jaiswal said. Eight pistols along with raw material were found in the factory in Khurgana village, Jaiswal said. The accused used to supply illegal arms in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, police said. The SP has announced a cash reward of Rs 15,000 for the police team that busted the illegal arms manufacturing factory and arrested the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/illegal-arms-factory-unearthed-in-uttar-pradesh-859391.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Meet Odisha migrant worker Duleswar Tandi who raps to express his anguish||Emerging as a voice of the migrant workers, a 27-year-old Dalit man's rap song has garnered the attention of many, including Vishal Dadlani, after a video of it went viral on social media.  “As I watched the Covid cases grow in China, the US and European countries, I could sense that it was a matter of weeks before the virus comes to India. So I decided to come back,” said Tandi. A graduate in Chemistry, Tandi left home after his mother had to undergo a surgery in 2014 in Visakhapatanam. In 2017, his father, Nilamani Tandi, passed away. He was a farmer and a local police station assistant. With the added burden of a mortgaged two-acre land for Rs 50,000, he had to leave behind his dream to be a doctor and migrate to Raipur where he wiped tables and washed dishes to make a living.  Nicknamed Rapper Dule Rocker in Kalahandi, Tandi used to rap from his college days. In 2014, someone from Punjab saw one of his videos on Facebook and called him to perform in Chandigarh. “It was a new experience for me as I performed in different competitions,” he said. Recently, he rapped ‘Sarkar, tui jabab de’ (Government, give us an answer), where he alleged the government only bothers about people when the election is around the corner but otherwise it remains unconcerned.  After his rap gained popularity, Odia singer Humane Sagar gave him Rs 30,000 and a local studio expressed interest in recording his music.  Vishal Dadlani, music composer and playback singer responded to Tandi’s video saying, “This is incredible! @DuleRocker, if you need help producing/ recording/ releasing your music, get in touch. I'll do what I can. I'm sure we all will!”  Tandi added that his songs are about common people and their hardships, “I don’t want to promote sleaze or liquor in my songs. Migrant workers like us have too many issues. Those things would find a place in my songs,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/meet-odisha-migrant-worker-duleswar-tandi-who-raps-to-express-his-anguish-859392.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||SC refuses to entertain plea for moratorium on school fees for lockdown period||The Supreme Court Friday refused to entertain a plea by parents from different states seeking deferment/moratorium on school fees for the COVID-19 lockdown period and asked them to approach the high courts for relief. The top court said it was a fact-intensive situation as problems in each state are different and observed that it would a stroke of genius if petitioners can solve everybody's problems. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna said: “Fee hike issue should have been raised before the state High Courts. Why has it come to the Supreme Court? It's a fact-intensive situation. "Problems in each state are different. Parties are involving jurisdiction of this court as an omnibus case. But these are fact-intensive situations in each state and even each district.” Advocates Balaji Srinivasan and Mayank Kshirsagar said the Punjab and Haryana High Court has allowed schools to charge hiked fee. The bench told the counsels, then the petitioners can file an appeal against that order of Punjab and Haryana High Court. “It would be a stroke of genius if you can solve everybody's problems,” the bench said. The top court said that it is not inclined to interfere at this stage and the petitioners may withdraw plea and approach the high courts. Parents of school-going children from different states have moved the top court seeking declaration of moratorium or deferment of payment of school fees during the COVID-19 induced lockdown. The plea also sought that the Centre and all states be asked to direct the private unaided/aided schools to only charge the proportionate fees based on actual expenditure towards the conduct of the online virtual classes and no other fees from the students since April 1 till the commencement of physical classes. “The Petitioners belonging to different states of the country have come together being constrained to approach this Court seeking inter alia the protection of fundamental right to life as well as education guaranteed under the Constitution of India, 1950 which the children & students enrolled up to the Class XII of various Indian states are being deprived of due to supervening factors namely, the ongoing pandemic- Covid-19 period...,” the plea said. It said that due to the lockdown, financially incapacitated parents have to bear the brunt of the fees, which may leave a few of them with no option but to withdraw their children or students from seeking institutional/school education for an unforeseeable period. The parents through the petition filed through Kshirsagar and drawn by advocate Pankhuri said that they are highlighting various factors leading to creation of hostile discrimination of children and parents of various states as some protection may be available for children or students in some states but not others. Parents of the school-going children who have moved the top court hail from Rajasthan, Odisha, Punjab, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Maharashtra. In their plea they said that considering the adverse impact of online education, ban has been imposed by Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh while other states have not considered its impact. It said that after Covid-19 disease was declared as a pandemic by the World Health Organization, on March 25, 2020, a countrywide lockdown was announced whereby all the activities including the educational sector were shut down completely having a catastrophic effect over the economy of the country with many people losing their jobs or getting a deducted or nil income and facing immense sufferings in their daily life. It added that many of the schools hiked their fees and/or started harassing parents to pay the entire quarterly fees in advance despite the non-functioning of the schools and the students not availing any of the services provided by the schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-for-moratorium-on-school-fees-for-lockdown-period-859395.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC suggests jail authorities consider video conferencing facility for prisoners, families||The Delhi High Court Friday suggested to the jail authorities to consider the requirement of prisoners for having video conferencing with their family for the duration when physical meetings in jails are suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The court made it clear it was not passing any direction as it was conscious of the fact that the resources are limited. The court made the recommendation while hearing a plea by Bhushan Steel's former chief financial officer Nittin Johari, who was arrested by the SFIO for alleged fraudulent activities, seeking direction to Tihar Jail authorities to allow him to meet his family and lawyers through video conferencing. Justice Vibhu Bakhru, conducting the hearing through video conferencing, noted that so far as Johari’s grievance of video conferencing (VC) with his lawyers are concerned, it has been resolved and he has already been granted two such opportunities by the jail authorities. Advocate Gautam Khazanchi, appearing for Johari, said the accused also wants to meet his wife and other family members and it will not cause any additional burden if one family member is allowed with the lawyer during the VC. The court, however, said it does not consider it apposite to pass any direction in this regard and added that the suspension of ‘mulakat’ of prisoners with family members in jail is temporary due to the Covid-19 pandemic and they will be allowed to meet once the situation permits. Delhi government standing counsel (Rahul Mehra) and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, representing the jail authorities, submitted that Johari is being provided with the facility of a phone call of five minutes daily to his family. The counsel said a similar request of extending video conferencing facility with lawyers was also made by other prisoners, so the Director General (Prisons) has issued a circular on July 6, setting out conditions on which VC facility will be provided to prisoners to consult their lawyers. Noting the submissions, the judge said, “This court recommends that said requirement (VC with family) of petitioner (Johari) and other prisoners be also considered by the Director General (Prisons). This court is not making any direction as it is conscious that resources are limited.” Johari was arrested by SFIO on May 2, 2019 for alleged fraudulent activities, including filing false documents with various banks. SFIO had said Johari was managing the affairs of Bhushan Steel and was looking after raising of funds from banks and financial institutions and was also one of the signatories to the financial statements of the company till the fiscal year 2016-17. It had said that during the probe it found there were several alleged fraudulent practices at the company, including manipulations of accounts and financial statements during the term of Johari. The high court earlier while denying bail to Johari, had said it became evident that the "mind and will of the accused company are the main accused -- Brij Bhushan Singal and Neeraj Singal, who had been actually controlling the company". It had observed that it is a matter of record that the main accused Brij Bhushan Singal has not been arrested and co-accused Neeraj Singal has already been granted bail. SFIO had claimed that Johari was a member of the committee of board of directors on borrowing, investment and loans along with former promoters Brij Bhushan Singal and Neeraj Singal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-suggests-jail-authorities-consider-video-conferencing-facility-for-prisoners-families-859410.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey's killing raises handcuffing issue vis-a-vis Supreme Court guidelines on "inhuman" practice||The alleged encounter killing of dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey on Friday has kicked up dust over his not being apparently handcuffed by the police, against the backdrop of the Supreme Court's disapproving the practice in various orders, calling it “inhuman, unreasonable, over harsh and arbitrary”. The police, on the other hand, has all along been supporting handcuffing at various judicial forums on the ground that the practice has been quite helpful in ensuring that a dreaded accused or convict does not flee the custody. The apex court has from time to time issued a slew of directives on the procedure to be followed while handcuffing an undertrial, maintaining that the insurance against escape does not compulsorily require handcuffing. According to police, Dubey was killed after he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti during his transit from Ujjain to Kanpur and their car met with accident.   It said the gangster snatched a pistol from one of the policemen injured in the accident and was shot when he opened fire while trying to flee, an account being questioned by opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh. Six policemen, including two from the Special task Force, were hurt in the accident and the exchange of fire around 6 am, an official said. With this incident, the debate over handcuffing criminals while taking them from one place to another has ensued once again. The apex court in 1995 held that minimal freedom of movement cannot be cut down by application of handcuffs or other hoops. It had categorically stated that handcuffing of prisoners without judicial consent was illegal. “We clearly declare -- and it shall be obeyed from the Inspector General of Police and Inspector General of Prisons to the escort constable and the jailwarder -- that the rule, regarding a prisoner in transit prison house and Court house, is freedom from handcuffs and the exception, under conditions of judicial supervision we have indicated earlier will be restraints with irons to be justified before or after,” the apex court said. In another case -- Prem Shankar Shukla vs Delhi Administration, the top court in 1980 made important observations on he issue and said that there were other measures whereby an escort can keep safe custody of a “detenu without the indignity and cruelty implicit in handcuffs or other iron In contraptions”. It said: “Handcuffing is prima facie inhuman and, therefore, unreasonable, is over harsh and at the first blush, arbitrary. Absent fair procedure and objective monitoring to inflict "irons" is to resort to zoological strategies repugnant to Article 21.  “Surely, the competing claims of securing the prisoner from fleeing and protecting his personality from barbarity have to be harmonized”. The top court has observed that to prevent the escape of an undertrial is in public interest, reasonable, just and cannot, by itself be castigated. “But to bind a man hand and foot, fetter his limbs with hoops of steel, shuffle him along in the streets and stand him for hours in the courts is to torture him, defile his dignity, vulgarise society and foul the soul of our Constitutional culture,” it said. Referring to Articles 14 (Equality before law) and 19 (Freedoms of speech), the top court had S aid that when there is no compulsive need to fetter a person's limbs “it is sadistic, capricious, despotic and demoralizing to humble a man by manacling him”. “Such arbitrary conduct surely slaps Article 14 on the face. The animal freedom of movement, which even a detained is entitled to under Article 19, cannot be cut down cruelly by application of handcuffs or other hoops. “lt will be unreasonable so to do unless the State is able to make out that no other practical way of forbidding escape is available, the prisoner being so dangerous and desperate and the circumstances so hostile to safe keeping,” it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubeys-killing-raises-handcuffing-issue-vis-a-vis-supreme-court-guidelines-on-inhuman-practice-859413.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi manages to control Covid-19 spike but experts warn that dip in cases has to be sustained||The national capital’s Covid-19 count crossed the grim one lakh milestone this week but the number of active cases is dipping as is the positivity rate while the recovery rate is going up, raising hopes of the epidemic curve flattening if the trends continue.   As testing is significantly ramped up, the death rate, too, has fallen marginally and the projected explosion of cases hasn’t happened. The signs are undoubtedly good but these are just baby steps as Delhi moves ahead in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, cautioned experts.   It is early days yet, they said, stressing the urgent need to continue with social distancing, masks, hand hygiene and other dos and don'ts to ward off the infection. Lowering the guard could lead to cases surging again.   “We can say the curve seems to be flattening, though this virus is novel and can spring a surprise," a senior doctor at the frontline of the fight in a private hospital said on the condition of anonymity. “The dip in cases is encouraging but it would be prudent to have multiple data points created over the next two weeks to better map the trends and to be able to say the curve has flattened. In order to draw an inference about effective containment, the decline that is being observed has to be sustained over a period of time,” added Dr Samiran Panda, head of ICMR's Epidemiology and Communicable Division. Several experts are encouraged by the trend of average fresh cases per day and the slide in positivity rate over the last fortnight.   On March 1, the city recorded its first Covid-19 case. More than three months later, the number of cases is 1,07,051 with 3,258 fatalities, according to the Health Ministry on Friday. However, 82,226 cases have recovered and 21,567 cases are still active. The number of active figures is the lowest in 28 days.   The peak came on June 23 when the city recorded 3,947 fresh cases. For three days after that, there were 3,000 cases a day. But then the figures dipped. From June 27 to July 3, the average fresh cases per day was 2,494 compared to 3,446 cases the previous week. The trend has continued -- July 4 (2,505), July 5 (2,244), July 6 (1,379), July 7 (2,008), July 8 (2,033) and July 9 (2,187). The positivity rate in Delhi has been consistently going down as well - from 31 percent in the June 8-14 week to 11 percent in June 29-July 5 week, according to official figures. "So, from 3,947 peak cases so far on June 23, the average fresh cases in the last several consecutive days have shown a fall, hovering between 1,379 and 2,889. Also, the positivity rate has come down.  But we need both these metrics to come down over a sustained period of time,” said the doctor at the private hospital. "Things are looking up and data trends have been very encouraging,” said Mahesh Verma, head of a panel set up by the Delhi government to strengthen the preparedness of hospitals to battle the coronavirus.   Verma, a doctor and vice-chancellor of the Indraprastha University, also said recently that the Covid-19 tally in the city may not reach 5.5 lakh cases by July end. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had shared the 5.5 lakh figure with reporters last month. However, one needs to see how the virus behaves during the monsoon, Verma added.   Working on the multiple tracks of home isolation, increased testing and wider public engagement may have done the trick for the Arvind Kejriwal-led government.          The number of tests has also gone up sharply – from 5,500 tests per day in the first week of June to 11,000 by mid-June and 21,000 by July.   "Joint efforts have improved the situation in Delhi. Rapid antigen technology is being used at a large scale which has increased testing capability," Union Home Ministry Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava told reporters on Thursday. "Till July 8, over 6.79 lakh tests have been done which translates into 35,780 tests per million population. Now every day over 20,000 tests are being done but in spite of an increase in tests, active cases are under control," Srivastava said.   While increased testing seemed to increase the number of cases, what it means is that Covid positive patients are now being traced and isolated in a timely manner, a Delhi government official explained.   So while cases escalated and breached the one lakh mark on July 6, active cases and positivity rate reduced and recovery rate increased, he added. On July 5, the recovery rate was 71.74 percent, up from 63.32 percent the week before it. This was better than the national recovery rate of 60.7 percent.   Also, the death rate in Delhi fell marginally to 3.08 percent on July 5 vis-a-vis 3.16 percent the previous week.   The Delhi government aggressively promoted home isolation of Covid-positive patients who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. These constitute almost 80 percent of all Covid-positive cases, an official said.   Till early June, there were only eight private hospitals that were treating coronavirus patients and these had a sum total of 700 beds available. This was in addition to 2,500 beds in Delhi government hospitals.   Today, there are over 15,000 Covid-19 beds in Delhi. Much of this increased capacity is still vacant, with only 38 percent of the Covid beds occupied.   "It has meant that the people of Delhi feel a sense of confidence that if they need a hospital bed, it would be easily available in a hospital of their choice," a Delhi government official said.   Besides, the Corona App at the disposal of people to monitor the number of beds, counselling given to patients, and tele-consultation provided to patients in home isolation have strengthened the Covid management system, he said.   In a first for the country, a ‘plasma bank’ has been set up by the Delhi government so the patients can easily access convalescent plasma.   An aggressive awareness campaign for plasma donation has been conducted with Kejriwal encouraging recovered patients to donate their plasma.   Active cases coming down is a "strong sign" of Covid recovery in the city.   “Increased testing, isolation, and focussed treatment has contributed to this, and things are looking up for Delhi,” the official said.  "Success of Delhi in tackling the coronavirus lies not just in its capacity to expand hospital infrastructure, increase testing or aggressively isolate; it lies in the ability of the government to understand the psychological and emotional challenges that this pandemic has created," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-manages-to-control-covid-19-spike-but-experts-warn-that-dip-in-cases-has-to-be-sustained-859421.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||BJP demands security for political workers facing threats in Jammu and Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of the BJP on Friday demanded security for political workers of different parties who are facing threats, asserting that they are upholding democracy in the union territory. It said sarpanches and heads of local bodies should also be provided with the security cover as Pakistan wants to “destroy” the democratic process in Jammu and Kashmir. "It is very important to provide security to all the active political workers of all the political parties -- be it the NC, the PDP, the Congress or the BJP -- who have threat perception,” BJP's Jammu and Kashmir unit president Ravinder Raina said here. “Those who participate in the democratic process make the democracy and law of the land stronger," he added. Raina was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a function at the party headquarters here. The BJP leader paid tributes to party leader Wasim Bari who was killed by militants in Bandipora district along with his brother and father on Wednesday. “These killings took place on the directions of Pakistan. Pakistan has killed innocent people in Kashmir. It is responsible for the killing of over one lakh people in Jammu and Kashmir in the last 30-35 years," he said. Raina said Pakistan and militants have sinned by carrying out these killings and “they will have to pay for it”. "Pakistan, terrorists and separatists have become frustrated because of the increasing number of people in the valley associating themselves with the BJP and so they are killing people. "Lashkar (e-Toiba), Jaish (e-Mohammad) and Hizbul (Mujahideen) have vowed to destroy Kashmir, and Pakistan wants to make Kashmir a graveyard and shed blood here, but we will not allow it to succeed in its plans. The people of JK are Indians by heart, they are nationalists and I salute them for keeping the national flag flying here," he said. Meanwhile, All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference president Anil Sharma also demanded security for political workers, especially for the panchayat members, in the union territory. "We appeal the Prime Minister and the Home Minister to provide security to our people (panchayat members) so that they can work freely at the ground level because it is the Panchayat Raj Institutions which are working at the grass-roots level in the absence of the assembly," Sharma told reporters here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-demands-security-for-political-workers-facing-threats-in-jammu-and-kashmir-859444.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey's 'encounter' raises questions, Opposition seeks probe||Gangster Vikas Dubey's killing in an 'encounter' on a cloudy Friday morning near Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur triggered a huge controversy with the opposition parties as well as rights activists claiming that it was 'fake' and demanding a thorough probe. To make the matter worse for the UP police, even a senior IPS officer questioned their claim and suspected that the 'encounter' might have been conducted to 'save' some people. The cops also found themselves pushed into a corner and failed to clear doubts raised in various quarters over the 'encounter'. The police claimed that Vikas snatched the pistol of a cop and tried to escape after the vehicle carrying him overturned. He fired, when asked to surrender, and was killed, when the cops fired in 'self-defence'. Sources, however, said that there were no skid marks on the road, where the vehicle had overturned. Furthermore, Vikas was shifted to another vehicle a few kilometres before the encounter site. Several media vehicles, which were following the Special Task Force (STF) convoy, were stopped by the police barely ten kilometres away from the site of the encounter. The media personnel, who were allowed to proceed after 15 minutes, found the STF vehicle overturned, when they reached the site and were told that Vikas had tried to escape and had been hit by bullets. Kanpur IG Mohit Agarwal did not answer, when asked if Vikas was handcuffed. ''I salute the bravery of the cops, who killed Vikas Dubey,'' he said. Interestingly, two close aides of the gangster-Prabhat Mishra and Baua Dubey-had also been gunned down in an encounter with the cops barely half a kilomtere away from the spot, where Vikas was killed, a day before. The cops had then too claimed that Prabhat snatched the pistol of a cop and tried to escape and was killed in the ensuing gun battle. Senior IPS officer Amitabh Thakur suspected that Vikas had been killed to 'save' some people. ''The criminal was killed...what will now happen to his protectors,'' Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked in a tweet. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav also echoed similar sentiments. ''The car had not overturned....the killing was an attempt to save the government from overturning,'' he said.  This was not the first time that UP police faced criticism for allegedly conducting 'fake' encounter. Between March 2017 and December 2019, over 5200 'encounters' have taken place in UP in which over 100 'criminals' had been killed. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had invited the ire of the rights activists over the former's 'thonk denge' (shoot) remarks for the criminals||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubeys-encounter-raises-questions-opposition-seeks-probe-859451.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey: An 'encounter' every one knew about||If you thought that encounters (between cops and criminals) happened suddenly and could not be predicted in advance, you only have to surf the social media sites to be proven wrong. The controversial Friday's encounter in which Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey was gunned down by UP police had already been predicted on Thursday, when Vikas was 'arrested' in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh. ''Vikas Dubey could be killed while trying to escape from police custody,'' senior UP IPS officer Amitabh Thakur had tweeted on Thursday. The netizens also knew that Vikas was unlikely to make it to Kanpur alive. Many of them had remarked that they had kept the RIP tweet ready. Many also said that the gangster could have revealed his relations with the cops and politicians and so he was killed in a staged encounter. A video in which an MP police official was heard saying that Vikas might not reach Kanpur alive also went viral on the social networking sites. ''I hope not,'' the official is heard saying, when asked by a fellow cop if he thought Vikas would reach Kanpur alive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubey-an-encounter-every-one-knew-about-859456.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records highest single-day spike of 1,338 Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 33,700||The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh rose to 33,700 on Friday with the highest single-day spike of 1,338 cases, while the death toll reached 889 after 27 patients succumbed to the disease, a senior official said on Friday. The previous highest single-day spike in fresh cases -- 1,332 -- was recorded on July 7. Additional Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said there are 11,024 active cases in the state, while 21,787 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. As many as 38,006 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of samples tested in the state to 10.74 lakh, Prasad said. He said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will dedicate seven new labs of RT-PCR tests at a programme here on Saturday. These seven labs will be set up in Aligarh, Varanasi, Gonda, Moradabad, Bareilly, Mirzapur and Balrampur hospital in Lucknow, he said. Taking strict action against those who step out without face covers in public places, the Uttar Pradesh government has increased the penalty on violators from Rs 100 to Rs 500, Prasad said. He said 36,114 help desks in the state have so far identified 16,030 people with Covid-19 symptoms and their tests are being conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-1338-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-33700-859472.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Anti-CAA protests: HC dismisses Sharjeel Imam’s plea against extension of time to probe UAPA case||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed a plea by JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, challenging a trial court order granting more time to police to conclude the investigation. Justice V Kameswar Rao pronounced the verdict through video conferencing and said the detailed order will be uploaded on the court's website. "I have dismissed the petition," the judge said. The Delhi Police had opposed Imam’s plea saying there was no infirmity in the trial court’s April 25 order by which the agency was granted three more months, beyond statutory 90 days, to complete the investigation in the case under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar's Jehanabad district in the case related to violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) near the Jamia Millia Islamia University here in December last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-caa-protests-hc-dismisses-sharjeel-imam-s-plea-against-extension-of-time-to-probe-uapa-case-859474.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||HC asks Centre to create one nodal agency for disaster management in NCR||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the Centre to treat as representation a plea seeking creation of a nodal agency to carry out disaster management tasks in the national capital region (NCR) so that there is uniformity in the response to any calamity, like the Covid-19 outbreak or an earthquake. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan declined to entertain the petition, saying it was a policy decision and the petitioner ought to have first made a representation to the central government. The court directed the Centre to treat the plea, by law student Arjun Narang, as a representation and to consider the suggestions given by him in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case. The bench asked the Centre to take a decision on the representation as early as possible and practicable and disposed of the plea filed through advocate Shantanu Singh. The petition had contended that Delhi-NCR has been battling with executive problem on account of numerous discrepancies between the guidelines issued by the NCR governments -- of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh -- in relation to the response mechanisms to the outbreak. The plea had said the discrepancies were mostly in relation to inter-state travel, patient admissions and treatment, testing, dealing with containment zones and dealing with Covid positive persons. "In order to bring about uniformity in the Covid-response, it is imperative that the respondents (Centre and governments of Delhi, UP, Haryana and Rajasthan) designate the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) or any authority, consisting of executive members from all the concerned states and union territory, as the single nodal agency, to carry out disaster management tasks in the NCR region in a uniform manner," the petition had said. The plea had also sought implementation of the Regional Plan 2021, "specifically the measures in relation to medical infrastructure and disaster management". Besides that, it had also sought directions to the Centre, state governments and district level authorities of NCR "to work in tandem and provide a single set of parameters, directions or guidelines under a common Covid-19 response plan for the entire national capital region".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-centre-to-create-one-nodal-agency-for-disaster-management-in-ncr-859475.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Man threatens to ‘blow up’ Rajasthan chief minister, arrested||A man was arrested on Friday for allegedly threatening to blow up Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot with a bomb, police said. The accused, identified as Lokesh Kumar Meena, was nabbed soon after he made the threatening call to the police control room, they said. "Special teams were formed to nab the accused. His location was traced in Papad village of Jamwa Ramgarh area. Local police was alerted to take action," DCP (Jaipur South) Manoj Kumar said. He said the mobile phone from which the accused called the police saying he will blow up the chief minister has been seized. The man was brought to Vidhyakpuri police station and is being interrogated, a police officer said. The accused is preparing for competitive exams and the reason behind making such a call is being probed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-threatens-to-blow-up-rajasthan-chief-minister-arrested-859496.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 curbs: Noida DM to officials||All senior government officials in Gautam Buddh Nagar have been directed to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown-like curbs which will come into effect from 10 pm on Friday and continue till Monday evening, officials said. District Magistrate Suhas L Y wrote to officials of the administration, including deputy collectors, road transport, labour department and nagar panchayat among others, and asked them to ensure compliance of the orders across Noida and Greater Noida. The Noida Authority also said its office would remain closed during the period, impacting work of land allotment. "Screening of applicants for industrial land allotment was scheduled for July 11 which has now been deferred to July 16,” it said in a statement. The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday night announced imposing lockdown-like curbs in the state from 10 pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday, except for essential and some other services. "The curbs have been imposed in the state to check the spread of Covid-19 and other communicable diseases,” Chief Secretary R K Tiwari had said in an order communicated to all district authorities in the state. The decision was taken after reviewing the Covid-19 situation and to effectively check its spread, the chief secretary said in the order, adding all offices and markets will remain closed during this period, although medical and health services and essential services will continue as before. All the offices, markets in urban and rural areas, ‘galla mandis' (grain markets) and other business establishments will remain closed, the order said, adding there will be no restriction on movement of those working in essential services, corona warriors, sanitation and the door-step delivery staff. The movement of railways would continue and the Uttar Pradesh Road Transport Corporation would make arrangements to operate buses to carry passengers arriving at the railway stations, it said. International and domestic air services would also continue as before and there would be no curbs on movement of people from airports to their destination, the order said, adding that goods carrier vehicles would also not be restricted||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-strict-enforcement-of-covid-19-curbs-noida-dm-to-officials-859508.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Ladakh row figures in Rajnath Singh's telephonic talks with US Defence Secretary||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh spoke to his United States counterpart Mark T Esper over phone on Friday, even as India and China started pulling back front-line troops from the scenes of the face-offs along the disputed boundary between the two nations. Singh and Esper discussed China’s military aggression, which was on display not only along its disputed boundary with India, but also in South China Sea, East China Sea, Taiwan Strait and elsewhere in Indo-Pacific. They also discussed India-US bilateral defence cooperation as well cooperation with Japan, Australia and other nations, sources in New Delhi said. They had last spoken over phone on May 29 and discussed the stand-off between Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) which had started along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh a few weeks before. India had several back-to-back engagements with the US during its eight-week-long military stand-off with China. The US Navy sent aircraft carriers USS Ronald Reagan and the USS Nimitz to sail into the South China Sea, sending out a message in response to aggression by China. “I've spoken with Foreign (External Affairs) Minister (S) Jaishankar a number of times about this (Chinese aggressive actions). The Chinese took incredibly aggressive actions. The Indians have done their best to respond to that,” the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in Washington on Wednesday. The Defence Minister and his US counterpart spoke to each other on a day the Prime Ministers of Japan and Australia, Shinzo Abe and Scott Morrison, agreed to expand the military cooperation among the “quad” nations to counter China’s expansionist moves in Indo-Pacific. Though the ‘Quad’ first came into existence in 2007, it soon fizzled out. But it had a low-profile re-launch in November 2017, with senior diplomats of the four nations participating in consultations and calling for “free and open Indo-Pacific” to oppose expansionist moves by China. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers in September 2019, with Pompeo and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar joining their counterparts from Australia and Japan in a four-nation meet in New York. India of late quietly added a military heft to the Quad by inking an agreement on Mutual Logistics Support Arrangement (MLSA) with Australia. The agreement is intended to open up the military bases of India and Australia for each other’s army, navy and air forces. India is also likely to sign a similar agreement with Japan soon. It had already signed the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) with the US in August 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-row-figures-in-rajnath-singhs-telephonic-talks-with-us-defence-secretary-859512.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||CSC Gramin Naukri Kendras helps BRO to get workers||A batch of 75 skilled and semi-skilled workers from the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir, have been placed by the Common Services Centers with the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) under the Ministry of Defence. The workers were sourced through CSC Gramin Naukri Kendras and registered on CSC Gramin Naukri Portal and will be engaged in road construction activities under the BRO in Leh and Ladakh. The Common Service Centre (CSC) is a special purpose vehicle under the Ministry of Electronics and IT to impliment door step delivery of the government services. The BRO is a premier Government agency under Ministry of Defence for creation of road infrastructure in border areas of the country. The BRO approached CSC with the requirement of workers for construction of road infrastructure in the UT of Leh & Ladakh. The workers were sourced from the Jammu region through the CSC Naukri Kendras and registered on CSC Gramin Naukri Portal. Apart from the current batch from Jammu, another group of candidates from Punjab is being prepared for employment in Leh. Launched in early May 2020, the CSC Gramin Naukri Portal was initiated during the second lockdown to assist rural youth to find employment as drivers, cooks, domestic helps, salon workers, delivery staff, hospitality and food joint workers, office peons, etc. Currently, 3,90,000 job seekers have been registered on the portal. " CSC Gramin Naukri Portal strives to provide employment opportunities for rural youth by partnering with public and private enterprises, ” Commenting on the rural employment initiative of CSC, Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  Dinesh Tyagi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/csc-gramin-naukri-kendras-helps-bro-to-get-workers-859516.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Dubey Encounter: Car overturned when driver tried to avoid cattle, says STF||The Uttar Pradesh STF on Friday said the official vehicle in which gangster Vikas Dubey was being brought to Kanpur overturned when a herd of cattle suddenly came in front of it. According to a statement released by the STF, Dubey was being brought to Kanpur from Ujjain for appearance in a local court when the vehicle in which he was coming overturned in front of Kanhaiyalal Hospital on the national highway after a herd of cattle suddenly came in front of it. The vehicle overturned when the driver, who was tired, tried to avoid the cattle on the road, the STF said, adding that five policemen were seriously injured. Dubey, who was sitting with them, tried to take advantage of the situation and snatched the pistol of injured Inspector Ramakant Pachauri and ran on the "kaccha" road. Deputy SP of the STF Tej Bahadur Singh who was coming in the other vehicle along with policemen ran after him, the statement said. "Vikas opened fire indiscriminately at the police which had reached very close to nab him. In self defence, police opened fire in which Vikas Dubey got injured," the STF claimed. He was given first aid and rushed to a government hospital, where doctors declared him dead, it said. Head constable Shivendra Singh Sengar and constable Vimal Yadav of the STF were injured in the firing by Dubey, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dubey-encounter-car-overturned-when-driver-tried-to-avoid-cattle-says-stf-859536.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Noida: 87 new Covid-19 cases push tally to 3,260, active 1,008||Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday recorded 87 new Covid-19 cases which pushed its infection tally to 3,260, the highest in any district in the state so far, official data showed. The number of active cases rose to 1,008, while 85 more patients got discharged after recovery, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period. A total 2,221 Covid-19 patients have recovered, while 31 deaths have been recorded in the district so far, the data showed. The recovery rate rose to 68.12 per cent from 67.21 per cent on Thursday, 66.81 per cent on Wednesday and 60.81 per cent on Tuesday, according to the official statistics. As per the latest death toll of 31, the mortality rate in the district improved slightly to 0.95 per cent from 0.97 per cent on Thursday, it added. Gautam Buddh Nagar currently has the second highest number of active cases (1,008) of Covid-19 after adjoining Ghaziabad district (1,341) in the state, the data showed. They are followed by Lucknow (972), Kanpur Nagar (497), Meerut (442), Varanasi (321), Jhansi (317), Aligarh (298), Bareilly (289), Bulandshahr (265), Barabanki (228), Moradabad (222), Ballia (213), Allahabad (199), Mathura (193), Hapur (178), Gorakhpur (176), Agra (163) and Baghpat (153), it stated. Since Thursday, 1,347 new Covid-19 cases were reported across districts in the state, while 660 patients got discharged from hospitals and 27 deaths were recorded, as per the data. As of Friday, there were 11,024 active Covid-19 cases in UP, while 21,787 patients have been discharged from hospitals and 889 deaths have been recorded so far, it added. There are 2,76,682 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, while 4,95,515 patients have been discharged so far. A total of 21,604 deaths have taken place, according to central government data updated till Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-87-new-covid-19-cases-push-tally-to-3260-active-1008-859552.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Crowds gather around Vikas Dubey's encounter spot, some take selfies||Curious crowds hovered around the spot where Vikas Dubey was shot dead for most of the day on Friday, even when all there was left to see were bluish smudges on a dirt road. The smudges were bloodstains that had changed colour, perhaps due to the rain and the forensic examination. For part of the day, an overturned SUV could be seen on the highway to Kanpur. It was later towed away. Police claimed that gangster Vikas Dubey, who was being brought back here after his arrest in Ujjain, got out of the car after it had overturned on the slippery road, taking along an injured policeman’s pistol. Dubey, accused of killing eight policemen last week, then fled down a dirt road that joined the highway. He was gunned down when he refused to surrender and opened fire at policemen who had surrounded him, according to the police version. The smudges marked that spot. Flooded agricultural fields and bushes run along the dirt track. As curious onlookers from nearby villages headed there, the place became a selfie spot with people clicking pictures on their phones. On the nearby highway, people peeped out of passing vehicles. As traffic choked the road, constable Anil Kumar Yadav asked people not to gather there. Rahul Singh, who works in a flour mill on the side of the highway, said he did not hear anything at the time of the encounter. "We didn’t hear any gunshots as we were working inside the factory, where there is already plenty of noise,” he told PTI. “My shift starts at around 7:00 am, and since 6:00 am it was raining very heavily. We came to know about the incident rather late when one of our seniors said that someone has been shot on the other side of the road." His co-worker Arun Kumar said they couldn’t see anything across the highway because of the rain. Vikas Yadav was accused of masterminding an ambush at his Bikru village near Kanpur on the night of June 2. Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were killed, triggering a manhunt for him. Madhya Pradesh police arrested him in Ujjain. He was being brought back to Kanpur by UP police, who claim they shot him when he tried to escape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crowds-gather-around-vikas-dubeys-encounter-spot-some-take-selfies-859563.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Mumbai resident who threatened to blow up CM moves HC for bail||The Allahabad high court on Friday sought the Uttar Pradesh government’s stand on the ail plea of a Mumbai resident, arrested for allegedly threatening to “blow up” Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. A Lucknow bench of the high court sought the government’s stand on Mumbai resident Kamran Amin Khan, who had allegedly issued the threat in a WhatsApp message to the UP police helpline number 112. The bench of Justice Alok Mathur asked the Uttar Pradesh police to respond to Khan’s plea by July 15, the next date of hearing. According to the prosecution, Khan had sent the WhatsApp message on May 21 this year on the mobile phone used for social media desk of the 112 Headquarters. Gomati Nagar Station House Officer Dheeraj Kumar subsequently lodged an FIR May 22 on the basis of the threat message. The FIR was lodged under sections 505(1) (b) (for making statements aimed at causing alarm in public), 505 (2) (making statements creating class hatred), 506 (making criminal intimidation), 507 (making intimidation by an anonymous communication) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 (F) of the Information Technology Act Act. Khan was subsequently arrested by an Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force team on May 26 from Mumbai. During the preliminary hearing of the bail plea on Friday, Additional Government Advocate Rao Narendra Singh vehemently opposed it, asserting that the accused is a “menace to the society and system” and he must be kept in jail. Khan’s counsel Vivek Chandra, however, leaded that his client had committed the offence in frustration. He also argued that no case, as alleged by the police, was made out against Khan. “All the offences are bailable in nature except the one under section 505(1) (b) of the IPC but this offence is not made out of the prosecution’s allegations,” he argued, pleading for the bail to Khan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mumbai-resident-who-threatened-to-blow-up-cm-moves-hc-for-bail-859572.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||A timeline of UP's Vikas Dubey case: From the murder of cops to his encounter||Vikas Dubey was a relatively unknown figure outside of Kanpur and neighbouring areas, where he had something of a reputation for being above the law. He had 62 criminal cases against him and was charged with shooting Santosh Shukla, a state BJP minister inside a police station in 2001. He served a four year sentence for the same.  It was the murder of Shukla that propelled Dubey’s name to the political frontlines, so to speak. He was accused of playing a role in the murder of Dinesh Dubey, a cable operator over a financial dispute.  July 2 - July 3 (midnight) -  A large team of police officers went to Bikaru village, Kanpur to arrest Dubey. In a resulting shootout, eight officers died in the attempt with reports suggesting that Dubey had his henchmen open gunfire on the officers.  July 3 -  Prem Prakash Pandey, Dubey’s uncle and Atul Dubey, a cousin, are shot down in what is believed to be an encounter. Meanwhile, Dubey is nowhere to be found.  July 4 - His accountant, Jai Vajpayi, is arrested by the police. In what could be described as deliberately orchestrated irony, Dubey’s house is razed down using the very same earthmovers that were used in blocking the police vehicles. Dubey’s father, who lived in the same house, was taken to Lucknow. Meanwhile Chaubepur SO Vinay Tiwari was suspended. He is believed to have tipped-off Dubey regarding the raid, in which eight officers were killed.  July 5 - “Kallu” aka Dayashankar Agnihotri, who is believed to be a close aide to Dubey, shot in the leg and subsequently arrested. He confesses to being aware of Dubey being tipped-off about the raid by an insider from the police station.  July 6 - A letter by officer Devendra Mishra, who was killed in the shootout on the night of July 3, resurfaced. It was addressed to S.P Anant Dev in March and it detailed the extent of Dubey’s nexus. The letter has been verified by UP police.  July 7 - In light of the news regarding officer Mishra’s letter, SP Anant Dev was transferred. On the same day, Dubey is allegedly spotted in Faridabad, Haryana.  July 8 - In operations across Kanpur and Faridabad, several of Dubey’s aides are arrested including six men and two women who were his relatives. Meanwhile, Amar Dubey, his bodyguard, who was allegedly part of the group that was involved in a shootout with the police on 3rd July, was shot down. SHO Vijay Tiwari was arrested on the charges of leaking information to Dubey and forewarning him about the raid.  July 9 - Vikas Dubey is arrested in Ujjain. He reportedly drove from Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, to Faridabad, Haryana, to Kota, Rajasthan, and finally went to the Mahakal temple in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh. According to reports, Dubey dramatically announced his presence at the temple, saying, “main Vikas Dubey, Kanpur-wala” (I am Vikas Dubey, the one from Kanpur). Within hours, his wife, son, and domestic help, were arrested for being part of the conspiracy.  July 10 - Vikas Dubey is killed in an encounter. The police allege that a horde of cows and buffaloes blocked the road, resulting in the vehicle to turn over. Sensing an opportunity, Dubey tried to escape, when he was shot down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-timeline-of-ups-vikas-dubey-case-from-the-murder-of-cops-to-his-encounter-859596.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Centre shunts AIIMS trauma centre official in journalist suicide case||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday ordered immediate replacement of the Medical Superintendent of AIIMS Trauma Centre where a young journalist jumped to his death last week. The action came after a four-member inquiry committee, constituted to examine the suicide, submitted its report on Friday. On July 6th, a Covid-19 positive journalist Tarun Sisodiya had jumped from the fourth floor and died. "The committee did not find any malafide intent in the death of Mr Sisodiya. It also did not find any lapses in the treatment protocol of Covid-19 ," the minister said. The health minister also directed that an expert committee be constituted to suggest suitable changes in administration, for AIIMS as well as Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Center. Vardhan said the expert committee will submit its report, along with its recommendations, by July 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-shunts-aiims-trauma-centre-official-in-journalist-suicide-case-859605.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Around 60 cops at Vikas Dubey's demolished house; locals unwilling to speak||There was an eerie silence outside the demolished house of gangster Vikas Dubey where around 60 policemen are keeping a hawk-eyed vigil after the news spread that he was killed in an encounter on Friday. The policemen, most of whom are deployed on daily shifts, were sitting on wooden beds under a Neem tree, watching a steady stream of media persons arriving with a variety of questions. But the scribes are welcomed with silence as the policemen and locals are unwilling to speak. A broken baseball bat, damaged tractors, and some two-wheelers and an SUV are seen as one enters the house using a ramp -- signs of what it was before the Kanpur administration demolished it on Saturday. Some statuette of Lord Shiva, Parashurama, goddess Durga and Radha-Krishna are kept on unused electrical equipment under a Neem tree. The walls of the house lay demolished, and the barbed wire used for fencing are on the ground with damaged parts of vehicles all around. Among the debris lies a new mattress in a room that has a ceiling fan mounted. The house is around 18 km from Chaubeypur police station, where a new station officer has taken over, after all the policemen posted there were shunted out after the Vikas Dubey gang ambushed and killed eight cops who went to arrest him. The new SHO, however, politely refused to speak. Locating Dubey's house was not very difficult as everybody in neighbouring villages knows by now where the dreaded criminal lived in the area. They were willing to tell the direction. But, the scene at Dubey’s village Bikru was quite opposite: people remained indoors and refused to speak about him and the killing of eight cops he was alleged to have masterminded. Somalu (50), when asked about the incident, said that he is from a neighbouring village, and is a labourer and does not know much. When asked whether he has got any help from Vikas Dubey, he said, "No." He refused to speak further. Dogs barking at strangers and the cry of peacock break the cycle of silence and uneasy calm the village has witnessed over the past few days. Dubey was accused of masterminding an ambush at his Bikru village near Kanpur on the night of July 2. Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were killed, triggering a manhunt for him. Madhya Pradesh police arrested him in Ujjain. He was being brought back to Kanpur by UP police, who claim they shot him when he tried to escape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/around-60-cops-at-vikas-dubeys-demolished-house-locals-unwilling-to-speak-859612.html
10-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 effect: Rajasthan govt planning to cut short school syllabus for this year||Taking a cue from the CBSE, the Rajasthan government is planning to cut short the syllabus for the current academic session on the basis of number of working days of schools. The state government has directed the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) and the Rajasthan State Council of Educational Research and Training (RSCERT) to form a committee and review the syllabus. "Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the number of working days of schools has reduced so the Directorate of Secondary Education, Bikaner has directed the Board of Secondary Education Ajmer and RSCERT, Udaipur in this regard to take a decision to cut the syllabus in education and students' interest. Soon, a final decision will be taken," School Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasara said. He said the Directorate of School Education releases a working days calendar every year but it is yet to be released for this academic session. Instructions have been given to the Rajasthan board for reviewing the syllabus of classes 9 to 12 and the RSCERT to review the syllabus for classes 1 to 8. They will form a committee and review the course, he said. According to the School Education Department, the number of working days from July 2019 to March 2020 was 207, including 27 workdays in July. If the schools remain closed after July, then workdays will further reduce. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has rationalised the syllabus for classes 9 to 12 for the academic year 2020-21 by up to 30 per cent to make up for academic loss caused due to COVID-19. "Looking at the extraordinary situation prevailing in the country and the world, CBSE was advised to revise the curriculum and reduce course load for the students of classes 9 to 12," Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ''Nishank'' had tweeted on July 7. "Considering the importance of learning achievement, it has been decided to rationalize syllabus up to 30 per cent by retaining the core concepts," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-effect-rajasthan-govt-planning-to-cut-short-school-syllabus-for-this-year-859638.html
10-07-2020||Opinion||Holding Covid-19-safe elections can’t be sole Election Commission priority||There are enough indications, both from the Election Commission (EC) and key political actors, that the Bihar Assembly elections will happen in a few months’ time, as scheduled.  Cognisant of the risks of Covid-19 spread during electioneering and voting, the EC is said to be considering the following: (a) restrictions on gathering size during campaigns;(b) a postal voting option for those above sixty-five years in age and those infected with or suspected of Covid-19; and,(c) protocols for safe polling station environments, via a now familiar package of practices for public spaces including mandatory masks, screened entry, visual and other social distancing measures, and periodic sterilisation. The number of polling stations is also likely to increase. All this is broadly in line with what election management bodies in other countries have tried in recent elections and could well be the base template for future Indian elections held under the pandemic’s shadow.  Each of the above proposals makes sense from a public health perspective. However it would be appropriate to reflect on their implications for the quality and fairness of the electoral process and the additional aspects or factors they must prompt the EC to reflect on. Assessing possible drawbacks  Gathering size restrictions and the higher reliance on media and digital outreach they will prompt could accentuate some of the worrying trends that have emerged lately in India (and elsewhere). Communities will have fewer first-hand opportunities to weigh candidates. Candidates and local issues could end up occupying still lesser space in campaign-time conversations, strengthening centralisation tendencies and further stunting local leaderships.  Temptations and incentives for fake and inflammatory messaging could be higher. Political parties with savvy campaign managers and the levers to influence media coverage and celebrity voices would enjoy an advantage, while less well-resourced parties and/or ones that are out of power will struggle. Worryingly, incumbent governments could misuse existing penal provisions for social distancing violations to derail the opposition campaign. Postal voting has been around for a while but is a restricted option and could have challenges when tested on scale. Form filling will be difficult for less literate voters, risking high invalidation rates for votes they cast. More fundamentally, first time postal voters may not feel assured about their vote’s anonymity and could find themselves pressured into making choices they wouldn’t at polling booths. A voter would be more comfortable ignoring inducements or intimidations once inside the polling booth, less so when asked to commit to paper which are perceived traceable. Participation in elections will depend on whether voters consider safety protocols envisaged for polling stations to be robust and expect them to be rigorously implemented. Low confidence in the authorities and their protocols will lead to low turnout, especially in high caseload areas and among vulnerable groups such as the elderly and individuals with co-morbidities. This, in turn, can lead to questions around whether the elections were soundly timed and whether the electoral outcome is adequately representative of the demographic spectrum and popular sentiment. Plus, in India, where there is no dearth of tactical creativity during elections, one can even imagine mischievous candidates creating polling day panic to dissuade voters from rival strongholds. And offering inducements on their own for loyal voters to show up.  Notably, Bihar’s Opposition parties have already raised some of these issues with the EC. Most have pointed to how virtual campaigns could exclude sections of society with constrained digital connectivity and give incumbent parties undue advantage. A Congress representation has spoken of how the postal ballot option could impact the secrecy of the vote and make voters vulnerable to political and administrative influence, and the collective opposition view is that the option is being introduced without sufficient consultation.  A political party cannot technically be faulted for its potent outreach machinery, personality-driven campaign, or the issues it chooses to highlight. However, if the integrity of the electoral process is to be maintained and the verdict is to enjoy legitimacy, it will be necessary to plug added spaces for inducement, intimidation, fakery, and incitement that seem likely with the pandemic-time rules on the anvil. Onus on EC to address concerns  The EC then must respond to the prevailing circumstances with not only safety rules but also measures to address the concerns such rules spark. Arrangements for increased vigil against, and swifter action on, complaints of fakery, incitement, and unfair targeting of political workers for distancing violations are a clear area for attention. Systematic communication on safety protocols proposed at polling stations will be necessary to draw voters to the booths.  Perhaps most importantly, the postal voting option needs review. Separate polling spaces for those above 65 – either special polling stations or an exclusive section in each polling station – could be considered.  Should this not be feasible for some reason, postal voting rules will have to have strong safeguards protecting the anonymity of individual votes and shielding voters from unwarranted influences. Is there a case for postponing elections till normalcy returns? Not beyond a point. There is no predicting when things will stabilise, and it will neither be democratically desirable nor constitutionally permissible to postpone elections in wait for that. So, the political class and the electorate must prepare to abide by the new rules of the game. And it is up to the EC to frame rules that ensure a level playing field and a fair, meaningful contest.  (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/holding-covid-19-safe-elections-can-t-be-sole-election-commission-priority-859303.html
10-07-2020||Panorama||Nature, wildlife and pandemics||While the world continues to grapple with the devastating consequences of Covid-19, WWF is calling for urgent global action to address the key drivers which will cause future zoonotic disease outbreaks. In its latest report: Covid-19: Urgent Call to Protect People and Nature, WWF states that people have increasingly encroached upon the natural world, resulting in escalating levels of contact between humans, livestock and wildlife. As a result, the frequency and number of new zoonotic diseases has risen drastically over the last century. The increased emergence of zoonotic diseases is linked to two widespread anthropogenic causes: Unsustainable food systems, large-scale conversion of land for agriculture and increasing interactions between wildlife, livestock and humans. Trade and consumption of high-risk wildlife species and increasing human exposure to animal pathogens. If the above causes are not adequately understood and addressed, the risk of a new zoonotic disease emerging in the future is higher than ever, with the potential to wreak even greater havoc on health, economies and global security. Between December 2019 and May 2020, over 3,70,000 people died from Covid-19 related causes in more than 200 countries, which is just under three times the number of people killed by armed conflict and terrorism every year. The economic impact has been estimated at between US$2.4 and US$8.8 trillion in lost output. Almost half of the world’s workforce is at risk of losing their livelihoods, with the social and economic effects disproportionately affecting already marginalized groups, including women and indigenous communities. According to the WWF, a four-point Plan of Action is urgently needed. It calls upon four sets of stakeholders, namely the government, the corporate sector, civil society organizations and the public to take a series of measures to address the situation: All Governments should take the following steps-- halt the high-risk wildlife trade and increase enforcement to combat illicit wildlife trade; introduce and enforce legislation and policy actions to eliminate deforestation and conversion; provide adequate finance for the implementation of an ambitious post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework; commit to a new deal for nature and people, that puts nature on the path of recovery for the benefit of the planet and its inhabitants, with three goals: (1) protect and restore natural habitats; (2) safeguard the diversity of life; and (3) halve the footprint of production and consumption. The corporate sector should do the following: Deliver credible action to decrease the environmental footprint of food supply chains, including promoting sustainable production, ensuring supplier traceability to points of origin, and encouraging consumers to make sustainable dietary choices; support policies and legislation that ensure all production and consumption of agricultural commodities are free from deforestation and conversion of natural ecosystems. CSO should support vulnerable communities directly affecteCord by the crisis and its environmental drivers, ensuring that they are adequately represented in recovery efforts; work together with governments and industries to develop sustainable solutions that reduce illegal and high-risk wildlife exploitation and transform our food systems. Finally, the public should engage with their government representatives to ensure that they commit to a new deal for nature and people, take action to protect natural ecosystems; pressurize industries to decrease their negative impacts on society and the environment; and shift their dietary and consumption habits to make more sustainable choices. The Covid-19 crisis demonstrates that systemic changes must be made to address the environmental drivers of pandemics. Now is the time for transformative action to protect natural ecosystems in order to reduce the risk of future pandemics and move towards Nature- positive, carbon-neutral, sustainable and just societies. (The writer taught Political Science at Bangalore University. He is currently Professor at the Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University, Gadag)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nature-wildlife-and-pandemics-859199.html
10-07-2020||Panorama||Is Ayushman Bharat truly a pro-poor health scheme?||The Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) recently achieved a milestone of one crore beneficiaries since its launch in September 2018. The scheme provides an annual health cover of Rs 5 lakh per family for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation, covering 1,400 procedures spread over 23 specialties. The eligible beneficiaries include over 10.74 crore households, accounting for around 50 crore persons, all from the bottom 40% of the economic scale of the population. Recently when PM Modi mentioned the Ayushman Bharat scheme in his Mann Ki Baat radio programme on May 31, he said that he wanted to resolve the distress of millions of impoverished citizens who, for decades, “have been living their lives engulfed by the constant concern of what will happen if they fall ill: seek medical treatment, or worry about earning bread for the family?” Good intentions apart, even after being covered by this mammoth micro-insurance scheme, the underprivileged find themselves confronted with the choice between seeking medical treatment or working to earn wages. PMJAY has thus far overlooked the health insurance benefit that could remove this: compensation for lost wages during hospitalisation. In fact, in evaluating the success of this scheme, what matters, even more than the beneficiaries count, is understanding how well the scheme removes the need to choose between seeking care and seeking livelihood. This dilemma can be resolved when the scheme indemnifies the poor for the direct and indirect costs of hospitalisation. The scheme has spent around Rs 13,412 crore on health treatments; 50% of beneficiaries are women; 80% are from rural pockets; 70% availed surgical interventions. Although the poor have some kind of social security now, an assessment of the true worth of this scheme must be made. Ayushman Bharat fails to recognise and compensate the indirect costs associated with hospitalisation, and these are not negligible for the poor. These include expenses on travelling to the hospital and back. Additionally, staying in a hospital or at home, after hospitalisation, implies a loss of wages. Often, attending caregivers from the family also have to forgo wages for several days. It is therefore indisputable that even insured beneficiaries would incur high indirect costs during hospitalisation which could exceed their ability to pay. They may be obliged to avoid or delay treatment as they cannot afford to lose their wages. For the same reason, those availing hospitalisation may join work before complete recovery. Evidence on such practices confirms that delaying treatment when hospitalisation is necessary has grave health consequences. Also, returning to work prematurely can hamper complete recovery. Thus, it is necessary to enlarge the benefits to include loss of wages during hospitalisation. This is already the prevailing practice of specific comparable schemes. Such plans provide a “hospital cash” benefit or “wage loss” benefit, which is a fixed amount for transportation and wage loss for each day of hospitalisation. Micro-insurance guru David Dror (who worked for over a decade in Indian villages) has explained that micro-insurance can succeed when it is needs-based and demand-driven, providing coverage for risks that the target community prioritises. He promotes the idea of involving community representatives in designing the benefits package. In his recent book “Health Microinsurance: Implementing Universal Health Coverage in the Informal Sector,” Dror explains that wage loss benefit can be payable after a waiting period, which is defined by a minimum number of days’ stay in the hospital. Moreover, the benefit can be capped by a maximum amount per day, and a maximum number of days.  The Self-Employed Women’s Organisation (SEWA), which operates an insurance cooperative called VimoSEWA, has devised precisely such a benefit. SEWA members enjoy the PMJAY scheme for hospitalisation cover, plus a hospital cash benefit to compensate indirect costs and wage loss during hospitalisation. The members’ family is also covered, for more comprehensive protection of the household’s livelihood. Women’s World Banking offers its members a hospital cash product called ‘Caregiver’, which provides a fixed amount to the beneficiary for each night of hospitalisation, irrespective of the actual expenses incurred. This top-up coverage can be used with any other social security scheme that members may enroll in. Drawing from the experience of these micro-insurers, we can infer that PMJAY would appeal to the disadvantaged only when it adds a hospital cash benefit. Such enhancement of the coverage could make the scheme truly pro-poor, and more effective in protecting the nation’s underprivileged. And, considering that this added benefit would be conditional on prior hospitalisation, there is no risk of moral hazard or unwarranted claims. The government also needs to address some implementation issues of the scheme. For one, there is a pressing need to improve its outreach, as millions of deserving citizens remain excluded because of the enrolment criteria, or they are not well-informed about this insurance, and sometimes due to limited administrative infrastructure. Another drawback of PMJAY is the limited network of empanelled hospitals for treatment. Moreover, some private hospitals insist on an upfront payment, which they promise to reimburse only after the government pays for the treatment. This defeats the cashless feature of PMJAY. If PMJAY can overcome these shortcomings, and also incorporate a hospital cash component, it could genuinely claim to be the world’s largest and most successful national health protection scheme. While the nation braves the ongoing coronavirus pandemic with limited resources, the poor may have availed free testing and treatment, however, the wages lost due to hospitalisation remain uncompensated. At this juncture, the country needs a holistic health insurance package which can help the underprivileged tide over their health risks without compromising their financial assets. (The writer is an independent researcher and writer based in New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/is-ayushman-bharat-truly-a-pro-poor-health-scheme-859200.html
10-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Enterprise in a pandemic||Right in the middle of the lockdown I was out of some vegetables one morning and was desperately trying to load my cart on Amazon-Fresh. But sadly I was unable to get a slot for the day and I became quite desperate when I heard someone shouting, “tharkari, vegetables,” outside my house. Running to the parlour to get a peek, I was pleasantly surprised to see a mini-truck going past slowly.  Realizing that it was loaded with vegetables, I scrambled to the door to stop the vehicle.  The driver stepped out, just as excited as I was and began showing me his produce, neatly piled in cartons --fresh vegetables straight from the market. I bought to my heart’s content and thanked him profusely. I also complimented him on his neat vehicle and the orderly arrangement of the vegetables. He seemed pleased at my observation and went on to explain that he was a caterer by profession and had been supplying food for parties for the past many years.  But with the lockdown, his business had gone bust and he was left with no income.  Then this idea struck him, to convert the truck that he had used for transporting cooked food to the venues of parties into a mobile shop. Realising that fresh vegetables were the most needed commodity of the day, he decided he would buy vegetables from the wholesale market and ferry them around to the doorstep of consumers. Thus he had embarked on an altogether new career, with no previous experience or anyone else’s assistance.   Impressed with his story, I voiced my appreciation at his enterprising nature and promised to buy my daily vegetable needs from him.  He nodded in acknowledgement and assured me that he would stop by whenever I needed replenishments. Thankful for the fresh supply of vegetables I got by surprise I walked in, humbled and inspired by the whole experience.    I realized how Covid-19 and the lockdown that has followed, has left many professionals and workers in the lurch. With no work and no earnings, the current times are indeed a testing time for scores of people. Yet, many are rising to the challenge, and with a dash of enterprise, are trying alternative professions to get them going during the pandemic. It impressed upon me that it is in the darkest of times that the human spirit shines the brightest. As Ishmael Beah put it, “We all find joy and radiance and a reason to move on even in the most dire of circumstances. Even in chaos and madness, there's still a beauty that comes from just the vibrancy of another human spirit.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/enterprise-in-a-pandemic-859198.html
10-07-2020||Second Edit||Nepal needs Delhi’s attention||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has plunged his country into multiple crises. The ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) is on the verge of a split. There are serious differences between the NCP’s co-chairpersons, Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal, a former prime minister. While the two are engaged in a power tussle, Oli’s policies and style of functioning are to blame for the rift. A majority of the NCP’s Standing Committee members and Central Secretariat members want Oli to step down as prime minister and party co-chairperson. As prime minister, Oli has failed Nepal on multiple fronts. Under his leadership, corruption has soared and the economic situation has deteriorated. His inept handling of the Covid-19 crisis has deepened public anger. Massive protests have roiled Nepal in recent months. And despite mounting calls for his exit, he continues to cling to power. Instead of addressing the issues, he has sought to deflect attention away from his own failures to blame others – his rivals in the NCP, opposition leaders, and India. His government recently issued a political map that included territory India has controlled for many decades. This and his anti-India rhetoric have plunged bilateral relations to historic lows. As is his wont, Oli is busy externalising the blame for the troubles he has unleashed on his party and country. So determined is Oli to cling to power that he has prorogued parliament to avert a no-confidence motion against his government. Meetings between him and Dahal have failed to yield any result. He is reported to be in favour of declaring a health emergency in Nepal. In the guise of fighting the pandemic, Oli plans to assume extraordinary powers to keep his opponents in check. Oli’s politics of brinksmanship is responsible for the mess that Nepal is in today. The Chinese embassy in Kathmandu, which facilitated the formation of the NCP two years ago, is working overtime to mediate between its rival factions. Any solution it comes up with will benefit China alone and perhaps the politician it props up in Kathmandu, not the people of Nepal or their democracy. Nepal must wake up to the fact that their country’s excessive embrace of China in recent years comes at a heavy price. China’s control over Nepal’s economy, foreign relations and politics has grown enormously. According to reports, the Chinese have taken control of several villages along the Sino-Nepal border. Developments in Nepal have serious implications for India’s national security. New Delhi will have to handle the situation in Nepal with a lot more sensitivity and subtlety than it has hitherto displayed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/nepal-needs-delhi-s-attention-859192.html
10-07-2020||South||Don't spread false propaganda on government hospitals in Telangana, Owaisi to critics||Giving a thumbs up to the treatment being given to Covid-19 patients in Telangana government hospitals, AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi has appealed to the public not to fall prey to "false propaganda" by people with political motives. He said though there is a right to criticise and seek redress, the "exaggerated" picture was preventing poor people from seeking timely treatment in the government medical facilities. "It's unfortunate that hysterical and untruthful stories against Covid-19 Govt Hospitals in Telangana are creating an exaggerated picture in the minds of many and preventing them from seeking timely treatment. It's also very unfair to the excellent frontline staff of these hospitals. My appeal to the poor is to not fall for this propaganda. We can't dismiss the services of frontline staff," Owaisi said on Thursday night in a Facebook post. The AIMIM leader said government hospitals are providing free Covid-19 treatment and many patients have recovered. The Hyderabad MP said a pregnant woman from Makta in the city, who tested positive for Covid-19 and was also getting convulsions, was admitted to a special gynaecology ward in the state-run Gandhi hospital for treatment. She is now the mother of a baby. "One may have political goals behind this (false) propaganda, but it is costing poor people, their trust in staff of government hospitals. They can't afford private hospitals for treatment. If you do find areas for improvement, please report them fairly. There's no need to feed into mass hysteria, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-spread-false-propaganda-on-government-hospitals-in-telangana-owaisi-to-critics-859290.html
10-07-2020||South||80-yr-old woman dies of coronavirus in Puducherry; 72 new cases takes tally to 1,272||An 80-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 in the Union Territory and 72 cases were reported, taking the toll to 17 and the infection tally to 1,272 on Friday, health minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. T he woman died at the government general hospital in Karaikal, he told reporters here. Among the new cases, 67 were reported from Puducherry and five from Karaikal (an enclave of the union territory in Tamil Nadu) in the last 24 hours, ended at 10 AM, he said. A total of 970 samples were tested, the highest so far, of which 72 tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 1,272. Active cases stood at 618, while 637 patients were treated and discharged, he said. A total of 23,515 samples have been tested so far, of which 21,982 samples were negative. The results of the other samples were awaited. The minister said the government was strengthening the infrastructure at the hospitals to meet any exigency. "We will expedite process of procuring the equipment, including ventilators for the hospitals before July 20", he said. Rao said he would meet Chief Minister V Narayanasamy and suggest implementing total lockdown on Sundays to contain the spread of the virus and appealed to people to adhere to safety norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/80-yr-old-woman-dies-of-coronavirus-in-puducherry-72-new-cases-takes-tally-to-1272-859368.html
10-07-2020||South||T-Hub partners with MeitY, Digital India for helping hardware startups||T-Hub, an initiative by the Telangana government for startups, on Friday said it has joined hands with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and Digital India for helping hardware and IoT startups across the country. T-Hub will lead Digital India's Scale Up program for hardware and Internet of Things (IoT) startups across India, a statement said. The aim is to help provide scale up opportunities to the startups and make them ready in terms of product, investment and new market access, it added. About 10-15 startups with leading-edge solutions in mobility, energy, agriculture, aerospace, manufacturing, consumer, healthtech, medtech, smart cities and logistics and supply chain sectors will be shortlisted. The call for application for the program will commence in July 2020, and startups will be shortlisted after an extensive screening process, it added. "India has already developed a reputation for its expertise in the software technology space. We are beginning to see startups emerging in the hardware space that are solving important problems. "Schemes such as FAME II and Manufacturing-Hub plans by the Indian government has already laid a strong foundation," Ravi Narayan, CEO of T-Hub and chief innovation officer of the state of Telangana, said. He added to further fuel the growth of hardware and IoT startups in India, T-Hub has partnered with MeitY to take the ecosystem to the next level so that innovative startups can scale-up strategically. "T-Hub brings its matured acceleration programme with access to customers, investors and specialised mentors," he said. The batch of startups will go through regular interventions through bootcamps and dedicated mentoring organised by T-Hub. During the program, startups will get exposure to design/enhance their hardware, the statement said. In addition, they will receive mentorship in areas such as pricing, go-to-market strategies and fund raising, amongst others. As part of the program, the shortlisted startups will also receive equity-free grants, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/t-hub-partners-with-meity-digital-india-for-helping-hardware-startups-859371.html
10-07-2020||South||HC stays demolition of Telangana secretariat till July 13||The Telangana High Court has halted the Chandrashekar Rao government from further demolishing the secretariat buildings, till Monday. The state had earlier this week begun the demolition of the buildings in the secretariat complex in the heart of Hyderabad, in order to construct a grand edifice as envisaged by Rao, with an estimated cost of Rs 400-500 crore. The HC had, on 29 June, dismissed a set of petitions challenging the TRS government’s plans for a new secretariat, following which the demolition commenced. “But based on our prayer today, the court has asked the various departments concerned like urban development, pollution control board along with the state’s chief secretary to respond with a proper plan, in accordance with various rules related to such demolition and construction, and posted the matter to Monday,”  Chikkudu Prabhakar, counsel for petitioners told DH. Dr Cheruku Sudhakar and Prof Vishweswara Rao are the petitioners who have challenged the KCR government’s new secretariat plans in the court.  Chikkudu Prabhakar said that they have also questioned the state government’s “arbitrary move” of demolition during the pandemic time in contravention of the laws, rules related to the epidemic diseases and disaster management. Wirth police deployment and traffic diversions, the government has razed some of the structures already. Opposition BJP and Congress have demanded Rao drop his plans, while accusing him of displaying monarch-like behavior. Meanwhile, CM Rao on Friday expressed regret over the damage caused to the temple and mosque in the Secretariat premises due to the demolition works. “While demolishing the multistoried old buildings, the adjacent temple and mosque were damaged due to debris. It should not have happened. The government’s intention is to build a new complex without causing any damage to the temple or the mosque,” Rao said. According to a CMO statement, Rao said that a new, spacious temple and mosque would be built at government cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-stays-demolition-of-telangana-secretariat-till-july-13-859386.html
10-07-2020||South||Spurt in children ending life during coronavirus lockdown in Kerala||Close on the heels of reports of spurt in online child pornography material during the lockdown, Kerala is witnessing another disturbing trend of increasing number of children ending their life. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that since March 25, as many as 66 children died by suicide in Kerala, which is a comparatively higher number. Domestic issues, compulsion by parents, discord among parents and alcoholism of father were found to be the common reasons. The online counselling facilities of the government was also being flooded with calls seeking psychological support to children. Nearly 9,500 children were given counselling so far this year. Dr. R Jayaprakash, chief child psychologist at the SAT hospital attached to the Government medical college in Thiruvananthapuram, told DH that owing to the lockdown, many parents were not able to take children for counselling. He said that closure of schools was one key reason that causes stress and anxiety among children, especially in the teenage group, as children were not able to talk freely with their friends. Moreover, many parents were also stressed up owing to the uncertainties over the future due to the Covid-19 situation. Hence they were also not able to spend quality time with children. Hence children may feel isolated. Meanwhile, the Kerala government is launching a project 'Chiri' (smile) aimed at addressing this issue. Schoolchildren who are part of the student police cadet scheme would interact with children. A committee headed by Director General of Fire and Rescue Services R Sreelekha was also constituted to study into the matter. The state police had recently found a spurt in online child pornography during lockdown and held 47 persons in a state wide operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/spurt-in-children-ending-life-during-coronavirus-lockdown-in-kerala-859406.html
10-07-2020||South||Covid-19 tally crosses 25,000 mark in Andhra Pradesh; Toll mounts to 292||Andhra Pradesh reported a single-day high of 1,608 coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the overall tally past 25,000 to 25,422. The death count also witnessed a new single-day high of 15, making it an overall 292 so far while 981 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, according to the latest government bulletin. According to government statistics, 11,15,635 samples were tested till date, resulting in 25,422 positive cases, with a positivity rate of 2.28 per cent. In all 13,194 patients had recovered and been discharged from hospitals, leaving 11,936 active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tally-crosses-25000-mark-in-andhra-pradesh-toll-mounts-to-292-859409.html
10-07-2020||South||AIADMK MLAs protest Puducherry govt's handling of Covid-19 situation||Opposition AIADMK MLAs staged a sit in protest on Friday outside the Puducherry Assembly here against the alleged failure of the Congress government in extending relief to families hit by Covid-19 in the Union Territory. The legislators came in a procession holding placards containing slogans condemning the failure of the government in tackling the pandemic situation. Senior AIADMK leader Anbalagan who led the agitation said the government should emulate the relief measures implemented by neighbouring Tamil Nadu government. He also demanded that the Narayanasamy government here provide a relief of Rs 5000 to each of the families as livelihood sources were hit by the current pandemic situation. Claiming that constituencies like Uppalam, Mudaliarpet, Muthialpet and a few others were reeling under the impact of virus, he said, "Instead of taking steps to contain the spread of the infection the government and Lt Governor were locking horns and were functioning in isolation much to the suffering of the people."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-mlas-protest-puducherry-govts-handling-of-covid-19-situation-859422.html
10-07-2020||South||Boy was on boat that took fire from Italian marines, claims family; seeks Rs 100 crore compensation||In a fresh twist in the Enrica Lexie Italian vessel fairing incident that claimed the lives of fishermen off Kerala coast in 2012, the family of a minor approached the centre seeking Rs. 100 crore compensation claiming that the minor boy was present in the fishing boat at the time of the firing and he later ended life owing to the trauma over the incident. The family of Prajin, who hailed from Kanyakumari district, have sought the compensation, along with eight other crew members in the boat at the time of the incident. The compensations sought by the others also ranged from Rs. 80 crore to Rs. 100 crore each, said advocate Yash Thomas Mannully who sent the notices for them to Cabinet secretary. An international tribunal recently ordered that Italian Navy personnel Massimilano Latorre and Salvatore Girone who fired at the fishermen could not be prosecuted or punished in India, but Italy will have to pay compensation to India for the killings. Prajin's family maintained that Prajin, who was 14 at the time of the incident, was working as a trainee crew in the fishing boat St Anthony owned by Kanyakumari native Fredy John Bosco. Prajin suffered mental trauma on witnessing the fishermen being killed. Before the boat was brought back to the coast, the other crew members shifted him to another fishing boat in the mid-sea as the boat owner feared of implications of engaging a minor boy for work in the boat. Prajin did not come out of the trauma for years and he ended life last year, the family claimed. A senior police officer in Kerala, who was part of the investigation into the incident, said that he did not come across such an incident then. Advocate Mannully said that even as the other crew members said that they had mentioned about Prajin's presence in the boat to the investigators, it was not included in the statements produced before court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/boy-was-on-boat-that-took-fire-from-italian-marines-claims-family-seeks-rs-100-crore-compensation-859440.html
10-07-2020||South||Sasikala family will have no place in AIADMK, govt: Tamil Nadu BJP Minister||AIADMK senior and Tamil Nadu fisheries Minister D Jayakumar on Friday said Sasikala, a close aide of late J Jayalalithaa, or her family will have no place in the party or in the government. As Tamil Nadu's political landscape hots up over a tweet by a BJP leader over the release of V K Sasikala from the prison, Jayakumar asserted, "Sasikala or her family will have no place in AIADMK or in the government. The party's stand is consistent." Sasikala, who surrendered before the prison authorities on February 15, 2017, a day after she was convicted in a disproportionate assets case, is currently serving four-year jail term in Bengaluru. On June 25, Aseervatham Achary, Coordinator of the BJP's Documentation and Library Department, tweeted that Sasikala is likely to be released in August. "Mrs. Sasikala Natarajan is likely to be released from Parapana Agrahara Central Jail, Bangalore on 14th August 2020. Wait for further update," he tweeted. Now breaking: Mrs. Sasikala Natarajan is likely to be released from Parapana Agrahara Central Jail, Bangalore on 14th August, 2020. Wait for further update. Thereafter those close to Sasikala started claiming her release was imminent and this triggered a political speculation. While trying to maintain that the ruling AIADMK was not rattled by her possible release from the prison in Karnataka, Jayakumar when asked to spell out his party's stand, reiterated that there was no room for Sasikala family's domination in the party. "The party's view is based on the decision already taken (on the issue). Our stand is consistent yesterday, today and tomorrow, it will hold good.. Sasikala or her family have no place in the AIADMK or the government. There's no change ( on this stance)." When reporters sought his comments on handlooms Minister O S Manian claiming earlier in the day that only the AIADMK leadership will decide on whether Sasikala will lead the party after her release from the prison, Jayakumar said that it might be Manian's personal view. "I don't wish to say anything further.." he said. When reporters in Nagapattinam posed a question on who will lead the party post Sasikala's release, Manian said, "I am only a district secretary.... The party leadership will decide on whether Sasikala will lead the party after her release." Nearly nine months after Sasikala was unanimously appointed interim general secretary of the AIADMK following then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa's death, she was removed from the post on September 12, 2017, by the AIADMK's general council. And in June 13, 2019, the AIADMK resolved to continue with dual leadership under it's coordinator and deputy chief minister O Pannerrselvam and co-coordinator and chief minister K Palaniswami.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-family-will-have-no-place-in-aiadmk-govt-tamil-nadu-bjp-minister-859452.html
10-07-2020||South||NIA invokes UAPA against Kerala gold smuggling accused||The National Investigation Agency on Friday registered a case in the Kerala gold smuggling case by invoking various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Four persons arraigned in the FIR submitted at the NIA court in Kochi included two former employees of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Former PRO of the consulate Sarith PS is the first accused, former executive secretary Swapna Suresh second, Kochi-based trader Fazil Fareed third and Sandeep Nair, who runs an automobile carbon care centre in Thirvananthapuram, the fourth. Apart from Sarith, all the three others were absconding. The NIA said in a statement that the initial enquiries had revealed that the proceeds of smuggled gold could be used for financing of terrorism in India. Smuggling of large quantity of gold into India posed threat to the economic stability and national security of the country. Hence it amounted to a terrorist act as stated in section 15 of UAPA. Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the UAPA were invoked against the accused. The Centre on Thursday order NIA probe into the case which pertained to bid to smuggle 30 kilogram gold, worth Rs.14.82 crore, by concealing in a cargo labelled as diplomatic cargo. The NIA would be probing into earlier instances of gold smuggling by the racket also. Meanwhile, the Customs-Preventive unit stated before the Kerala High Court that the involvement of higher government officials in the case could not be ruled out at this stage. The Customs also maintained that the seized consignment with 30 kilogram gold concealed in it was sought to be important at diplomatic cargo without the knowledge of consular charge d'Afairs of the UAE Consulate. Swapna Suresh was considered as a key member of the racket, said the statement opposing anticipatory bail plea of Swapna. The Customs officials were continuing with the investigation. It was revealed that Sarith collected similar consignments from the Thiruvananthapuram airport on eight occasions over the last one year. More persons, including an influential cargo clearing agent who allegedly tried to pressurise the customs authorities to release the consignment from which gold was seized, were being quizzed by the customs officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-invokes-uapa-against-kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-859470.html
10-07-2020||South||Central team to assess Covid-19 situation in Tamil Nadu meets Chief Minister K Palaniswami||A team, deputed by the Central government to assess the Covid-19 situation in Tamil Nadu, met Chief Minister K Palaniswami here on Friday and discussed the strategy to contain the spread of the virus. State Health Minister Dr C Vijaya Bhaskar and health secretary J Radhakrishnan briefed the team on the strategies adopted to contain the pandemic and the steps taken to ramp up the testing for Covid-19. Chief Secretary K Shanmugham and senior officials too participated in the meeting. Measures of treatment taken to improve the recovery rate were also explained at the meeting. With this, the five-member team, led by Union Health Ministry's additional secretary Aarti Ahuja, wrapped up the three-day visit. The team had appreciated the state government's measures to combat the coronavirus and also the untiring efforts of the frontline health workers in treating the infected, official sources have said. The visit had come at a time when Chennai saw a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases, though the number of containment zones increased from 158 on July 3 to 276 on July 10. According to Greater Chennai Corporation, Teynampet zone has the most number of containment zones at 134 as on July 10 followed by Tondiarpet with 50 and Anna Nagar with 38. As on July 9, the city reported a total of 73,728 positive cases. About 52,287 have recovered while active cases remain at 20,271 cases and 1,169 have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-team-to-assess-covid-19-situation-in-tamil-nadu-meets-chief-minister-k-palaniswami-859486.html
10-07-2020||South||Covid-19 lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram extended for one more week||Triggering serious concerns of community spread of Covid-19 in Kerala, 204 of the 416 fresh cases reported in the state on Friday were due to local spread. In Thiruvananthapuram district alone 105 of the 129 fresh cases were due to local spread, forcing the government to extend the ongoing week-long triple lockdown in the city for one more week. It will be a lockdown in the city and triple lockdown in all containment zones, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Meanwhile, the coastal area of Poonthura in the city witnessed people staging protest alleging lack of basic facilities and improper treatment. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan alleged of a political ploy of the opposition parties in triggering protest by the people in the coastal area. Some local leaders of opposition were spreading misleading messages regarding steps like antigen tests. The Chief Minister said that the increasing number of cluster formations and super spread could be considered as initial stages of community spread and hence the state was on a high alert. The rate of infection through local spread, which was remaining around 10 percent till couple of weeks back, has now crossed 20 percent. The fresh Covid-19 cases in the state also included 35 ITBP personnel, two BSF personnel and one CISF personnel. As the situation was becoming grim, private hospitals would be also utilised for Covid-19 treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-lockdown-in-thiruvananthapuram-extended-for-one-more-week-859497.html
10-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 3,680 new Covid-19 cases,64 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Friday recorded 3,680 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of those affected by the contagion in the state to 1,30,261, the health department said on Friday. With 64 fatalities reported, the death toll has gone up to 1,829, a health department bulletin said. There was a significant jump in recoveries reported today which surpassed the number of those infected as 4,163 people got discharged from various health care facilities. With this, the cumulative figure of those who recovered has gone up to 82,324. The number of active cases as of today was at 46,105, the bulletin said. A total of 37,309 samples were tested on Friday alone at the 101 testing facilities operating in the state, taking tally to 15,29,092 specimens till date. Chennai continued to witness a downward trend in the number of fresh infections with 1,205 new cases reported, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-3680-new-covid-19-cases64-deaths-859525.html
10-07-2020||South||Woman dressed as goddess distributes masks in Tamil Nadu||The initiative was recorded and uploaded as a succinct video, with the aim of reaching out to more people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-dressed-as-goddess-distributes-masks-in-tamil-nadu-859528.html
10-07-2020||South||JCBs still being used in Andhra Pradesh to dispose of Covid-19 victims' bodies despite CM Jagan's warning||Despite a directive from Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy stating that Palasa-like incident should not be repeated, earth movers continue to be used in Andhra Pradesh for the disposal of Covid-19 victims' bodies. After appalling videos of JCBs being used in Srikakulam and Chittoor districts became public, a third instance of the heavy machine used to transport Covid-19 victims' bodies surfaced from Nellore on Friday. The video shows personnel in PPE suits moving three bodies out of an ambulance and tossing them in the front bucket of the machine, to be dumped in pits dug at the Penna riverbed. The Covid-19 victims' bodies were allegedly taken near the bridge on the outskirts of Nellore city, during midnight. Passersby who noticed the ambulance, shot the activity on their phones. TDP Chief Chandrababu Naidu took to Twitter, posting the video and criticizing the YSRCP government.   Following the furor, Nellore collector Seshagiri Babu has ordered an enquiry by the revenue officials. “At a time for compassion, such indiscrete actions by some have caused pain. Such incidents should not repeat nowhere else. Those responsible should be punished,” CM Reddy had tweeted after the body of an aged Covid-19 positive person was taken for cremation in an earth mover in Palasa town of Srikakulam district on June 26.  Palasa municipal commissioner and local sanitary inspector were suspended “for acting in haste.”                 On July 6, however, an earth mover was used in Tirupati for the same purpose again. Municipal corporation officials claimed that the JCB was used with the consent of the family members as the dead man weighed about 180 kgs and the sanitary staff was exhausted moving the body to three places since that morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jcbs-still-being-used-in-andhra-pradesh-to-dispose-of-covid-19-victims-bodies-despite-cm-jagans-warning-859534.html
10-07-2020||South||Dog running with PPE kit in its mouth goes viral, draws flak||Photographs of a dog running with a PPE (personal protective equipment) in its mouth have gone viral in the social media drawing flak from the general public, particularly during Covid-19 times. The dog carrying the PPE near a Covid-19 care centre here has caused serious concern over the manner in which such equipment were being handled. However, it is not known whether the PPE in the dog's mouth was a new one that might have fallen off an ambulance or a used one disposed of indiscriminately, a health department official said. This is the second such instance of a PPE being found on a road here a few days ago. Many social activists have appealed to the health department to handle the PPE, including masks, carefully and take proper steps when being discarded, as it might lead to infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dog-running-with-ppe-kit-in-its-mouth-goes-viral-draws-flak-859581.html
10-07-2020||South||India's second plasma bank to be set up in Chennai: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday said expeditious action was being taken to set up a plasma bank, the second in the country after Delhi at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) here. Of the 20 Covid-19 patients, 18 have recovered through plasma treatment at the RGGGH and with the approval of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) one more patient was treated by using the same technique at the Madurai Rajaji Government Hospital and that person too has got cured, he said. "Expeditious action is being taken by the government to set up a plasma bank at the RGGGH," he said on his twitter handle. Being set up at an estimated cost of Rs two crore, the facility would be the second such one in the country after Delhi, he said. Health Minister C Vijayabaskar said a plasma therapy trial would soon be taken up at the Tirunelveli Medical College hospital. Also, patients would soon be treated using this method at government medical hospitals including the Stanley and Omandurar here and in facilities at Tiruchirappalli, Salem and Coimbatore. The plasma bank in the national capital is under the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi's Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. According to the government, 200 millilitres of plasma from recovered donors should be administered for two successive days to the recipient patients to help neutralise the pathogen, for a reduction in virus load and lower the need for oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-second-plasma-bank-to-be-set-up-in-chennai-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-859597.html
10-07-2020||State||Covid-19-hit KSRTC mulls one-year unpaid leave for staff||Karnataka’s state road transport corporations are exploring the option of allowing employees to go on a one-year unpaid leave to extricate them from long-running financial woes which have worsened under the Covid-19 pandemic. KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi C Kalasad has written to the heads of the three corporations — BMTC, NWKRTC, NEKRTC — seeking their views on the proposal. “As regular transport operations have not resumed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the corporation is facing economic distress,” Kalasad wrote to the managing directors of the three corporations. “Keeping the health of the employees and economic welfare of the corporation, it is proposed to sanction one-year leave without salary and benefits to employees who seek the same... It is requested to look into the proposal and provide your views.” Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the four corporations had been mired in financial distress for more than three years due to rising fuel cost and upward revision of salaries for their 1.23 lakh employees. “Together, they had posted losses of more than Rs 800 crore for the previous financial year. The cumulative losses of each corporation goes much higher. As Covid-19 has severely affected revenue generation, such measures are not a surprise,” sources in the government said. To a question on the proposal, Kalasad stressed that it was voluntary. “It is aimed at employees whose services are not utilised due to the limited operations. Even then, not everyone is allowed to go on leave. Each employee has to meet the criteria, including the proof that he/she is going to pursue education,” he said, adding that it was still at the consultation stage. The terms and conditions released to the media, however, did not speak about the requirement of proof of education. As per the conditions, during the one year leave, the employees will not be eligible for promotion or other benefits. In case one wants to rejoin work, he/she has to wait till a posting is offered and the waiting period will be considered as leave. The KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation reacted strongly, slamming the “inhuman and unconstitutional move”. “Though the provision says it is ‘voluntary’, the depot manager will bring pressure on employees to take leave,” president of the Federation H V Anantasubbarao said, adding that employees above 55 were already being forced to go on leave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-hit-ksrtc-mulls-one-year-unpaid-leave-for-staff-859191.html
10-07-2020||State||Mudigere MLA M P Kumaraswamy goes into self-quarantine||The MLA has informed in a social media platform that he will not take part in meetings and programmes for a few days. The MLA was in primary contact with the MLC and had attended a few meetings held at taluk panchayat in Mudigere recently.  In his Facebook post, he said: "As per the government guidelines, I have been asked to remain quarantined at home. I appeal all not to invite me for any programmes and meetings in the constituency for a few days. I will not meet any visitors in my house and my office..."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mudigere-mla-m-p-kumaraswamy-goes-into-self-quarantine-859316.html
10-07-2020||State||HC notice to centre, state on EV exemption||The Karnataka High Court on Friday ordered the issuance of notice to the central government, state government and an agency authorised to issue certificate of exemption to electric vehicles. A division bench of the High Court comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M Nagaprasanna ordered the issuance of notice on the PIL filed by Prasad K R Rao. The petition stated that Automotive Association of India, an agency affiliated to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, issues certificates to electric vehicles under rule 2 (u) of Central Vehicle Rules. The certification exempts such electric vehicles as motor vehicles under Motor Vehicles Act and thus exempting them from the registration process. The petitioner submitted that among other criteria, rule 2 (u) of the Central Vehicle Rules stipulates that the maximum speed of an electric vehicle should be less than 25 km per hour. When actually driven, these electric vehicles travel in three different speed modes, first at 25 km, then at 35 km and in third mode up to the speedof 45 km. The petitioner contended that this was in violation of the rules and evasion of registration charges imposed by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-notice-to-centre-state-on-ev-exemption-859568.html
10-07-2020||State||RTCs prepare list of employees below 50 years||Following a government order to all departments to prepare a list of employees aged below 50 years, the state transport corporations have begun the process to identify such personnel in Group A, B, and C category. The KSRTC and NWKRTC have already begun the process and are likely to submit the data.. The other two corporations were also expected to compile the list during the same time. The government is obtaining information from all departments to distribute its manpower for effective management ofCovid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rtcs-prepare-list-of-employees-below-50-years-859569.html
10-07-2020||State||HC seeks report on time need to declare Covid test result||The high court on Friday asked the government a report on the standard time needed to declare the swab test result for Covid-19. “Time lag is crucial in such cases,’’ observed a division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar while hearing a batch of petitions on the issues surrounding Covid-19. During the hearing, the Chief Justice gave an example of tests conducted on 14 people, including judicial officers at National Games Village Complex in Koramangala. The swab samples were collected on July 4, while the test results were still awaited, the Chief Justice said. “The test results have not come. Fourteen people on one floor are now in quarantine,’’ Chief Justice Oka said. The government and the BBMP should clarify whether an individual could get the test done at a private laboratory on his own. Whether a person tested positive could also visit a private hospital and get admitted without requiring the intervention of the district health officer, the bench said. The court also asked the Palike to clarify on the standard time taken by the civic agency’s staff to reach out to a person who testedpositive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-seeks-report-on-time-need-to-declare-covid-test-result-859571.html
10-07-2020||State||Covid-19: Patil moves human rights panel||Highlighting instances of negligence in dealing with patients of Covid-19, senior Congress leader H K Patil has written to the State Human Rights Commission to take suo motu cognizance of such cases and initiate action against those involved. Referring to the ‘inhumane’ manner in which those who died of Covid-19 were treated in Ballari, Raichur, Davangere and other districts, Patil urged the Commission to probe such incidents and ensure relief. “The Commission appears to have distanced itself from its responsibilities,” Patil said in a letter to its chairman. “Are not respectful burial of the deceased, ensuring ambulance facility during emergencies and necessary treatment at hospitals, basic human rights,” he questioned. He accused the government of being silent in the wake of disrespectful handling of victims and denial of treatment to patients at somehospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-patil-moves-human-rights-panel-859573.html
10-07-2020||State||India tackling crisis well: DVS||Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said that India fared better in tackling the Covid-19 crisis compared to other countries in the world, here Friday. The whole world has acknowledged the manner in which the nation battled the pandemic under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said. He was speaking at a joint media briefing of MPs from Bengaluru - P C Mohan and Tejasvi Surya being the other two.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/india-tackling-crisis-well-dvs-859574.html
10-07-2020||State||HC tells RBI to ensure banks implement EMI moratorium rule||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to monitor the implementation of moratorium scheme on the repayment of loans.  Directing two banks to reverse the EMI already deducted in the case of a company, Justice Suraj Govindaraj held that RBI cannot leave it to the discretion of the banks whether or not to accept the request by the customers on the moratorium scheme. The company had challenged the refusal of the banks to extend the scheme. The petitioner Velankani Information Systems Limited had availed of term loan from three different banks totalling up to Rs 475 crore. The petitioner owns an Information Technology Park and a 5-star Hotel and there was no default in the repayment. As a measure to ease financial stress caused due to Covid-19 situation, the RBI on March 23, 2020 had permitted banks to grant a moratorium of three months on payment of all term loan installments falling due between March 1, 2020 and May 31, 2020. In May, the scheme was extended by another three months. The petitioner company had filed an application with the banks seeking the benefits of the scheme. However, the banks refused to offer the scheme. During the hearing, the RBI submitted that it was left to the lending agencies the manner in which they want to extend the scheme. It further contended that though RBI has issued a policy, it was for the banks to implement it. The banks contended that the scheme was not applicable to a structured loan, one which was offered to the petitioner. The bench held the view that it was indeed the responsibility of the RBI to monitor the scheme. “It is the obligation and duty of the RBI to regulate the financial institutions, its business as also the credit system of the country, by exercising the powers vested with it,’’ the bench ordered. Further, the court clarified that it was left to the customer to choose the moratorium scheme. “Once such a choice is made and an application was submitted, the rest of the process is automatic…Once the banks have in the public domain on their respective websites expressed their solidarity with all their customers and stated that all the customers are eligible for grant of a moratorium, in accordance with RBI guidelines, it is not permissible for such banks to nitpick and later on, refuse the grant of amoratorium.’’||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-tells-rbi-to-ensure-banks-implement-emi-moratorium-rule-859575.html
10-07-2020||State||Online classes: Govt to consult IAS officers who served in dept||The government has decided to consult senior bureaucrats who had served the education department in the past while taking a decision on the expert committee report on online teaching. The report submitted by the committee consisting of 14 experts is yet to be considered by the department. Several child rights activists, organisations working for child rights and even parents’ association have raised objections to the recommendations in thereport. Following the objections, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that the government will consult IAS officers who have worked with the department in the past and discuss the report withthem. Answering to queries during a phone-in programme on a TV channel, Kumar said, “The government has not accepted the report yet. We have received the report and will discuss the same with IAS officers who were with the department earlier.” This list of IAS officers include senior officers like the present chief secretary T M Vijayabhaskar, V P Baligar, G Kumar Naik and some retired officers who served as secretaries and commissioners. Kumar promised to consult teachers’ associations before taking a decision on the report. Happy with the expert committee report, the private school managements have requested the primary education department to constitute a regulatory authority to monitor the implementation of the same. “Whatever the committee recommended is perfect and in the interest of students. Now, the challenge before the government is to implement the same and monitor it. Unless there is a regulatory mechanism in place, the recommendations of the report will go in vain,” said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools inKarnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/online-classes-govt-to-consult-ias-officers-who-served-in-dept-859576.html
10-07-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka Common Entrance Test to be held as per the schedule||Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwathnarayan explained that there are no changes in the schedule of the CET. "It will be held as announced and communicated to the students already," he said. Students had taken to various social media platforms to exert pressure on the government to defer holding CET citing that MHRD has already deferred NEET and JEE for the ensuing academic year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-common-entrance-test-to-be-held-as-per-the-schedule-859587.html
10-07-2020||State||Corona warriors new patient clusters in B’luru||Corona warriors, working on the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, seem to be the new patient clusters in the city with more than 30 police personnel and 16 staffers at the 360-bedded KC General Hospital, Malleswaram being infected.  Among the 30-odd police personnel, four were  working at the City Crime Records Bureau (CCRB) at the police commissioner’s office on Bhagwan Mahaveer Jain Road, forcing city police chief Bhaskar Rao to seal his office for the next five days till July 14. In the case of KC General Hospital, what is surprising is that only two staffers are working in Covid wards. The other 14 are those working in the non-Covid wards. While the hospital has 100 Covid beds and 260 non-Covid beds, the outpatient footfall of the hospital is around 800every day. With Victoria Hospital and Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital not seeing any non-Covid patients anymore, the burden is on government hospitals like KC General Hospital and Jayanagar General Hospital, says medical superintendent Dr B R Venkateshaiah. Severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) patients flood the hospital everyday as they have nowhere else to go. Private hospitals mostly refer SARI cases to government hospitals as they are awaiting Covid test reports.  Three doctors, 11 nursing officers, one blood bank technician, and one data entry operator have tested positive and only two of these nurses were working in Covid wards. “It is not during donning and doffing that our staffers are getting infected. The problem is with the hospital treating both Covid and non-Covid cases. The positivity rate among SARI and ILI cases is high. Up to 30% of such cases test positive. The health workers who are infected are doctors assisting in child birth, surgery, a person issuing OPD slips etc. We’re writing to the department that providing non-Covid services is putting our health workers at great risk,” Venkateshaiah said. The hospital says that even health workers in non-Covid areas wear PPEs but since non-Covid patients who might be potential carriers of the virus, roam about the hospital campus, it is putting the workers at risk.     Meanwhile, the police commissioner’s office premises was sanitised on Friday and only limited staff attached with in the police control room and dial 100 are working.   Besides the four from the police commissioner’s office, around 30 personnel from various police stations like Srirampuram, Kumarswamy Layout, Upparpet, Vyalikaval, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Kengeri, Peenya, Halasurgate, Hulimavu, North City Armed Reserve (CAR), Malleswaram, Viveknagar, DJ Halli, Rajajinagar, Ashok Nagar, KSRP, KG Halli, Konanakunte, Channamanakere Achukattu police stations have tested positive. All stations are sanitised and sealed down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/corona-warriors-new-patient-clusters-in-b-luru-859594.html
10-07-2020||State||MLA Prasad Abbayya gets Covid||Congress MLA from Hubballi-Dharwad East Assembly constituency Prasad Abbayya has tested positive for Covid-19 infection on Friday. According to sources close to the MLA, he got his throat swab tested on Thursday, as he had attended the KPCC president's installation ceremony in Bengaluru where another MLA there had turned positive. The report came positive on Friday. KIMS doctors confirmed that MLA Abbayya has been admitted at KIMS, and he has no major symptoms except for light throat pain. His family members and close contacts are home-quarantined, after collecting their throat swabs, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-prasad-abbayya-gets-covid-859595.html
10-07-2020||State||For this ICU staffer, saving people's life is precious||A resident of Nandini Layout, N Nagaraja Swamy, nursing in-charge of the Covid-ICU ward at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, believes that the pandemic cannot be won by fear and panic. The 40-year-old should be knowing better as he has seen the worst of his 17-year-long career in the last three months.    His normal eight-hour shifts are now stretching beyond 10 hours but Nagaraja is not complaining. He says these are critical times and being able to serve and save people’s lives has never been more satisfying.  “There have been Covid patients brought into the hospital in a critical condition with no chances of recovery. It is not just critical care and timely medication that save people’s lives, reassuring them and banishing their fears by instilling a positive spirit in the patients is the need of the hour,” says Nagaraja, who holds a post-graduate degree in nursing, with a specialisation in psychology.  Nagaraja clocks into work at 8.30 am and sometimes works till 7 pm, without a break. His work at the Covid-ICU ward involves taking care of the needs of 12 patients almost on a daily basis. His day begins with thoroughly cleaning and disinfecting the ICU ward. “My routine involves maintaining the patient’s hygiene at all times, checking vitals and making sure they have eaten their meal and medication is given on time,” he explains. Care is taken to make sure that the patients who are put on ventilators and those who have undergone intubation don’t lie in the same position for a long time. “They are unconscious and sometimes have secretions discharged through the mouth. That must be constantly cleaned. We also make sure we change their position to prevent bed sores,” he adds.  Everybody in the Covid-ICU ward has to compulsorily don the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and it hasn’t beeneasy for Nagaraja to adjust to it. “Inside the Covid ICU ward we are often exposed to aerosol particles which are highly infectious. So donning and doffing of the PPE becomes very important. It is tough to remain in the protective gear for over eight hours. It is sometimes suffocating and I am often drenched in sweat when I get out of it. Many among us have developed skin rashes and allergy,” explains Nagaraja, who says that the strain is worth it when he sees patients recover and reunite with their families.     How does Nagaraja handle the stress that comes with his long hours of job? He says, “I never skip my exercise and keep to a diet that is rich in protein, zinc and vitamin C. Exercise and yoga helps me maintain a body-mind balance,” he says. He also says constant support from his family gives him strength.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/for-this-icu-staffer-saving-peoples-life-is-precious-859598.html
10-07-2020||State||25 cops in Tumakuru dist test positive for Covid-19||The high rate of infection among the Covid warriors has sparked a grave concern among the frontline workers - medical fraternity, health workers and the police. Scores of health workers, policemen and a few doctors are among those who tested positive for novel coronavirus in the districts on Friday.Tumakuru district, which recorded its highest single-day tally of 95 infections of Friday, saw as many as 25 cops from various police stations in the district testing positive for Covid-19. Madhugiri DySP office, Kodigehalli and Kallembella police stations have been sealed. A 57-year-old staff nurse from Kallembella PHC also contracted the virus. In the virus-hit Ullal of Dakshina Kannada, a doctor working in a private nursing home and a hospital staff have tested positive for the virus. Yadgir dist adminbuilding sealed The Yadgir district administration building has been sealed after 35 staff tested positive for Covid-19. The district administration staff were subjected to Covid tests after two employees of DC’s office, upon their return from Bengaluru tested positive on July 3. An NEKRTC bus driver from Huvina Hadagali in Ballari, a school teacher from Sira, a revenue inspector from Shirahatti in Gadag district and a health worker from Kolar are among those who tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, a total of 10 undertrials lodged at the Central Jail in Kalaburagi have tested positive for Covid-19. They were kept in a separate building after they returned to the jail on expiry oftheir parole.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/25-cops-in-tumakuru-dist-test-positive-for-covid-19-859601.html
10-07-2020||State||No lockdown cash benefit for 40 lakh Jan Dhan accounts||Nearly 40 lakh Jan Dhan accounts in Karnataka, many held by women, are feared to have missed the Rs 500 cash benefit they were to receive under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package during the Covid-19 lockdown period.  Under the package, women Jan Dhan account holders were to get Rs 500 for three months starting April. However, during a recent State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) meeting, it was found that 39.66 lakh accounts might have been deprived of the benefit worth Rs 297 crore due to non-submission of or non-linkage with Aadhaar. The number of Jan Dhan accounts is 1.61 crore of which 1.22 crore are seeded with Aadhaar.  “Thus the anticipated benefit under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana lost by the women account holders of these 39.66 lakh persons in the state whose Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana accounts are not seeded with Aadhaar, which assuming that 50% of the accounts being of women, is Rs 297 crore,” the SLBC meeting proceedings stated.  “This is a huge loss to the poor people of the state either due to non-submission of Aadhaar data to the banks or non-seeding of the Aadhaar data in Jan Dhan accounts by banks,” it said.  When contacted, Canara Bank general manager B Chandra Sekhara Rao, the SLBC convenor, said that the money was credited to the accounts of women “irrespective of Aadhaar seeding or linkage.” According to the proceedings, it was decided that all banks should take steps to ensure that all the Jan Dhan accounts get seeded with Aadhaar and mapped “so that they become eligible under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana.” The Revenue department has been asked to support the banks in this exercise.   A similar anomaly was found with farmers who are covered under the PM-KISAN scheme. According to SLBC data, there are 64.40 lakh farmers receiving cash benefits under PM-KISAN whereas 47.74 lakh farmers have Kisan Credit Cards (KCC).  “It is a matter of concern that there are 7 districts (Ballari, Koppal, Mysuru, Tumakuru, Kolar, Chitradurga and Chikkaballapur) where the coverage is less than 50% and is as low as 32.78% in Chikkaballapur,” the SLBC said, adding that the coverage was over 100% in Kodagu, Davangere, Dakshina Kannada, Bagalkot, Bidar and Vijayapura districts. “The banks need to review the data of coverage,” it said and that ‘proper strategies’ need to be drawn to identify PM-KISAN farmers who have not availed KCC loans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-lockdown-cash-benefit-for-40-lakh-jan-dhan-accounts-859602.html
10-07-2020||State||K'taka told to seek fresh green nod for Mahadayi project||The Union Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) has asked the Karnataka government to submit a fresh proposal seeking forest clearance for the Mahadayi drinking water project. The Deputy Inspector General of Forests, MoEF, in his letter to the additional chief secretary to Water Resources department, Karnataka, has asked to submit a fresh proposal on the project in “Parivesh” portal of the Ministry for getting thegreen nod. Two decades back, Karnataka had submitted a detailed proposal to MoEF seeking its approval for the project. The same was returned to the state in 2003 owing to the dispute between Karnataka and upper riparian state Goa. The Karnataka government can now send a fresh proposal on the Mahadayi project, the Ministry stated in its communication to Karnataka.     Karnataka had, earlier, sought MoEF permission to divert 501 hectares of forest land for Mahadayi project - 258 hectares of forest land to build Kalasa nala dam near Kanakumbi village and 243 hectares of forest to build Bandura nala dam near Nerse village in Belagavi district. The Mahadayi project involved building dams across Kalasa and Banduri, two tributaries of the Mahadayi river in Belagavi district and divert water to the Malaprabha river. The project proposes to supply drinking water to Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and surrounding areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ktaka-told-to-seek-fresh-green-nod-for-mahadayi-project-859603.html
10-07-2020||State||Jewargi MLA Ajay Singh contracts Covid-19||Jewargi MLA Dr Ajay Singh is the new entrant in the growing list of lawmakers from the state contracting Covid-19. The Congress MLA on Friday took to Twitter saying: “I have tested positive. I am asymptomatic and will be in quarantine for two weeks. Would request the people who were my primary contacts to take precautions. Stay safe.” Congress MLA from Hubballi-Dharwad East Assembly constituency Prasad Abbayya tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. According to sources close to the MLA, he got his throat swab tested on Thursday, since he had attended the KPCC president’s installation ceremony in Bengaluru where another MLA there had turned positive.  The doctors at KIMS confirmed that MLA Abbayya has been admitted at the hospital, and he has no major symptoms except for light throatpain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jewargi-mla-ajay-singh-contracts-covid-19-859607.html
10-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to 'work from home' after employees test positive for coronavirus||Yediyurappa, 78, said he will work from his official residence Cauvery for a few days.  “I will hold video conferences to issue directives and provide suggestions,” he said in a statement. “I am healthy. There’s no need for anybody to feel worried,” he said, urging people to take precautions and follow government guidelines. “Maintain social distancing and wear a mask compulsorily to help control Covid-19.”  A few days ago, the chief minister's office cum residence, Krishna, was shut for sanitisation after a relative of a police constable posted there was infected by the virus. The total number of Covid-19 infections in the state on Thursday breached the 30,000-mark as it reported its biggest single-day spike of over 2,200 new cases and 17 related fatalities, taking the toll to 486, the Health department said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-work-from-home-after-employees-test-positive-for-coronavirus-859337.html
10-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Don’t politicise the Covid-19 situation: Suresh Angadi||Angadi told reporters on Friday that Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah should join hands with the government on the lines of his Maharashtra counterpart Devendra Fadnavis in fighting the pandemic.  "Measures taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fight the pandemic have been recognised at international level, but some leaders of opposition from the country were making statements against him" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/don-t-politicise-the-covid-19-situation-suresh-angadi-859446.html
10-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Biggest single-day spike of 2,313 Covid-19 cases in Karnataka; death toll crosses 500 mark||Karnataka on Friday reported the biggest single-day spike of 2,313 new Covid-19 cases and 57 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 33,418 and death toll to 543, the health department said. The day also saw a record 1,003 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 2,313 fresh cases reported, a whopping 1,447 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on July 9 with 2,228 cases. As of July 10 evening, cumulatively 33,418 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 543 deaths and 13,836 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 19,035 active cases, 18,563 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 472 are in ICU. "I have asked for a death audit, in two-three days once the death audit is done, we will get to know the exact reasons for the death and the ailments that they had," Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar told reporters here. He also said after three to four days there will be an increase in the number of patients getting discharged after recovery, especially in Bengaluru, while adding that the government was making all efforts to control the virus. District-wise break-up of the deceased; 29 from Bengaluru urban, Dakshina Kannada 8, Mysuru four, Bidar three, two each from Gadag, Kalaburagi, Dharwad, Chikkaballapur, and one each from Ballari, Chikkamagaluru, Uttara Kannada, Raichur and Haveri. The deceased include 43 men and 14 women. Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Districts where the new cases were reported: Bengaluru urban accounted for 1,447 cases, followed by Dakshina Kannada 139, Vijayapura 89, Ballari 66, Kalaburagi 58, Yadgir 51, Dharwad 50, Haveri 42, Udupi 34, Uttara Kannada 33, Kodagu 33, Mandya 31, Raichur 25, Ramanagara 23, Davangere 21, nineteen each from Bidar and Gadag. While Belagavi reported 15 cases, it was 12 in Chikkaballapura, Tumakuru 10, nine each in Kolar and Chamarajanagara, Koppal 7, six each from Shivamogga, Hassan and Bagalkote, and one each from Bengaluru rural and Chikkamagaluru. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with 15,329 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,959 and Dakshina Kannada 1,840. Among discharges Bengaluru urban tops the list with 3,435 discharges, followed by Kalabuagi 1,444 and Udupi 1,213. A total of 7,79,209 samples were tested so far, out of which 19,228 were tested on Friday alone. According to the bulletin, 7,28,887 samples have been reported as negative, and out of them 16,473 were reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/biggest-single-day-spike-of-2313-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-death-toll-crosses-500-mark-859550.html
10-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP to bring back anti-cow slaughter law in Karnataka||The state government will soon implement a ban on cow slaughter, sale and consumption of beef on the lines of many other Indian states, Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan said Friday. Prohibition of cow slaughter was a promise the BJP had made in its manifesto for the 2018 Assembly elections. Speaking to reporters here, the minister said the government would constitute an expert committee to look into its implementation once the Covid-19 crisis eases. If need be, the committee will visit states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh where the ban on cow slaughter and consumption of beef has been "effectively implemented," Chavan said, adding that the government was "committed" to enact the anti-cow slaughter law. With this, the state government will look to bring back the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2010. This Bill was introduced during BS Yediyurappa's earlier stint as the chief minister, seeking a blanket ban on slaughter of cattle and consumption of beef, while also prescribing penalty for violation of regulation. This, as opposed to the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964 (which is in force now), which permits slaughter of bulls, bullocks and buffaloes if they are above 12 years or if they are unfit for breeding/ did not give milk. While the 2010 Bill failed to get Presidential nod, the government changed hands and in 2013, the Congress government withdrew the Bill and retained the 1964 Act, amidst widespread agitation from BJP leaders.  Ever since the BJP came to power in the state, its leaders have been internally campaigning for an anti-cow slaughter law. According to Chavan, states such as Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, Chattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand among others had a ban on cow slaughter in place. Chavan also said that a Cow Protection Commission (Goseva Aayoga) will be made functional. It was set up in 2013, but the Congress government scrapped it. "The government wants to ensure cow protection, development of gaushalas and dairy products," Chavan said. Recently, the state government has also set up an animal welfare board based on Supreme Court's directions, Chavan informed. In addition, the government will constitute a war room to help those engaged in animal husbandry, with expert advise on breeding and healthcare for animals, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-to-bring-back-anti-cow-slaughter-law-in-karnataka-859554.html
10-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pavagada solar plant, not Rewa, is Asia’s largest, says DK Shivakumar while questioning Centre's claim||Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar on Friday questioned the Centre’s claim that the 750 MW solar plant in Rewa, Madhya Pradesh was Asia’s largest, saying that fame should come to Karnataka’s Pavagada solar plant.  “BJP Central Govt is claiming today that it inaugurated Asia's Largest Solar Plant of 750 MW at Rewa, Madhya Pradesh. What then is the 2000 MW Solar Plant in Pavagada, Karnataka which was built in just 3 years by Congress govt and has been operational since 2018?” Shivakumar said in a tweet.  BJP Central Govt is claiming today that it inaugurated Asia's Largest Solar Plant of 750 MW at Rewa, MP “Union Power Minister must answer as to how the Central Government can claim that the Rewa Solar Park (750 MW) opened today is Asia's largest when clearly the Pavagada Park in Karnataka is much larger (2000 MW) and was opened two years back!” he said.  As the then energy minister, Shivakumar anchored the Pavagada solar park project. The solar park, spread over nearly 13,000 acres, was inaugurated in March 2018. The land for the solar park has been leased for 28-30 years for which farmers get an annual lease rent of Rs 21,000 with a 5% increase every two years.  “The unique thing about the 2000 MW Pavagada Mega Solar Park was that not a single acre of land was acquired from the farmers. All 13,000 acres have been leased from the farmers who are being given yearly rent. Karnataka model of renewable energy was accepted as the best in India,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pavagada-solar-plant-not-rewa-is-asia-s-largest-says-dk-shivakumar-while-questioning-centres-claim-859579.html
10-07-2020||West||The Turbhe Pattern: A comprehensive contact tracing being undertaken by NMMC in Maharashtra||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) in Thane district has come out with comprehensive contact tracing that is being now described as Turbhe Pattern.  The success story of the Turbhe Pattern is being replicated elsewhere in the satellite township of Navi Mumbai.  Turbhe is located on the Thane-Belapur Road - and areas like Turbhe Stores, Pawne Gaon, Indira Nagar and parts of Sanpada were badly affected.  The Turbhe Stores came under the Red-zone and the NMMC's municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal took the decision for extensive contact tracing to break the chain.  "As soon as a Covid-19 patient is diagnosed, at least 28 close contacts were traced and their health condition was examined. And if needed they were quarantined," NMMC officials said,  adding that special officers took update and monitor the progress.   The contact tracing - depending on the history of the patient - has to be done within 72 hours. The Navi Mumbai civic administration is implementing the same pattern in the rest of the city. "It will help curb the growing prevalence of Covid-19 in the city," said Misal."The process of contact tracing will be completed within 72 hours, as, the sooner a person with symptoms is found and treatment is begun, the sooner the Coronavirus chain can be broken," officials said.    Meanwhile, prior to the announcement of a 10-day lockdown in the entire NMMC area on July 3, a seven-day lockdown had already been declared in 12 special containment zones from  29 June onwards, where a large number of cases were found. During this period, door-to-door mass screening campaigns were conducted in those 12 zones and more than one lakh citizens underwent testing and suspects were isolated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/the-turbhe-pattern-a-comprehensive-contact-tracing-being-undertaken-by-nmmc-in-maharashtra-859269.html
10-07-2020||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 cases top 2.3 lakh, toll nears 10,000||With nearly 2.30 lakh Covid-19 progressive cases and total deaths inching towards 10,000,  Maharashtra is the worst-affected state of India. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Maharashtra stands at 4.19 percent. The first two cases in Maharashtra were detected on March 9 in Pune and on July 9, a period of 120-odd days, the number of Covid-19 cases crossed 2.30 lakh.  India's financial capital Mumbai is worst-affected followed by Thane and Pune. In the state,  62 percent of the affected persons are male whereas the rest 38 percent are female. Among the deaths, 70 percent of the victims had comorbidities.  In Maharashtra, over 12.5 lakh samples have been tested so far. Here's a snapshot of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-top-23-lakh-toll-nears-10000-859326.html
10-07-2020||West||Students in Goa to get virtual internships amid Covid-19 pandemic||While educational institutions in Goa remain shut amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the state directorate of education has decided to involve students in a private internship initiative that will give them a chance to work from home. In a circular issued on Thursday, state director of education Vandana Rao asked schools to enrol students in Internshala, a private internship platform. Although the circular did not specify the age group of students, high schools and higher secondary schools will be involved in the programme, an official said. "There are over four million students and one lakh- plus companies that regularly use the platform. After successful completion of listed internship opportunities on Internshala portal, students can earn a small stipend and a certificate of merit," the circular states. The programme will be offered to students under the National Skill Development Corporation's (NSDC) "Samagra Shiksha" scheme. The initiative was envisaged to ensure continuity in learning with practical exposure, Rao said in the circular, adding that students will also get a glimpse of the corporate world from the comfort of their homes. The academic year in the state, which was supposed to start in June, has been delayed on account of the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/students-in-goa-to-get-virtual-internships-amid-covid-19-pandemic-859335.html
10-07-2020||West||Diamond trader kills self after testing Covid-19 positive in Gujarat||A day after testing positive for coronavirus, a diamond trader in Gujarat's Surat city allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a moving train on Friday, police said. Kumarpal Shah (63), a resident of Nanpura, was disturbed and stressed after his swab reports came out positive for the infection on Thursday, an official said. Shah left his home on Friday morning and rode his scooter to Udhana railway station, said Anwar Mansoori, assistant sub-inspector of Railway Police. "When his relatives reached the station looking for him, they saw his scooter in the parking lot and later found his body near the railway tracks at some distance," he said. Investigations revealed that Shah had jumped in front of a moving train and died on the spot, the official said. A suicide note was also recovered from the deceased's person, in which he has stated that he was disturbed and under a lot of stress ever since he found out that he had contracted Covid-19, Mansoori said. Shah is survived by his wife and a son, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/diamond-trader-kills-self-after-testing-covid-19-positive-in-gujarat-859375.html
10-07-2020||West||With record spike of 1,803 new cases, Pune's Covid-19 tally reaches 34,399||Pune district in Maharashtra reported its highest single-day spike of 1,803 new Covid-19 cases, which pushed its overall count to 34,399, a health official said on Friday. This single-day rise was reported on Thursday, he said. The death toll in the district reached 978 with 34 more people succumbing to the infection on Thursday, the official said. "Of the 1,803 cases, as many as 1,032 were reported from the areas located in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, where the number of patients has reached 24,977," he said. A total of 581 patients were discharged from hospitals post-recovery across the district during the day. With 573 new cases in Pimpri Chinchwad on Thursday, the Covid-19 count in the industrial township stood at 6,982. The number of coronavirus positive cases reported from the district's rural parts, areas in the Pune Cantonment Board as well as the civil hospital rose to 3,138, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-record-spike-of-1803-new-cases-punes-covid-19-tally-reaches-34399-859416.html
10-07-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra declares 10-day complete lockdown for Pune, neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad||In a bid to stem the spread of Covid-19, a 10-day lockdown will be imposed in Pune, neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad and a few other parts of the district starting July 13, a senior official said on Friday. The lockdown will come into force from midnight of July 13 and end on July 23, he said. The district reported a record spike of 1,803 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday that pushed the tally to 34,399, while the toll rose to 978. The decision to enforce the lockdown was taken in a meeting chaired by Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar here, the official said. "A lockdown will be imposed in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and some other areas of the district considering the rise in COVID-19 cases," divisional commissioner (Pune division) Deepak Mhaisekar said. The lockdown period between July 13 and July 18 will be stricter, wherein only milk shops, pharmacies and clinics will be allowed to operate, he said. Emergency services have been excluded from the lockdown, he added. Meanwhile, district collector Naval Kishore Ram said the decision was taken to break the chain of viral spread. A detailed order about the lockdown will be issued soon, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-declares-10-day-complete-lockdown-for-pune-neighbouring-pimpri-chinchwad-859436.html
10-07-2020||West||Over 1.6 lakh cases of lockdown violations registered in Maharashtra||Over 1.6 lakh offences have been registered and more than 29,000 people have been arrested for violating prohibitory orders during the Covid-19 lockdown in Maharashtra, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Friday. In a series of tweets, Deshmukh also said fines to the tune of over Rs 11 crore were collected from offenders during this period. As many as 1,61,821 offences have been registered under section 188 (disobeying an order issued by a public servant) of the IPC since the coronavirus-induced lockdown was enforced and 29,990 persons had been arrested in these cases, he said on Twitter. At least 89,459 vehicles had been seized for lockdown violations and 1,335 offences of illegal transport were registered, he said. There has been a steady rise in calls about Covid-19 on the police helpline number 100, the minister said, adding that over 1 lakh such calls have been received so far. A total of 305 attacks on policemen have taken place in the state since the lockdown, while 867 persons have been arrested in connection with them, he said. Nearly 6,85,834 people have been quarantined in the state and 801 were found violating the quarantine norms, he added. Moreover, 5,935 police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus in the state, of which 4,715 have recovered from the infection and 74 have succumbed to it, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-16-lakh-cases-of-lockdown-violations-registered-in-maharashtra-859441.html
10-07-2020||West||Covid-19: 'Total' lockdown extended till July 19 in Thane city||A lockdown with minimal exemptions that is in force in Thane city till July 12 has now been extended till July 19, a senior official said on Friday. The order was issued by Thane Municipal Corporation Additional Commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh. This "total" lockdown, as part of which most shops were closed and essential items ordered to be home delivered, was enforced on July 2 for a period of ten days. As on Thursday night, Thane city accounts for 12,053 of the district's 48,856 Covid-19 cases. The TMC limits account for 5.23 per cent of the cases and 4.80 per cent of deaths in Maharashtra||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-total-lockdown-extended-till-july-19-in-thane-city-859458.html
10-07-2020||West||Curfew in Maharashtra's Nanded city from July 12 to 20||A curfew will be imposed in Maharashtra's Nanded district from the next week to check the rise in coronavirus cases, authorities said on Friday. With 34 persons testing positive for the virus infection on Friday morning, the total number of cases in the district rose to 558. The curfew will start on the midnight of July 12 and continue till the midnight of July 20, said an official release. As per the guidelines issued by the district administration, medical facilities and government offices will operate in a normal manner during curfew while ration shops, vegetable vendors, milk shops and cooking gas vendors will operate during prescribed hours. Agriculture-related work can continue during this period, it added. 358 coronavirus patients have been discharged from hospitals in the district while 175 patients are undergoing treatment, a health official said. A total of 25 coronavirus patients have died in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/curfew-in-maharashtras-nanded-city-from-july-12-to-20-859495.html
10-07-2020||West||Gujarat recruitment exams: Protesting youth meet ministers||A youth association protesting against lack of joining letters from the Gujarat government after clearing exams held talks with two state ministers on Friday, with its functionaries threatening a full-fledged agitation if their demands are not met. Due to the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent lockdown, no recruitment exam for government jobs has been held since March, while those who have cleared the ones held earlier have not got joining letters, Dinesh Bambhaniya of Educated Unemployed Youth Committee, the protesting outfit, said. Bambhaniya and other agitators met Gujarat Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja in Gandhinagar on Friday. "In the meeting, we tabled three main demands. Give job allotment letters to those who have cleared exams, start conducting exams for government jobs which were postponed due to the pandemic, and declare results of those exams which were held before the lockdown," Bambhaniya told reporters after the meeting. He said the two ministers assured them of another meeting after discussing issues with Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. Another youth leader, Yuvrajsinh Jadeja, said in the meeting it was demanded that the state government take a written test to fill posts of non-secretariat clerks, the exam for which was cancelled last December. Bambhaniya said the youth will hit the streets if their demands are not met. So far, the protesting youths have been focusing on an online campaign to raise their demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-recruitment-exams-protesting-youth-meet-ministers-859502.html
10-07-2020||West||Maharashtra government to buy anti-viral drugs on big scale: Minister||Amid complaints of shortage of anti-viral drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said the government will buy them "on a big scale" to ensure that they are available for the needy across the state "soon". He also said that the government will take strict action against black marketeers of the drugs, which are used in treating Covid-19 patients. The Home Minister made the remarks following his meeting with Food and Drugs Administration Minister Rajendra Shingne here. There is no vaccine available to treat Covid-19 patients yet. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Deshmukh said that there has been a big demand for the drugs in Maharashtra as well as outside the state. "The state government is going to buy remdesivir and tocilizumab on a big scale. The state government has started the process of purchasing the drugs to ensure it is available for the needy across the state. It will be available soon," Deshmukh said. He said the police department and the Food and Drugs Administration department will take joint action in case there are instances of black marketing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-to-buy-anti-viral-drugs-on-big-scale-minister-859510.html
10-07-2020||West||Sharad Pawar meets Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for second time in four days||NCP president Sharad Pawar met Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at the latter's official residence `Varsha' here on Friday, sources said. The half-an-hour-long meeting, a second in four days, came against the backdrop of reports of strain in the Shiv Sena-NCP ties. Thackeray-led Shiv Sena, the NCP and Congress are allies in the ruling coalition. Five Sena councillors in the Parner Municipal Council in Ahmednagar district joined the NCP last week, which had caused alarm in the Sena. They later returned to the parent party. Another source of tension was the transfer of 10 Deputy Commissioners of Police in Mumbai by the home department which is held by the NCP. The transfer order was revoked by the state government within three days. The NCP was of the view that local elected representatives and not bureaucrats should be consulted before imposing lockdown, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-meets-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-for-second-time-in-four-days-859514.html
10-07-2020||West||Coronavirus outbreak: Open places of worship, Mumbai Congress tells Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Mumbai Congress on Friday urged Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to open places of worship so that people distressed by the coronavirus outbreak and resultant lockdown can "share their heartfelt pain" with God. Mumbai Congress vice president Amarjit Singh Manhas said such a move would help people passing through depression and hopelessness due to the outbreak and the deaths caused by it in the metropolis. In letter to Thackeray, Manhas said, "I request you to open up places of worship with all the required precautions so that citizens can share their heartfelt pain to their creator and seek help from the Almighty to come out of this depression and calamity." "This will give them a new ray of hope to fight the battle against Covid-19," Manhas said in the letter, adding that states such as West Bengal, Punjab, Karnataka have opened places of worship. Manhas also pointed out that several places of worship manage their power and water expenses, salaries to staff, taxes etc through donations from devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-outbreak-open-places-of-worship-mumbai-congress-tells-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-859520.html
10-07-2020||West||Mamata Banerjee congratulates successful ICSE, ISC candidates||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday congratulated all successful ICSE and ISC candidates and said the "trauma" faced by them due to the Covid-19 outbreak would serve as a lesson in their future endeavours. The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Friday announced results for classes 10 and 12 board exams even as it decided against bringing out a merit list this year in view of "exceptional circumstances". The board had to cancel pending exams in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases and the result has been calculated on the basis of an alternative assessment method. "Congratulations to the batch of 2020 ICSE and ISC students successful this year. May the trauma you faced serve as a lesson for further success in your lives. Applaud teachers and parents for bearing with the situation. Do well. May all your dreams come true," Banerjee tweeted. Sources in the CISCE said at least 37,258 students appeared for ICSE in West Bengal this year, of which 36,290 cleared the exam. For ISC, altogether 25,058 candidates wrote the exam, and 24,453 passed. Nationally, a total of 2,06,525 candidates have cleared the ICSE exams, and 85,611 students the ISC exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mamata-banerjee-congratulates-successful-icse-isc-candidates-859529.html
10-07-2020||West||65 new Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad, tally rises to 22,845||With 165 more people testing coronavirus positive in Gujarat's Ahmedabad district in the last 24 hours, its overall tally of patients rose to 22,845 on Friday, the state health department said. Of these 165 new cases, 153 were reported from Ahmedabad city, while 12 from other parts of the district, it said in a statement. Five patients died in the district in the last 24 hours, taking its death toll to 1,511,it added. A total of 161 patients were discharged from different hospitals following their recovery during the day, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/65-new-covid-19-cases-in-ahmedabad-tally-rises-to-22845-859543.html
10-07-2020||West||Record spike of 2,064 coronavirus cases takes Thane count past 50k mark||The Covid-19 count in Thane district crossed the 50000-mark on Friday with the addition of 2,064 cases, the highest single-day spike here since the outbreak began, while the death toll went past the 1500-mark as 53 people succumbed, an official said. The case count of the district is 50,920 while the toll stands at 1,507. "The cases increased from 8,665 on June 1 to 34,646 on July 1 and now past the 50000-mark in 10 days time. This is a 588 percent growth in cases since June 1 and 552 percent growth in number of deaths," he said. Kalyan Dombivali contributed the highest by way of cases during the day as 606 people tested positive, while Thane city saw 416 infections, and led the toll list with 17 deaths. Thane city now has 12,469 cases, the official said. Neighbouring Palghar district so far has 8,651 cases and 162 deaths||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/record-spike-of-2064-coronavirus-cases-takes-thane-count-past-50k-mark-859583.html
10-07-2020||West||Maha reports biggest one-day spike of 7,862 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra reported its highest single-day spike of 7,862 new cases on Friday, which pushed the overall tally of patients in the state to 2,38,461, the health department said. With 226 more patients succumbing to the infection, the death toll in the state reached 9,893, it said. Of the total 7,862 new cases, Mumbai reported 1,337, Pune city 1,099, Aurangabad city 177, it said. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which includes Mumbai city, accounted for the highest 4,513 cases that took the count to 1,64,175 and death toll to 7,063. Of the total 226 deaths reported on Friday, 145were from the MMR. While the number of patients in Mumbai increased to 90,461, its death toll reached 5,205. Of the total number fatalities reported during the day, 73were in Mumbai, the department said in a statement. In the MMR, Thane city and Kalyan Dombivali are the worst hit with 13,837 and 13,192 cases so far respectively. Kalyan Dombivali witnessed a rise in its tally with 694 new cases, while 209 cases were added in Nashik city. Pimpri Chinchwad township near Pune reported 507 new cases during the day. As many as 5,366 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals during the day, the department said. This took the number of recovered patients in the state to 1,32,625, it said, adding that 12,53,978 people have been tested so far. There are 95,943 active cases in the state at present. The statement saidthat the recovery rate in the state is 55.62per cent, while the fatality rate is 4.15per cent. Currently, 6,74,025 people are in home quarantine and 46,560are in Institutional quarantine. Maharashtra's COVID tally is as follows: Positive cases 2,38,461, deaths 9,893, recoveries 1,32,625, active cases 95,943, people tested so far 12,53,978.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-reports-biggest-one-day-spike-of-7862-covid-19-cases-859591.html
