11-07-2020||Comment||Who is a Kafir?||‘Kafir’ has been a contentious word. It has benighted Hindu-Muslim relations in India, and interfaith relations worldwide. It has injured the Hindu psyche and made them resent it as a slur. The sad part is that Muslims continue to consider it a descriptor for non-Muslims. They express surprise that the Hindus take offence at it. Their inability to acknowledge the hurt is an aspect of the consciousness shaped by the supremacist theology of the age of imperialism. Much like the term ‘anti-national’ is used today, kafir has been a weapon word. It was used by Muslim rulers to disenfranchise subject races. It continues to be in vogue for delegitimising, excommunicating and othering not only non-Muslims but also Muslims who differ in creedal details with one’s own doctrines. Such a political usage makes it imperative to examine the word and its meanings in the basic text of Islam, the Quran. The root verb of the participial noun kafir (and of the infinitive noun kufr) is the trilateral K F R (kafara), “s/he covered (a thing)”. Thus, the Quran calls a farmer a kafir (chapter 57: verse 20) as he covers the sown seed with earth. This meaning of covering extended, by a semantic quirk, to concealing a manifest truth by going against one’s convictions. Another meaning of kafir is an ingrate. Thus, the Quran shows the Pharaoh calling Moses, whom he had brought up, an ingrate for challenging his authority (26:18-19). Beside these two meanings, the Quran identifies as kufr some traits and behaviours such as niggardliness (4:37, et al), exorbitant usury (3:130), vulgar display of charity (2:264), using religion for material gains (5:44) and haughtiness (2:34), etc. These characteristics of kufr are universal regardless of faith and community. However, being an ingrate or parsimonious or usurious doesn’t make one a kafir. So what does? Persecution! Not the unbelief because of the lack of conviction, but peremptory rejection and ridicule of the principles of faith; open and active hostility against a people for their belief; attempt to stop them from practicing their religion; driving them out of their homes, and waging war against them (2:190, 217; 47:1, et al). It has nothing to do with the absence of belief in the Islamic doctrine of divinity and prophecy. No verse of the Quran identifies people of other religions as kafirs. Kafir is not an antonym of Muslim. Islam could co-exist with other religions without othering all. A non-Muslim could be spared an opprobrious appellation, and could be recognised by her self-determined identity. A non-Hindu, a non-Christian, a non-Sikh, a non-Buddhist or a non-Jain is not the antagonistic ‘other’ to the respective religions. Likewise, a non-Muslim is not the hostile ‘other’ to Islam. He is not a kafir. The Quran mentions momins (believers), fasiqs (wrongdoers) and kafirs (rejectionist persecutors) among all the ‘People of the Scripture’, i.e., all the organised religions (3:110-15). These categories are present in the Muslim community, too. Every Muslim is not a believer (49:14). To say that there are wrongdoers galore among them, one only has to look around. As for the kafirs among Muslims, a cursory glance at the mutually recriminating fatwas would make the point beyond refutation. The Quran does not classify any community or individual as kafir on the ground that they don’t believe in the religion of Muslims. Only such individuals, or groups, have been thus designated who actively campaigned against Islam. Abu Talib, the Prophet’s uncle, though he never professed Islam, has not been called a kafir in the Islamic traditions since he protected the Prophet and made it possible for him to carry on his mission. He was not from the People of the Book, i.e., he didn’t belong to any major organised and recognised religion known to the Arabs of that time. He subscribed to the local tradition which, on a poor analogy, is called paganism. Its practitioner is called a Mushrik by the Quran since they ascribed divinity to other beings beside Allah, which impinged on the unicity of God. Mushrik is wrongly translated as ‘polytheist’ or ‘idolater’. The most approximate rendering would be ‘associationist’, since he associated partners with God. Despite its being a cardinal sin, the Quran does not describe every Mushrik a kafir, as is evident from verses 1 and 6 of chapter 98, wherein there is a severe castigation of the kafirs among the People of the Book and the Mushriks. Contrary to the conventional understanding which considers Mushrik a synonym of kafir, Mushriks were just non-Muslims. If a person does not become a kafir for just not being a Muslim, designating the Hindu as kafir was based on bad deduction and flawed interpretation, which insinuated imperial hubris in making sense of the society which the early Muslims in India were interacting with. Hindus had an organised and recognised religion based on scriptures. It made them a People of the Book. Based on this rationale, Jizya was imposed on them, and men from the Muslim royalty married into them. Insofar as a kafir is someone who actively falsifies and denounces Islam, persecutes its followers and stops them from practicing their religion, it has been absolutely absurd to call the Hindus kafir as they never denounced Islam or stopped Muslims from practicing their religion. Hindus and Muslims have sporadically fought each other, both at the upper political and the lower social levels. But, in these fights, the religious issue was brought in from only one side, as the Hindus have been least interested in what the Muslims believed in or not, whereas the Muslims have always been stressed about the faith of the Hindus. Therefore, given the unsavoury history of the word kafir and its offensive usage as a slur, it would be a right step in the direction of interfaith harmony to eliminate its usage from contemporary discourse. South Africa has proscribed the use of the word ‘kaffir’ — a pejorative bequeathed from the times when Arab Muslims used to capture Africans to trade in slavery because they were both black and kafir. (The writer is an IPS officer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/who-is-a-kafir-859673.html
11-07-2020||Comment||India's China dream depends on housing migrant workers after Covid-19||By Andy Mukherjee India quite literally needs to put a roof over its China dream. It took a pandemic and a lockdown to highlight the precarious existence of the country’s blue-collar workers. Left without jobs and shelter, an estimated 30 million — roughly a fifth of the urban labour force — have gone back to their villages, with many completing long, hazardous journeys on foot when trains and buses shut down. No wonder, then, that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government cleared a plan this week to build inexpensive rental dwellings in cities for 350,000 workers. Giving rural migrants an incentive to return is crucial to restoring economic activity to pre-Covid-19 levels. But there’s an opportunity here to do much more. For India to industrialize, rethinking the housing situation will be as important as freeing the urban poor from large medical bills and helping them build retirement savings. If the country of 1.3 billion people wants to be a factory to the world — the next China — it must start by giving workers low-cost living quarters. India is sitting on an inventory of more than 1.3 million unsold homes. Mumbai-based property researcher Liases Foras estimates that roughly half of these units could face delays and other execution risks; prices on nearly nine out of 10 apartments may have to be cut by 5% to 15% to hook wary buyers. That’s billions of dollars in lost revenue. It may not be possible to repurpose this stock as worker accommodation. Nevertheless, as losses on pricey condominiums crystallize for struggling developers and stretched financiers, they can be made more bearable by tax breaks, cheap government land and other fiscal support for affordable rental housing — a new revenue stream. Assured of a decent rental yield, investors will be encouraged to finance this new asset class. Institutional capital will return to depressed real estate. Construction will absorb surplus manpower and create badly needed wage income.  Cheap urban rents will bring India the full benefit of labour mobility, which isn’t constrained by Chinese-style hukou, or city registration requirements. Yet the rapid urbanization that turned East Asia into an exporting powerhouse and created a foundation for mass consumption has eluded the country. Young men migrate to cities for economic reasons, and return to their villages in old age. Apart from cultural factors, availability and cost of housing is the main reason why women and children stay behind, making urbanization in India both slow and rather “masculine,” as economist Chinmay Tumbe, who has studied migration trends since the 1870s, has put it. While the gender ratio of large cities is no longer as skewed as it was in the early 20th century — 500 to 600 women for 1,000 men — it’s still a lopsided 868 in Delhi. For Surat, a major diamond-cutting and textile centre on India’s western coast, the ratio is even more unbalanced at 756. Surat is still an exception in that it has a lot of manufacturing. A peculiar facet of rural-urban migration in India, according to Tumbe, is that most of the workers end up in service-industry jobs.  Creaky infrastructure, infuriating red tape, occasionally overvalued currency and lack of meaningful free-trade arrangements have held back the share of manufacturing in the economy to 16% — a modest rise from 5% in 1901. Back then, British colonialists had kept India under-industrialized so they could sell their wares in a market that produced little of its own. Now, it’s a small urban elite — whose own ancestors left villages a long time ago — that’s keeping new migrants employed as chauffeurs, housemaids, condominium security and ATM guards. The economy is geared to satisfy the top 150 million earners, as Rathin Roy, until recently the director at the New Delhi-based National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, has argued. This depresses the wages that would be generated by becoming good at making what the next 300 million want. In the absence of broad-based income growth, consumers boosted spending by borrowing. When they eventually started to deleverage last year, India faced an acute demand funk, even for 7-cent munchies. Since then, Covid-19 hasn’t been the only wake-up call. Rapidly deteriorating U.S.-China relations portend sweeping changes in global supply chains, but even in its own neighbourhood, India isn’t competitive in manufacturing. A once-in-a-generation opportunity could slip out of its grasp.  At a furniture store in Ho Chi Minh City some years ago, I saw colourful satin-upholstered sofas whose sides were drab black polyester. This, I was told, was because the sides would take dirt from motorbike tires and must be easy to clean: A Vietnamese family would park the two-wheeler, its most precious possession, next to the living-room furniture to keep it safe at night. Societies that value and make things that workers themselves use lift living standards and labour productivity. No wonder Vietnam, now a hub for Samsung Electronics Co., is winning investments from Inventec Corp., Apple Inc.’s main assembly partner for AirPods, as well as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., better known as Foxconn. India must also make more shoes, clothes and toys. To create a permanent urban workforce that will both produce and consume those wage goods, it should also build millions of new homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/indias-china-dream-depends-on-housing-migrant-workers-after-covid-19-859776.html
11-07-2020||Davangere||Dakshina Kannada reports 139 new Covid-19 cases||As many as 139 people including two-year-old children tested positive to Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada on Friday, thus taking the total tally of Covid-19 positive cases to 1848. According to Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, many of them were primary contacts of the infected individuals, were suffering from ILI and SARI. On the positive note, as many as 51 persons had recovered and were discharged from the hospitals. The total person's discharge in the district so far is 753. As many as 1057 cases were undergoing treatment at different Covid-19 hospitals in the district. The DC said that 22,585 samples had been tested in the district so far. The results of 20, 737 have tested negative. Of the positive cases, three fresh cases in Puttur taluk and two cases in Kadaba taluks had been recorded and total Covid cases in Puttur and Kadaba had increased to 33.  A youth from Parladka who had international travel history, quarantined in Mangaluru, was tested positive. A 26-year-old youth from Amchinadka colony near Kavu was also tested positive. A 69-year-old who underwent surgery in a hospital in Shivamogga recently too has was tested positive.  After a private hospital staff was tested positive for Covid in Kutuppadi, his 36-year-old wife and seven-year-old child too tested positive for Covid. As many as six Covid-19 cases including that of a 2.5-year-old child and a 71-year old man were reported in Mulki hobli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/dakshina-kannada-reports-139-new-covid-19-cases-859755.html
11-07-2020||First Edit||Chronicle of an ‘encounter’ foretold||The death of gangster Vikas Dubey in an ‘encounter’ does not surprise, because the narrative of his arrest, the journey by road from Ujjain to Kanpur, the early morning tumble of the police vehicle, the snatching of a gun, the attempt to escape and subsequent killing are all part of a chronicle foretold many days ago. Encounters and killings of gangsters and other inconvenient persons follow a definite script, and have the same settings and similar plots, with only changes in some details like names and faces. It is the rare policeman who strays from the script. This was so with Dubey also. There were unexplained circumstances about his arrest in Ujjain, too, a version that it was a surrender and a view that he may have been led to or taken there.   The truth about the arrest and other more serious truths will now be buried with Dubey. He was known to be close to politicians, the police and many officials, as gangsters in most places are, and may have known too much. He had been warned of the raid on his home by friends in the police. It was his closeness to the powers that be for decades that sustained him in crime and gave him protection and impunity. But then, a stage was reached when protecting the secrets was more important than his life, and he was made to pay with it. That stage often comes in the life of all those who deal with this world and the underworld at the same time, because it is a Faustian bargain in which there is no mercy for those who break the terms. Vikas Dubey overreached himself and paid the price. Most criminals are a part of our system and are the friends of those who run it. But the practice of killing them when they become inconvenient is entrenched now. It is a means by which the lawless system asserts and sustains itself. In UP, this law of the jungle has official sanction, with the government of Yogi Adityanath giving a free rein and licence to the police to bump off criminals, and even suspected criminals. But law and order cannot be enforced in lawless ways, and no criminal should be summarily killed, or meted out arbitrary retribution of any kind. Even the worst has the right to due process of law, and strong governance is not the wayward rule of the gun. The encounter killings of criminals has not put an end to crime in UP. The killers in uniform should actually be punished for their crimes. But none gets punished, because their impunity is also part of the script.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/chronicle-of-an-encounter-foretold-859670.html
11-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Hubballi MLA Abayya tests positive for Covid-19||This is the second such high-profile case, after a former mayor of the twin city, testest positive for Covid-19 from Hubballi. MLA claims that he might have contracted the virus while serving the people in his constituency. "On Thursday, I voluntarily underwent Covid-19 test, following which I tested positive on Friday. As a precautionary measure, I have been quarantined at Karnataka Institute of Medical science, Hubballi" he wrote in the WhatsApp message sent in the media group. His family members and primary contacts will also undergo Covid-19 test on Saturday, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/hubballi-mla-abayya-tests-positive-for-covid-19-859787.html
11-07-2020||Kalaburagi||Karnataka: Jewargi Congress MLA Ajay Singh tests positive for Covid-19||Jewargi Congress MLA Dr Ajay Singh on Friday joined the list of the elected representatives from the state to test positive for Covid-19. Taking to twitter, Ajay said "I have tested positive. I am asymptomatic and will be in quarantine for two weeks. Would request the people who were my primary contacts to take precautions. Do stay safe". The MLA who is the son of former chief minister late Dharam Singh is the second MLA from the district to contract the virus. Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/karnataka-jewargi-congress-mla-ajay-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-859643.html
11-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Kodagu reports 10 new Covid-19 cases; tally at 141||With the recording of 10 more fresh Covid-19 cases in Kodagu, the total tally in the district has risen to 141, on Saturday morning. DC Annies Kanmani Joy said that there are 122 active cases in the district undergoing treatment at designated Covid-19 hospital. Five members of a family including a seven-year-old child who were the primary contact of an already infected person have been tested positive at Shantinagara in Virajpet taluk. An 86-year-old woman with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) from Acchappa Layout in Gonikoppa too has been tested positive, said the DC. Further, she said a 31-year-old man who was the primary contact of a patient from Shanivarasanthe; 21-year-old man, who was the primary contact of a patient from hospital quarters in Madikeri; a 26-year-old man suffering from Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) with an interdistrict travel history from Bengaluru and the resident of Nerale village in Somwarpet taluk and a 38-year-old man with symptoms of ILI and a resident of M M Layout in Gonikoppa have been tested positive. The district administration has notified three more containment zones—Acchappa Layout, Nerale Village and M M Layout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-kodagu-reports-10-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-141-859741.html
11-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Prayog Vasant' in Hubballi too goes online||During the end or just after beginning of every spring season, teams involving students of different engineering branches used to demonstrate models they have prepared for problem solving using engineering design which they had learnt under 'Engineering exploration' in the first year BE course. The lockdown, and the Covid-19 situation has changed everything, and it has not exempted even the annual 'Prayog Vasant' at KLE Technological University (KLETU) in Hubballi, which used to be an open-house project exhibition. As a new norm, the KLETU (BVBCET) which has already conducted online theory classes for final year students. 'Prayog Vasant' was held on Thursday and Friday, which was available to view across the globe through digital platforms. Explanations, and making of various types of 3D models by teams of multidisciplinary engineering students can be viewed later too. "We have to get adjusted to the new norm. At home, students prepared 3D models using computer simulation. The faculty concerned guided them and demonstrated. They watch videos and evaluate," said KLETU Vice-Chancellor Ashok Shettar. 19 themes Two days of the online exhibition was divided into four sessions of three hours each, with a total of 19 themes. More than 700 students displayed 171 projects on different subjects. The faculty observing them could interact with them through video call also. Automatic titrating robots, decoratives, land dwelling robots, floor cleaning robots, music robots, automatic winding machines, catering robots, drill bit dispensers, game machines, measurement tools, and self-balancing robots were the themes for the models on the first day. The first theme of the first session on the second day (Friday) was 'Agri mechanisation'. Compost making and dispensing machine, seed sowing machine, agri bot, compost mixing and dispensing, automated thresher, leafy vegetable harvester, seed sowing bot, seed sowing in tray, pesticide spraying machine, robotic arm for hydroponics, groundnut shell remover, and seed sowing in the pot were the models demonstrated by 49 students in 12 groups. Models of ball launcher, carrom robot, drawing bot, note counting piggy bank, automatic tape dispenser, clay ball making machine, disc throwing machine, gaming machines, lead through programming, and robotic arm with 5DoF were also displayed online. KLETU Centre for Engineering Education Research (CEER) head Gopalkrishna Joshi said, "teaching theory online is easy, but demonstrating model-making to all the members of the students' group is difficult. Different technologies were used for that, as students' team members were at different places. Some of them prepared a few models using available material. If laboratory was given for students for just a week, they would have prepared prototypes themselves," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prayog-vasant-in-hubballi-too-goes-online-859973.html
11-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||New Covid-19 centre to be ready soon: Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Saturday said that a new 600-bed Covid-19 care unit will be ready within a day or two. The minister, who visited the Academic Bhavan of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) near Mandakalli here, said that the building has a total of 55 rooms and 600 beds can be placed in the structure. “All necessary facilities are in place and internet, TV and other facilities are available. The building has separate division for doctors and caretakers of patients. In addition, arrangement for entertainment will be done,” the minister said. He said, “There is no dearth for beds to treat Covid patients and one doctor and a staff nurse are appointed for 100 patients.” Somashekar took severe exception to former chief minister Siddaramaiah’s allegation on misuse of funds earmarked to fight Covid. He asked Siddaramaiah to come to Vidhana Soudha. “We will provide you all document. Only people without humanity will misuse funds earmarked for Covid. When the government has invested only Rs 550 crore, how could there be misuse of Rs 2,000 crore? Somashekar asked. MLA L Nagendra and Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar were present on the occassion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-covid-19-centre-to-be-ready-soon-somashekar-860001.html
11-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dist admin plans mini-lockdown in NR Assembly segment||Mysuru, dhns: As the rate of Covid-19 deaths is on the rise in Narasimharaja Assembly segment, the district administration has planned for a mini-lockdown in the area. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that as the death rate is increasing in the segment, a mini-lockdown is planned in parts of the segment for a period of one week. The district administration has requested the religious heads and local leaders for support for the lockdown. The DC said that Dharavi model of lockdown will be followed and several areas will be under lockdown. An intensive house-wise surveillance will be conducted and the authorities will visit every household to obtain the health condition of the residents. As many people are reluctant and non-cooperative to disclose the health issues, the district administration has asked the support of local leaders and religious heads, the DC said. According to the DC, the death rate in areas like Kalyanagiri, Subhash Nagar and others are high. A few deaths have been reported within 200 to 300 metre radius. The DC suspected a cluster outbreak and said that many people are consulting health professionals in the last moment and several deaths are reported within 48 hours after they report to hospital. “Although it is not easy to control the number of cases, we can control the death rate through house-wise surveillance. We need community support,” the DC said. The district administration has identified government lands on the outskirts of the city to be used as burial grounds to conduct the final rites of Covid-19 victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dist-admin-plans-mini-lockdown-in-nr-assembly-segment-860003.html
11-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rlys sets up business development unit||In order to give a push to freight traffic and to enable ease of doing business, South Western Railway, Mysuru Division has set up a Business Development Unit (BDU), recently. The multi-disciplinary unit will focus to double the freight traffic and Senior Divisional Operations Manager V Satish will head the Unit. The movement of items from the core sector -- coal, cement, fertilizers -- as well as foodgrains have been the key drivers for the growth witnessed in June and expressed confidence that the stage is set for normal loading pattern. Last year, Mysuru division had surpassed the target and achieved an all time high loading. With this background, expectation of the division is high. The division is making all efforts to make better the decline in the first quarter, by fast-tracking indents and expediting placement of rake for loading. The division is also taking measures to improve the facilities in the goods sheds. Railways is creating enabling environment to make a shift of freight traffic from road sector to rail sector. In this backdrop, a virtual meeting was organised by Mysuru division on July 8, with major freight customers. Iron ore customers opined that poor demand could affect their loading vis-a-vis last fiscal year. They pointed out the availability of higher grade material in Odisha and Jharkhand and proximity to Vizag as an ideal alternative in comparison to Mysuru Division; offering of fit wagons for loading, relaxations in levy of demurrage charges, better conditions in loading points among others. The railway authorities assured of making every effort to remove minor irritants and create a conducive environment at all loading points. To ensure quality service, the unit also has officers from Commercial, Mechanical and Accounts departments as its members. The committee will act as a nodal point for interacting with existing customers and will reach out to new customers for achieving the goal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rlys-sets-up-business-development-unit-860009.html
11-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Urban parents, teachers prefer online classes: Survey||At a time when there is a huge debate on conducting online classes for students, a community survey has revealed that almost 90% of urban parents prefer online classes for their wards, as they fear to send them to school, during the Covid-19 crisis. Government schools across the state were closed in the second week of March and the lockdown halted all learning activities of students. While the government was in a dilemma over online classes, the School Education Programme, of Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement (SVYM), conducted a survey in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Dharwad districts, to understand the perception of parents. While urban parents in Bengaluru were favourable to online mode of classes, over sending their children to schools, due to the fear of the pandemic, rural parents in Mysuru and Dharwad districts preferred school education, as only 10% of them had the facility of online mode of classes. The teachers too were willing to conduct online classes and using other platforms, as they were afraid of the students contracting the virus. According to Deputy CEO and Education Head (SVYM) Praveen, the survey was done in the last week of June, covering 1,572 students, 452 teachers and 770 parents and members of School Development and Management Committees. Interestingly, about 45% of the students were willing to come back to school by September 2020. A majority of the remaining students preferred schools only after a vaccination was discovered for Covid. According to the survey, 57% students in high schools in Bengaluru couldn’t attend any online classes. This was around 70% and 89% in Dharwad and Mysuru districts respectively. Out of 452, 173 were higher primary school teachers, while the remaining 279 were from high schools. About 60% of teachers preferred online classes, if the closure of schools is extended. Around 50% high school teachers and 30% higher primary school teachers preferred reduction of syllabus for the next academic year. With the academic year shrinking, teachers believe that audio-visual content would promote learning, while 43% believe that workbooks are more effective. However, teachers also preferred multiple methods like mobile applications, phone calls and parental participation for online classes. As per the survey, 61% parents don’t want the schools to reopen immediately. This was higher among the government higher primary schools. In Dharwad and Mysuru districts, 50% of parents support reopening of schools in September, while 26% want reopening only in the next academic year. The findings of the survey disclosed that audio-visual materials and activity books be developed to promote self-learning. “Launch Community Learning Clubs (CLC) at village-level in Mysuru and Dharwad to promote learning through age appropriate activities till October 2020, which include understanding agriculture and local professions, using concepts of Maths, Geography and Economics. Start job-oriented activities and short-term courses. Initiate life skills, counselling sessions and periodic follow-up to ensure that students continue education,” the report recommends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/urban-parents-teachers-prefer-online-classes-survey-860018.html
11-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||KPCC should have postponed oath taking ceremony: Pralhad Joshi||In the wake of a few Congress MLAs who attended Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar's oath-taking ceremony turning positive for Covid-19, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday opined that the organisers should have thought carefully, and could have conducted online event or postpone it. "When technology has become so modernised to connect a large number of people at different places at a time, gathering nearly 200 people at one place without proper precautions was not correct. Politicians mix with more people, and they should be more careful to prevent Covid-19 infection. I do not attend any event where more people are gathered," he said. BJP is taking proper precautions, and we conducted conference through video conferencing, asking our workers and leaders to watch it over their phone, he noted. Replying to former minister H K Patil's move of writing a letter to State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) complaining about negligence in Covid-19 treatment and lack of dignity in handling Covid-19 deaths, Joshi said, "H K Patil is never a serious person, and he never suggests what correct should be done. He has no position in Congress and that party has neglected him. Therefore, he does such works just to draw attention," he criticised. Regarding Union Ministry of Environment & Forests (MOEF) asking the State Government to submit a fresh proposal for forest clearance for Kalasa-Banduri project, Joshi stated, we would get that done. "As the proposal is 17-year-old, a new proposal is asked naturally. I have spoken to Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, and that proposal would be cleared. There will not be any problem," he added. In reply to indefinite strike by Asha workers, Joshi expressed confidence that the government would hold talks and solve the problem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kpcc-should-have-postponed-oath-taking-ceremony-pralhad-joshi-859804.html
11-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 11||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 8.42 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 8,42,998 as of July 11 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 22,554   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 5,15,385 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-11-859684.html
11-07-2020||National||DH Toon: Of power, politics and patronage in the Vikas Dubey case||The encounter killing of gangsters even in controversial circumstances has not been a new phenomenon in the badlands of Uttar Pradesh but the heat and dust Dubey’s encounter has generated is different.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-of-power-politics-and-patronage-in-the-vikas-dubey-case-859685.html
11-07-2020||National||Vikas Dubey faced 61 FIRs, 8 of murders involving at least 15 killings: Police document||The alleged Uttar Pradesh gangster, Vikas Dubey, killed in a shootout on Friday near Kanpur while trying to flee from the police custody, faced a total of 61 criminal cases, including eight of murders involving killings of at least 15 persons. The last murder case registered in the Chaubeypur police station of the district following the ambush of a police team by his henchmen alone accounts for the killings of eight persons, all policemen, besides the seven other cases of murders registered against him between 1992 and 2017, reveals a police history sheet on Dubey’s offences. In his three-decade criminal career starting in 1990, Dubey faced nine cases of attempts to murder besides two under the NDPS Act, seven under the Gangsters Act, six under the Goonda Act, three under the Arms Act, besides a slew of cases for various other penal offences. Nearly 80 per cent of the 61 FIRs registered against him were lodged during the first half of his criminal career which came to a gory end on Friday. The first case against the alleged mafioso, a native of Bikru village under Chaubeypur police station in Kanpur, was registered against him in 1990 for causing "grievous hurt" and "provoking a breach of peace" by intentional insult, reveal the official document. Dubey was around 30 years old when he was booked under the stringent National Security Act in 2001. The FIR was lodged at the Shivli police station in Kanpur. According to the document on Dubey’s criminal antecedents, 48 of the 61 FIRs were registered between 1990 and 2005 at various police stations in the Kanpur metropolis district itself. Between 2006 and 2020, a total of 12 FIRs (20 per cent) were registered against him with the last three of them registered at the Chaubeypur police station itself. The last one was lodged thereafter the last week’s ambush of a police team by his henchmen, in which eight police officials, including a deputy superintendent of police, were killed. The second half of Dubey’s crime career saw seven-year lull from 2008 to 2014 when no FIR was lodged against him until 2017 when he was asked by an executive magistrate to execute a bond under section 110 of the Criminal Procedure Code to vouch for his good behaviour. The first murder case against Dubey was lodged in 1992 and overall eight FIRs were lodged against him under Indian Penal Code section 302 till date, the second last of which came in 2017. Dubey also had nine cases of attempted murder on his name. Seven times between 1993 and 2018, he was booked under the Gangsters Act, while he faced charges under the Goonda Act six times between 1997 and 2017. Dubey was also charged under the Arms Act thrice respectively in 1993, 2002 and 2017. He was also booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in 1998 and 2006 when a case was lodged against him in Saharanpur. This was for the first time that he was booked outside Kanpur. The second time he was booked in Lucknow under the Arms Act. The mastermind of the Kanpur ambush was shot dead early on Friday in an encounter with the police along a highway on the outskirts of the city after he tried to flee from their custody, a day after he was arrested at Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vikas-dubey-faced-61-firs-8-of-murders-involving-at-least-15-killings-police-document-859691.html
11-07-2020||National||CM Yogi issues directives on special sanitisation campaign in UP from Saturday||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has issued directives to officials concerned for the special cleanliness and sanitization campaign, beginning on Saturday. In a video conference with all divisional commissioners, district magistrates and senior administrative and police officials on Friday, the chief minister said the campaign should be carried out on July 11 and 12 in all rural and urban areas there should not be any laxity in it. The campaign can be extended to July 13 and, if required, later as well, he said, asking the officials to provide photographs of the campaign so that it can be reviewed by the CM's Office. According to an official release, the CM said the special drive would help control Covid-19 and communicable diseases. He also directed the district magistrates and police chiefs to extensively tour their respective districts, the release said. The chief minister also asked for taking effective steps to check communicable diseases in view of the monsoon season. He also directed the officials to activate nigrani samitis working in rural and urban areas, besides using a public address system for creating awareness about the measures required for preventing infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-yogi-issues-directives-on-special-sanitisation-campaign-in-up-from-saturday-859692.html
11-07-2020||National||Gangster Vikas Dubey cremated; wife says he deserved this ‘fate’||The wife of gangster Vikas Dubey, who was killed in a police encounter Friday, said her husband was “wrong” and deserved "this fate", as his last rites were conducted here amid tight security. Richa, who came at the Bhairoghat to attend the cremation, also expressed her anger at media persons, at times allegedly shouting at them. Superintendent of Police, Rural, Brijesh Srivastava told reporters that Dubey's brother- in- law Dinesh Tiwari performed the last rites at the electric crematorium in the presence of his wife and son. Dubey was shot dead Friday morning by police, who claim he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain overturned on an isolated stretch of the highway on the outskirts of the city. Dubey had allegedly masterminded the killing of eight policemen on July 2 when they were going to arrest him at his Bikru village. When asked about these incidents and if she thought her husband deserved such an end, an agitated Richa said, “Yes, yes, yes. Vikas did wrong and he deserved this fate.” She also allegedly shouted at media persons and asked them to leave the place. She also allegedly misbehaved with them and used foul language, even holding them responsible for the encounter killing of her husband. After the last rites, policewomen took Richa and her son in their vehicle and left for an undisclosed location. No police official was ready to speak whether they were let off. Vikas' father Ram Kumar Dubey had distanced himself and had justified police action. “Whatever police did was right,” he had said earlier in the day. When asked if he would attend the cremation, he had said, ”I will not attend the last rites.” Dinesh Tiwari, who performed the last rites, was earlier detained for questioning by the police immediately after the killing of eight policemen, including Deputy SP Devendra Kumar Mishra. The cremation was performed amidst heavy police presence. Heavy police force headed by SP city East, Raj Kumar Agarwal, was deployed around Bhairoghat . The principal of Ganesh Shankar Vidhyarthi Medical College Dr RB Kamal had told media persons that Dubey was brought dead to the hospital. "Dubey sustained four bullet injuries, three in the upper part (chest) and one in the hand," Kamal had said. Dubey's other relatives and neighbours shunned the gangster in his death and did not turn up for cremation, despite police request.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gangster-vikas-dubey-cremated-wife-says-he-deserved-this-fate-859696.html
11-07-2020||National||Two booked on sedition charges for ‘horse-trading’ ahead of Rajya Sabha polls: Official||Two persons have been booked on charges of sedition and hatching criminal conspiracy for their alleged involvement in horse-trading of Congress MLAs ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections last month, a top official said on Friday. The case was lodged following surveillance of their mobile phones and the identity of political leaders who were in their touch is being ascertained, said Additional Director General Ashok Rathore of Rajasthan Anti-Terrorist Squad and Special Operation Group. "Mobile phone of anti-social elements were put on surveillance. Based on the interception of two phones, some facts have come to fore that they and some others might be involved in the horse-trading of MLAs,” Rathore told reporters. “So an FIR has been registered against the two persons owning the mobile phones and a few others," he added. He said a case has been registered under IPC sections 124-A and 120-B. Rathore said a probe is on ascertain the identity of political leaders, who were in contact with these persons. He said a manhunt has been launched to nab the duo, while a probe is on also on another complaint lodged by Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi. Joshi had filed a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau for a probe into the possible horse-trading bids while the ruling Congress dispensation had also lodged a complaint with the SOG for an investigation into the organised crime of money transfer for horse-trading of legislators to influence the outcome of Rajya Sabha elections and to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-booked-on-sedition-charges-for-horse-trading-ahead-of-rajya-sabha-polls-official-859699.html
11-07-2020||National||Two more Coivd-19 deaths take Jammu and Kashmir toll to 162||The death toll due to Covid-19 reached 162 in Jammu and Kashmir as two more patients, including a young lady, from the Valley died on Saturday morning, officials said. The two patients, who died on Saturday, include a 24-year-old lady from Anantnag and a 77-year-old man from Srinagar, they said. The young lady from Anantnag died at SHMS hospital in Srinagar while the elderly man died at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital. Dr Nazir Choudhary, medical superintendent at SMHS the lady, who was admitted on 3 July was suffering from hypertension and other ailments.  "She died late Friday night,” he said and added she was referred from maternity LD hospital after she had a caesarean delivery. The patient, Dr Choudhary said, died due to brain haemorrhage while her baby is fine.  Dr Farooq Jan, medical superintendent at SKIMS said the elderly man was on a ventilator in the IDB block and died at around 7:45 am. “The patient was a case of Carcinoma Urinary Bladder and was admitted with bilateral pneumonia with ARDS,” he said. With these two deaths, the toll due to the virus has reached to 162, including 15 from Jammu region and 147 from Kashmir. On Friday J&K recorded 387 new cases of Covid-19, which included security and police personnel. More than a month after J&K witnessed its highest single-day spike of cases on 7 June, when 620 were confirmed, 387 new cases became the second-highest rise for a day in the Union Territory. In the past three weeks, more than 4000 new cases have been recorded in J&K. While the total number of cases was 5834 in J&K on 20 June, 20 days later, on Wednesday, the number of cases was 9888.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-coivd-19-deaths-take-jammu-and-kashmir-toll-to-162-859746.html
11-07-2020||National||ED to register money laundering case against Vikas Dubey's family, associates||They said the agency's zonal office in Lucknow has written to the Kanpur police in this context on July 6 seeking details of all FIRs and chargesheets filed against him and persons linked to him, and the latest update in all these cases. A senior Kanpur police official, who did not want to be named, confirmed that Kanpur Range Inspector General (IG) Mohit Agarwal has received the ED's letter. The officials said the ED will soon file a complaint under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to probe criminal proceeds of crime that were allegedly generated by Dubey, his associates and family members, and if this money was subsequently used for the creation of illegal movable and immovable properties. It is alleged that Dubey, through his criminal activities, amassed wealth in his and his family's name, they said. Over two dozen named and 'benami' assets linked to Dubey and his family in Uttar Pradesh and some adjoining areas, bank deposits and fixed deposit receipts are under the scanner of the central probe agency, they added. Some police FIRs have been shared while some more information is being obtained by the agency, the officials said. According to the Kanpur police official, the ED, in its letter to IG Agarwal said, "It has come to the notice that Vikas Dubey, notorious history-sheeter and prime accused in the massacre of eight policemen in an ambush in Kanpur is involved in many criminal cases for many years and accumulated wealth through criminal activities in his name and in the name of his family and associates." The central agency has also asked for a list of all FIRs lodged in criminal or civil cases against Dubey, his family and close associates, and chargesheets filed, he said. It is also gathering information about those who invested in properties through the gangster, he added. The ED, according to officials, is also seeking details from other law enforcement agencies about possible undisclosed foreign assets of Dubey and others apart from seeking details of accounts from various banks. The officials said even though Dubey is dead, the scheme of PMLA enables the agency to continue criminal probe against accomplices of the prime accused in laundering the proceeds of crime and the properties acquired as a result of this criminal activity. Section 72 of the PMLA provides for "continuation of proceedings in the event of death or insolvency." Dubey, 47, was shot dead on Friday by a team of the Uttar Pradesh Police's Special Task Force (STF), who claimed he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain overturned on an isolated stretch of a highway on the outskirts of Kanpur city. Dubey, officials have said, has about 60 police FIRs registered against him, including the recent ambush killing of eight policemen after midnight on July 3 outside his home in Bikru village under the Chaubeypur police station area of Kanpur district. The police party was going to arrest Dubey in connection with a criminal case filed against him when they were trapped and shot dead by the gangster and his henchmen, who fired from rooftops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-to-register-money-laundering-case-against-vikas-dubeys-family-associates-859795.html
11-07-2020||National||No guarantee Trump will back India against China if tensions escalate: Former US NSA John Bolton||Former United States national security advisor John Bolton has said that if the Sino-India border tensions escalate, there is no guarantee that US President Donald Trump will back India against China. China has been behaving in a belligerent fashion all around its periphery, certainly in the East and South China sea, and its relations with Japan, India as well as others have declined, Bolton told WION TV in an interview. On how far Trump was prepared to go to back India against China, he said, "I don't know which way he would go and I don't think he knows either. I think he sees the geostrategic relationship with China, for example, exclusively through the prism of trade." "I don't know what Trump will do after the November elections once the guard rail is removed... He'll be back to the big China trade deal. If things were to develop between India and China in a more critical fashion, I'm not sure where he would come down," the former US envoy to the UN said. Asked if he believes that if things were to escalate between India and China, there is no guarantee that Trump will back India against China, Bolton said, "That is correct". Bolton also said he does not think Trump knows anything about the history of these clashes over the decades between India and China. Trump may have been briefed on it, but history doesn't really stick with him, said Bolton, who was the US NSA from April 2018 to September 2019 under the Trump administration. "I think his gut instinct for the next four months is to take anything off the table that complicates what is already a difficult election campaign for him," Bolton said. "So what he (Trump) would want is quiet along with the border whether it benefits China or India. From his point of view -- No news is good news," he said. The Indian and Chinese armies were locked in the bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last eight weeks. The tension escalated manifold after the Galwan Valley clashes in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. Both sides have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-guarantee-trump-will-back-india-against-china-if-tensions-escalate-former-us-nsa-john-bolton-859808.html
11-07-2020||National||India's 2018 Tiger Census makes it to Guinness Book of World Records||India's 2018 Tiger Census has made it to the Guinness Book of World Records for being the world's largest camera trapping wildlife survey. The fourth cycle of the All India Tiger Estimation 2018, results of which were declared to the nation on Global Tiger Day last year by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, estimated 2,967 tigers or 75 per cent of the global tiger population. Terming this achievement a great moment, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted, "The All India Tiger Estimation is now in the Guinness World Records for being the largest camera trap wildlife survey, a great moment indeed and a shining example of Aatmanirbhar Bharat." He also said that under the leadership of the Prime Minister, India fulfilled its resolve to double tigers numbers four years before the target through "Sankalp se Sidhi". The Guinness World Records website said, "The fourth iteration of the survey – conducted in 2018-19 - was the most comprehensive to date, in terms of both resource and data amassed. Camera traps (outdoor photographic devices fitted with motion sensors that start recording when an animal passes by) were placed in 26,838 locations across 141 different sites and surveyed an effective area of 121,337 square kilometres (46,848 square miles). "In total, the camera traps captured 34,858,623 photographs of wildlife (76,651 of which were tigers and 51,777 were leopards; the remainder were other native fauna). From these photographs, 2,461 individual tigers (excluding cubs) were identified using stripe-pattern-recognition software."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-2018-tiger-census-makes-it-to-guinness-book-of-world-records-859836.html
11-07-2020||National||Kanpur police killings: ATS arrests two aides of Vikas Dubey||In a major swoop, the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra police arrested two aides of notorious gangster Vikas Dubey, who was killed in an encounter with Uttar Pradesh police. They were identified as Arvind Trivedi alias Guddan (46) and his driver Sonu Tiwari alias Sonu (30). They were arrested in an operation carried out by inspector Daya Nayak, who is attached to Juhu unit of ATS. Guddan was wanted by the UP police in connection with the sensational 2001 murder of minister Santosh Shukla in a police station. They were picked up from the Kolshet Road area of neighbouring Thane district, when they were scouting a place to hide. Both, Guddan and Sonu, were absconding from 2-3 June midnight, after the encounter in Bokru village on Kanpur, in which eight police personnel were killed. According to Maharashtra ATS, officials, Guddan was associated with Vikas Dubey for last several years and is wanted by the UP police. On Friday, Vikas Dubey was traced in Ujjain, in Madhya Pradesh where he surrendered and was being taken to Kanpur. However, en route, he was shot dead by the UP Police when he attempted to escape after an accident near Kanpur on Friday morning. The Choubeypur police station, which registered the case against Vikas Dubey and his gang for the attacks and killing of eight cops, has launched a nationwide manhunt to track the members of the notorious gang.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanpur-police-killings-ats-arrests-two-aides-of-vikas-dubey-859841.html
11-07-2020||National||Doctors on Covid-19 duty mobbed and coughed on; Kerala CM says attack may be politically motivated||A team of four, including a doctor who had started her practise ten days ago, a technician, and two nurses, one of whom was a mother of a one year old child were attacked by a mob in Kerala’s capital. The team of four drove to a community health center in the Poonthura containment zone in Thiruvananthapuram when a mob of nearly 50 people surrounded them and started verbally abusing them. The area the team was visiting had witnessed a sharp rise in the number of cases. The team will now be quarantined for a week and will be tested a week later. If their reports are negative, they will be able to report back to duty. Kerala’s health minister, K.K Shailaja spoke to the media, addressing her displeasure at the incident. “We have been doing very intensive tests in this area. It's a focus for health workers. They are working very sacrificially. Instead of supporting them, it's very scary to hear that a doctor's vehicle was attacked by people. If they are attacked, who will treat people?,” she asked. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan believes that the attack was politically motivated. "People in Kerala are understanding and supportive but strict action will be taken against those instigating people, especially with disinformation," he said. He blamed a Youth Congress worker for the incident saying he had campaigned through WhatsApp to bring out people on to the streets to protest by spreading fake news. In the containment zone at Poonthura, at least 31,985 people are living and the health measures of the state government were "sabotaged" by some people spreading fake news. Thiruvananthapuram recorded 129 cases,the highest number for the second consecutive day on Friday out of which 122 people have been infected through contact and a majority of them are from Poonthura. A major cause for concern for the Pinarayi government has been the protests that have recently broken out. People often gather in large numbers and do not follow social distancing measures or wear masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-on-covid-19-duty-mobbed-and-coughed-on-kerala-cm-says-attack-may-be-politically-motivated-859856.html
11-07-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi court grants bail to 75 Thai and Nepalese nationals||Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted the relief to the foreigners on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each. Till date, 445 foreign nationals from 33 different countries, who were charge-sheeted in the case have been granted bail by the court. The police had in June filed 59 charge sheets, including supplementaries, against 956 foreigners belonging to 36 different countries in the case. The accused who were granted bail Saturday will file their plea bargaining applications on Monday, said advocates Ashima Mandla, Mandakini Singh and Fahim Khan, appearing for them.  Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence, praying for a lesser punishment. The Criminal Procedure Code allows for plea bargaining in cases where the maximum punishment is seven-year imprisonment; offences don't affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and the offence is not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years of age. During the hearing, all the foreigners were produced before the court through video conferencing. The court had granted bail to 122 Malaysians on Tuesday and 91 other foreigners from 21 countries on Wednesday, 76 foreign nationals from eight countries on Thursday and 82 Bangladeshi nationals on Friday.  The investigating officer had earlier told the court that the investigation was completed against the 956 foreigners in the case and each has been allegedly found to have independently committed the offence for which he /she has been charge-sheeted. Further investigations are pending, the IO said. These foreigners had attended the event in March, following which in April Covid-19 cases across the country spiked after hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz, tested positive. According to the chargesheets, all the foreigners have been booked for violation of visa rules, guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure. They have also been booked for offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act. The punishment for these offences ranges from six months to eight years' imprisonment. The Centre has cancelled their visas and blacklisted them. The foreigners have not been arrested yet and are residing at various places approved by the Delhi High Court. At least 9,000 people including the foreign nationals participated in the religious congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin Markaz. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country. An FIR was registered against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 on a complaint of the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act (2005), Foreigners Act and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to Covid-19, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-75-thai-and-nepalese-nationals-859861.html
11-07-2020||National||Army commander says terror launch pads along LoC are full||He said the Army launched an operation after suspicious movement was detected along the LoC. Two terrorists who were trying to infiltrate were eliminated and two AK-47s, along with a pistol and other ammunition was found. Dilbag Singh, Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police recently reported that the anti-infiltration grid of the state is well intact despite the active terror launch pads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-commander-says-terror-launch-pads-along-loc-are-full-859863.html
11-07-2020||National||SpiceJet to operate flights to Ras Al Khaimah in UAE from four Indian cities between July 12-26||SpiceJet said on Saturday it will operate flights from four Indian cities to Ras Al Khaimah in the UAE between July 12 and July 26 for eligible "ICA-approved UAE residents". The ICA stands for the UAE's Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship. A passenger having a valid residency permit of the UAE needs to take ICA approval before taking any flight to enter that country. In a press statement, the airline said it will operate flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Kozhikode and Kochi to the UAE "These flights will carry only those passengers who are destined for the UAE. From the Ras Al-Khaimah airport, SpiceJet will also be providing coaches, free of cost, for passengers travelling to Dubai, Sharjah and Abu Dhabi," it said. India suspended all scheduled international passenger flights on March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Many Indian nationals who have valid residence permits of the UAE and are currently in India have been complaining on social media for the last few weeks about the lack of flights between the two countries. The Civil Aviation Ministry had on July 9 announced on Twitter, "As part of the close strategic partnership between the governments of India and the UAE, and with a view to assisting UAE resident nationals who are at present in India to return to the UAE, the civil aviation authorities of both countries have agreed to operationalise the following arrangement from 12 July 2020." Charter flights operated by UAE carriers will now be permitted to bring Indian citizens from the UAE to India and carry ''ICA-approved UAE residents'' on their return leg, the ministry said. On India to UAE journeys, all these flights will carry only those passengers who are destined for the Gulf country, it noted. The ministry also said, "Indian carriers operating repatriation flights to bring Indian citizens from UAE to India will be allowed to carry the ICA-approved UAE residents (returning to UAE from India) on the outward journey from India to UAE”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicejet-to-operate-flights-to-ras-al-khaimah-in-uae-from-four-indian-cities-between-july-12-26-859864.html
11-07-2020||National||IMA demands setting up of all-India Medical Services for healthcare administration||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has demanded the setting up of an Indian Medical Service (IMS), on the lines of IAS, IPS and IFS, to bring about a drastic change in the healthcare sector, the doctors' body said. The IMA feels that there is a dire need for a drastic change in health administration which can be realised by raising a new cadre of administrators, it said in a statement. The IMS will be responsible for holding the administrative responsibilities pertaining to the district medical officer, project officers of various disease control programmes, and the various ranks of secretaries in the Union health ministry and the state health departments and the heads all other areas in the health sector, Dr Rajan Sharma, IMA national president, said. The basic qualification to sit for the IMS examination should be MBBS, he said. "Even though IMA has been enthusiastically working, we request the government of India to emphasize upon the certain major provisions. Meticulously continuing the public health activities of contact-tracing and testing will ensure a minimal morbidity rate," he said.  "There is an urgent need for a new post-Covid healthcare policy providing equal priority to non-Covid care as well," Sharma added. Working closely with the central and the state governments during the pandemic, the IMA said it has been involved in various activities like availing of insurance for healthcare workers, anti-violence ordinance, inclusion of clinics, nursing homes and hospitals in MSME, modifications in testing policy, PPEs in workplaces, policy for quarantine of caregivers and plasma therapy among others. Management of this pandemic would have been better had the public infrastructure and the strategies in place been better, it said.  "There is a dire need for the government to increase its GDP allocation to five percent for the healthcare structure. The IMA also demands for creation of 'One Nation – One set of guidelines for health'," Dr R V Asokan, IMA secretary general, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-demands-setting-up-of-all-india-medical-services-for-healthcare-administration-859873.html
11-07-2020||National||Covid-19 may have adverse effects on women's health: PFI||The effects of the coronavirus pandemic threaten to reverse the limited progress made on gender equality and women's sexual and reproductive health, an NGO said. The Population Foundation of India (PFI) has recommended timely measures to ensure women and girls remain central to Covid-19 response planning and recovery efforts. On the occasion of World Population Day, the NGO released a policy paper 'Impact of Covid-19 on Women' which takes a comprehensive look at the different impacts of the Covid-19 crisis across the country, specifically on women and girls. It said that evidence from past epidemics, as well as the existing evidence around the impact of Covid-19, suggests that the disruption of essential health services puts women and girls at risk of decreased access to services as resources are diverted from routine health services, including pre- and post-natal health care, family planning and contraceptive supply and other reproductive health services. The limited availability of essential health services, including sexual and reproductive health services, will be detrimental in the long run, PFI said. "The Covid-19 crisis has placed unprecedented demands on our social services and the health care system. Women are increasingly at greater risk of sexual and domestic violence, disruptions to their healthcare services, stock-outs of supplies of contraceptives and menstrual hygiene products and mental stress and anxiety," Poonam Muttreja, the executive director of PFI said. "It is critical to reassess our emergency response policies through a gender lens to improve planning and programming," she said. UNICEF has estimated that in the nine months span dating from when Covid-19 was declared a pandemic, the countries with the highest numbers of forecast births are expected to be India (20.1 million), China (13.5 million), Nigeria (6.4 million), Pakistan (5 million) and Indonesia (4 million), PFI said in its paper. Given the evidence, the NGO has recommended applying a gender lens using gender-disaggregated data and evidence to address programmes and policies around Covid-19, and increasing investments in family planning as the most cost-effective public health measures. It also has sought investment in the 3.3 million female frontline health workers who are the face of the Indian public health system and in many parts of the country the only health-care support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-may-have-adverse-effects-on-womens-health-pfi-859881.html
11-07-2020||National||ED raids Delhi-NCR travel firms, CAs for suspected e-visa fraud; seizes over Rs 3.50 crore in cash||The Enforcement Directorate has seized Rs 3.57-crore cash after raiding tours and travel firms and their CAs in Delhi-NCR to probe alleged irregularities in processing of e-visa applications for foreigners wishing to travel to India. The central probe agency said on Saturday it raided eight locations in Delhi and Ghaziabad on July 9 under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The raids were carried out at the residences and offices of directors of several tour and travel companies and their chartered accountants and Rs 3.57-crore cash along with incriminating documents and digital records were seized, the agency said in a statement. The ED had received "specific inputs" that these entities were involved in unauthorised receipt of foreign remittance through payment gateways in the name of providing e-visa services to foreigners, it said. The agency said the preliminary probe found "two such entities received foreign remittance of more than Rs 200 crore for processing Indian e-visa applications of foreigners without any authorisation from the government." "These entities were also involved in high value suspicious transactions," it said. It was also found that "certain chartered accountants played a key role in managing the affairs of these entities and were behind the suspicious transactions carried out by them." "The seizure of unaccounted cash during the raids has raised further suspicion about the operations of such entities and blatant violation of statutory requirements," the ED said. A probe is underway and the directors and executives of these firms will be questioned, a senior agency official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-raids-delhi-ncr-travel-firms-cas-for-suspected-e-visa-fraud-seizes-over-rs-350-crore-in-cash-859884.html
11-07-2020||National||Fresh pleas filed in SC for probe into encounter killings of Vikas Dubey, associates||Fresh pleas have been filed in the Supreme Court for a CBI, or NIA or court monitored investigation to ascertain role of police-criminal-politicians nexus into killings of eight policemen on July 2 and all other deaths including that of Vikas Dubey and his gang members till July 10.  A Supreme Court advocate, Anoop Prakash Awasthi, contended the Rule of law cannot be restored by actions of state machinery as outlaw. He contended that if trigger-happy attitude of cops was not put under check, it will lead to anarchy. He pointed out life can be taken only by a procedure established by law as guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution. Terming the encounters killings of six persons allegedly involve in Kanpur incident of July 2 as suspicious in nature, Awasthi said revenge cannot replace justice howsoever grave and instigating the crime may be. He also raised a question if instant justice delivered by police was permissible in a democratic society governed by rule of law bypassing the criminal justice system. Or if the entire episode was not a ploy to save a selected few by demolishing house of Vikas Dubey and eliminating him and his co-accused and thus closing all chances of breaking vicious nexus of police-criminal-politicians.  In a related development, PUCL also filed a plea in the top court seeking an SIT probe into encounter of Dubey and his aides by Uttar Pradesh police. It asked the court to constitute a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court judge to enquire into the encounters that have been taking place in Uttar Pradesh and the criminal political nexus, prevailing in the state. The organisation, which had earlier questioned encounters in the state between January 1, 2017 and March 31, 2018, contended that police encounter or administrative liquidation was a serious crime, an offence against the entire society. "The incidents, which have been revealed in the killings of the Dubey and his associates, are very shocking in particular, keeping in view continuous cases of mass encounters in the state from January 1, 2017 onwards," it said. Meanwhile, a Mumbai advocate, Atal Bihari Dubey wrote a letter to the Chief Justice of India for taking Suo Motu cognisance of the matter to order an inquiry into the entire episode. Advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay who had earlier apprehended encounter killing of Dubey, asked the Supreme Court to urgently list his plea filed on July 10. src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mLNpS9KqfSrUYw5gn5VPcMygVxALCa8c/preview" width="640" height="480">||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-pleas-filed-in-sc-for-probe-into-encounter-killings-of-vikas-dubey-associates-859890.html
11-07-2020||National||DU students fear loss of job offers as exams get postponed again||The Delhi University Open Book Examination (OBE) was proposed as a solution to a unique challenge that the varsity faced - how to conduct exams for lakhs of students during a pandemic? A simple and seemingly effective solution was offered - online exams. Students were allowed to give open-book exams and answer analytical questions from the safety of their homes. The solution, however, did not sit well with students and faculty, who said that the OBE did not create a level playing field. While students had access to the same resources during exams at their respective colleges, the OBE means that the exams would have to be taken on personal devices with internet connections of varying bandwidths, in areas where the internet can be very unreliable (high-speed internet remains banned in Kashmir). The process expects students to write answers on A4 sheets, convert them to PDFs and upload them to the web portal. The mock exam, which was conducted recently to test the process, was a massive failure. Students across the country complained of technical glitches that affected the process. The exams, which have now been postponed till Aug. 15, have been a major source of stress for students whose future is clouded in uncertainty. Several students have already managed to secure jobs or admissions into master’s programmes. These students, however, may not be able to join either since the prerequisite for both is clearing the final-year exams.   Due to multiple delays in the OBE, students have had to get workplace joining dates shifted. Priyanshi Sharma, an economics student from Daulat Ram College (DRC) has had her joining date at a Gurugram-based firm pushed twice. “My date of joining was June 20. Due to the pandemic, the exams were scheduled in July, so I asked the HR to change my original offer letter," Priyanshi said. "Due to the OBE being postponed again, I made the same request today as well, except I had no definitive response when asked about when I would be able to join since there is no schedule. If I were in the HR's shoes, I would not think well of such an institution or a potential employee from it. The entire episode has brought down the respect attached to the University of Delhi.” Aditi Sinha is a B.Com student who has been placed with an accounting firm. “I tried reaching out to my HR but received no response," said Aditi. "I am hearing of several reputed firms rescinding offers and I am very nervous. I don’t know how they will conduct OBE, this is so stressful for us. They refuse to both conduct OBE or offer a legitimate alternative to it.” At Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), whispers of job offers being rescinded have created panic. “Gartner for sure has rescinded offers," said Aditya, a third-year student at SRCC. "A lot of companies that have not rescinded offers have shifted joining dates way ahead, as far as Jan. 1, 2021." SRCC Placement Cell Secretary-General Prathyusha disagrees with these claims. “As far as I know, there has been no revocation due to the uncertainty regarding OBE,” she said. Utkarsh Sharma, a B.Com student from Hindu College, was supposed to join the ESSEC Business School in France this September. While classes may start virtually, he will likely not be allowed to join the course without receiving his pass certificate. While one can defer the admission, Utkarsh will have to lose one academic year through no fault of his own. He said, “The thing is, I am not alone, there must be hundreds of such students. While some may be able to handle this trauma, others may not.”   Sakshi, who got admission at IIM Sirmaur for an MBA, will not be able to join the online classes that start on July 27. She is supposed to submit her final degree completion certificate by Nov. 30 and the OBE unpredictability has offered no clues about whether the exams would be checked and results would be available by then. “This is bound to affect my grades in the MBA and my summer placement interviews," Sakshi said. "Yet, nobody is ready to address this problem.” Garima Sadhwani, who starts online classes at the Asian College of Journalism from Aug. 1, is worried about the OBE clashing with her studies. "How am I going to manage undergraduate exams and postgraduate lessons together?" said Garima. "Will ACJ change its curriculum to accommodate DU’s ambitious OBE project?" Another OBE challenge is the fact the new pattern, which aims to test analytical skills, is alien to the students. ”The kind of system they want to go ahead with is very, very problematic, not only for technical reasons but regarding the sanctity of the examinations as well," said Rajib Ray, Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) president. "We did not teach them according to the open book examination system.” The DUTA has strongly opposed the exams since they were first proposed and has accused the University Grants Commission of prioritising the business needs of “the Amazon-run DU-OBE over the well-being of lakhs of students”. Delhi University students have experienced many emotions over the past few months and many have channelled this uncertainty into humour, often in the form of memes at the expense of the Dean of Examinations or the Vice-Chancellor. A 25-page PDF filled with OBE-related memes has been circulating among college WhatsApp groups. There is little that is in actuality amusing about the challenges the students face. The delay in joining workplaces, the risk of losing employment, the inability to join a master's programme and the possibility of doing badly in the exams due to technical glitches and a new format have created an atmosphere of anxiety for the class of 2020. The OBE has added to the uncertainty caused by the pandemic and the lack of solutions has only added to the worries that seem to have no end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/du-students-fear-loss-of-job-offers-as-exams-get-postponed-again-859894.html
11-07-2020||National||Children in 62% surveyed homes discontinued education amid coronavirus crisis across 15 states: Report||The rapid needs assessment was carried out by child rights NGO Save The Children to understand challenges, thematic priorities and impact of coronavirus among target beneficiaries. It was conducted from June 7 to 30, 2020. As many as 7,235 households participated in the survey. In the country's northern region, 3,827 households were surveyed while in the southern region 556 households were surveyed. In the eastern region, 1,722 households were surveyed while in the western region 1,130 households were surveyed.   The assessment found that the discontinuation of children's education was reported by three-fifths (62 percent) of the surveyed households with the highest number was recorded in north India at 64 percent and the least in south India at 48 percent. No immediate reaction was available from the HRD ministry on the assessment. On mid-day meals (MDM), the survey found that close to two-fifth of the households reported that their children were not receiving them. Across hubs, 52 percent of West (highest), 39 percent of North, 38 percent of South and 28 percent of East (least) reported that they were not receiving mid-day meals. "In terms of settlement, out of total 40 percent of urban and 38 percent of rural children were not receiving MDM," it found. The assessment also found that 40 percent people were not able to provide adequate meals and eight out of 10 households reported a loss of income. Anindit Roy Chowdhury, director of programmes and policy impact, Save the Children (India), said what the report highlights are that a large proportion of children are not receiving any kind of support in terms of education. "The picture is certainly not rosy. Children are not getting a nutritious diet as well. The mid-day meal that children are used to getting, they are not getting it. Children are not just missing out on education but they are also missing out on what they were getting to eat," he told PTI. The assessment found that two out of five households reported that they did not receive any kind of support either from the school or from the education department for their children's education. The report said "52 percent of East (highest), 40 percent of South, 39 percent of North and 34 percent of West (least) households reportedly did not receive any kind support for their children education". It further said "42 percent of rural and 40 percent of urban households had not received any kind of education support". In addition, the assessment said that 14 percent households did not have smartphone or required internet bandwidth connection to attend online sessions. It also found that four out of 10 children were reportedly 'playing at home with learning' and one out of four children were 'working at home' due to the closure of schools. Acute shortage of cash and lack of livelihood opportunities were among the most crucial challenges identified by the assessment. Lack of livelihood opportunities was reported by nearly three-fourths (74 percent) of the households while the acute shortage of cash was reported by 80 percent households. "Close to half (45 percent) of households started taking distress measures like credit, mortgage and loan while one in ten households reportedly sold household items and assets," it found. It also found that close to one in five households reportedly have not been receiving ration from the public distribution system. "Across hubs, 27 percent of North (highest), 17 percent of West and seven percent each for East & South (least) households reported not to have received ration under PDS," it said. "It means there are more mouths to feed in limited income that has put a tremendous burden on the overall rural part of the country. It was seen that food scarcity was obvious at urban level but now we are seeing that at the rural level also livelihood has taken a big hit and this has repercussions," he said. However, Chowdhury said, "it is too little a data to predict a particular trend". The rapid needs assessments are generally undertaken immediately after a disaster to provide information on needs, possible courses of action and resource requirements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-in-62-surveyed-homes-discontinued-education-amid-coronavirus-crisis-across-15-states-report-859896.html
11-07-2020||National||Healthcare spends, making India slum-free should be government's priority: Experts||The government can turn Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity by investing in healthcare, and it should also pursue making all the cities slum-free by 2023, according to economists. At the seventh economic conclave - organised by State Bank of India on Saturday, there was unanimity among the economists on laying greater thrust on decentralisation in policy-making in the future, as a one size fits all approach may not work always. India at present has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases after the US and Brazil and has already lost over 22,000 people. "It's very concerning that a lot of this discussion of the Aatmanirbhar (Bharat) package or other packages are not talking at all about what investments are taking place in the health sector. How much are we spending on testing, basic information campaigns? "This is a health induced crisis, you got to respond to that in order to respond to the economy," Rohini Pande, who is associated with Yale University, said. India has historically under-invested in health and the increase is not very much right now as well, she said, stressing that we need to recognise that for economic recovery, humanitarian and health crisis are all interlinked. "To change this crisis to an opportunity, let us invest in the health sector," SBI's chief economist S K Ghosh said, suggesting a plan to build a 500-bed hospital in 250 districts at a cost of Rs 60,000 crore over the next two years. Pande said frontline health workers are not paid, and we can immediately start paying them and expand their base, which will lead to better case spotting and also contact tracing. Arjun Jayadev with Azim Premji University said concerns on the health infrastructure affect the broader economy as well and pointed out that the animal spirits can only be rekindled once the fear of health shock goes away. "Many migrant labourers may not want to return to the cities not just because they are not getting a good conducive environment to live, but they are bothered about their health condition as well," he said. The Indian economy runs on two gears – one which have access to expensive private healthcare and the others who don't, Jayadev said, adding that universalisation of services should be a key theme while investing the money. "You have this horrific situation where five lakh die of TB, 1.5 lakh children die and we don't bat an eyelid, except when the situation comes to us as Covid-19," he added. Rathin Roy in National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP) suggested a radical change in output measurement where gains on agriculture, health, education and housing become the lead indicators of economic strength rather than focusing on automobile sales and FMCG good sales. Roy also proposed making a slum-free India as a policy objective by 2023. "It is obvious from the migrant labour problem, it is obvious from the Covid-19 situation that a slum-free India (by) 2023 should be our objective. I do not see enough economists, enough policymakers, even mentioning a slum-free India," he said. All the economists also seemed to agree that the Reserve Bank of India will have to monetise a part of the fiscal deficit this year due to the extreme strain on government finances, but did not offer a quantum or timeline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-spends-making-india-slum-free-should-be-governments-priority-experts-859901.html
11-07-2020||National||Plea filed in Supreme Court for compensation for Covid-19 victims||A plea has been filed by a Kerala resident, for a direction to the Centre and States to formulate a guideline to provide ex-gratia compensation to the next of kin of those who died due to Covid-19 pandemic. In a petition, social activist Hasik Thayikandi contended that there were numerous instances where doctors, para medical staff, government servants and sanitation workers have lost their lives while protecting life of other citizens. The outbreak of the disease has already been notified as a disaster under the Disaster Management Act. It has been increasing with each passing day, taking lives of diligent tax payers and adversely affecting other citizens. "It is the need of hour to invoke public law remedy as citizens are sacrificing their daily lives and the state must safeguard and provide relief to citizens who succumbed to Covid-19 while discharging their duties," the plea filed by advocate Deepak Prakash said. The petitioner also sought directions to the Centre and States to file a detailed status report before the court, the total number of Covid-19 related deaths and causalities and measures taken by the authorities for compensating the loss of life due to the disaster. He said in the past, compensations ranging from Rs 15 lakhs to Rs one crore has been announced for disasters like tornado, earthquake, tsunami and recent Vizag gas leak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-supreme-court-for-compensation-for-covid-19-victims-859909.html
11-07-2020||National||Traders' body protests after Chinese JV bids for 44 Vande Bharat trains||In a letter to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has urged that a Chinese firm be disallowed from participation in bids, a day after it emerged as the only foreign player for the Railways' global tender for its ambitious semi-high speed indigenous Train 18 project. CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited, one of the six bidders for the project, is a joint venture of the state-owned Chinese firm CRRC Corporation Ltd with a Gurugram-based company according to its website. The tender is for procuring propulsion systems or electric traction kits for 44 trains to function as the Vande Bharat Express or Train 18. "Our 'boycott Chinese campaign' began on 10th June, 2020. Under our mission statement, 'Bhartiya Saman-Hamara Abhimaan', we request you to please not allow Chinese state-owned CRRC Corporation to participate in global tender for semi-high speed indigenous Train 18 project of Indian Railway The total worth of the project is more than Rs 1,500 crores for 44 Vande Bharat Express Trains,” said Praveen Khandelwal, national secretary-general, CAIT, in the letter. The other contenders include Bharat Heavy Electricals, Bharat Industries Sangrur, Hyderabad-based Medha Group, Electrowaves Electronic Pvt Ltd and Mumbai-based Powernetics Equipments Pvt Ltd. "We appreciate the several steps taken by the Union Government and your Ministry as well to block Chinese companies for their participation in Railways, Highways and other infrastructure-related projects," the letter said. The global tender worth around Rs 1500 crore was floated on December 22 last year by the Integral Coach Factory (ICF), Chennai, and was opened on Friday. It is the third such tender floated for these trains. Floated under the Make in India initiative, the tender was for the supply of electrical equipment and other items for 44 train sets of 16 coaches each. "We further wish to state that this initiative of the Government is a part of Make in India call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and as such considering the above fact and the current critical period, it will be most appropriate not to consider the said Chinese Company and rather emphasis should be laid more on Indian Companies who have been shortlisted for this project," the letter said. "We are sure that you will be considering our humble request made in consonance of the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for vocal on local and Atmanirbhar Bharat,¨ Khandelwal said in the letter. Major players like Bombardier, Alstom, Siemens, CAF, Talgo and Mitsubishi did not participate in the bids. The emergence of a Chinese company as a bidder for these train sets being promoted as indigenous products comes after a violent face-off between India and China in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh last month. Following a standoff with the neighbouring country, the national transporter cancelled a Rs 471-crore signalling and telecommunication work for a stretch of 417-km on the Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) section by a Chinese company and also scrapped a tender for thermal screening cameras after Indian vendors complained of the bid document favouring the Chinese. Officials say it might take at least two-and-a-half years for the next Train 18 to be manufactured, thus causing delay in the target set by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal who had earlier said the plan was to produce 160 coaches in 2019-20, 240 coaches in 2020-21 and 240 coaches in 2021-22 at the ICF in Chennai. All coaches in these trains will be Chair Car type for day travel. They will be provided with cab AC, fully air-conditioned passenger compartment with vestibule arrangement, automatic plug doors with retractable footsteps, automatic intercommunication door, in-coach displays, speakers, side destination boards, luggage racks with reading lamps, direct lighting and diffused lighting (for luggage racks), continuous LED light fixtures, modular pantry equipments and GPS antenna in all coaches, Mobile/laptop charging sockets in the passenger seats, CCTVs and Emergency talk back units with networking system in all coaches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/traders-body-protests-after-chinese-jv-bids-for-44-vande-bharat-trains-859918.html
11-07-2020||National||Travel agencies under ED scanner for e-visa transactions||A group of tour and travel firms in the National Capital Region (NCR) are under the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for alleged irregularities in processing e-visa applications for foreigners planning to visit India, officials said on Saturday. The agency has conducted searches in eight locations in Delhi and adjoining Ghaziabad last Thursday under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) during which Rs 3.57 crore cash and digital documents were recovered. An official statement said the searches were conducted at the offices and residences of directors of several tour and travel companies and their Chartered Accountants. According to the ED, these entities are believed to have received foreign remittance illegally in the name of providing e-visa services to foreigners. "Two such entities received foreign remittance of more than Rs 200 crore for processing Indian e-visa applications of foreigners without any authorisation from the government. These entities were also involved in high value suspicious transactions," it said. Certain Chartered Accountants are also believed to have played a key role in managing the affairs of these entities and were behind the suspicious transactions carried out by them, the ED said. "The seizure of unaccounted cash during the raids has raised further suspicion about the operations of such entities and blatant violation of statutory requirements," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/travel-agencies-under-ed-scanner-for-e-visa-transactions-859928.html
11-07-2020||National||Emirates to operate repatriation flights to five Indian cities from July 12 to 26||In a big relief to Indians stranded in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the Dubai-based airline Emirates will fly daily flights to Bengaluru and four other cities from July 12 to 26. Emirates announced this after getting the green signal from Civil Aviation authorities in India and UAE. Two flights are scheduled daily from Dubai to Bengaluru, Delhi and Kochi. Mumbai will get three flights every day during the period, while one daily flight is scheduled to Thiruvananthapuram. It is learnt that the flights to Bengaluru and Mumbai are subject to the approval of the respective state governments. Only Indians stranded in Dubai will be allowed to the board the flight to Bengaluru. Emirates is expected to operate its flights EK565 and EK567 on the Boeing 777-300ER platforms, aviation sources said. Emirates, it is learnt, will also operate the flights from India to Dubai. However, these repatriation flights will be available only for UAE nationals and residents with prior entry approval from the General Directorate of Residency and Foreign Affairs (GDFRA). Before boarding the flights to Dubai, passengers will have to obtain a negative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) certificate issued by an Indian government-authorised laboratory. Travellers will be allowed on the flight only if the certificates produced are issued no more than 96 hours before departure. Meanwhile, the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) recorded a total of 3,863 scheduled Air Traffic Movements (Departures and Arrivals) during June 2020. IndiGo, with 2,065 departures and arrivals accounted for 53.4% of the ATMs, with 13.8% each by SpiceJet (535 ATMs) and AirAsia India (535). The ATM share of the other airlines during the month was: Air India (295 ATMs, 7.6%), GoAir (176 ATMs, 4.5%), TruJet (112, 2.9%), StarAir (87, 2.2%) and Vistara (58 ATMs, 1.5%). Domestic flights had resumed operations on May 25. The June 2020 ATM figures are nowhere near the pre-Covid numbers recorded at KIA, the country’s third busiest airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emirates-to-operate-repatriation-flights-to-five-indian-cities-from-july-12-to-26-859929.html
11-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: 2018 Tiger Census sets new Guinness World Record, Shaktikanta Das asks banks to conduct Covid-19 stress test||In today's episode, 2018 Tiger Census makes it to Guinness records, Saturday lockdown unlikely in Karnataka, Bengaluru urban has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das asks banks to conduct Covid-19 stress test and Singapore election results.    Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-2018-tiger-census-sets-new-guinness-world-record-shaktikanta-das-asks-banks-to-conduct-covid-19-stress-test-859932.html
11-07-2020||National||Vande Bharat Express: Indian Railways likely to scrap Chinese joint venture bids||Indian Railways is likely to disqualify Chinese-Indian joint venture company CRRC Pioneer Electric Pvt Limited, which bid to build semi high speed Vande Bharat Express train. Chennai-based Indian Railway's Integral Coach Factory, December 2019 had invited global tender for procuring propulsion systems or electric traction kits for 44 trains to function as the Vande Bharat Express, which is also dubbed as Train-18 project. When bids were opened on Friday, total six companies have participated which are : CRRC Pioneer Electric Pvt Limited, Gurugram, BHEL, New Delhi; Bhatat Industries, Sanger; Electrowaves Electronics Pvt Ltd, Parwanoo; Medha Servo Drives Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad and Powernetrics Equipment Pvt Ltd, Navi Mumbai. The only foreign player participated in the Rs 1400 crore project is Chinese and Indian joint venture CRRC Pioneer Electric Pvt Limited. China state owned rolling stock company CRRC Yongji Electric Co. Ltd. and Gurugram-based firm formed a joint venture in 2015. The next course of action will be award the contract after technical evaluation of each bid. Amid hightented tensions between India and China over violent face-offf between two armies in Eastern Ladakh, the national tranaporter is likely to scrap Chinese-Indian joint venture company bids as per Make in India guidelines, said an official in railways. According to the guidelines, the nodal ministry can exclude any of bidder, if it satisfied that Indian suppliers of an item are not allowed to participate and/or compete in procurement by any foreign government, it may, if it deems appropriate, restrict or exclude bidders from that country from eligibility for procurement of that item and/or other items relating to that Nodal Ministry. According to the Make in India policy, the bidder can reject any bids by a company if the majority of its shareholding or effective control is exercised from any country other than where it is registered. Earlier, when asked Chinese companies participating in some of railway projects including building new train sets, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said, “As far as the question on Chinese companies arises, there are guidelines under the Make in India Policy by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and we will follow them.” Two trains of Vande Bharat Express was built by Chennai based ICF at a cost of Rs 100 crore each. First under operation between New Delhi and Varanasi and the second between New Delhi and Katra. To provide better facilities and quality service to train travellers, these trains equipped with modern facilities, such as automatic doors, wi-fi availability and CCTV cameras and many other advanced features. In phased manner Vande Bharat Express trains expected replace the Shatabdi trains. Separately Apex traders’ body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has ureged Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to scrap Chinese joint venture company bids for a global tender by the railways for manufacturing trains. Recently, the Indian Railway cancelled a tender for Covid-19 surveillance thermal cameras after some of Indian firms alleged that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese company. Even the railways also decided to cancel railway singalling works in Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor had given to Chinese company after complaints of slow work progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-express-indian-railways-likely-to-scrap-chinese-joint-venture-bids-859934.html
11-07-2020||National||Kanpur Police Raid: Slain gangster Vikas Dubey's properties on ED radar||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has launched a probe into the alleged properties of gangster Vikas Dubey, who was gunned down in an 'encounter' with the police near Kanpur on Friday. According to the police sources, the ED has sought details of properties of the slain gangster and also those in the name of his family members and associates. ED has sent a letter to the Kanpur police seeking information in this regard, sources said. A case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) could be registered by the ED at a later stage. The police officials in Kanpur said that Vikas had amassed huge wealth in the past over three decades through his criminal activities and had also made investments in the real estate. Sources said that the gangster had toured around a dozen foreign countries in the past few years and might also have purchased flats and apartments in some nations. Vikas reportedly owned several houses in Kanpur, Lucknow and some other cities in the country. He also had bought lands at many places, sources said. Jai Bajpai, a Kanpur based businessman and, who was in the police custody, used to look after the investments made by the gangster, police sources said. Meanwhile, a team of the special task force (STF) of the state police would be visiting Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh from where Vikas was 'arrested' on Thursday. Police sources here said on Saturday that the STF would be quizzing the liquor trader in Ujjain, who had allegedly provided shelter to Vikas during his stay there. The STF team would also examine the footage of the CCTV inside the famous 'Mahakal' Temple in Ujjain. Vikas had been 'arrested' from the temple premises. Vikas was gunned down in a controversial 'encounter' with the police near Kanpur on Friday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanpur-police-raid-slain-gangster-vikas-dubeys-properties-on-ed-radar-859935.html
11-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recoveries cross 5-lakh mark, recovery rate at 62.78 pc||The number of Covid-19 patients who have recovered in the country crossed the five-lakh mark on Saturday, the Union Health ministry said and attributed it to a number of measures taken by the Centre and the state governments, including implementation of containment zones and surveillance activities. India's Covid-19 tally surged to 8,20,916 on Saturday while the death toll climbed to 22,123 with 519 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, according to the health ministry's data updated at 8 am. A series of proactive, preemptive and coordinated measures have been taken by the Centre and the state governments for containment and prevention of Covid-19, it said.  Coupled with effective implementation of containment zones, surveillance activities, timely diagnosis and effective clinical management of Covid-19 cases, the cumulative total number of recovered cases among Covid-19 patients has crossed the 5-lakh mark on Saturday, the ministry said.  A total of 5,15,385 Covid-19 patients have recovered so far with 19,870 patients having been cured and discharged in the last 24 hours till 8 am.    "The recovered cases outnumber the Covid-19 active cases by 2,31,978. With this progressively widening gap, the recovery rate has further improved to 62.78 per cent," the ministry said.  There are 2,83,407 active cases and all are under medical supervision, with severe cases being admitted in hospitals and pre-symptomatic patients and those showing moderate symptoms in home isolation, the ministry said. Recent policy changes like allowing all registered medical practitioners to recommend testing for Covid and introduction of rapid antigen point of care testing along with RT-PCR has substantially bolstered the Covid-19 tests in the country, the ministry said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 1,13,07,002 swab samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to July 10, of which 2,82,511 were tested on Friday. "The per day tests are demonstrating a steep upward trend with 2,82,511 samples tested yesterday. As on date, the Test per Million (TPM) for the country stands at 8,193," the ministry said.     There are 1,180  labs under the  ICMR's diagnostic network which are functional in the country. While those in the public sector have appreciably increased to 841 labs, the number of private labs has also been strengthened to a total of 339, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recoveries-cross-5-lakh-mark-recovery-rate-at-6278-pc-859956.html
11-07-2020||National||SC to pronounce judgement on Shree Padmanabhaswamy Temple on July 13||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its judgement on Monday on the administration and management of Thiruvananthapuram's historic Shree Padmanabhaswamy Temple, estimated to have Rs 1 lakh crore in wealth, along with its "mystical" energy. A bench of Justices a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Indu Malhotra would deliver the verdict at 10.30 am on July 13. Among the others issues, the court may decide upon the rights of the royal family on temple, feasibility of forming a devasom board like Guruvayur and Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams and opening of the Kallara (vault) B of the temple, believed to contain some mystical energy. The judgement was reserved on April 10, 2019 after about nine years of hearing. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanian has acted as amicus curiae in the matter. Former CAG Vinod Rai was also appointed to audit the records including expenditures incurred for temple's upkeep. The court has also appointed former apex court judge Justice K S Radhakrishnan as chairman of the selection committee which was constituted for works, including in the Sreekovil (sanctum sanctorum). The controversy over the administration and management of the historic temple has been pending in the apex court since 2011 in the wake of charges of financial irregularities. The sprawling temple, an architectural splendour in granite, was rebuilt in its present form in the 18th century by the Travancore Royal family led by Shri Marthanda Varma who had ruled southern Kerala and some adjoining parts of Tamil Nadu before integration of the princely state with the Indian Union in 1947. Even after India's independence, the temple continued to be governed by a trust controlled by the erstwhile royal family for whom Lord Padmanabha (Vishnu) is their family deity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-judgement-on-shree-padmanabhaswamy-temple-on-july-13-859961.html
11-07-2020||National||Govt asks Rajasthan High Court to stymie potential challenge to Chinese app ban||India's government has petitioned Rajasthan High court to stop any of the Chinese companies whose 59 apps it recently banned from obtaining an injunction to block the order, according to two sources and the legal filing. India last month outlawed dozens of Chinese apps including ByteDance's popular video-sharing app TikTok, Alibaba's UC Browser and Tencent's messaging app WeChat, saying they posed a "threat to sovereignty and integrity". Chinese firms have faced hostility since a border clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers, with Delhi intensifying scrutiny of Chinese imports and any funding from China. Two sources with direct knowledge of the filing said the government had presented a so-called caveat in the Rajasthan High Court, suggesting it expects one or more of the companies to challenge the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology's ban. Such caveats are typically filed to prevent a ruling in favour of companies without hearing the government, Indian lawyers said. The filing, which one of the sources said was presented on Friday, has not previously been reported. "Let nothing be done till the applicants (government) are heard in the matter," said the court filing signed by Additional Solicitor General of India Rajdeepak Rastogi. GUARDING CYBER SPACE The order to ban the apps was passed to safeguard "the interests of Indian mobile and Internet users and ensure safety and sovereignty of Indian Cyber Space," said the filing, which was seen by Reuters. It was not immediately clear why the government approached the court in Rajasthan and whether there were plans to file similar petitions elsewhere. India's IT ministry and the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Indian courts do not comment on cases. Previously, China has expressed strong concern about the ban, which could hurt expansion plans and cost jobs, and said it may violate World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. None of the Chinese companies has yet mounted a legal challenge, with industry sources saying they were waiting for further clarity from the Indian government. India's IT ministry recently asked the companies associated with the 59 apps to answer a detailed questionnaire within three weeks on their business structure and data storage practices, the industry sources told Reuters. The decision to ban the apps has jolted companies like ByteDance, which counted on India as an important growth market for TikTok and had plans to invest $1 billion in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-rajasthan-high-court-to-stymie-potential-challenge-to-chinese-app-ban-859966.html
11-07-2020||National||Terrorists 'on the run' in Jammu and Kashmir: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday said terrorists are on the run in Kashmir and are faced with a "hot chase" by security forces, which has put them under tremendous pressure. Under the Modi government, there is clarity and conviction in following the policy of zero tolerance towards terrorism, and this has started showing logical results, Singh, Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), said here. Expressing deep dismay at the brutal killing of a BJP leader in Kashmir's Bandipora, he said this was also the handiwork of the terrorists who are on the run and are looking for soft targets out of desperation. This is the last chapter of the 30-year-old history of terrorism in Jammu & Kashmir, Singh said, adding that two heavily affected districts of Doda and Kishtwar, which witnessed many a massacre in the last three decades, have been rendered terror-free. "Terrorists are on the run in Kashmir and are faced with a hot chase by security forces, which has, for the first time in several years, put them under tremendous pressure," the minister told PTI here. He said it was significant that even the separatist leaders and the so-called mainstream political parties of Kashmir have started tactically distancing themselves from the terrorists. "A more recent heartening phenomenon is that Kashmir-centric leaders now stand exposed for their duplicity and the new generation of youth is not prepared to stake its future in the manner the earlier two generations were pushed into doing," said Singh, Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur constituency. On the current scenario in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of Covid-19, Singh said unlike in many other parts of the country, the development activities continued in the Union Territory, though sometimes, the pace got reduced or there was a brief interruption. "Despite the lockdown, work is going on for the construction of a medical college in Doda and a National Institute of High Altitude Medicine in Bhaderwah," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorists-on-the-run-in-jammu-and-kashmir-union-minister-jitendra-singh-859969.html
11-07-2020||National||'Indiscriminate use of remdesivir, tocilizumab on Covid-19 patients can cause more harm than good'||They told the states that the drugs mentioned as 'investigational therapies' should be used with caution due to their potential for serious adverse effects including liver and kidney injury, the health ministry said.  During the conference on ‘Covid Case Management by State/UT Centres of Excellence’, states were also told that the available evidence for remdesivir suggests that it may decrease the time for clinical improvement when used in moderate to severe cases. However, there have been no benefits in terms of reduced mortality, the ministry said. "It (remdesivir) has to be used with extreme caution due to its potential for serious adverse effects including liver and kidney injury.  Similarly, for tocilizumab studies have not shown any benefits in mortality reduction,” the statement said.   "However, if used for patients with severe conditions, proper informed consent is required. Rampant use is to be discouraged since the effect of the drug is directed at the 'cytokine storm’,” it said. A cytokine storm is a severe immune reaction. The ministry said all 'investigational therapies' are required to be carried out only in proper health care facilities where close monitoring of patients is possible so that potential complications can be managed.   The ICMR strongly recommended that the focus of clinical management should continue to remain on oxygen therapy, steroids which are widely available and inexpensive, appropriate and timely administration of anti-coagulants and high-quality supportive care, including mental health counselling for patients and families, management of pre-existing illness and palliation of symptoms, the ministry said. It said the pursuit of an effective treatment for Covid-19 has resulted in the repurposing of several drugs which are not part of the main Clinical Management Protocol but have been indicated as “investigational therapies”. "These drugs have still not been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and are only permitted for restricted Emergency Use for Covid-19," it stated.  These can be used in specific sub-groups of patients on the basis of informed and shared decision making with the patient before prescribing these drugs, the statement said.  "The States, as well as the Medical College hospitals designated as Centres of Excellence, were reminded by ICMR and AIIMS that their indiscriminate use or use in conditions for which they are not desirable, may cause more harm than good," it further said. Based on the severity of symptoms, Covid-19 can be categorised into three groups — mild, moderate and severe.  During the video conference with states, ICMR and AIIMS emphasised that in the absence of a cure, the standard of care treatment for mild, moderate and severe cases as described in the Clinical Management Protocol of the health ministry would be most effective.  For moderate and severe cases, adequate oxygen support, appropriate and timely administration of anti-coagulants and widely available and inexpensive corticosteroids, in accordance with the protocol, can be considered to be the mainstay of Covid-19 therapy, the ministry stated. For mild cases, which are nearly 80 percent of the total cases, Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) has been recommended. The standard of care treatment strategies have shown to yield positive results, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indiscriminate-use-of-remdesivir-tocilizumab-on-covid-19-patients-can-cause-more-harm-than-good-859975.html
11-07-2020||National||India sees localised lockdowns as Covid-19 cases surge; PM Modi calls for real-time monitoring||Several state governments have resorted to localised lockdowns to combat Covid-19 as fresh infections recorded the highest ever increase prompting Prime Minister Narendra Modi directing real-time national monitoring of the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh had ordered a lockdown from 10:00 p.m. on Friday to 5:00 a.m. on Monday, July 13 as the state reported a high number of Covid-19 cases. Bihar too has ordered restrictions in Patna and six other districts. India on Saturday witnessed its sharpest increase in Covid-19 cases as it reported 27114 new infections on Saturday morning taking the total confirmed cases to 8,20,916, the health ministry said. According to the DH Covid-19 Tracker, India’s Covid-19 count had increased to 8,32,268 at 8:30 p.m. on Saturday. The Prime Minister reviewed the Covid-19 situation across the country at a meeting that was attended by Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and senior government functionaries. “The Prime Minister directed that we must reiterate the need to observe personal hygiene and social discipline in public places. The awareness about Covid should be disseminated widely and a continuous emphasis on preventing spread of the infection should be laid,” a statement from the PMO said. “There is no room for any complacency in this regard,” the Prime Minister said. Modi lauded the efforts of the Centre, state and local authorities in containing the spread of the disease in Delhi and directed that similar approach be adopted in the entire national capital region. “Prime Minister also directed that real time national level monitoring and guidance should be provided to all affected States and places with high test positivity rate,” the PMO statement said. Meanwhile, the Drug Controller General of India granted approval to Itolizumab, a drug used to cure skin ailment psoriasis for “restricted emergency use” to treat Covid-19 patients with moderate to severe acute respiratory distress. As per the DCGI, the re-purposed drug can be used only in a hospital set-up, and requires informed consent of patients and a risk management plan. “The average cost of treatment with this indigenous drug – Itolizumab – is also lesser than comparable drugs which are part of the “Investigational Therapies’ indicated in the Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19 by the Health Ministry,” an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-localised-lockdowns-as-covid-19-cases-surge-pm-modi-calls-for-real-time-monitoring-859980.html
11-07-2020||National||Chinese military further withdraws troops from Pangong Tso area: Sources||The escalation in tension in eastern Ladakh was triggered by a violent clash between the two armies in Pangong Tso on May 5 in which a sizeable number of personnel from both sides were injured. Following the incident, both sides were locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation in three other locations in the region. At the military talks, the two sides are expected to specifically focus on completing the withdrawal of troops from Pangong Tso and Depsang besides laying out a detailed roadmap for disengagement of large numbers of troops from the rear bases by the two sides in a time-bound manner. Both sides had significantly ramped up troops and weaponry including tanks and artillery guns in eastern Ladakh. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on Monday morning after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday. The Chinese military has already completed moving back its troops from the face-off sites in Galwan Valley, Gogra and Hot Springs in line with the first phase of the disengagement process from the friction points on the LAC in eastern Ladakh, sources said. The main focus now shifts to Pangong Tso. India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. There has been a further withdrawal of Chinese troops in the ridgeline of Finger Four and they have removed some boats from Pangong lake, the sources said. On Friday, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks during which both sides resolved to push ahead with "complete disengagement" of troops in eastern Ladakh in a timely manner for "full restoration" of peace and tranquillity. At the meeting, it was decided that senior commanders of the two armies will meet "soon" to discuss further steps to "ensure complete disengagement and de-escalation". After the online diplomatic meeting under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the two sides agreed that maintenance of "enduring peace" in the border areas was essential for the overall development of bilateral ties. The MEA said the two sides reaffirmed to ensure complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC for "full restoration" of peace and tranquillity in the border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols. Both sides have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region. However, there was no visible sign of any end to the standoff till Sunday evening. On June 30, the Indian and Chinese armies held the third round of Lt general-level talks during which both sides agreed on an "expeditious, phased and stepwise" de-escalation as a "priority" to end the standoff. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. Twenty Indian army personnel were killed in the clashes on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Tensions had escalated in eastern Ladakh around two months back after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-military-further-withdraws-troops-from-pangong-tso-area-sources-859981.html
11-07-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi have guts to take on Modi-Shah twins: Digvijaya Singh||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday asked why those not appreciative of the aggressive stand taken on issues of national interest by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were still in the party. Singh also urged Rahul Gandhi to lead the party. He said the Gandhi siblings have the courage and guts to take on the "Modi-Shah twins" who must have no illusion that they can browbeat the Gandhi-Nehru family with the threat of probe agencies. The Rajya Sabha MP and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister, in a series of tweets, also said Rahul Gandhi should not have "withdrawn" after emerging as the main challenger to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. "I personally support the aggressive stand which Rahul ji and Priyanka ji are taking on issues of national interest in India and UP. If this is not appreciated by some leaders in Congress, then why are they in Congress," Singh asked. I personally support the aggressive stand which Rahul ji and Priyanka ji are taking on issues of National interest in India and UP. If this is not appreciated by some leaders in Congress then why are they in Congress? I In another tweet on Rahul Gandhi, Singh said, "He had virtually emerged as the main challenger to Modi in 2019 and should have continued to build the party either as AICC president or leader of Congress parliamentary party in Lok Sabha. Why did he voluntarily withdraw from the scene?" Lashing out at the media for creating a perception that there was opposition to Rahul Gandhi, Singh said, "No one and no one in the Congress is opposed to him. This perception is more in you people in the media than reality," he said. He also said that Congressmen who want to go soft on Modi must have guts to speak their mind within party or in public. Singh praised party colleague and former Union minister P Chidambaram for not bowing despite being jailed by the Centre on "cooked up charges". He said the Congress leadership must take up the challenge of building the party organisation brick by brick, claiming "this is where we need the dynamism of Rahul ji and Priyanka ji" as "both of them have the guts and courage to take on Modi-Shah twins". "Modi-Shah are under a misconception that they can browbeat the Nehru-Gandhi family by threats of ED/IT/CBI. The whole family has fought the British, spent years in jail and are a brave lot. So don't be under any illusion Modi-Shah ji," the former MP CM said. ModiShah are under a misconception that they can browbeat Nehru Gandhi Family by threats of ED/IT/CBI. Their whole Family have fought the British fearlessly spent years in jail and are a brave lot. So don’t be under any of illusion ModiShah ji. In another tweet, Singh urged Rahul Gandhi to lead the party. "This is the crux of the matter and this is the challenge before Sonia ji, Rahul ji and Priyanka ji. I am certain they would do it. The whole Congress party, young old everyone, stands behind you and are ready to make whatever sacrifice you demand. So, Rahul ji please lead," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-have-guts-to-take-on-modi-shah-twins-digvijaya-singh-859985.html
11-07-2020||National||Assam asks asymptomic persons to sign agreement for home isolation||From neighbours' no objection to arranging a personal car, Assam government on Saturday put forth at least five conditions for an agreement required to be signed by the asymptomic Covid-19 positive persons to remain in home isolation. "The government is not in favour of home isolation of the positive persons but since some sections are writing in the social media asking for home isolation, we have worked out some conditions. Anyone willing to be in home isolation must fulfil these conditions and sign an agreement with the health department," healthy minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters in Guwahati. The conditions include a written no objection from the neighbours (apartment society for those living in flat), declaration that there is no aged person or ailing persons in the family, must own a pulse oxymeter, access to a private doctor and a personal car with a driver 24-hours. "In case the person's oxygen level goes down during the home isolation, the person must come to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital in his personal car. The health department will not be able to provide ambulance service, in that situation," Sarma said. The minister said the department was against home isolation of the Covid-19 positive persons as most of the families in Assam are joint families and at least three generations live at the same home. "One person can spread the virus to 8 to 10 persons," he said. The Covid-19 positive cases in Assam has touched 15, 536 of which 5650 are still active. A total of 35 persons have died so far.  The spike in positive cases, particularly in Guwahati has become a worry for the government with the city already into two-week lockdown till Sunday. The government, however, decided to extend the lockdown by another one week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-asks-asymptomic-persons-to-sign-agreement-for-home-isolation-859990.html
11-07-2020||National||In 2019, nearly 5.5 cr unintended pregnancies, 18 lakh unsafe abortions were averted: Harsh Vardhan||Nearly 5.5 crore unintended pregnancies, 18 lakh unsafe abortions and 30,000 maternal deaths were averted as a result of contraceptive use in 2019, Union Health Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday. Vardhan, while chairing a virtual meeting on the occasion of World Population Day, also said that this was achieved due to substantial investment in the family planning programme. He emphasised that the strategy of putting family planning at the core has helped to achieve remarkable results, the health ministry said in a statement. During the meeting, the minister also highlighted the success of the Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child, Adolescent Health Plus Nutrition (RMNCAH+N) services programme. Vardhan noted that these efforts have taken India closer to reaching the replacement fertility level of 2.1. Twenty-five out of the 36 states and union territories have already achieved replacement fertility level, he said. "In the last decade alone, our crude birth rate (CBR) has reduced from 21.8 (SRS 2011) to 20 (SRS 2018), while the total fertility Rate (TFR) has declined from 2.4 (SRS 2011) to 2.2 (SRS 2018)," Vardhan was quoted as saying in the statement. "The teenage fertility has halved from 16 (NFHS-III) to 7.9 (NFHS-IV)," he said. Commemorating World Population Day is important as it emphasises the importance of population stabilisation and its vital role in the future of the masses and their health, the minister said. "It is even more critical now to recognise the importance of providing reproductive health services due to the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic," Vardhan said. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment to the Swachh Bharat Mission, which transformed into a social movement, he urged everyone to make the population stabilisation mission an equally powerful people's movement, the statement said. The health minister emphasised that family planning provides dignity to women, especially who are poor and marginalised. This needs to, therefore, be the cornerstone of efforts for gender equality, maternal and child health, poverty alleviation and propagation of human rights, Vardhan said. He said India is a fundamental part of the global FP2020 movement and the government of India has invested substantial domestic funding to achieve the ambitious Family Planning (FP) 2020's goals. The major initiatives under family planning include Mission Parivar Vikas, Injectable Contraceptive MPA, Family Planning- Logistics Management Information System and Family Planning Communications Campaign. The National Family Planning Program has introduced injectable contraceptive in the public health system under the 'Antara' programme. This contraceptive is highly effective and will meet the changing needs of couples and help women space their pregnancies, Vardhan said. "All this investment has paid us rich dividends in terms of averting nearly 5.5 crore unintended pregnancies, 1.1 crore total births, 18 lakh unsafe abortions and 30,000 maternal deaths as a result of contraceptive use in 2019 alone, as per Track 20 Estimates," he said. The health minister also released the AB-HWC mobile application developed by Ministry of Health. The app is designed to streamline the process of data reporting at Ayushman Bharat-Health and Wellness Centres, the health ministry's statement said. It is an extension of the AB-HWC portal, which is already used by states, districts and HWC facilities, to report data pertaining to service utilisation to enable real-time performance monitoring and act as a tool for planning. It shall provide real-time information on the people who have been screened, dispensation of healthcare services and drugs, footfalls, and referrals made to primary health centres, the statement said. Noting that COVID-19 has imposed additional responsibilities on frontline healthcare workers, Vardhan praised them for their tireless services towards COVID-19 and also to ensure that non-COVID essential services are not adversely affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-2019-nearly-55-cr-unintended-pregnancies-18-lakh-unsafe-abortions-were-averted-harsh-vardhan-859991.html
11-07-2020||National||Youth posts morphed picture of fake award from President Ram Nath Kovind, arrested in Jodhpur||A 20-year-old man was arrested here on Saturday for posting a morphed picture on social media of him receiving a fake cybersecurity award from President Ram Nath Kovind that went viral online, police said. He was produced in a court and later remanded to two-day police custody. The accused Rahul Rathi (20), a resident of Tiwari under Mathania police station limits of Jodhpur, is an information technology engineering graduate and runs a mobile phone agency in the town. Mathania police station SHO Gautam Dotasara said one Ramesh had given a complaint on Friday that Rathi had posted a photograph on his Facebook page and WhatsApp purportedly receiving an honour from the President for "exemplary contribution in cybersecurity", which was fake. “In his post, which was uploaded on July 9 on his Facebook account and WhatsApp, Rathi had mentioned that the day had brought him extreme pleasure and pride. Honourable President of India honoured him for his exemplary contribution in the field of cyber security at Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi," said Dotasara. This photo of him receiving the "honour" from the President went viral with several comments, likes and wishes following the post. “Based on the complaint, we filed an FIR against Rathi under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act and arrested him on Saturday," said Dotasara adding that the accused was produced in the court, which sent him to two days in police custody. As per preliminary investigation, Rathi had found a picture on the President's official Twitter handle, in which Kovind received a portrait of himself by the newly-appointed Indian Ambassador to Finland Raveesh Kumar, who was till recently the MEA spokesperson. Apparently, Rathi removed the picture of Raveesh Kumar and placed his own photograph by morphing the original one. He got the morphing done by some service provider in Delhi and made a payment for the work through e-payment, the police officer said. The police officer added that Rathi had even gone to Delhi in order to make his story look realistic and posted the picture on his social media accounts before returning home to earn people's trust. “We are also trying to reach out to the service provider, which morphed the original photograph for Rathi in Delhi," said the officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-posts-morphed-picture-of-fake-award-from-president-ram-nath-kovind-arrested-in-jodhpur-859992.html
11-07-2020||National||People prefer govt employment for job security: Survey||A majority of people prefer government jobs for employment security and higher salary, amid uncertainties due to the disruptions caused by Covid-19, according to a study. The study is based on a focused survey done among 6,500 people on Adda247 platform who are preparing for competitive government examinations or keen on applying for government jobs. The respondents - aged between 18-30 years - include working professionals and students, across 10 cities pan-India. "The outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic has transformed the job scenario in the country with regular reports of layoffs, furlough, pay cuts and other uncertainties. "This has led to  an increase in the demand for government jobs with 82.33 per cent respondents looking to apply for government jobs,” according to a study by Adda247 -- a test preparation platform for competitive Government tests, JEE, NEET and Defense examination. The rise in applications are mainly due to the higher job security, followed by salary and other perks, the study said. The study revealed that the highest demand for government jobs was witnessed in Delhi at 11.04 per cent, followed by Patna (Bihar) with 11.03 per cent, indicating that technological empowerment and social awareness are growing in non-metro cities. The study also found that 64.77 per cent people stood preference for both national as well as state level examinations. About 28 per cent of the people surveyed opted for national level government exams, while 6.45 per cent settled for state level tests. "The lockdown proved to be a dire period for the working class as countless workers and professionals witnessed pay-cuts or even worse, job-slashes. There were others who lived in the imminent fear of the post-lockdown job termination. "With naturally the private corporate sector unfolding as a source of mental duress for a sizable portion of people, the turn of events saw an inevitable shift in the tendency of the working-class consciousness," Adda247 CEO and Co Founder Anil Nagar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-prefer-govt-employment-for-job-security-survey-860017.html
11-07-2020||National||Bullet train project: Railway minister Piyush Goyal indicates 'tightening of belt' in post-Covid-19 scenario||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday indicated that the financial aspect of the ambitious bullet train project between Mumbai and Ahmedabad was being reviewed as the post-Covid world will entail "a lot of tightening of the belt". Speaking at the India Global Week, he, however, said the Railways was "committed to these projects" and "we are at the stage of finalising plans and costing" for them. "Certainly Covid-19 has been a little bit of spanner in terms of the ambitions that we had around the bullet train project and we are relooking at all the projects in terms of the post-Covid world that will entail a lot of tightening of the belt, a lot of cost-cutting and improving our efficiencies and aligning ourselves to how travel and transport will work in the after Covid world. I really think that it's going to be a before-Covid and after-Covid affair," he said in response to a question on the status of the ambitious project. Sources say talks are underway with Japan to explore if Indian companies can take on some of the highly specialised engineering jobs to bring down the cost and make the project more 'Make in India'. The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited, the implementing agency for the project, has reached out to the Indian industry to assess the requirement and capability of domestic players, they say. Recently, NHSCRL also hosted a webinar for Indian companies and consultants to gauge their capacities, primarily in laying the 508-km track and steel bridges for the trains that will run at a speed of more than 300 kmph. The Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed corridor -- which has a deadline of December 2023 -- has had to contend with issues ranging from protests by landowners and the rising cost of the project due to the widening gap between the Indian rupee and the Japanese yen, as 80 percent of the Rs 1 trillion needed to fund the project will come in the form of a 20-year Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) loan. The NHSRCL has already floated 68 percent of its civil work tenders, covering 345 km out of the total 508 km, along with a separate tender for the fabrication of 28 steel bridges for the corridor in Maharashtra. While the joint measurement survey of the land required for the project is about to complete, the agency has acquired 60 per cent land needed for the project (about 77 percent land in Gujarat, 80 percent in Dadar Nagar Haveli and 22 percent in Maharashtra), according to the NHSRCL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bullet-train-project-railway-minister-piyush-goyal-indicates-tightening-of-belt-in-post-covid-19-scenario-860027.html
11-07-2020||National||Ladakhis caught between Indian and Chinese troops, at 15,000 feet||First, it was cellphone towers, new roads and surveillance cameras, popping up on the Chinese side of the disputed Himalayan border with India. Then it was more run-ins between troops on each side, pushing, shoving and eventually getting into fistfights. Then, about three years ago, Indian soldiers spotted their Chinese foes carrying iron bars with little numbers written on them — a weapon apparently issued as standard gear, and a sign that the Chinese were gearing up for hand-to-hand combat. “This is how China operates,” said J P Yadav, a recently retired official with the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, on the Indian side. “These are very planned things.”Now, weeks after a deadly brawl erupted along the border, thousands of Chinese and Indian troops are amassed over a contentious, jagged line in one of the most remote places on earth. Satellite photos reveal a major Chinese buildup, including a blizzard of new tents, new storage sheds, artillery pieces and even tanks. Each country has accused the other of provocative actions along the murky border. But according to people who live and work in the region, Ladakh, a Chinese push into Indian territory has been building for years. The area, high up in the Himalayas, has little obvious strategic value, few resources and few people — it’s difficult to even breathe up there, with much of the terrain above 15,000 feet. But India and China, both in the grip of increasingly nationalistic governments, will not give an inch of territory, even along a border so remote that it has never been conclusively mapped. The Ladakhis caught in between are a fragile group, numbering perhaps a few hundred thousand. They are Tibetan in culture, identify themselves as Indian and have long been pulled in different directions at the edges of empire “If we don’t speak now, it will be too late,” said Rigzin Spalbar, a Ladakhi politician. “The Chinese have intruded and encroached on our land. Even the media is not telling the truth. They are only showing the things that the government wants to them to show.” Spalbar and other prominent Ladakhis insist that they have reported Chinese incursions for years, but that the Indian military refused to do anything about it. They say there was a code of silence, in which the Indian media was complicit, and that the Indian armed forces didn’t want to face the fact that a more powerful and aggressive military was steadily nibbling away at its territory. Indian Army officials declined to comment for this article. Chinese officials have been stingy with details as well, including about whether any Chinese troops were killed in the clash in June. Western intelligence agents, who see the border as one of Asia’s most dangerous flash points, say they think that China lost more than a dozen soldiers in the fight. In early July, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India swooped into Ladakh, rallying the troops while wearing a puffy green army jacket and aviator-style shades. “Friends,” he vowed, “the era of expansionism is over,” implying that India was willing to push back against China. Years ago, the two countries agreed that their troops should not shoot at each other during border standoffs. But the Chinese seem to be testing the limits. In the June fighting, which left 20 Indians and an unknown number of Chinese dead, Indian commanders say that Chinese troops used iron clubs bristling with spikes. Many analysts say that China’s actions in Ladakh mirror the more assertive approach China has taken across Asia, especially in the South China Sea, since its leader, Xi Jinping, took over in 2012. And Modi’s brand of renewed Indian nationalism may also have provoked the Chinese. The Indians, too, have also been building military roads along the disputed border, known as the Line of Actual Control. And Indian officials recently promised to take back Aksai Chin, a high-altitude plateau that India says is part of Ladakh but that China controls and claims as its own. Aksai Chin is “a very important strategic place” to the Chinese military, said Yue Gang, a retired colonel in the People’s Liberation Army. If India were to seize it, he said, it “would cut the transportation between Tibet and Xinjiang,” two restive areas that China is constantly concerned about. In culture, language, history and Buddhism, Ladakh is close to Tibet. But Ladakhi scholars are firm about one thing: They don’t want to be part of China. “Ladakhis see themselves as Indians,” said Sonam Joldan, a Ladakhi political scientist. Up until a few years ago, Ladakhi and Tibetan nomads roamed freely, pushing their herds of goats, sheep and yak across the lonely, high-altitude plains. They used to converge along a stretch of the Line of Actual Control and barter. The Ladakhis carried Indian products like basmati rice; the Tibetans brought Chinese-made goods like plastic Thermoses. The trading sessions ended, Ladakhis say, after Chinese troops occupied the area. This is hardly the first time that Ladakh has been swept up into geopolitics. In the mid-19th century, the British helped set up the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir, which seems to stretch endlessly across the Himalayas. The British, who controlled the Indian subcontinent, believed that the bigger the buffer zone against the Russian empire, the better. So they allowed the maharajah of Jammu and Kashmir to also grab neighboring Ladakh, enabling him to corner the lucrative trade in pashmina wool. This part of Asia is known for its cashmere (the word for which is derived from Kashmir), and Ladakh’s longhaired Changthangi goats produce especially fine pashmina. But even after several treaties were signed, the border between Ladakh and China was never neatly defined. It snakes across high mountains that few people have ever climbed. “There were different narratives during the British times,” said Siddiq Wahid, a scholar of Central Asian history. “Aksai Chin was a part of a Tibet, and it was not a part of Tibet, it was part of Ladakh and not part of Ladakh.” Shortly after India gained independence in 1947 and Pakistan was created, war erupted between the two countries over Jammu and Kashmir. The princely state, which had hoped to stay independent, hurriedly agreed to be part of India, and thus Ladakh became Indian. In 1950, China invaded Tibet and soon built a road linking it to Xinjiang, slicing through Aksai Chin. The area was so desolate that it wasn’t until several years later that India even found out about the road. This triggered a brief war in 1962 that ended in a disastrous loss for India, and China seized all of Aksai Chin, more than 14,000 square miles. By the mid-1970s, things had cooled down, at least on the China front. A protocol evolved between Indian and Chinese troops, including a ban on firearms during border standoffs and regular meetings to iron out disputes. Things were still hot with Pakistan, though. The same piece of territory, Jammu and Kashmir, has propelled India into repeated conflicts with both Pakistan and China — two nations which, like India, have nuclear arms today. Indian soldiers who served along the China border in the 1980s and 1990s remember friendly interactions with the Chinese troops. “We used to shake hands and they would take photos with us and we would take photos with them,” said Sonam Murup, a retired officer. Those visits with the Chinese were welcome distractions. Soldiers stationed along the border had to tramp around a frozen moonscape for weeks, with little food or water. “We’d wash our face once maybe every 15 or 16 days,” Murup recalled. But the bonhomie with the Chinese ended years ago. Ladakhis say Chinese troops have blocked herders’ access to Indian territory in areas like Demchok and Pangong Tso, a scenic lake where several brawls have erupted. Indian officers say they have tried to follow protocols for avoiding confrontation, like unfurling banners that read “This Is Indian Territory” in English and Chinese, but that the Chinese refuse to listen. Indian commanders acknowledge that their soldiers, too, now carry hand weapons, like bamboo sticks and sling shots. The Chinese have clearly outpaced India in developing the region, Indian commanders concede, which could give them a strategic advantage in a conflict. “They have better facilities,” said Yadav, the former border official. He said that China had paved a highway running right along the border and that Chinese border troops were resupplied by military vehicles carrying supplemental oxygen. But Yadav said the Indians had some advantages. He claimed the Chinese troops were in poorer shape, saying, “They don’t walk much.” More important, he added: “They have not seen war, while on our side our soldiers have been waging war every day in Kashmir.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakhis-caught-between-indian-and-chinese-troops-at-15000-feet-860031.html
11-07-2020||National||Amitabh Bachchan tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to Nanavati hospital||Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan and his actor-son Abhishek have tested Covid-19 positive and were admitted to a Mumbai hospital on Saturday. The 77-year-old megastar and TV host Amitabh Bachchan and Abhishek Bacchan of 'Breathe' fame were admitted to the Nanavati Hospital in Vile Parle on Saturday evening. "I have tested Covid-19 positive ..  shifted to Hospital  .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests, results awaited," Bachchan Sr himself confirmed in  tweet. "All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested !," Bachchan added. T 3590 -I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited ..All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested ! In a tweet, Abhishek said: "Earlier today,  both my father and I tested positive for Covid-19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you." Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you. 🙏🏽 Both experienced mild symptoms, and are currently undergoing tests at the hospital. "At this point we can just confirm that he is admitted and undergoing tests," a Nanavati Hospital spokesperson told DH.  "Let's wait for more details,  we have nothing else to share at tbis stage," the spokesperson added.  Bachchan, a Juhu resident, has kept indoors for the last 4 months, in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown.  He was preparing for the next edition of the popular quiz show 'Kaun Banega Crorepati'. Abhishek was spotted outdoors on a few occasions. Bachchan,  a recipient of coveted Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian honour and the Dadasaheb Phalke Award,  was last seen on Shoojit Sircar's 'Gulabo Sitabo', that was released on Amazon Prime Video.  The legendary actor suffers from multiple ailments particularly after the accident in sets of Coolie in 1982.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amitabh-bachchan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-nanavati-hospital-860036.html
11-07-2020||National||Abhishek Bachchan also tests positive for Covid-19||Bollywood star and Amitabh Bachchan's son Abhishek Bachchan also tests positive for Covid-19, according to reports. Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan and his actor-son Abhishek has tested Covid-19 positive and admitted to a Mumbai hospital. Amitabh Bacchan (77) and his son Abhishek (44) been admitted to the Nanavati Hospital in Vile Parle on Saturday evening. Both of them have mild symptoms and are comfortable. "I have tested Covid-19 positive ..  shifted to Hospital  .. hospital informing  authorities .. family and staff undergone tests , results awaited," Bachchan Sr himself confirmed in tweet. "Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you," said the Bollywood actor in a tweet. Earlier today both my father and I tested positive for COVID 19. Both of us having mild symptoms have been admitted to hospital. We have informed all the required authorities and our family and staff are all being tested. I request all to stay calm and not panic. Thank you. 🙏🏽 The BMC has been in touch and we are complying with them. 🙏🏽 Bachchan,  a Juhu resident,  has been indoors since the last 4 months,  in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown. Amitabh was preparing for next edition of the quiz show Kaun Banega Crorepati, while Abhishek had been spotted outdoors on a few occasions. "At this point, we can just confirm that he is admitted and undergoing tests," a Nanavati Hospital spokesperson told DH. "Lets wait for more details,  we have nothing else to share at this stage," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/abhishek-bachchan-also-tests-positive-for-covid-19-860048.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Congress MLAs allege BJP trying to topple Ashok Gehlot government||Over 20 Cong MLAs in Rajasthan late Friday night alleged the BJP was trying to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in the state by "luring" legislators, and that the top leadership of the saffron party was involved in the "conspiracy". There was no immediate reaction from the BJP on the charges. Without naming anyone, the Congress MLAs in a joint statement alleged that the BJP leadership is trying to "mislead" the Congress and supporting party MLAs by contacting and luring them in different manners. "But Congress MLAs and legislators who are in support of the government will not let this attempt be successful," said the joint statement issued on behalf of 24 MLAs, and signed by chief whip Mahesh Joshi and deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary. The MLAs alleged that similar unsuccessful attempts of poaching Congress and the supporting MLAs were made during the Rajya Sabha polls last month, and the BJP is once again conspiring to weaken and topple the democratically-elected government in Rajasthan. They condemned the alleged attempts and expressed commitment that such forces will be defeated. "The MLAs have said that no one can shake their integrity by giving any temptation. The Congress government in Rajasthan will complete its five-year term," the statement said. In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and has the support of independent MLAs and legislators of other parties like Rashtriya Lok Dal, CPI (M) and Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP). Ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections for two seats in the state last month, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and government chief whip Mahesh Joshi had alleged that the BJP was trying to poach Congress and other MLAs to destabilise the government. Joshi had also filed complaints to special operations group (SOG) and the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) of Rajasthan Police, demanding inquiry and actions in the attempts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-congress-mlas-allege-bjp-trying-to-topple-ashok-gehlot-government-859702.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Narendra Modi over assertion that solar project in MP's Rewa is Asia's largest||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his assertion that the Rewa Ultra Mega Solar project in Madhya Pradesh is the largest in Asia. Prime Minister Modi on Friday launched the 750 MW solar project in Rewa in Madhya Pradesh through video-conferencing.  "Asatyagrahi" (which roughly translates to 'one who does not believe in the struggle for truth'), said Gandhi on Twitter, tagging a tweet by the Prime Minister's Office which quoted Modi as saying that Rewa has been identified with Narmada and white tigers, but now the name of Asia's largest solar power project has also been added to it. D K Shivakumar, the Congress' Karnataka unit chief and a former energy minister in the state, had on Friday said, "Union Power Minister must answer as to how the Central government can claim that the Rewa Solar Park (750 MW) opened today is Asia's largest when clearly the Pavagada Park in Karnataka is much larger (2,000 MW) and was opened two years back!"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-attacks-pm-narendra-modi-over-assertion-that-solar-project-in-mps-rewa-is-asias-largest-859768.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Don't take voters for granted, even Indira Gandhi, Atal Bihari Vajpayee had lost: NCP President Sharad Pawar||Taking aim at the BJP, NCP president Sharad Pawar has said that politicians should not take voters for granted as even powerful leaders like Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee had been defeated in elections. Criticising former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis over his 'Mi punha yein' (I will come back) refrain during the last year's assembly polls, Pawar said voters thought this stance smacked of arrogance and felt that they should be taught a lesson. He also said that that there was not an "iota of truth" in reports about differences in the three ruling allies- Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress- that are part of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The veteran leader said he was neither the headmaster nor the remote control of the MVA and made it clear that Thackeray and his ministers were running the government. The former Union minister said this in an interview by Shiv Sena leader and Executive Editor of party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. The first of the three-part interview series was published in the Marathi daily on Saturday. This is for the first time that a non-Shiv Sena leader has featured in a marathon interview series in this newspaper. In the past it had published such interviews of late Bal Thackeray and Uddhav Thackeray. Replying to a query over BJP's defeat in the last assembly polls in the state, Pawar said, "In a democracy, you cannot think that you will remain in power eternally. Voters will not tolerate if they are taken for granted. Even powerful leaders with mass base, like Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had been defeated. "It means that in terms of the democratic rights, the common man is wiser than the politicians. If we politicians cross the line, he teaches us a lesson. Therefore, people do not like the stand that 'we will come back to power'," he said. "No politician should take people for granted. Nobody should take a stand that he would return to power. People thought that this stand smacks of arrogance and hence feeling grew among them that they should be taught a lesson," Pawar said. He said the change of government in Maharashtra was not an accident. "People of Maharashtra voted as per the sentiments prevailing in the country during the national elections. But the mood changed during the assembly polls. Even though the BJP did well in the Lok Sabha polls, it fared poorly in the assembly elections in different states. Even people of Maharashtra voted for a change," he said. Replying to a query over his reported differences with CM Thackeray on the lockdown in the state, Pawar said, "Absolutely not. What differences? For what? During the entire period of lockdown, I have had excellent communication with the chief minister, which continues even now." Pawar, who played a key role in bringing together the Sena, Congress and NCP for formation of government in the state in November last year, blamed the media and said sarcastically that the news gathering activity had been hit by the coronavirus-induced lockdown and they had the responsibility of filling the pages of newspapers. "I have been reading reports of growing differences among the three allies, but there is not an iota of truth in it," he said. Responding to a query whether he was the headmaster or remote control of the MVA government, he said, "Headmaster is in the school. Remote control doesn't work in a government or administration of a democracy." "I don't believe in remote control. The chief minister and his council of ministers are running the government," he added. Giving example of Russia, where President Vladimir Putin has ordered amendments that would allow him to remain in power until 2036, Pawar said this kind of single-handed power does not work in a democracy. Hitting out at the BJP, the veteran leader said Shiv Sena had a huge contribution in the BJP winning 105 seats in last assembly polls in Maharashtra. "Without Shiv Sena's support, BJP would have been reduced to 40 to 50 seats only. BJP leaders say even though their party won 105 seats, Shiv Sena, which was an ally, ignored them. But I feel that the BJP neglected the party which helped them reach the 105-mark and took them for granted," he said. Pawar said he never felt that late Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray's ideology and style of functioning was in sync with that of the BJP's. He said the late Sena supremo respected leaders from the BJP, like Vajpayee, L K Advani and Pramod Mahajan. All the three leaders treated Thackeray well and decided to come together for sharing power, he said. "Even Thackeray's opposition to the Congress was not permanent," Pawar said. He recalled Bal Thackeray's support to his daughter Supriya Sule in her maiden Rajya Sabha election and also his refusal to field candidates in the Lok Sabha elections against the Congress after the Emergency was lifted. Stating that the MVA experiment was working well, Pawar added that the coronavirus crisis was unfortunate since other developmental issues had to be put on the backburner. "Three parties of different ideologies are firmly behind CM Uddhav Thackeray in the fight against coronavirus. Had there been any other set-up, this wouldn't have happened," Pawar said. "Even though ideologies are different, the three parties have come together for the vision of working for people and there is a clarity on the path to be undertaken. However, there is no support from the Centre," he said. Speaking about the style of functioning of Bal Thackeray and his son Uddhav Thackeray, Pawar said, "Although Balasaheb was never in the seat of power, he was the driving force behind the power. He got power in Maharashtra due to his ideology. "Today, the government is not because of the ideology. But the responsibility of implementing that power now lies with Uddhav Thackeray," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-take-voters-for-granted-even-indira-gandhi-atal-bihari-vajpayee-had-lost-ncp-president-sharad-pawar-859786.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Mismanagement at Goa Covid-19 hospital; let army take over facility: Opposition||The Opposition in Goa on Saturday demanded that the Indian armed forces take over the management of the state's only Covid-19 management facility, even as Goa's Covid-19 death count reached double figures, with two persons dying due to the viral infection in the last 24 hours. State Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat has also demanded a white paper detailing the extent of Covid-19 spread in the state and the government's Covid management efforts to counter it. "I demand that the government must immediately hand over the Covid hospital management to the Army, before more damage is done to the innocent people," Kamat said in a statement issued on Saturday. On Friday, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant met local commanders of the Indian Armed force units in the state -- Indian Navy and Indian Army, as well as top Indian Coast Guard officials and sought help from the uniformed forces to supplement the state government's Covid-management efforts. Union Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik had told reporters after the meeting, that the armed forces had agreed to offer help vis a vis manpower, health facilities and medical personnel to tide the crisis. But Kamat in his statement said that this assistance should come sooner rather than later. "I want to ask the government with heavy heart 'How many more deaths dies the government need to show sensitivity towards Covid patients to provide proper, safe and secure food and other facilities?'" the former Chief Minister also said, adding that until then the state government should ensure that all patients admitted to Covid-19 facilities in Goa should be provided with "hygienic, quality food, clean drinking water and provided with comfortable facilities". "I once again demand that government  must release White Paper on Covid pandemic in Goa immediately," Kamat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mismanagement-at-goa-covid-19-hospital-let-army-take-over-facility-opposition-859844.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Notice sent to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Deputy CM Sachin Pilot: Here's all you need to know||More than 20 Congress MLAs from Rajasthan have accused the BJP of trying to lure Congress MLAs and those in support of the Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot-led government in an attempt to topple the state government. “We have clear information that top leaders of the BJP are involved in this conspiracy, who are contacting Congress MLAs and trying to misguide them by luring them in various ways. But the Congress in the state and all the MLAs who support it will not let their efforts to succeed,” the MLAs said in the joint statement. In the assembly of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs and has the support of independent MLAs and legislators of other parties like Rashtriya Lok Dal, CPI (M) and Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP). In relation to the political crisis brewing in the state, the Special Operations Group of Rajasthan Police (SOG) has arrested two people who allegedly had offered Rs 20-25 crore to Congress and independent MLAs to break away from the Congress-led government. The case was lodged following surveillance of their mobile phones and the identity of political leaders who were in their touch is being ascertained, said Additional Director General Ashok Rathore of Rajasthan Anti-Terrorist Squad and Special Operation Group. The two accused, Ashok Singh and Bharat Malani were booked under IPC sections 124 A (Sedition) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). Singh was arrested in Udaipur while Malani in Beawar.  “From the conversation on these numbers, it appears that attempts are being made to topple the government, and preparations were completed before the Rajya Sabha elections. In the conversation, it is said that the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister are having a fight; in such a situation, the ruling party MLAs and independent MLAs can be broken away to topple the government and a new CM will be put in place,” stated the FIR. 'Who doesn't want to be Chief Minister?' On Saturday, Ashok Gehlot responded saying, "Who doesn't want to be Chief Minister? In our side, there will be five to seven candidates who are capable and talented but only one person can be CM. When one becomes CM, everyone else goes quiet." He further alleged that amid the coronavirus pandemic, BJP leaders have "gone beyond humanity" and are engaged in toppling his government, but exuded confidence that the Congress dispensation will complete its five-year term. He said that BJP leaders have "crossed the limit of shamelessness" and were doing politics like "bakra-mandi" (goat-market). The Rajasthan police issued notices to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot on Saturday to record their statement in connection with the alleged attempts to topple their Congress government, reported PTI quoting sources. The police's special operations group (SOG) also sent a notice to Government Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi to record his statement. Congress MLAs writes a letter MLAs Lakhan Singh Meena, Joginder Singh Awana, Mukesh Bhakar, Vedprakash Solanki, Harish Meena, Ashok Bairwa, Prashant Bairwa and Shakuntala Rawat were among the 20 signatories. Government Chief Whip of Rajasthan Assembly Mahesh Joshi had also written to the Anti-Corruption Bureau before the Rajya Sabha elections stating “dirty attempts that being made (by the BJP) to lure our MLAs and independent MLAs supporting us, along the lines of Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, to destabilise a democratically elected government which is dedicated to public service.” Despite these, the MLAs asserted that the Congress government will complete its five-year-term and will form the government in 2023 state Assembly elections. What the opposition says “After failing to handle the Covid-19 crisis and being unsuccessful in every front of governance since the past one-and-half-years, the Congress is now blaming us with baseless allegations to divert the attention of the public. It actually reflects the internal feud within the Congress party and how they don’t trust their own MLAs,” Poonia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/notice-sent-to-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-deputy-cm-sachin-pilot-heres-all-you-need-to-know-859854.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Champion of untruth: Rahul Gandhi on Modi's 'largest solar park' claim||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi dubbing him as ‘champion of untruth’ for his claim that the 750MW Rewa Solar Power Project was the biggest in Asia, comments that drew a sharp retort from the BJP. “Asatyagrahi (champion of untruth),” Rahul said on Twitter referring to Modi’s speech on Friday about Rewa scripting history by being home to Asia’s biggest solar power project. Soon after Rahul’s tweet attack, Congress leaders pointed out the 2000 MW Pavagada Solar Park in Karnataka and 2450 MW Bhadla Solar Park in Rajasthan were almost thrice the size of Rewa Solar Power Project. “2000 MW Pavagada Mega Solar Project is the pride of Karnataka. It isn't about me or my party, Pavagada project is an achievement of the people of the state,” Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar said. Shivakumar was the power minister in Karnataka when the power plant was inaugurated in 2018. Congress also dug out comments made by Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal in January acknowledging Pavagada Solar Park as the world’s largest solar park. As the Congress piled on with the attack, BJP General Secretary B L Santosh hit back at “some great brains” in Karnataka Congress asking them to understand the difference between a Solar Plant and a Solar Park. “Some great brains of Karnataka Congress are ridiculing Union Government for calling Rewa Solar Plant as Asia’s biggest. They tell that Pavagada is biggest. Somebody educate them the difference between Solar Plant & Solar Park. Rewa is plant & Pavagada is park,” Santosh said. “Why would the PM misinform public? But this isn’t the first time that the PM has been twisting facts to falsely claim credit. This Govt is heavily dependent on creating false narratives to suit their agenda,” senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/champion-of-untruth-rahul-gandhi-on-modis-largest-solar-park-claim-859937.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Rewa versus Pavagada: War of words over solar plants||A war of words between the Congress and the BJP has intensified over whether 750 megawatt solar ‘plant’ in Rewa in Madhya Pradesh is comparable with 2,000 MW solar power ‘park’ at Pavagada in Karnataka. The Congress has questioned the Modi government’s claim that the 750 MW ultra mega solar power project in Rewa which Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated to the nation on Friday, is largest of its kind in Asia. Congress' Karnataka president D.K. Shivakumar was the first to refute the Modi government’s claim on Rewa solar plant. He said in a statement, "If the 750 MW Rewa solar plant is Asia's largest as claimed by the BJP-led Central government, what about the 2,000 MW solar power plant at Pavagada in Karnataka's Tumakur district, built by the Congress government in 3 years and in operation since March 2018. Shivakumar, who was Energy Minister in the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government (2013-18), was instrumental in building the project in 13,000 acres of land owned by farmers. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday endorsed his party colleague from Karnataka with one word tweet and tagged Prime Minister's Office on the social media page. The word is “Asatyagrahi!". In Hindi, the word is opposite of ‘Satyagrahi”, someone who practises the policy of Satyagraha or insists on the truth. Taking cue from Rahul Gandhi, Madhya Pradesh Congress in its tweet remarked that there is an increase in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s lies while pointing to his claim that Rewa’s solar plant is Asia’s largest. The state Congress enumerated three solar facilities -- 2245 MW  (Jodhpur, Rajasthan), 2000 MW (Karnataka) and 1000 MW (Kurnul, Andhra Pradesh) --  which the party said are larger than Rewa solar plant. The party asked Modi why he doesn’t gradually practise speaking truth. The state BJP retaliated by wondering aloud whether entire party gets mentally retarded when it commands comes in the hands of mentally retarded. Claiming that Rewa power facility is a solar plant while others are solar parks, the BJP asserted that comparing the two is like comparing a country with a continent.  The BJP claimed that solar parks are a designated area where various IPP can set up their solar plants without hassles of obtaining land and transmission lines. Unveiling the power plant digitally from New Delhi, Modi said Madhya Pradesh would be the centre of solar energy, as similar projects were in progress at Neemuch, Shajapur, Chattarpur and Omkareshwar in the state. The plant, according to the prime Minister , will reduce emission equivalent to approximately 15 lakh tonne of carbon dioxide every year. Modi said solar power would be a major source of meeting the energy needs of an aspirational India in the 21st century.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rewa-versus-pavagada-war-of-words-over-solar-plants-859938.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Bring back Rahul Gandhi as Congress chief: LS members tell Sonia Gandhi||The clamour for Rahul Gandhi’s return as party president is growing louder within the Congress. The latest demand came at a meeting of the party’s Lok Sabha members convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the Chinese intrusions in Ladakh. Former union minister Kodukunnil Suresh made the demand at the meeting, appreciating the strident and sustained attack on the Modi government on issues such as the Covid-19 pandemic and Chinese intrusions in Ladakh. Suresh was supported by fellow Lok Sabha members, including Gaurav Gogoi, Manickam Tagore, Saptagiri Ulaka and a few others. Congress sources said both Rahul and Sonia remained silent on the demand, which has been re-gaining traction within party circles. Rahul had stepped down from the post of Congress President in July last year accepting responsibility for the defeat of the party in the Lok Sabha elections. “Not every one called for his return as Congress chief. Only a few leaders made the demand,” a Lok Sabha member said. At the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on June 23, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had made the demand for Rahul’s return as Congress President, which also received support from some members. Sonia Gandhi was appointed interim Congress President at the meeting of the CWC on August 10 last year. The CWC is expected to meet soon to extend Gandhi’s tenure as interim President, if Rahul does not agree to return to lead the party. At the meeting, Rahul attacked the Modi government accusing it of lying on the Chinese intrusions in Ladakh. He told the Lok Sabha members that Congress should continue to attack the Modi government and the party should not support any action that weakens national security. Congress Leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury briefed the party chief on how BJP members thwarted attempts for the examination of PM Cares fund by Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee at its meeting on Friday. Chowdhury said the Congress should demand an immediate session of the Parliament to discuss issues such as Covid-19 and Chinese intrusions threadbare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bring-back-rahul-gandhi-as-congress-chief-ls-members-tell-sonia-gandhi-859939.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Home Minister Amit Shah to participate in tree plantation drive of CAPFs on Sunday||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will participate in a mega tree plantation drive of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) in Gurgaon on Sunday, officials said. They said Shah will visit the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officers' training academy in Kadarpur village at 9.30 am. The chiefs and some personnel of the five CAPFs and other central forces will be present during the event, and the home minister will also address them. All the CAPFs will also undertake a drive in their respective organisations to achieve the collective target of planting more than 1.35 crore saplings by this month, the officials said. A senior CAPF officer said that these forces have planted about 20 lakh saplings till now and out of this, around 10 lakh have been done by the CRPF. "It is our resolve to plant 22 lakh saplings at all our locations in the country by July end. This is part of our commitment to enhance the country's green canopy," CRPF spokesperson Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Moses Dhinakaran said. A BSF officer said the force will plant about 2.5 lakh saplings as part of the campaign. The five CAPFs are the CRPF, BSF, ITBP, CISF and SSB, and two other central forces under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) are the NSG and the NDRF. These forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law and order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations and disaster rescue and relief under the command of the MHA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/home-minister-amit-shah-to-participate-in-tree-plantation-drive-of-capfs-on-sunday-859940.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Awareness needed about dangers of population explosion: BJP MP||Nainital BJP MP Ajay Bhatt on Saturday underlined the need to create awareness among people about the dangers of population explosion saying it was a "drain" on the country's resources. He said India may soon become the world's most populous country going by the rate at which its population is growing, which is a matter of concern. "Apart from being a drain on our resources, an ever-growing population like ours may also get in the way of India making the most of its demographic dividend," Bhatt said while talking to the media on World Population Day. The 59-year-old said efforts should be made on a large scale to create awareness among people about the dangers of unbridled population growth. Last year, Bhatt had brought a private member's bill on population control in the Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/awareness-needed-about-dangers-of-population-explosion-bjp-mp-859967.html
11-07-2020||National Politics||Gujarat: Patidar leader Hardik Patel appointed Congress working president||In what seems like a significant development in the state ahead of bypolls for eight assembly seats and other local elections, the Congress on Saturday appointed 26-year-old Hardik Patel as Working President of Gujarat Congress. Patel, who rose to prominence while spearheading 2015 agitation for reservation for Patidar community, is still considered a crowd-puller and has been working relentlessly across the state with rounds of meetings after he joined the Congress in the run-up to state Assembly election. Several state leaders including part's Gujarat president Amit Chavda congratulated Patel and twitted that "in the interest of the public, we will fight together." Patel's appointment holds significance for the Congress as the party gears up to contest bypolls for eight Assembly seats which were vacated after its MLAs resigned ahead of Rajya Sabha polls held recently. Besides, later this year, local body elections are also going to be held. Hardik Patel rose to fame in 2015 when he shook the state with agitation for reservation for Patidar community which turned violent. He was the one of the main conveners of Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) which organised the campaign. Over the years, Patel has been booked in over a dozen cases including two cases of sedition registered in Ahmedabad and Surat. Patel had joined Congress in 2017 in the presence of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Gandhinagar. "This is a big responsibility for Hardik Patel given his age. I guess this might work in favour of Congress as he enjoys a lot of support from the Patidar community especially the youngsters. This will certainly send a good message to young party workers," said a Congress leader. He added while requesting not to be quoted, "Look at his Twitter handle. He has over 1 million followers (1.4 million). There is not a single Congress leader in the state who is as popular, not even in the BJP for that matter." Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi told DH, "He is a youth leader and highly popular among students and farmers since he has been raising voices for them all these years. It will be sending a good message down the party workers and supporters." Meanwhile, the Congress also appointed Mahendrasinh Parmar, Anand Chaudhary and Yasin Gjjan District Presidents of Anand, Surat and Dwarka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-patidar-leader-hardik-patel-appointed-congress-working-president-859983.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||AIIMS Delhi junior doctor jumps off 10th floor of hostel, dies||A 25-year-old junior resident doctor at AIIMS here died on Friday after he jumped from the tenth floor of a hostel, police said. The victim has been identified as Anurag. He was a junior resident doctor at the Department of Psychiatry, they said. He used to live in the doctors' hostel and allegedly jumped from its tenth floor around 5 pm, a senior police officer said. "He was shifted to the AIIMS casualty where he succumbed to his injuries. Inquest proceedings have been initiated,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. According to sources, the doctor was suffering from depression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-delhi-junior-doctor-jumps-off-10th-floor-of-hostel-dies-859641.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Haryana School Board declares Class 10 exam results, girls outshine boys||The Haryana School Education Board on Friday declared results of Class 10 examination -- regular and reappear -- in which the girls have outshined the boys in terms of pass percentage. The examination was conducted in March. The pass percentage of girls is 69.86 and that of boys is 60.27, an official statement said here Friday evening. The overall pass percentage is 64.59.  It said that examination of only four subjects of secondary examination could be conducted before lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. “According to the marking policy adopted by the Central Board of Secondary Education, the Board of School Education Haryana, Bhiwani also considered marks based on the average marks of the examination conducted in the subjects and the result has been tabulated accordingly,” it said. As many as 3,37,691 candidates had appeared in the secondary (regular) examination, out of which 2,18,120 passed and 32,501 candidates got compartment and 87,070 candidates failed. Around 1,85,429 boys appeared in secondary (re-appear) examination, of which 1,11,751 passed and 1,52,262 girl candidates appeared of which 1,06,369 passed. The overall pass percentage of government schools was 59.74 and the pass percentage of private schools was 69.51. The pass percentage of students from rural areas was 64.39, while the pass percentage of students from urban areas was 65.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-school-board-declares-class-10-exam-results-girls-outshine-boys-859666.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Declare locust menace national disaster: Rajasthan Agri minister||Rajasthan Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria on Friday urged the Centre to declare the menace of locusts a national disaster as he demanded the Union government to release the first instalment of centrally-sponsored schemes at the earliest. Kataria was interacting with the Union Agriculture minister in a video conference. Apart from Kataria, Nagaur MP and Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) convenor Hanuman Beniwal also wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare locust problem a national disaster. Giving information about the outbreak and control of locusts and crop loss in the state, Kataria also asked the Agriculture Insurance Company to pay the outstanding insurance claim of Rs 380 crore for Kharif-2019 of farmers at the earliest. Kataria claimed that the first instalment of most of the centrally-sponsored schemes for the year 2020-21 has not yet been released. In view of the interest of farmers, the first installment of all schemes should be released immediately to the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/declare-locust-menace-national-disaster-rajasthan-agri-minister-859675.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Shops to stay closed till July 13, home delivery of essentials allowed: Noida DM||All shops, offices, commercial establishments, including shopping malls, shall remain closed till July 13 across Noida and Greater Noida, the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration said on Friday. The administration also warned that a fine of Rs 500 will be slapped each time for non-compliance if people are found without face cover or masks outdoors. Industrial establishments shall remain open but will have to follow all preventive measures, including setting up of Covid help desk, to operate, District Magistrate Suhas L Y said. The directions were issued in view of the lockdown-like curbs imposed across Uttar Pradesh from 10 pm on Friday till 5 pm on July 13 in a preventive measure against Covid-19 outbreak and other vector-borne diseases. The DM said a special drive will be carried out during the period across the district health officials as per the state government's instructions with a special focus on identifying and testing high risk groups for the novel coronavirus. "Supply of essential goods and services shall be allowed through home delivery while there will be no restriction on supply of medical goods and services," Suhas said in a letter addressed to local residents. "Such category of people whose movement is permitted by the government order do not require separate pass. And identity cards issued by respective organisation/industry shall be considered as valid for their movement," he said. "Movement to and fro railway stations and airport shall not be prohibited," he added. Suhas said a special drive of antigen-based rapid tests for Covid-19 will be carried out, as he urged citizens, resident welfare associations, apartment owners' associations to cooperate. "Special enforcement against non-compliance regarding wearing of face covers and masks. Fine of Rs 500 shall be imposed each time for non-compliance," he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shops-to-stay-closed-till-july-13-home-delivery-of-essentials-allowed-noida-dm-859679.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab govt challenges HC order allowing private school to collect fees||The Punjab government on Friday challenged the state high court’s verdict allowing private schools to collect all type of fees from students irrespective of the online or offline classed held by them. The Amarinder Singh government moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking a stay on the June 30 order of a single-judge bench of the court “in the interest of justice and fair play”. Chief Minister Singh had earlier expressed concern over the private schools charging fees from students even when no online or offline classes were held amid the Covid lockdown, an official release said here. The matter had come up for discussion at Wednesday's Cabinet meeting and Advocate General Atul Nanda had been asked to move the high court to challenge the single-judge bench order. The state government plea pointed out that the private schools, despite pleading financial hardship and incapacity to meet their expenditures, had not placed on record any evidence or material to prove the same. It was also contended in the government’s petition that the single judge, in his ruling, had completely ignored the fact that the state government had been constrained to issue orders directing private schools to charge only “tuition fee” (in respect of the online education provided by them), to mitigate the emergent hardship faced by parents due to the Covid-19 crisis.  The impugned order and judgement, according to the government’s plea, provides no mechanism to check and verify the “actual expenditure” while allowing the schools to charge it. Thus, there are practical difficulties in the enforceability and implementation of the impugned order and judgment, it said. “In a similar matter involving a challenge to an identical order issued by the Government of Haryana, a coordinate bench has merely adjourned the case to September without granting any interim relief or otherwise to the private schools of Haryana as of now,” the state government said in its petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-challenges-hc-order-allowing-private-school-to-collect-fees-859683.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra stresses need to teach constitutional values to youths||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Friday stressed on the need to teach the younger generation about the Constitution and its values. Speaking to chairman and vice-chancellors of private universities through video conferencing, he said it was necessary to introduce the youth to the Constitution so that they play an active and constructive role in nation-building. He said private universities should work in the field of higher education to benefit the society. Officials from 11 universities including the Banasthali Vidyapeeth, BITS Pilani, Jaipur National University, Amity University participated in the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-governor-kalraj-mishra-stresses-need-to-teach-constitutional-values-to-youths-859695.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi minister Gautam holds meet over DSGPC polls in March 2021||Delhi minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Friday held a meeting on the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee Election in March next year and asked the officials to ensure there are no complaints of irregularities and fake voting during the polls, according to a statement. The minister said a high-level meeting will be held soon with the Chief Electoral Officer and the IT Department officials to ensure the preparedness of conducting the elections. He said the Delhi Government is committed to conducting Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee Election in a fair and free manner. Gautam, the minister of Gurdwara Elections, on Friday, chaired a meeting with the Director and Election Officer of Directorate of Gurdwara Elections at his residence to take stock of the preparations. He also said the preparation of making voter list for this election should be based on the state electoral list of the Delhi Assembly elections which took place in February this year. "You need to ensure the upcoming election of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee is conducted fairly and transparently so that no complaints of irregularities and fake voting should arise as it had in last Gurdwara Elections," he said. In the meeting, the director of the Directorate of Gurdwara Elections informed that as per the orders of the Delhi High Court, the elections are to be conducted based on a new voter list of Sikh voters in the national capital. The work of preparation of voter list is yet to begin as the officials of departments are engaged in disaster management work due to Covid-19. The Directorate of Gurdwara Elections has also requested to the Services Department to provide a requisite number of officials for conducting the elections. The last general election of the committee was held on February 2017 and the next one would be held in March 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-minister-gautam-holds-meet-over-dsgpc-polls-in-march-2021-859715.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court says use of social media as good as a gun in hand: Report||The top court made the observation while hearing an appeal by Sachin Choudhary, a Congress politician who faces criminal charges for holding a press conference despite lockdown rules to criticise the central and Uttar Pradesh government. It was in agreement with an order from the Allahabad High Court which asked a Congress leader from Uttar Pradesh to stay away from social media for at least 18 months. "What is wrong with an order asking you not to use social media? If a court can order an accused to stay away from a gun, it can similarly ask you to stay away from social media," said Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. The Supreme Court has also decided to formulate guidelines on the use of social media in criminal cases, especially in cases of bail, after noting that it had seen how social media can be used to create problems. On May 20, the Allahabad High Court granted him bail on the condition that he cannot use social media for 18 months or till the trial ends, whichever is earlier, even though he pleaded for modifications. Senior advocate Salman Khurshid submitted in the Supreme Court that such a condition was a curb on free speech and could not have been included in the bail order. Rejecting Khurshid’s point, it asked, "We don't see any problem with this order. If offences alleged against you are also about how you used social media, why cannot a restraint be issued?” It rejected Choudhary's interim plea for lifting the prohibition. At the same time, the bench told Khurshid that the top court would examine this issue in detail for the purposes of passing appropriate guidelines. "We are inclined to entertain your petition but we will issue notices so that we can lay down proper guidelines on the matter of social media. We will pass orders on his after hearing all parties," the bench said. It issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government and will hear the matter for August 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-says-use-of-social-media-as-good-as-a-gun-in-hand-report-859716.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Two militants killed as army foils infiltration bid along Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir||Two unidentified militants were killed as the Army foiled an infiltration bid by ultras along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowgam sector of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Saturday. Defence spokesman, Colonel Rajesh Kalia said a suspicious moment was detected by the army in Nowgam sector along the LoC early Saturday morning. “Own forces swiftly launched an ambush, resulting in the killing of two militants. Two AK-47 rifles and warlike stores were recovered. Details to follow,” he said. Sources told DH that a combing operation was on to rule out the presence of more militants in the area.  On June 30, the army had said that an infiltration bid was foiled at Parkian Gali sector in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on the intervening night of June 29 and June 30 when a group of six-eight militants, in two groups tried to sneak in. After the initial exchange of fire, the militants, according to the army, went back to the Pakistani side. While the focus of security agencies in recent years has remained on curbing home-grown militancy in southern Kashmir, there are reports that battle-hardened Pakistani militants may have sneaked into Kashmir to revive terror-network in the woods of Kupwara. Infested with heavily-armed foreign terrorists from 1993-2003, Kupwara was known as ‘Gateway of Militancy’ as most of the militants infiltrated through this district in the 1990’s. “Pakistan spy agency ISI and its army want to revive that deadly phase of militancy in Kupwara so that it could act as a nerve centre of terrorism in Kashmir. With this intention, in recent weeks, Pakistan army increased shelling and firing along the LoC to push in militants into the Valley from four launch pads across the LoC in Kupwara,” a source told DH. They said the newly infiltrated militants were not only more trained and more motivated but carrying sophisticated weapons to inflict more damage on security forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-killed-as-army-foils-infiltration-bid-along-line-of-control-in-jammu-and-kashmir-859725.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Man held for stabbing friend to death in Delhi||A 26-year-old man was stabbed to death by his friend for allegedly asking for Rs 5,000 which he had lent to the accused in South West Delhi's Sagarpur area, police said on Friday. The accused, Aashish, is a resident of Sagarpur, they said. The incident took place on Thursday night, a senior police officer said. After receiving the information, police reached the spot where they came to know that Kapil suffered stab injuries and was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead, the officer said. During the investigation, it was revealed that Kapil had lent Rs 5,000 to Aashish and was asking him to return the amount, they said. On Thursday night, Aashish allegedly called Kapil on the pretext of returning his money but stabbed him. Police said Aashish was arrested and further investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-stabbing-friend-to-death-in-delhi-859726.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||17-year-old apprehended for shooting 19-year-old man||A 17-year-old youth was apprehended for allegedly killing a 19-year-old man and injuring another person in Central Delhi's Anand Parbat area, police said on Friday. The deceased, identified as Rajan, was a resident of Moti Nagar, while injured Ravi, is a resident of Anand Parbat, they said. The apprehended juvenile was a friend of Rajan and he actually opened fire to shoot Ravi, but the bullet hit Rajan, they added. Both Rajan and Ravi knew each other as they lived in the same locality near Jakhira flyover, police said. According to police, the incident took place on Wednesday around 6:30 pm when Rajan and his juvenile friend were roaming around in Nehru Nagar after crossing over the railway track. Ravi objected to it, leading to an altercation with Rajan, police said. Both Rajan and his friend went back and after an hour, they and their associates reached Ravi's house and stabbed him, police said. Just then, Rajan's juvenile friend pulled out a pistol and fired upon Ravi which missed him narrowly and hit Rajan on the forehead, police said. Rajan suffered gunshot wounds and was taken to Acharya Bhikhu hospital where he was declared brought dead. Ravi underwent treatment at LHMC Hospital for stab injuries, said Sanjay Bhatia, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central). On the statement of Ravi, a case was registered and an investigation was taken up, he said. Rajan's juvenile friend was later apprehended from near Jakhira flyover. The knife used in crime was recovered from him. Other accused have been identified and are being tracked, he added. The juvenile was previously involved in a case of attempt to murder registered at Sarai Rohilla police station, police said, adding further investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-apprehended-for-shooting-19-year-old-man-859731.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||6 NSCN (IM) rebels killed in Arunachal Pradesh, 1 Assam Rifles jawan injured||Six suspected members of National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) were killed while an Assam Rifles jawan was injured in a gunbattle in Longding district in Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday morning. Security officials said a joint team of Assam Rifles and Arunachal Pradesh police launched an operation based on intelligence inputs near Nginu village, close to Myanmar border and six rebels died in the encounter that took place at around 4.30am. "There were not less than 250 rounds of firing from both sides. But we managed to kill six who were hiding in a paddy field. Six long range weapons such as AK 47 and two Chinese MQ 81 rifles, ammunition and IEDs have been recovered from them," security officials told DH. Sources said the Assam Rifles jawan, who received bullet injuries in the gunfight was shifted to a military hospital. His condition is stable, it said. NSCN (IM) is a rebel group based in Nagaland and is in ceasefire with the government since 1997. They signed a "broad framework agreement" with the government in 2015 and concluded negotiations in October last year for signing a final agreement soon. Killing of the rebels amid the talks process, although surprised security analysts, army officials suspected that the rebels could belong to Myanmar-based group of the outfit, which is not part of the negotiations. But NSCN (IM) rebels has a strong hold in Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts in neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh. Their activities has become a worry for security forces in the state that shares border with Myanmar, China and Bhutan. The Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act is still in operation in the districts in view of the rebel group's activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-nscn-im-rebels-killed-in-arunachal-pradesh-1-assam-rifles-jawan-injured-859757.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Chhattisgarh to hold e-Lok Adalat via video conferencing||In an effort to settle pending cases by following precautionary measures amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an e-Lok Adalat is being organised in Chhattisgarh on Saturday, where hearings will be conducted virtually, an official said. As per a government release, this is the first time in the country that Lok Adalat is being held through video conferencing. Over 3,000 cases will be taken up for hearing in over 200 benches of various districts, including the high court in Bilaspur on Saturday, said Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra, the executive chairman of Chhattisgarh State Legal Services Authority. "The e-Lok Adalat will be inaugurated by Chhattisgarh High Court Chief Justice P R Ramchandra Menon at 10.30 am in the video-conferencing room of the high court and the programme will also be live-streamed," Justice Mishra said in the statement. The Covid-19 outbreak has severely hit the functioning of the judiciary in the state because of which lawyers and affected parties were also facing a financial crisis, he said. The move to hold Lok Adalat on a digital platform will bring relief to lawyers and aggrieved parties, he added. Family disputes, accident claims and cheque bounce cases that can be settled through mutual consent are often resolved by Lok Adalat, he said. All district courts and tehsil courts along with the high court will be part of the e-Lok Adalat, Justice Mishra said. If parties and lawyers have difficulty in connecting through video conferencing, they can also present their case via WhatsApp video calls, he said. "If this experiment is successful, it will be continued further," Justice Mishra added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-chhattisgarh-to-hold-e-lok-adalat-via-video-conferencing-859761.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Notices issued to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Deputy CM Sachin Pilot for recording statement over bid to 'topple' their govt||The Rajasthan police has issued notices to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot to record their statement in connection with the alleged attempts to topple their Congress government, sources said on Saturday. The police's special operations group (SOG) also sent a notice to Government Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi to record his statement, they said. The move came after the SOG on Friday registered an FIR against two people, who have been detained, for their alleged involvement in horse-trading of Congress MLAs for toppling the Ashok Gehlot government. "Notices have been issued to the chief minister, deputy chief minister and government chief whip for recording their statement in connection with the matter," an official source told PTI. The sources said nearly a dozen MLAs and others may also be issued notices soon. They said the probe has revealed that two-three MLAs were also involved in offering money to the Congress and other MLAs on behalf of the BJP. However, they refused to disclose the names of the MLAs. Also, action against those involved in the matter is also likely to be taken by anti-corruption bureau under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Meanwhile, the SOG has detained the two people whose calls were intercepted. "One person was detained from Udaipur and one from Ajmer district late last night. The y were brought to Jaipur for interrogation," an official of the SOG said. The SOG registered the FIR on the basis of facts that surfaced during interception of two mobile numbers which indicated that efforts were being made to poach ruling party MLAs, a senior police official had said. The chief minister had alleged that attempts were being made to destablise the state government and the government chief whip had filed complaints with the SOG and ACB demanding an inquiry into the case ahead of Rajya Sabha elections for two seats in the state last month. The deputy chief minister, who is also the PCC chief, had said that no such fact had come to his notice and no MLA complained to him in this regard. Amid allegations of horse-trading of MLAs, the Congress and other supporting MLAs were kept in a resort for several days till the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19. The chief minister, ahead of the RS elections, had blamed the BJP for trying to destablise his government like Madhya Pradesh, an allegation which the BJP had rejected as baseless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/notices-issued-to-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-deputy-cm-sachin-pilot-for-recording-statement-over-bid-to-topple-their-govt-859777.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire along International Border in J&K's Kathua||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing that continued overnight along the International Border (IB) in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. Firing on the border outpost in Kotha area started around 10.30 pm on Friday, drawing effective retaliation by the Border Security Force guarding the IB, they said. The officials said the exchange of fire between the two sides continued till 4.15 am but there was no report of any casualty or damage on the Indian side. However, it caused panic among the border residents who were forced to spend the night in underground bunkers, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-international-border-in-jks-kathua-859779.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu-Srinagar widening project likely to be completed by end of next year||The widening of the Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, would be completed within one-and-a-half years, a senior government official has said. Finance Commissioner, Revenue, Pawan Kotwal, who is also the nodal officer of the National Highway four-laning project, said the 8.5-km Banihal-Qazigund tunnel on the road is near completion and would be thrown open for public soon. The highway widening work started in 2011 with the target of completing it within five years. With the four-laning of the highway, travel time would get reduced by half as the distance would be reduced by 50 kms bypassing a number of treacherous points. Kotwal on Friday inspected the pace of the ongoing construction works between Banihal and Nashri, the most problematic stretch of the highway, an official spokesperson said on Saturday. The Finance Commissioner inspected construction works at Chamalwas, Nachilana, Ramsoo, Seri, Ramban, Chanderkote and Dahlwas besides directing the officers concerned to remove bottlenecks, if any, hindering the project. He was informed that the land acquisition process has been completed and all the working sites have been handed over to the NHAI for starting construction works, the spokesperson said. Expressing satisfaction over the pace of work, the finance commissioner said the project would be completed within one-and-half years. "In view of the topography of the hilly terrain between Ramban and Banihal, a detailed project report (DPR) worth Rs 2,000 crore is being formulated by the NHAI to complete the changed 16-km four-laning realigned project which included more tunnels and bridges to avoid landsliding and sinking areas," Kotwal said.   He also instructed the NHAI and contractors engaged in the widening of the National Highway 44 to ensure proper maintenance of existing roads for hassle-free movement of vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-srinagar-widening-project-likely-to-be-completed-by-end-of-next-year-859782.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Chorus against final exams in September intensify; no semester, final exams in universities under Delhi govt||Days after the University Grants Commission (UGC) set a September deadline for conducting final year exams, at least three states -- Delhi, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal -- on Saturday announced that it cannot follow the guidelines with Delhi government announcing the cancellation of all forthcoming semester and final exams in universities governed by it citing the Covid-19 situation. The Delhi government has directed the varsities under it to promote students to next semester and award final semester students with degrees by assessing their past performance and through a "progressive method of evaluation". Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to follow his government's decision and cancel exams in central universities like Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). "There is lot of anguish among students, teachers and others due to the UGC decision. Everyone thinks it is a wrong decision and it should be recalled. Institutions like the IITs and National Law University have granted degrees on the basis of internal assessment. Why can't this be adopted in other universities? Universities in other countries have also done so," Kejriwal said in in his letter to Modi, as he demanded that final exams be cancelled in all central universities. Tamil Nadu government said it cannot conduct final examinations in September, as several educational institutions have been converted into Covid-19 care centres. The West Bengal Vice-Chancellors Council also said it will be approaching the UGC Chairman, saying the process of evaluation is almost over and there is no scope to incorporate the UGC guidelines and the Centre's advisory to conduct the tests by September-end. The CPI(M) also raised objections to the UGC's "unilateral proposal" for a "homogeneous national pattern of online/open book examinations" due to Covid-19, as it batted for awarding degrees on the basis of performance in previous semesters. It said internet connectivity in the country is still around 36% only and access to online classes or examinations does not exist for a vast majority of students, particularly the marginalised and those living in digitally unconnected parts in the country. Last week, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had permitted the Ministry of Human Resources and Development (MHRD) to conduct final year examinations, saying it was mandatory to hold the final exams. Following this, the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued a circular instructing that final exams be held by September 30. On Friday, Karnataka government had announced conducting final year exams as per UGC guidelines while deciding to promote all intermediate semester students pursuing degree and post-graduation courses including engineering and diploma for the academic year 2019- 20 without examinations. Himachal Pradesh government also said that it will hold final year exams by August. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the portfolio of education, said it was "unfair” to conduct examinations for students amid the pandemic, which has already “hampered their learning in the absence of regular classes, practicals, and lab work”. Emphasising that "unprecedented times required unprecedented decisions", he said it was “unfair to withhold their degrees now without which they cannot start with their professional journey." Earlier, Delhi government had decided to promote students of Class IX and XI on the basis of their previous performances. "The ones who were appearing for semester examinations should be promoted to next semester on the basis of internal assessment and performance in mid term exams. And the final semester/year students should also be evaluated on the previous semesters, performance in internal assessments and should be awarded degrees," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chorus-against-final-exams-in-september-intensify-no-semester-final-exams-in-universities-under-delhi-govt-859790.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||UP shuts as government announces 55-hour-long lockdown-like restrictions to curb Covid-19 spread||Shops and business establishments, other than those dealing with essential services, remained closed in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday after the government reimposed lockdown-like restrictions across the state to slow the spread of coronavirus. The government on Thursday had announced that restrictions will be reimposed in the state from 10 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday in the state following the surge in coronavirus cases. However, it permitted the functioning of essential services and the opening of religious places during this period. “The curbs have been imposed in the state to check the spread of Covid-19 and other communicable diseases,” Chief Secretary R K Tiwari had said in an order communicated to all district authorities in the state. Roads wore a deserted look on Saturday, as tempos, taxis and government buses did not operate. Only vehicles carrying essential goods were seen plying on the roads. Police personnel were posted at all prominent crossings of the state capital, and they were seen maintaining a close watch on people moving on two-wheelers. Since it is the second Saturday of the month, the government and private offices remained closed across the state. Markets in prominent areas of Lucknow such as Hazratganj, Aminabad, Chowk, Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Latouche Road, Alambagh, Hewett Road, Aliganj and Gudumba remained shut. However, the shops selling essential items were open. In Kanpur, Naveen Market, Somdutt Plaza, Civil Lines, Meston Road, Panki, Chamanganj, Kidwainagar and other areas remained closed. Rohit Kohli, a distributor of computers and laptops, said, "All the shops in the market (Somdutt Plaza) will remain closed for two days.” We will follow the directives of the government, he added. In Prayagraj, the main markets in Civil Lines, Mutthiganj, Lukerganj, Badshahi Mandi, Ashoknagar and Nawab Yusuf Ali Road also remained closed. Before the imposition of the restrictions similar to lockdown, people were seen crowding shops to store essential items. Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi on Friday had said directives have been issued to police to ensure that the restrictions are strictly enforced and violators strongly dealt with. Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded over 33,000 coronavirus cases and close to 900 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-shuts-as-government-announces-55-hour-long-lockdown-like-restrictions-to-curb-covid-19-spread-859822.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Priority is close monitoring, guiding containment work in areas with high Covid-19 infection rate: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday appreciated the efforts of the Centre, state and the local authorities in containing the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, and directed that a similar approach be replicated in checking the pandemic in the entire NCR area. "Priority is close monitoring and guiding the containment works in regions where the infection rate is high," the prime minister wrote on Twitter after holding a review meeting to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in various parts of the country and the preparedness of various states. According to a statement issued by the Prime minister's Office, Modi also directed that real-time national level monitoring and guidance should be provided to all affected states and places with high test positivity rates. The prime minister reiterated the need to observe personal hygiene and social discipline in public places. Modi said awareness about the pandemic should be disseminated widely and a continuous emphasis on preventing the spread of the infection should be laid. He said there is no room for any complacency in this regard, according to the statement. "The prime minister appreciated the concerted efforts of the Centre, state and local authorities in containing the pandemic situation in Delhi," the statement said. "He further directed that a similar approach should be adopted with other state governments in containing the Covid-19 pandemic in the entire NCR area," it said. The review meeting was attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and the cabinet secretary among others. "Had an extensive meeting to review the Covid-19 situation across the nation. Took stock of the ongoing efforts to contain the infection," the prime minister said in his tweet. The Union home minister had stepped in last month to handle the coronavirus situation in the national capital amid rising cases and criticism in different quarters of the Delhi government's handling of the Covid-19 situation, with complaints of non-availability of beds in hospitals for patients and difficulty in getting the tests done in laboratories. Shah had discussed ways to check the spread of the virus in the NCR with the chief ministers of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The NCR comprises districts belonging to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The prominent ones being Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida), Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad. During Saturday's meet, the "successful example" of surveillance and home-based care through 'Dhanvantri Rath' in Ahmedabad was highlighted and it was directed that it may be emulated in other places, the statement said. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday morning, India's Covid-19 tally has crossed the eight-lakh mark. The death toll in the country has climbed to 22,123 with 519 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Of the 519 new deaths reported, 226 are from Maharashtra, 64 from Tamil Nadu, 57 from Karnataka, 42 from Delhi, 27 from Uttar Pradesh and 26 from West Bengal. Andhra Pradesh reported 15 fatalities, Gujarat 14, Telangana eight and Rajasthan six. Assam and Jammu and Kashmir reported five deaths each, followed by Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Punjab with four deaths each, and Haryana and Puducherry with three fatalities each. Two people have succumbed to the infection in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priority-is-close-monitoring-guiding-containment-work-in-areas-with-high-covid-19-infection-rate-pm-modi-859830.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Tibetan group holds protests against China in Delhi||A small group of Tibetans held a protest against China here on Saturday, police said. The protest was held around 11:00 am, they said. "Three protestors came here to protest. They were detained from near the Chinese embassy at central Delhi when they were trying to move ahead," a senior police officer said. They were taken to Chanakyapuri police station and will be released soon, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tibetan-group-holds-protests-against-china-in-delhi-859834.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Leopard claws, skin and bones recovered in Madhya Pradesh, four held||Police have recovered leopard claws, skin and bones from Seoni district of Madhya Pradesh and arrested four poachers in this connection, an official said on Saturday. The accused were arrested when they were trying to strike a deal to sell leopard's claws, hide and bones, Seoni Superintendent of Police (SP) Kumar Prateek said. "The police had received information on Friday that some persons are trying to sell the leopard claws worth around Rs 10 lakh. A police team was sent to the spot, from where the four persons were arrested. Four leopard claws, bones and a hide were seized from them," SP said. All the accused were arrested under the provisions of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, he said. "During their interrogation, the accused told the police that they had killed a leopard in Khubi beat of Dhuma forest about two months back and chopped off its parts using an axe and later hidden them at their homes," the official said. The accused were identified as Shambhulal Pendre, Ramkumar Kakodiya, Naresh Kakodiya and Nandulal Uike, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/leopard-claws-skin-and-bones-recovered-in-madhya-pradesh-four-held-859845.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Three-day lockdown in Kashipur due to rise in coronavirus cases||A three-day lockdown was imposed from Saturday in Kashipur in Uttarakhand's Udham Singh Nagar district in view of rising cases of Covid-19. The lockdown which came into effect at 10 am on Saturday will continue till the midnight of July 13, an order issued by Kashipur's Joint Magistrate Gaurav Kumar said. Barring essential services, all commercial activities in the market area will remain suspended during the period, it said advising people to stay at home and not venture out unless it was absolutely necessary.  Only, medicine shops, private and government hospitals and shops dealing in milk will remain open during the period, the order said.   Any violation of the lockdown order will be punishable under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and the Epidemic Act, 1897 read with relevant provisions of Uttarakhand Covid-19 Regulation, 2020, it said. Udham Singh Nagar district alone accounted for 41 out of a total of 68 Covid-19 cases reported in Uttarakhand on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-day-lockdown-in-kashipur-due-to-rise-in-coronavirus-cases-859848.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||UP cops arrest 2 from MP for harbouring gangster Vikas Dubey's aides||The Uttar Pradesh Police have arrested two men from Gwalior city of Madhya Pradesh for allegedly harbouring slain gangster Vikas Dubey's two accomplices, a senior official said on Saturday. The UP police detained the two Gwalior residents - Omprakash Pandey and Anil Pandey - on July 7 and took them to Kanpur the same day, said Raja Babu Singh, Additional Director General (ADG) of police (Gwalior range). "They were arrested for allegedly harbouring two accomplices of gangster Dubey," he said. Police sources said that the two Gwalior residents were formally placed under arrest by Chaubepur police in Uttar Pradesh on Friday. "The Kanpur police didn't seek any assistance from the Madhya Pradesh police when they took the duo into custody on July 7," the ADG said. While the state police have been helping their Uttar Pradesh counterparts in the investigation, the local police were not informed about their arrest, he added. According to him, the duo has been arrested under the Indian Penal Code section (IPC) section 216 (harbouring offenders). Police sources said that the Gwalior residents had allegedly harboured Shashikant Pandey and Shivam Dubey, who were involved in the Kanpur ambush, in which eight police personnel were killed in Bikru village last week. Gangster Dubey was shot dead by the Uttar Pradesh police in an encounter on Friday morning after a police vehicle carrying him from MP's Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area near Kanpur. Dubey had been arrested outside a temple in Ujjain on Thursday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cops-arrest-2-from-mp-for-harbouring-gangster-vikas-dubeys-aides-859850.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Strict lockdown restrictions reimposed after spike in coronavirus cases in J&K Rajouri||Strict lockdown restrictions were reimposed on Saturday in parts of Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district following a spike in coronavirus cases, officials said. The entire Rajouri city and adjoining areas were sealed and people were asked to stay indoors as part of the efforts to slow the spread of the infection, they said. “The restrictions were reimposed as a precautionary measure after some locals were tested positive for Covid-19. While in most cases the source of the infection is known, there are some cases where the source is unknown,” Additional Deputy Commissioner, Rajouri, Sher Singh told PTI. He said the restrictions would continue till the completion of the contact tracing of all the positive cases, their sampling and receipt of the reports. “We have five active red zones and all the residents of these areas are being subjected to Covid testing,” Singh said. Meanwhile, the Government Medical College associated hospital in Rajouri town was closed till further orders following the detection of a positive case among the inpatients, the officials said. However, the emergency services are functioning normally with doctors and paramedical staff taking all necessary precautionary measures against coronavirus, they said. Rajouri district, which falls in the Jammu region, had recorded the highest single-day spike of 51 cases on Friday. The district had so far recorded one Covid-19 related death among 240 cases, including 171 travellers. A total of 88 people have been cured of the disease so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/strict-lockdown-restrictions-reimposed-after-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-in-jk-rajouri-859860.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||PGCA hails JK Pollution Control Board for air quality improvement in Jammu, Srinagar||The Parliamentarian Group for Climate Action (PGCA) has lauded the efforts and initiatives taken by the Jammu and Kashmir Pollution Control Board towards improving the air quality of non-attainment cities of Jammu and Srinagar. In a communication sent to Chief Secretary of J&K B V R Subrahmanyam, Rajya Sabha member Vikas Mahatme congratulated the UT of Jammu and Kashmir in general and the JK pollution control board (PCB) in particular for mandating the use of retrofitting emission control devices for DG sets above 125 KVA for commercial diesel-driven vehicles of 1500 CC rating as per BS-IV standards, an official spokesman said here on Friday.  Mahatme said that following J&K's example, many other states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Haryana, have also mandated the use of retrofitting emission control technology for DG sets. The PGCA plans to highlight the efforts of JK PCB to improve the air quality as per the National Clean Air Program (NCAP) during the monsoon session of Parliament. Chairman of JK PCB Suresh Chugh expressed gratitude for the recognition of the efforts of the board, including the transport department, by the PGCA. He appealed to all the stakeholders to implement the orders of the PCB regarding retrofitting PCDs in DG sets and diesel-driven commercial vehicles in order to reduce the carbon footprint of the emissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pgca-hails-jk-pollution-control-board-for-air-quality-improvement-in-jammu-srinagar-859887.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Lockdown returns in Madhya Pradesh as Covid-19 cases spike||In view of the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases across the state, the Madhya Pradesh government is going to re-impose lockdown on every Sunday till July 31. If situation doesn’t improve, stricter measures including enforcement of lockdown on all seven days could be adopted, say government sources. The state’s big towns Bhopal, Indore and Gwalior have recorded record rise in the last two days. In last one week, Covid-19 cases have risen by 2053, taking total number to 16657 by Saturday afternoon. Death toll has gone up to 638. In Bhopal, record 86 cases were detected on Saturday, taking total number of corona virus patients to 3504 including 116 deaths. Indore too recorded 89 fresh cases on Saturday. City’s death toll has risen to 261 while number of patients has gone up to 5176 by Saturday evening. Gwalior too has witnessed sharp spike in the Covid-19 cases. State’s health minister Narottam Mishra said lockdown on Sundays has become imperative in view of the fact that people throng public places on the holiday in utter disregard to social distancing norms. The state government has issued an advisory asking district administrations to strictly enforce prohibitory order in order to dissuade people from venturing out of their homes. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reviewed arrangements being made under ‘kill corona’ campaign to effectively tackle the spread of pandemic. He was told that 66% of the state’s population has been surveyed under the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-returns-in-madhya-pradesh-as-covid-19-cases-spike-859895.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey's family, maid returns to Lucknow after cremation: Police||Vikas Dubey's wife, son and maid, who were picked up by the STF for questioning in connection with the deadly ambush of a police team, returned to their home in Lucknow after the gangster's cremation in Kanpur, police said on Saturday. The gangster's wife, Richa Dubey, their son and maid were kept at a mahila police station in Kanpur after being brought from their Krishna Nagar residence in Lucknow for questioning, a police official said in Kanpur. He said Richa Dubey and the maid were questioned for more than 5 hours. They returned to Lucknow Friday, another police official said here. However, they have not appeared in public since the cremation in Kanpur on Friday, when Richa Dubey said her husband "did wrong and he deserved this fate." Kanpur Jail Superintendent R K Jaiswal told PTI that neither Richa Dubey nor her maid were taken to the district jail or the makeshift jail in Chaubeypur near the gangster's village Bikru due to the coronavirus pandemic. In Bikru village, where eight policemen were ambushed last week when they had gone to arrest Vikas Dubey, the administration has stepped up security and deployed the Rapid Action Force. Police personnel on a vehicle were making an announcement to the villagers to share information about those who snatched police weapons during the encounter within 24 hours. Nearly 60 policemen had been keeping a vigil outside the demolished house of Vikas Dubey after the news spread that the gangster was killed in on Friday. The policemen were sitting on wooden beds under a neem tree, watching a steady stream of media persons arriving with a variety of questions. A broken baseball bat, damaged tractors, and a few two-wheelers and an SUV were seen inside the building, around 18 km from Chaubeypur police station. Meanwhile, two aides of the gangster were arrested by the ATS from Thane in Maharashtra. The accused Arvind alias Guddan Trivedi and his driver Sonu Tiwari were wanted in connection with the killing of eight police personnel in the ambush and also in the 2001 murder of minister of state Santosh Shukla, an official said. Vikas Dubey was shot dead Friday by police, who claim he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain overturned on an isolated stretch on the outskirts of Kanpur. The SUV toppled on the road which was slippery following rainfall, police claimed. According to a statement from the Special Task Force, the driver had tried to avoid cattle on the road. Police said the gangster snatched a pistol from one of the policemen injured in the accident and was shot when he opened fire in a bid to escape. Six policemen, including two from the Special Task Force, were injured in the accident and the exchange of fire around 6 am on Friday, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubeys-family-maid-returns-to-lucknow-after-cremation-police-859899.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||BJP rejects Ashok Gehlot's charge of horse-trading in Rajasthan||The BJP on Saturday rejected Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's charge that it was trying to topple his government, and claimed there was infighting in the ruling Congress. The party also hit out at the chief minister over the case registered by police's special operations group (SOG) against two persons in connection with alleged horse trading of MLAs ahead of Rajya Sabha polls, saying he should utilise agencies like SOG and ACB for crime control "instead of threatening" MLAs and political parties. “The chief minister did not talk logically in his press conference. It is their own infighting but he wants to blame BJP.  He is a veteran leader of the Congress and his pain is justified because the Congress has shrunk in the country,” BJP's state president Satish Poonia told reporters. He was reacting after Gehlot alleged that Poonia, Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and Rajendra Rathore were involved in efforts to topple his government on the direction of the BJP's central leadership. Kataria, who is in Udaipur, challenged the chief minister to prove the allegations. “He talked about 'bakra-mandi'. How can he say like this, he should respond," Poonia said. Gehlot had alleged that the BJP leaders were murdering democracy by trying to "buy" MLAs and turning the state's politics into a goat market, “bakra-mandi”. The chief minister had said he was confident that his government will last its full term. Poonia took a swipe at Gehlot, saying why had the Congress kept its MLAs at a resort before the Rajya Sabha polls. "If he was so confident, why he had to confine the MLAs to a resort for several days ahead of Rajya Sabha elections?” he said. "The chief minister should utilise the agencies like SOG and ACB for crime control instead of threatening the MLAs and political parties," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-rejects-ashok-gehlots-charge-of-horse-trading-in-rajasthan-859905.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath says special vigilance needed in Kanpur Nagar, Jhansi, Mathura||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said special vigilance has to be maintained in the districts of Kanpur Nagar, Jhansi, and Mathura in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. He directed that a special secretary-rank officer, an officer of the Health Department, and a senior officer of the Medical Education department be tasked with preparing a strategy to control the spread of the infection. The Chief Minister was chairing a meeting with senior officials of the state government at his residence. To curb the spread of the infection, proper screening facilities should be ensured for train and flight passengers, he said. The chief minister directed that the testing capacity in the state be increased. He said 30,000 tests should be conducted per day using RTPCR. Along with that, 15,000 to 20,000 antigen tests and 2,000 tests through TrueNAT machines should be conducted every day, Adityanath said. He stressed on making cleanliness a part of life, saying many diseases can be prevented by doing this. The UP chief minister said every village panchayat in the state should prepare pits to make manure using solid wastes. "This will ensure cleanliness in the village, and also make organic manure available to the farmers," he said in a statement issued here. On the locust menace, Adityanath said it should be ensured that farmers do not face any losses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-says-special-vigilance-needed-in-kanpur-nagar-jhansi-mathura-859910.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||No coronavirus patient under home isolation in Delhi has died in July: study||Not a single coronavirus patient under home isolation in the city has died in July and there has been a "sharp decline" in daily fatality figures in the past two weeks, a Delhi government study on Covid-19 deaths has said. The city's Health department presented these findings to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday, days after he directed them to study all Covid-19 deaths in the last fortnight to understand what steps could be taken to further reduce the number of fatalities.  "During the June 24 to July 8 fortnight, a total of 691 deaths took place in Delhi, which is an average of 46 deaths per day during this period," the government said in a statement. According to the study, the number of daily deaths in past few days has come down. From a high of 101 daily deaths in mid-June, daily deaths have come down to around 46 deaths during the last fortnight, registering a significant improvement, it said. Delhi's overall death rate has come down to 3.02 per cent from 3.64 per cent in June. However, daily average has come down to roughly 2.5 per cent with average daily number of deaths being less than 50, the study said. "Out of the total 691 deaths that took place in the last fortnight, only seven deaths happened in home isolation (between 24 June to 30 June). Not a single coronavirus patient has died under home isolation in July," the statement said.  This can be attributed to the chief minister's decision to distribute oximeters to all patients under home isolation, it said, adding that the use of these oximeters alerts the patients of any dropping oxygen levels which is an early sign of deteriorating health. The chief minister held a review meeting on Friday to discuss measures which needs to be taken to further reduce mortality.  In view of the deaths at the hospitals (and not in home isolation), it was felt that systems in each hospital needs to be examined in detail, the statement said. The chief minister has asked for the ratio of deaths to total number of patients discharged from each hospital. Hospitals with low ratio would mean better management, it said.  Good practices in the hospitals would be studied and implemented at those facilities where more deaths are taking place. The chief minister will continue to monitor all serious cases on a daily basis, it added. Of the 691 deaths in the last fortnight, 505 patients were in serious condition when admitted to the hospitals and 291 were already in hospital when they tested positive for Covid-19. The study also found delay in hospital admission in case of 28 patients.  According to a central government's committee, 45 per cent of Covid-19  deaths in India occur during the first 48 hours. In Delhi, this has come down to only 15 per cent, the statement said. A number of steps have been taken by the Delhi government to lower Covid-19 deaths which have contributed to the reduction in number of fatalities, it said. The interventions at six crucial points - enhanced testing, home isolation of asymptomatic and mild symptom patients, faster ambulance service, quick hospital admission, easy hospital bed availability and enhanced ICU capacity - have started showing results, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-coronavirus-patient-under-home-isolation-in-delhi-has-died-in-july-study-859912.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan's revenue collection has dropped by 70% due to Covid-19 pandemic: CM Ashok Gehlot||The Rajasthan government's revenue collection has dropped by 70 per cent due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday, alleging that despite repeated demands, the Centre has not announced grants and package for states. He also said that it is important that "money is pumped and purchasing power of people is enhanced so that demand can be generated". "In every video conference with the prime minister, I requested him to provide grants to states and package for them, but that demand was not addressed," Gehlot told a press conference. The state government's borrowing capacity has been increased but the Centre should announce a package for all states, he said and alleged that the central government's economic policies are "wrong" . The chief minister said that as a result of the Covid-19 crisis, "our revenue collection has dropped by 70 per cent". "We have formed a committee to suggest measures for revival of economic activities," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthans-revenue-collection-has-dropped-by-70-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-cm-ashok-gehlot-859960.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir in final stages of industrial promotion policy to attract investment: Lt Governor G C Murmu||Jammu and Kashmir administration is in the final stages of designing an ambitious industrial promotion policy to attract private investment, Lt Governor G C Murmu said on Saturday, as he invited investors from across the globe and assured full support for their interest in the Union Territory. He also said that the proposed global investment summit in Jammu and Kashmir would be held soon and would be announced once the Covid-19 pandemic is brought under control. "We are in the final stages of designing an ambitious industrial promotion policy 2020. It will have elements like tax exemption and very attractive land policy…this will be in addition to the incentives to be provided by Government of India through a special J&K Industrial development scheme which is already in play and is currently being revamped," Murmu said. Delivering his address at the India Global Week 2020 - a virtual conference being organised in the UK, he said, "We have identified 14 sectors for privatizing our efforts for investment". Identifying the sectors including Information Technology, tourism and hospitality, horticulture and post-harvest management, agro and food processing, agriculture and milk poultry, processing of handloom, silk and handicraft, healthcare and pharma, medicinal plant, education and skill development, infrastructure and real estate and hydro and renewable energy, the Lt Governor said his government is developing state-of-the-art infrastructure for industries in the UT. "We are currently developing two ITs and two ICDs and have identified industrial land," he said, adding that 6,000 acres of government land, without disturbing agricultural land, across 20 districts will be used to develop state-of-the-art industrial estates. He said that his administration has put significant efforts in ease of doing business by setting up the single-window mechanism to streamline approval for investment. "J&K is currently ranked number one among the UTs on implementation of reforms. Urban infrastructure, mobility, and communication networks are being upgraded to provide a conducive environment," he said. He said Jammu and Kashmir is a global tourist destination and is famous for recreational tourism, which is the second largest after the agriculture sector in the region and around 30 per cent population is directly or indirectly linked to this sector. Besides having leisure tourism, Jammu and Kashmir has the great potential for adventure, heritage and pilgrimage tourism as well. "To increase the footprints, the government has drawn up a comprehensive policy for their development," Murmu said. He said the start-up policy has already been rolled out in the Union Territory for creation of 500 new start-ups besides establishing incubators, innovation and incubation labs. The health sector has been transformed with the opening of seven new medical colleges and the doubling of medical seats in one year. "The government is also planning to organise its global investment summit soon. It will be announced once the Covid-19 is under control," he said. Extending an open invitation to the investors, Lt Governor said, "I would like to invite you all to participate and visit the region. "Collaborate with us and help us further refine and further expand our ideas. We will be posting individual officers (for your assistance) and on behalf of the government, I assure you fullest support for your interest in J&K." He said it would be the endeavour of the government to create an ecosystem that will not only propel growth and create employment but will also lead to sustainable development in today's world. "The business communities of India and the UK have played a very important role in the development of strategic relationships to synergize various sectors. I urge all of you to engage with J&K on the same synergy for the development of sectors which had remained in economic backwater," he said. In an apparent reference to the revocation of the special status to J&K under Article 370 of the Constitution in August last year, Murmu said, "we have removed all regulatory and institutional barriers between JK and rest of India and ushering in one nation one framework in the true sense." He said the legal architecture of the regulatory regime prevailing in the rest of the country has been made applicable to J&K. "This has been done to remove economic barriers, increase investment and facilitate equality in the region," he said. Referring to the local bodies elections in 2018, he said a strong grass-root democracy has been set up with the gallant participation of the people at the lowest level of the government in village council and urban local bodies. "We are reviving the rural economy by pumping in public investment…the last one year saw tremendous achievement in terms of good governance, deliverance, development of infrastructure. Many of the projects which were pending for years together have been either completed or on the verge of completion," he said. He said that more than 800 languishing projects of public importance were completed last year. In addition to the Prime Minister's vision of inclusive growth, sustainable development and to propel J&K as a growth engine, the J&K government has taken initiatives to transform the region into another investment destination for sustainable development he said. He added that the UT government is focused on ensuring a favourable working climate for the industry and has come up with various sector-specific policies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-in-final-stages-of-industrial-promotion-policy-to-attract-investment-lt-governor-g-c-murmu-859963.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey's absconding aide arrested near Mumbai||The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of Maharashtra Police on Saturday arrested two men, including an absconding aide of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, in neighbouring Thane, an official said. Arvind alias Guddan Ramvilas Trivedi (46), a henchman of Dubey, was allegedly involved in the killing of eight policemen during a raid on the slain gangster's house in Kanpur district and in the murder of Uttar Pradesh politician Santosh Mishra in 2001, he said. Trivedi and his driver Sushilkunar alias Sonu Tiwari (30) were arrested from Kolshet area of Thane city, said Vikram Deshmane, Superintendent of Police, ATS. Trivedi's arrest might throw some light on activities of Dubey and his gang in Kanpur, the ATS official said. During interrogation, Trivedi claimed he is a member of Panchayat Samiti and is affiliated to a political party in his home state, he said. Trivedi, alongwith Dubey and others, fled after the ambush at Bikaru village in which eight policemen including a deputy superintendent of police were killed on July 3, he said. Officials of the Juhu unit of the ATS here got information that Trivedi had landed in Mumbai seeking a hide- out, SP Deshmane said. A team led by inspector Daya Nayak, a former 'encounter specialist' of Mumbai police, nabbed the duo from Kolshet, he said. During preliminary questioning Trivedi admitted that he and Dubey were involved in the murder of Uttar Pradesh politician Santosh Mishra in 2001 and many other crimes, the SP said. The ATS has informed Uttar Pradesh Police's Special Task Force (STF) about the arrest, he said. Dubey, the mastermind of the Kanpur ambush, was killed in an encounter on Friday after he tried to flee following a road accident at Barra area in Kanpur a day after his arrest. Trivedi was very close to Dubey and used to visit the latter's residence regularly, the ATS official said, adding that he might provide important details to the police about activities of the slain criminal in Kanpur. On the route undertaken by Trivedi and Tiwari, he said the duo left Kanpur in a car, a day after eight policemen were killed, and travelled to Datia in Madhya Pradesh. It was not yet clear whether Vikas Dubey accompanied them. "From Datia, the duo boarded a truck heading towards Pune in Maharashtra. After spending some time in Pune, they boarded another truck and reached Mumbai," he said, adding that after reaching Mumbai, Trivedi contacted some of his relatives. The duo was sheltered by a man from their village, who is currently living in Kolshet, he said. "Trivedi had initially requested that he be allowed to stay there for a day, but he and Tiwari went on to stay there for four days," the official said. He said while the manhunt was launched by the UP Police to track Dubey and his henchmen, the ATS received inputs about Trivedi's whereabouts through its informers. "The Juhu unit of the ATS laid a trap and nabbed the duo on Saturday," said the official who was part of the ATS team. Trivedi told investigators that he was present at the spot of firing in Bikaru village, another official said, adding that his claims are being verified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubeys-absconding-aide-arrested-near-mumbai-859974.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||UP govt turned adversity arising out of coronavirus pandemic into opportunity: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh government has turned the adversity arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic into opportunity through planning and strategy, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath asserted on Saturday. There was not a single Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit or N95 mask manufacturing unit in the state before the lockdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus was imposed, but now it has 43 such units that have the capacity to export PPE kits, he said. Ever since the process of 'Unlock' began in June, eight lakh industrial units, employing 50 lakh labourers, have resumed operations in the state, Adityanath said while addressing the 'India Global Week' webinar. The central government had imposed the nationwide lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The 'Unlock' procedure, under which the Centre had allowed several relaxations, began from June 8. The chief minister said that 11 lakh migrant workers who returned to the state were absorbed in industrial units. "To deal with economic challenges arising due to the coronavirus pandemic, the state government has turned adversity into an opportunity through planning and strategy,” Adityanath said. He said with the help of the Centre, 2.4 lakh industrial units got loans worth Rs 5,900 crore||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-turned-adversity-arising-out-of-coronavirus-pandemic-into-opportunity-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-859984.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||UP govt forms SIT to probe police's 'connivance' with Vikas Dubey||The Uttar Pradesh government constituted a special investigation team on Saturday to probe the local police's alleged connivance with slain gangster Vikas Dubey, a statement said. Additional Chief Secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy will head the SIT, which will have Additional DG Hari Ram Sharma and DIG Ravinder Goud as its members, according to an official statement. The SIT will submit its report by July 31 after looking into all the angles, studying all related documents and spot inspection in Kanpur, it said. The team has been asked to probe into what effective action was taken in all the cases lodged against Dubey, the statement said. The SIT will also probe what action was taken to cancel the bail of "such a dreaded criminal", what action has been taken against him under the Goonda Act, the National Security Act, Gangsters Act, and if there was any laxity and at what level, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-forms-sit-to-probe-polices-connivance-with-vikas-dubey-859987.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi's WCD minister takes stock of preventive arrangements for children in care homes||Delhi's Women and Child Development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Saturday took stock of the preventive arrangements being made for children residing in care homes in city's Alipur area in view of the coronavirus pandemic.  The minister visited the Phulbari Bal Griha and Ashiana Bal Griha and reviewed the implementation of the guidelines issued by the Delhi government regarding Covid-19.  Special emphasis is being given on the cleanliness in these child care complexes. The body temperature of every person coming from outside is measured and a sanitation machine is also installed at the entrance, Gautam was told by officials. Gautam also examined the protective measures taken to prevent any untoward incidents with children.  Orphan children in the age group of 6 to 12 and 12 to 18 are kept in these government care homes. They are given free housing, medical care, school education and vocational training by the government.  The minister also inspected the food prepared for children and found it satisfactory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhis-wcd-minister-takes-stock-of-preventive-arrangements-for-children-in-care-homes-859994.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Preliminary probe against 3 Independent MLAs over 'bid' to topple Rajasthan govt||The anti-corruption bureau lodged a preliminary inquiry against three Independent MLAs in Rajasthan on Saturday, a day after the special operations group registered a case over alleged attempt to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. The legislators -- Om Prakash Hudla, Suresh Tak and Khushveer Singh -- were allegedly involved in offering money to some other MLAs on behalf of the BJP for toppling the government, according to the ACB sources. "The probe in the inquiry is going on," the sources said. "Since corruption is involved, the matter is being probed under the Prevention of Corruption Act." Hudla, however, said he was not involved in any such activity. The SOG of the Rajasthan Police registered a case on basis of the facts that came up during interception of two mobile numbers, which were taken on surveillance on June 13. During interception, it was revealed that attempts were being made to topple the state government. The SOG lodged a case on Friday and detained both the persons whose mobile numbers were on surveillance. One of them, Ashok Chauhan, was detained from Udaipur, while the Bharat Bhai, was picked from Beawar town of Ajmer district. They were placed under arrest on Saturday in Jaipur and are being interrogated. An official said the case was registered by the SOG on its own on the basis of facts came up during the conversation between both the persons. Their mobile numbers were intercepted in connection with illegal smuggling of arms and (mining) explosive. The official said a complaint, which was filed by government chief whip Mahesh Joshi, was also being probed but no FIR in that complaint was registered so far. Both the SOG and the ACB are the part of Rajasthan Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/preliminary-probe-against-3-independent-mlas-over-bid-to-topple-rajasthan-govt-859996.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||G Narendra Kumar's appointment as new Delhi CEO 'kept in abeyance'||The Election Commission has "kept in abeyance" the appointment of G Narendra Kumar as the new Chief Electoral Officer of Delhi, purely due to "administrative reasons", according to an official order. On Wednesday, Lt Governor Anil Baijal had appointed him as the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Delhi and also the Principal Secretary (Elections). His name was nominated by the Election Commission of India in June. "The appointment has been kept in abeyance, purely due to administrative reasons," a senior functionary of the EC said, adding this is as per a July 10 order of the poll body. Kumar is a 1989-batch IAS officer under the AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh- Goa-Mizoram-Union Territories) cadre. Ranbir Singh will continue to hold the charge of Delhi CEO till further orders, sources said. When asked about the possible reason for the move, sources said, it is the "prerogative of the Commission" in appointing a CEO. "Also, tenure of Delhi CEO is not fixed as such, and previous CEOs have been appointed, either for few months or a couple of years," a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/g-narendra-kumars-appointment-as-new-delhi-ceo-kept-in-abeyance-859998.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Centre clears Rs 2,000 cr for BharatNet phase II in Uttarakhand||The Centre has sanctioned Rs 2,000 crore for BharatNet phase II programme in Uttarakhand. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the digital connectivity initiative will revolutionise telecommunication and internet connectivity in the state. The initiative will make internet available in 5,991-gram panchayats under 65 blocks spread over 12 districts, Rawat said. With the internet reaching all gram panchayats through the initiative, a new era of development will begin in Uttarakhand, the chief minister said at a press conference here on Saturday. Describing it as an initiative that will revolutionise telecommunication and internet connectivity in the state, Rawat thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and IT and Telecommunications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad for it. Financed by the Universal Services Obligation Fund - USOF - under the Telecommunications Ministry, the mega initiative is to be implemented in two phases across the country under the supervision of Bharat Broad Band Network Limited. In Uttarakhand, the programme will be implemented by Information Technology Development Agency (ITDA ).  With the implementation of BharatNet 2.0, people of the state will be able to easily avail facilities like e-governance, e-office, e-district, e-health, telemedicine, e-education, e-banking etc, he said, adding it will not only make them self dependent but also generate employment opportunities.  Significant steps have been taken in the last three years in the field of IT, including CM Dashboard that facilitates monitoring of development projects on a priority basis right from the block level to the CMO. Besides, there is a state data centre - the first of its kind in Uttarakhand where data related to different departments can be stored. The state has also set up a state wide area network through which all districts, blocks and tehsils have been connected with the state headquarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-clears-rs-2000-cr-for-bharatnet-phase-ii-in-uttarakhand-860000.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Despite 5,017 recoveries, only 15 donate plasma in Punjab: Report||With the chatter around plasma therapy as a possible treatment for Covid-19 growing louder, states across the country have been pushing their citizens who have recovered from coronavirus to come out and donate plasma. But authorities in Punjab have been facing some hurdles. “Punjabis are known for their benevolence. When it comes to donating blood, they are always at the forefront. But they are reluctant to donate plasma. We are facing this problem. Out of 400 recovered patients, only 15 have donated plasma so far,” Dr K K Talwar, former director of PGIMER and Adviser to the government on Health, Medical Education and Research told the publication.  Talwar said that the responsibility lies with the authorities as well, who have not been able to sufficiently educate people on the importance of donating plasma. A mass movement involving NGOs would have to be deployed, allowing them to debunk myths and educate people about plasma donation, he added. There are also rumours of plasma donation quickly becoming transactional in nature, where the donor and patient unofficially negotiate a price between themselves, sometimes as high as Rs 3 lakh, as per some reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/despite-5017-recoveries-only-15-donate-plasma-in-punjab-report-860011.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Prove horse-trading charge or quit politics, BJP tells Ashok Gehlot; Alleges CM is targeting his deputy due to infighting||The BJP on Saturday dared Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to prove his allegation of horse-trading levelled against it or quit politics, and claimed he was targeting the opposition party as he was unable the check the infighting in the state Congress. Taking a swipe as the chief minister, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat alleged that Gehlot had come up a with a "cooked up story" with an intention to defame Congress' state president and deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot for his personal political gains. "The chief minister himself was the script writer, producer, director, actor and villain of this film”, said Shekhawat asking him to bring out the list of the MLAs, whom he considered "saleable". Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the chief minister should handle his party's internal crisis and should stop making "false accusations" against the BJP. “The chief minister appeared dejected in the press conference today and the people of the entire state saw that he has touched a low. The chief minister is not able to handle the infighting in the Congress,” Kataria told reporters through a video conference. “I challenge the chief minister to prove his allegations against the BJP. If the allegations are proved then I will quit politics and if the charges are not proved then Chief Minister Gehlot should quit politics," he said. Deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore said that the chief minister has used words like 'Bakra-mandi' (goat market) and insulted all the MLAs of the state. “The chief minister has compared the MLAs to Bakra-mandi and goats, which I strongly condemn. It is clear that he has lost his mental balance,” Rathore said at a press conference. Party's state president Satish Poonia said that Gehlot should utilise agencies like SOG and ACB in controlling corruption and crime instead of threatening independent MLAs and political parties. “The chief minister did not talk logically in his press conference. It is their own infighting but he wants to blame BJP.  He is a veteran leader of Congress and his pain is justified because Congress has shrunk in the country,” he said. Shekhawat alleged that Gehlot "has fabricated this entire episode to defame and eliminate his state party president and deputy chief minister for his personal political gains". “If the BJP has attempted to destablise the state government, Gehlot should share the evidence of it instead of cooking up stories," he said, calling upon the SOG to conduct a free and fair probe into these allegations. The BJP was reacting after Gehlot accused its top states leaders of conspiring to topple his government at the behest of the saffron party's central leadership. The state police's special operations group (SOG) arrested two persons and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) filed a preliminary enquiry against three Independent MLAs for alleged attempts to bribe Congress MLAs ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls last month and destabilise the state government. The SOG FIR mentions that phone intercepts revealed that two persons were allegedly talking about the rift between the chief minister and the deputy chief minister and toppling the Congress government by poaching MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prove-horse-trading-charge-or-quit-politics-bjp-tells-ashok-gehlot-alleges-cm-is-targeting-his-deputy-due-to-infighting-860020.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Noida: Infant's cries leads locals to dead parents||A couple was found dead at their rented accommodation after cries of an infant were heard by locals from the residence here on Saturday, police said. The 20-year-old man and the 22-year-old woman hailed from Bihar and were not married. They had come to live in Hoshiyarpur village here last week only, the police said. According to the police, it appeared to be a case of suicide. The eight-month-old girl found at the spot is the daughter of the deceased woman and has been hospitalised as she was not looking fine, the police said. Noida Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Ranvijay Singh said local officials from the Sector 49 police station had immediately reached the spot when alerted about the incident. "They broke into the house to find the bodies hanging. The bodies had started decomposing and the room was filled with foul smell while the child was found there only. Prima facie it appears to be a case of suicide and probe is underway to find the reason for it," Singh said. According to officials, the Noida Police has contacted their counterparts in Bihar. The couple had left Bihar recently and were being searched by their families as well as the local police, the officials said. The bodies have been sent for post mortem and further details were awaited, the police said. In a separate suspected suicide case, the body of a man was found hanging at his home in Chhijarsi village of Noida, the police said. The cause of the death is unclear and the body has been sent for post mortem. Further probe is underway, Phase 3 police station officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-infants-cries-leads-locals-to-dead-parents-860029.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Govt has shown zero tolerance towards crime, corruption in state: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asserted that his government has shown zero tolerance towards crime and corruption and perception about the state has changed in the last three years. He said better law-and-order situation is a pre-condition for attracting investments. "It is our responsibility to take whatever steps required for the betterment of people. For development and for attracting investments in the state, better law-and-order situation is a pre-condition. "Keeping that in mind, we have shown zero tolerance towards crime and corruption and the perception about the state has changed in the last three years," he said. Adityanath was replying to a question on change in the perception about the law-and-order situation in the state and what is the objective behind it, in a webinar organised by the 'India Global Week'. The state government has been under criticism over the killing of eight policemen by gangster Vikas Dubey and his gang. It also received flak over the encounter of Dubey on Friday morning while he was being brought from Madhya Pradesh to Uttar Pradesh. "Uttar Pradesh is the biggest state with a population of 23-24 crore and the people have given the responsibility to our party and the party has given that responsibility to me...Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP have given me the responsibility to ensure security of 23-24 crore people," Adityanath said. He said every single penny of people investing in the state will be safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-has-shown-zero-tolerance-towards-crime-corruption-in-state-yogi-adityanath-860037.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||1,781 fresh Covid-19 cases take Delhi's tally to 1,10,921; death toll mounts to 3,334||Delhi recorded 1,781 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.1 lakh, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 3,334, authorities said. Thirty-four fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi health department bulletin. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases till date. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 3,300 on Friday. The bulletin on Saturday said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 3,334, and the total number of cases mounted to 1,10,921.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1781-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhis-tally-to-110921-death-toll-mounts-to-3334-860038.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||Phones of MPs, MLAs are being taped by Rajasthan Police's SOG, alleges RLP leader||Phones of MPs and MLAs are being taped in Rajasthan by the state police's special operation group (SOG) in violation of the right to privacy, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) convener Hanuman Beniwal alleged on Saturday. Beniwal, whose party is an NDA constituent, also alleged that attempts were made by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to poach three RLP MLAs during the Rajya Sabha elections last month. "The SOG is tapping phones (of MPs and MLAs) on directions of the state government," the Nagaur MP said. Commenting on Gehlot's statement that BJP leaders were doing politics like in a 'Bakra-mandi' (goat market), Beniwal said he has insulted the MLAs of the state and he should apologise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/phones-of-mps-mlas-are-being-taped-by-rajasthan-polices-sog-alleges-rlp-leader-860040.html
11-07-2020||North and Central||With Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border sealed in Ghaziabad, many commuters turned back||Ghaziabad saw traffic congestion on Saturday after the borders of Uttar Pradesh along Delhi were sealed due to the 55-hour lockdown imposed by the state government, police said. Only the vehicles plying for essential services were permitted to go to and fro Delhi while vehicle owners who could not show proper documents were turned back, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Indirapuram circle, Anshu Jain told PTI. Most of the border areas were sealed on Friday night and will remain off-limits till Monday morning during the lockdown. The Maharajpur-Anand Vihar border was fully barricaded and the movement of vehicles was restricted. The persons who were not wearing masks, driving without seat belts and helmets were fined, DSP Jain added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-uttar-pradesh-delhi-border-sealed-in-ghaziabad-many-commuters-turned-back-860041.html
11-07-2020||Opinion||Why Vikas Dubey won’t be the last to die in police custody||Given the brazenness of Uttar Pradesh police in the custodial murder of Vikas Dubey, it was natural that the majority of people who responded to the incident, flagged questions regarding governance in Uttar Pradesh, political accountability, police reforms, procedural matters, violation of Supreme Court guidelines regarding conditions when accused can be handcuffed and brazen 'sanitisation' of the particular highway stretch prior to the 'encounter'. Deaths in custody must include the entire process starting with the detention and interrogation prior to arrest, transport to a facility and during captivity, judicial or otherwise. Vikas Dubey was not the first to die in police or judicial custody, in transit or in lockup or jail. He certainly shall not be the last. Opacity shrouding other 'encounters' in which Dubey's aides were eliminated, puts closure to the gangster's possible links with police, politicians, government officials, including the judiciary. This also is not the first time that tongues which could wag, were permanently silenced. Police brutality, from the stage of apprehension to formal arrest and eventual transfer of accused to a judicial facility, is an accepted part of Indian consciousness. From television serials to popular cinema, the baton is shown as the most favoured weapon of the typical cop. Likeliest directives of seniors to subordinates during interrogation is koot dalo isko (bash him up) or similar phrases in other Indian languages. Majority of the people see such scenes without flinching, even endorsing police tactics by contending that there is no other way to ‘get dreaded criminals to reveal dark secrets. The Vikas Dubey case needs to be examined from another side of the prism – that of the growing culture of public acceptability of custodial killings and verdicts of kangaroo courts. Although outrage and cynicism was the most commonly heard public response in the wake of Dubey's murder, there was a muted sentiment that justified the gangster's murder, irrespective of the means. A common refrain on social media that half-justified the action of the Special Task Force of UP Police was that "those who live by the gun, die by the gun." Dubey certainly did not merit sympathy. Yet the due process of law was his entitlement. The police, because they are primarily law enforces, needed to go by the old adage of a person being deemed innocent till found guilty. And, guilt has to be duly apportioned by appointed courts, part of the judicial system. But we are witness to, not for the first time again, nascent justification for actions of the UP police. There are reports of family members of the cops who died in the action, expressing satisfaction and sensing that justice was 'delivered'.  Many in society 'forward' such a viewpoint. The 'support' for police action in the Dubey case certainly does not match the extent of backing for Telangana police after the murder of four men, accused of raping and murdering a Hyderabad veterinary doctor. In December 2019 too, the police acted after public outrage over the abduction and rape of the young doctor from a fairly public and crowded place. Failure of the police in ensuring that a toll-plaza, of all places, must not become a place where potential rapists have a drink or two before zeroing in on a victim, was forgotten by celebrities and political leaders alike. No one asked in indignation why such a horrific crime was allowed to be committed at 9 pm in a place where police presence must be mandatory. Instead, political leaders and celebrities alike gave a call to junk laws made by their predecessors. Some like Jaya Bachchan, who strides across the world of entertainment and politics, assumed the role of the foul-mouthed character from Lewis Caroll's immortal Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. Although she had wanted the four accused to "be lynched," the police did not repose faith in the public and instead staged an 'encounter' and pulled the triggers themselves. But not all custodial murders end in valorising police personnel who committed the act. The recent death of the father and son, allegedly due to custodial torture in a town near Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu sparked rage across the state and is a case in point. The difference however, is because the deceased duo did not have a criminal past. Instead, they were small time traders and this made the difference in public reaction. It is evident that people veer around to the viewpoint that anyone with an alleged criminal past is not entitled to the due process of law and the safeguards that are laid down. Forty years ago, in the winter months of 1980, several newspapers and magazines carried detailed reports on what came to be known as the Bhagalpur blindings. It turned out that the police in this Bihar city known for its eponymous silk, had blinded 33 under trials over a two year period by pouring acid in their eyes. The case became a judicial landmark and the Supreme Court ordered compensation for the human rights violations. Filmmaker Prakash Jha made the successful Gangajal – the moniker given by the police and the people to acid – based on this incident which created anger in the media, catalysing the emergence of investigative journalism that saw a spate of 'police brutality' stories. What missed public attention amid the furore was support from the local people for police action. The reasons cited four decades ago remain the same: First, the process of justice is agonisingly slow and crimes committed are rarely punished because witnesses either get fatigued, won over, or lose interest after migrating elsewhere in search  of livelihood. Second, society must have proper 'deterrent' and if this does not exist by legal means, extra-legal processes are acceptable. In one way or another, public backing has always existed for extra-legal police action, at times resulting in custodial deaths, but in most cases stopping at extreme torture leaving accused permanently maimed. Support existed for political reasons too – for instance 'encounter deaths' of dacoits in UP in the early 1980s and when extra-judicial action in Punjab and later Jammu and Kashmir found acceptability for 'nationalist reasons.' That cinema has valorised 'encounter specialists' with laudatory titles like Ab Tak Chhappan (So far 56) is because 'encounter' specialists are either rewarded or even provided specific briefs to eliminate alleged criminals or terrorists, In recent years, we have witnessed a steady rise in incidents of mob lynching where it is not police but a politically-motivated crowd which acts as dispensers of punishment. In these cases, kangaroo courts concluded that a person, merely suspected to have committed a crime, is indeed guilty. Thereafter, it is the mob that lets itself loose, while the police remain mere onlookers. Most incidents of lynching have the colour of majoritarianism. The State has tacitly endorsed these incidents. Furthermore, mob violence has never been systematically investigated because for the State, rising acceptability of extra-legal policing and custodial deaths comes as a handy ploy. This enables the State to free its arm while pursuing its political objective. Which is why it becomes more imperative to argue that for democracy to be true, even those who do not live by the law, must die by the law. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-vikas-dubey-won-t-be-the-last-to-die-in-police-custody-859885.html
11-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Strike two for the handshake||While the world is trying to solve the coronavirus puzzle, we in India had a phase of making ‘Indian culture’ great again as the handshake turned bad and the namaste gained momentum.   India has forever had a complex relationship with handshakes. For some, it’s not even an option while greeting others. There are quite a few though, who reserve a smirk for it, and associate it with a certain loss of ‘culture’ especially when any other gender than that of the male is involved in it.  Circa November BC (Before Corona), I extended my hand to a member of the male kin. He politely gave me the famous rebuttal in the form of a namaskaram, not forgetting to add, in “our” culture, we say namaskaram. Instead of telling him handshakes needn’t be culture-carriers but simply a gesture of affection, I introduced him to my husband. He immediately shook his hand. Curiouser and curiouser, I asked him what changed there. “With him, it’s okay,” came the golden reply. My husband’s “culture” being associated with Christianity, perhaps. Or, it could simply be about his gender. Handshakes in India are not only culture-referenced a yawning number of times, they are also heavily gendered. Forever, men have given me the ‘lame’ handshake. Or, they would try to be cheeky like in the aforementioned instance. Sure, a handshake erodes the culture in question; being rude doesn’t. A report by Indian Council for Cultural Relations (2016) backs this thought. It says Indian (urban) women don’t generally handshake. True, considering how more of us are taught that the folding of hands is a much better (read chaste) option than a “western” handshake—a culturally infused confusion that resonates with bad touch.  Before this takes a divisive turn into a Team Handshake vs. Team Namaste debate, let me clarify that namaskaram or namaste is a beautiful way of greeting someone—a gesture that says I welcome you and hold you close to my heart. But, are we so insecure to completely reject another form of welcome? To keep looking inward and refuting everything that ‘isn’t ours’ that we have created; if you take a closer look, you’ll see how selective this idea is even to its spokespersons. One can only hope that the culture-upholders manage to live up to their ideals before the next century kicks in, bringing a set of new customs for the human race to adopt. Culture is, after all, the most dynamic phenomenon, as the last 200 years would tell you, unwittingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/strike-two-for-the-handshake-859674.html
11-07-2020||Second Edit||China eyes a chunk of Bhutan now||With its assertion of claim to Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary in eastern Bhutan, China has laid bare its expansionist ambitions yet again. Hitherto, Beijing claimed territory in western and north-central Bhutan. It has now added a third chunk of territory to its border disputes with Bhutan. The Bhutanese government had sought a grant from the US-based Global Environment Facility for upgrading infrastructure in the wildlife sanctuary. China opposed its application, claiming it is disputed territory. Seeking to bolster its claim, Chinese officials said that the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary area is among the disputed territories that Chinese and Bhutanese officials have been discussing in negotiations to resolve their boundary disputes. Bhutan has shot down China’s claim. It has asserted that it exercises sovereignty over the Sakteng area and that this has never figured in talks between the two countries. Thimphu’s assertion underscores China’s expanding territorial ambitions in the Himalayas as well as its disingenuousness. Bhutan must stand firm; else, China will sense weakness and demand more from it. China’s new claims in Bhutan are of concern to India for several reasons. For one, Bhutan is a friend and any undermining of its territorial sovereignty has to be taken seriously by Delhi. Importantly, the Sakteng sanctuary adjoins Arunachal Pradesh, where China claims some 90,000 sq km of Indian territory. Tawang is close to the sanctuary. It is likely that China’s claim over the Sakteng sanctuary area is aimed at strengthening its access to Tawang in order to capture control over it in future. Since May, China has stealthily intruded and taken control of Indian territory. While its focus in recent months has been on the western sector, there have been intrusions in Sikkim and a build-up of Chinese forces near Arunachal, too. While engaging India in de-escalation talks relating to the western sector, China could be preparing for intrusions into Bhutan, Sikkim or Arunachal Pradesh. The Narendra Modi government’s failure to respond early and robustly to China’s build-up of forces in Ladakh left India deeply vulnerable to a Chinese landgrab in the western sector. It must anticipate and act to defend the LAC’s eastern sector. India has been improving its border infrastructure and military capability in the eastern sector. However, plans to construct a road linking Lum La near Tawang with eastern Bhutan are yet to get Thimphu’s nod. The proposed road will speed up mobilisation of Indian troops to the border in the event of a Chinese assault on India but also should the PLA target eastern Bhutan. Delhi must work closely with Thimphu to keep the Chinese away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/china-eyes-a-chunk-of-bhutan-now-859669.html
11-07-2020||South||Parents move HC challenging TN decision to allow Pvt institutions to collect fees in instalments||A day after the state government informed the Madras high court that it has decided to permit private educational institutions to collect fees for lockdown period in three instalments, a group of parents on Friday moved the court opposing the decision. "Non-government educational institutions are mandated to maintain 15 per cent of the fee collected as reserve funds as per the bylaws of the CBSE. Such reserve fund is meant to be used during exigencies like the Covid-19 lockdown," advocate M Purushothaman said, representing the parents. Moreover, the salary component of these institutions would not exceed one fourth of the fees collected. Therefore, even if they are permitted to collect fees, only the salary component should be allowed to be collected, he added. He submitted that the government had arrived at the decision without consulting parents. Purushothaman made the submissions while making an urgent mention before Justice N Anand Venkatesh who was scheduled to hear a batch of pleas moved by institutions seeking to permit them to collect fees. The judge said the advocate general had submitted yesterday that the government will be passing an order soon following which the pleas were adjourned to July 17. "Parents can also make their representation to the AG which would be considered on July 17," the judge said. According to an affidavit filed by the government on July 10, educational institutions would be permitted to collect fees in three equal instalments in August, December and April 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/parents-move-hc-challenging-tn-decision-to-allow-pvt-institutions-to-collect-fees-in-instalments-859639.html
11-07-2020||South||BJP's Muralidhar Rao flays TRS govt over damage to temple at secretariat premises during demolition works||Hitting out at the TRS government in Telangana over the damage caused to a temple in the Secretariat premises during the ongoing demolition works, BJP general secretary P Muralidhar Rao on Friday claimed it would suffer a curse for the alleged demolition of the temple. "Secretariat is being demolished.Nobody understood the demolition of the Secretariat.Temple has been demolished. Nalla Pochamma (presiding deity) temple has been demolished.I got the doubt that this government has got its dinam (day, usually a ritual performed after death)," he said. He was addressing a virtual rally organised by the BJP in Telangana on the occasion of the NDA government completing one-year in office in its ongoing tenure. "People would perform the dinam.Because, it is said that something happens when a man is to die.Similarly, may be, this government has to go.That is why, it is happening....," he said. In an apparent reference to Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao expressing regret over the damage caused to the temple and also a mosque in the secretariat premises during the demolition works when adjacent old multi-storied buildings were being brought down, the BJP leader said whether the temple can collapse by mistake or unexpectedly. The Chief Minister on Friday promised that a new temple and mosque would be built in a more spacious area, in the secretariat premises. Talking about the alleged failure of TRS government in checking Covid-19, he said the BJP would continue to question the ruling party and "expose it before the people." The BJP leader spoke at length on the achievements of the NDA government, including abrogation of Article 370, ending triple talaq, financial package announced after outbreak of Covid-19, support to farmers and MSMEs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP are effectively facing the challenges, including Covid-19 and China, he said. "Ready for friendship with China and also to face it..," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-muralidhar-rao-flays-trs-govt-over-damage-to-temple-at-secretariat-premises-during-demolition-works-859671.html
11-07-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,278 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Telangana on Friday, with as many as 1,278 new cases and eight related deaths being reported, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 32,224 and toll to 339. Of the 1,278 fresh cases, 762 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Ranga Reddy and Medchal districts with 171 and 85 cases respectively. A state government bulletin said 19,205 people have been discharged so far, while 12,680 were under treatment. According to the bulletin, 10,354 samples were tested on Friday, which is the highest number till date for a day. Cumulatively, 1,51,109 samples have been tested. As on Friday, the government hospitals have established a capacity of 17,081 Covid beds, of which 11,928 are isolation beds and 3,537 are oxygen beds, the bulletin said. It also said 1,616 are ICU beds. As on Friday, the bed occupancy is 9.5 per cent and that 90.5 per cent of the available beds are vacant. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. It said the helpline number 180059912345 can be accessed for telemedicine.  Giving details about the status of Covid-19 positive cases in the state, the bulletin said 19,205 (60 per cent) have been discharged and recovered, while 12,680 (39 per cent) are active cases. It said 339 (one per cent) are deaths. On the status of active positive cases, it said 10,518 (83 per cent) are in the category of asymptomatic and mild symptoms. It said 1,701 (13 per cent) have moderate symptoms and that 461 (four per cent) have severe symptoms. An official release late on Friday night said state Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a meeting with officials on supply of oxygen to hospitals in the state. The meeting took some decisions to check complaints regarding black marketing of oxygen cylinders leading to possible shortage in supply to hospitals, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1278-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-859676.html
11-07-2020||South||Rare blood group makes five-year-old girl's treatment risky in Kerala||Treatment of a five-year-old girl, who suffered a head injury last year, has become risky as she is having a rare blood group - 'P Null'. Anushka, daughter of Gujarat native Santosh, suffered head injury after falling from the first floor of a building in July last year. She is now under treatment at the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences in Kochi. According to the hospital sources, now her surgical procedures were being carried out by preserving the blood taken from her. P null phenotype blood group was earlier found in India in a patient in Manipal in 2018. Efforts to get blood from that person also did not yield result owing to that patient's health conditions. Anushka suffered intracranial injury in the fall and she had undergone a surgery in Gujarat. Later there was infection and she was brought to AIMS for expert treatment. Doctors found that another surgical procedure was required. Then only they noticed that the girl was having a rare blood group. AIMS public relations officer said that so far no donors could be traced. However, doctors managed to perform the surgery by taking her own blood and re-infusing it. Now the patient is recovering. Dr N Vijayakumar, medical officer at the regional blood transfusion centre in Aluva said it was a rare phenotype where minor blood group p antigen system was absent. Hence patient would have anti p antibody. As 99.9 per cent of donors would have p antigen. It is very hard to find a compatible unit. Moreover, no blood bank in Kerala has the reagent to diagnose the blood type.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rare-blood-group-makes-five-year-old-girls-treatment-risky-in-kerala-859825.html
11-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu not in position to conduct college final exams in September: CM||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday said it was not in a position to conduct college examinations for the final year/semester students in September 2020, as several educational institutions have been converted into Covid-19 care centres. Such a move in the backdrop of the spread of coronavirus will jeopardise the future of students facing their final year/semester exams, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said and requested the central government to grant "freedom to states to work out their own assessment methods, without compromising on the quality and academic credibility." In a letter to Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, he said the July 6 2020 guidelines (of the UGC) mandated that all educational institutions across the country conduct exams by September 2020 for the final semester students. The guidelines have many constraints and difficulties, which include that of students reaching the examination centres as many of them reside outside the district or state and some even outside the country. It was also not feasible to conduct online examinations, considering the various issues relating to digital access to the students, he said. "Moreover, most of the government and private Arts & Science and Engineering colleges, polytechnics and other institutions of higher learning (including the hostels, classrooms etc.,) in the state have been converted as Covid-19 Care Centres for housing asymptomatic positive persons under quarantine and these centres may continue as Covid centres for some more time," Palaniswami said. "Therefore, if we are not in a position to conduct examinations even after waiting till September 2020, it would jeopardise the future of the students who are in their final year/ semester," the Chief Minister said. Moreover, it will also unnecessarily affect the future of students recruited through campus selection and those who have applied for courses abroad, who may have to join in October 2020 after the ban on international travel is lifted, he said in the letter, a copy of which was released to the media here. The Chief Minister pointed out that many states have decided not to conduct final semester examinations. "In order to ensure career opportunities,future prospects and to simultaneously safeguard the principles of health, safety, fair and equal opportunity for students, states may be given the freedom to work out their own assessment methods without compromising on the quality and academic credibility,"he said. Hence,he sought a direction to apex authorities like UGC, AICTE, Council of Architecture, Pharmacy Council of India, National Council of Teachers Education and National Council for Hotel Management and Catering Technology to endorse the decisions of the state governments, which would be based on the local prevailing Covid-19 conditions. This would go a long way in rendering justice and fairness to parents and students during these distressful times,he said and pointed out that UGC guidelines on April 29, 2020 gave universities and colleges the flexibility to conduct exams without any restrictions on the guidelines or directions issued by the appropriate Government/ Competent Authority. Stating that his government has been taking all measures required to contain spread of the virus and provide comprehensive treatment to the infected people, the Chief Minister said the efforts have borne good results. He said any minor let up may still pose a challenge and added that the government's progressive policies had seen Tamil Nadu have the highest Gross Enrolment Ratio of 49 percent among states, resulting in a large number of students studying in various universities, colleges and polytechnics. "Though we had scheduled their semester examinations in April 2020, these examinations could not be conducted as scheduled because of Covid-19 pandemic," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-not-in-position-to-conduct-college-final-exams-in-september-cm-859840.html
11-07-2020||South||Elderly man succumbs to Covid-19 in Puducherry, 64 fresh cases||A 74-year old man succumbed to coronavirus in Puducherry taking the toll to 18 while 64 fresh infections were reported on Saturday pushing the overall tally of cases to 1,337. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters here that the total number of patients treated and discharged so far from hospitals was 690 while fatalities were 18. The cumulative total of Covid-19 cases in the union territory stood at 1,337, of which the active cases were 629. As many as 51 patients (22 from Government Medical College Hospital, 18 from JIPMER and 11 from COVID Care centres) had recovered and were discharged during the last 24 hours, he said. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said the elderly man who died of the infection at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College hospital was admitted on July 9 evening with respiratory problems and passed away a few hours later. The patient did not have any other complications like diabetes or blood pressure, he added.  Meanwhile, the Minister said that the 64 fresh cases were identified at the end of the examination of 857 samples during the last 24 hours, showing the rate of positive cases at 7.5 percent while the death rate was 1.3 percent. He said as many as 22,819 samples turned out to be negative so far out of the total 24,485 samples tested in the Union Territory. Of the 64 fresh cases identified during the last 24 hours ending 10 am today, 39 patients were admitted to Government Medical College hospital in Puducherry while nine were admitted to the centrally-administered JIPMER. Ten new cases were admitted to the government GH in Karaikal while five were admitted in a hospital in Yanam (an enclave of Puducherry in Andhra Pradesh) and one in a hospital in Mahe region (an enclave of Puducherry in Kerala). Mohan Kumar appealed to elderly persons not to take the situation for granted as they are more vulnerable than others to the infection. Rao said he had been urging Chief Minister V Narayanasamy to declare 'total lockdown' on Sundays to contain the spread of the virus. He said though the chief minister had, however, announced on Friday that a total lockdown would not be feasible on Sundays, particularly on July 12 when functions like marriages have been scheduled. "I hope the Chief Minister would consider my plea and impose total lockdown at least on subsequent Sundays in a bid to keep the virus at bay," the Minister added. He said the government was ramping up testing with mobile units visiting villages to collect swabs from people who would otherwise go to urban areas for tests. "We will intensify examination constituency-wise as our effort is to keep Puducherry out of bounds for the virus," the Health Minister said while urging the people to cooperate by adhering to safety norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elderly-man-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-puducherry-64-fresh-cases-859859.html
11-07-2020||South||Son of retired SBI employees among three arrested for opening “fake SBI branch”||Kamal Babu (19) is the son of two retired State Bank of India (SBI) employees. He along with two more people, namely A Kumar (42) and M Manickam (52) have been arrested for duplicating and opening a State Bank of India branch in Panruti, Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu. Babu had bought all necessary equipment needed to make the branch look authentic. The trio even forged documents in order to set it up. The incident came to light when another SBI customer enquired about the new branch to the manager of an existing branch. He even furnished his receipt from the “fake” branch. This was when the official became suspicious and visited the branch himself with a group of other employees. It is believed that Babu wanted to work at SBI, however, despite applying, he was not selected. He claims that the intention was not to defraud people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/son-of-retired-sbi-employees-among-three-arrested-for-opening-fake-sbi-branch-859888.html
11-07-2020||South||AIMIM chief takes Covid-19 test, asks people to get tested||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday said he got his antigen and RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests done for Covid-19 and that antigen test result was negative. He said the outcome of the RT-PCR test would be known after 30 hours. Owaisi appealed to the people not to hesitate but get tested. "Got my antigen & RT-PCR tests done for Covid-19 today. My antigen test results were negative, Alhamdulilah (all praise is due to God alone)," the Lok Sabha member said. "There are 30-odd centres in the south of Hyderabad where antigen testing is being conducted, I encourage all of you to not hesitate & get tested!" he tweeted. The two tests were conducted at different places in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aimim-chief-takes-covid-19-test-asks-people-to-get-tested-859893.html
11-07-2020||South||E-learning, in tribal dialects, underway in Wayanad||Mentor teachers, handpicked from among the six prominent tribal communities in Wayanad, have begun taking online classes for tribal students here in their own dialects. Implemented by Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK), the project envisages translating the content in Malayalam, being aired through the Government-owned Victers channel, into tribal dialects by the mentors for onward transmission for the benefit of tribal students. According to SSK sources, the Malayalam content is being translated into six local languages, Katunayaka, Paniya, Adiya, Kurichiya, Oorali and Kuruma. As of now, the videos and sports classes are made available through a YouTube channel and are also being sent to WhatsApp groups, specially made for this, with parents of the tribal students. The tribal students were finding it difficult to rope into "First Bell" online classes for school students that got underway from June 1 through Victers channel due to lack of television sets and smartphones to connect with the channel and the difficulty in understanding, as the medium of instruction of e-learning in vernacular Malayalam. There are over 22,000 tribal students in the district, belonging to the six communities, in classes from one to 12, G Pramod, Tribal Development Officer, Mananthavady, said. As many as 248 mentor teachers are involved in the SSK project, enabling the translation of Malayalam content into tribal dialects, he said. The authorities have put up TV sets or laptops in community centres in the tribal colonies or in a specified spot close to their hamlets for the hassle-free attendance of the students. Extending a helping hand, the Wayanad MP and former AICC president Rahul Gandhi had provided 175 smart television sets last week. He had earlier gifted 50 sets on his birthday. The aid from Gandhi came in response to an appeal by District Congress Committee president I C Balakrishnan, who wrote to him about the difficulties faced by tribal students having no infrastructure to connect to the First Bell, virtual class for students launched by the State Government. The Congress leader had earlier distributed 100 TV sets each in two taluks in Malappuram and Kozhikode districts, forming part of his constituency. The Mananthavady MLA O R Kelu inaugurated the project online onFriday, marking the official commencement of online classes in tribal dialects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/e-learning-in-tribal-dialects-underway-in-wayanad-859908.html
11-07-2020||South||Kerala IAS officer too facing probe in gold smuggling||IAS officer M Sivasankar, who was principal secretary to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, is also facing probe in connection with the gold smuggling under diplomatic baggage. Customs officials probing the case on Saturday collected visitors' register of his flat in Thiruvananthapuram. He is also likely to be quizzed in the wake of his alleged nexus with former employee of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram Swapna Suresh, who is an accused in the smuggling of 30 kilogram gold. Sivasankar, who was removed from the CM's principal secretary post and IT secretary post due to his alleged links with Swapna, may also face probe in connection with appointment of Swapna's appointment at an agency under the state IT department. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan already said that a probe would be initiated to find how Swapna who faced a criminal case and allegedly lacked sufficient education qualification, got job at Space Park under the IT department. Swapna was an operations manager at Space Park. Pricewaterhouse Coopers Private Limited, which was the consultants of Space Park, appointed Swapna at Space Park and it maintained that Swapna's credentials were verified by a third party firm. Meanwhile, the opposition parties staged demonstrations demanding the chief minister's resignation on Saturday also. The NIA team was learnt to have quizzed the key accused in the gold smuggling case, Sarith P S, who was also another former employee of the UAE consulate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ias-officer-too-facing-probe-in-gold-smuggling-859914.html
11-07-2020||South||Thoothukudi custodial deaths: RJ Suchitra says Police Threatened her to take down video||The Tamil Nadu CB-CID allegedly asked Suchitra to take down the video. According to them, the video is “falsely exaggerated” and “not backed up by any proof”. The Thoothukudi police handle put out a notice stating that the video was should not be believed and that it is “promoting hate against the police”. “Recently, a video by south singer Ms Suchitra, a south Indian cine singer describing the Sathankulam incident is doing rounds in the social media sites. Ms Suchitra’s descriptive narration of the incident is baseless and is not truly indicative of the real happenings. In the video she falsely exaggerated and sensationalised the chain of events and her allegations seems to be a figment of imagination and is not backed up by any proof,” the note read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thoothukudi-custodial-deaths-rj-suchitra-says-police-threatened-her-to-take-down-video-859916.html
11-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 3,965 new Covid-19 cases,69 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Saturday recorded 3,965 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the infection count to 1,34,226 in the state, the health department said. A department bulletin said 69 people succumbed to the virus, pushing the death toll to 1,898. The number of recoveries continues to remain significant as 3,591 people were discharged today after being cured of the disease. Cumulatively,85,915 patients have been discharged following treatment till date, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, State higher education minister K P Anbalagan, who had tested COVID-19 positive, is recovering, according to the hospital treating him. "Anbalagan is in isolation and his condition is stable.He is expected to be discharged very soon," the hospital said in a statement. According to the health department, the active cases in the state stood at 46,410 as of today. The number of samples examined so far increased to 15,66,917 with 37,825 specimens being tested on Saturday. Chennai recorded a further dip in the number of fresh cases as 1,185 people tested positive for the virus, totalling 76,158 till date. The fresh cases include 58 returnees from other locations. Districts continued to record an increase in new infections with Chengalpet reporting 237 cases, Kallakurichi 102, Kancheepuram 119, Kanyakumari 131, Madurai 276, Salem 132, Theni 119, Thiruvallur 346, Tuticorin 174, Tiruchirappalli 127 and Vellore 135. Among the fatalities recorded today, eight were without any comorbidities. A 24-year-old man from Chennai and an 84-year-old man from neighbouring Thiruvallur district were among those who succumbed. The number of those discharged in Chennai was at 1,791 today, comparatively higher than the number of new infections. Out of the 102 testing facilities, 53 of them were government operated, the bulletin said, adding a private health care institution has received approval to conduct COVID-19 tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-3965-new-covid-19-cases69-deaths-859936.html
11-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Two die, 488 infected and medical team faces attack in Kerala||The Covid-19 scenario in Kerala was turning worse with two deaths and 488 fresh cases being reported on Saturday, while a medical team faced resistance from local people at the coastal area of Poonthura in Thiruvananthapuram city, which is under the grip of Covid-19 super spread. Some even deliberately coughed at the medical team with the intention spreading infection. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state was on the verge of a community spread as super spread was already confirmed and source of many cases could not be identified. Clusters were found at many parts of the state, he said. Situation in capital Thiruvananthapuram continued to be grim as 46 of the 69 fresh cases were due to local spread and sources of eleven cases could not be traced yet. A native of Poonthura, where super spread was already confirmed, died on Friday night due to Covid-19. He was identified as Saifuddin, 66. Another Covid-19 death was from Ernakulam district, taking the Covid-19 death toll of Kerala to 29. The attack on medical team took place at Poonthura on Friday amid the protest by local people alleging lack of supply of essential commodities and proper treatment to this in Covid-19 case centres. As a team led by a doctor reached the locality, an agitated group of people stopped their vehicle ad deliberately coughed against the medical team with the intention of spreading Covid-19 infection. The people alleged that there was a deliberate attempt to frame the coastal area as hub of Covid-19. The chief minister strongly condemned the incident and even alleged of attempts by political parties to trigger resentment among the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-two-die-488-infected-and-medical-team-faces-attack-in-kerala-859948.html
11-07-2020||South||Kerala High Court directs cops to ensure protection to nun who faced threats from authorities||The Kerala High Court has directed the police to provide adequate protection, if necessary, to the life and property of a nun who alleged that she was facing threat from the authorities of her convent and some priests of her diocese. Considering a plea filed by sister Lucy Kalappura seeking police protection, Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan has also issued notice to authorities of Franciscan Clarist Congregation and two priests of Mananthavady diocese of Syrian Catholic Church. In its interim order, the High Court on July 9 directed the police "to ensure that the law and order is maintained and, if necessary, to provide adequate protection to the life and property of the petitioner from any incursions by the respondents." The Court also said the case will be considered after 10 days. In her petition, the nun said she was a member of F C Convent (FCC) at Karakkamala in Wayanad district and she had filed a petition with the police seeking protection from forceful eviction from the convent and also protection for her life and properties from the "henchmen or hired goondas" engaged by authorities of her convent and two priests of her diocese. But no action was taken by the police on the complaint so far, she submitted. The FCC had expelled her for "failing" to provide an explanation for her lifestyle, which allegedly violated church rules. The Vatican had ratified the decision. The nun had dismissed charges levelled against her by the congregation, saying many of them were a "deliberate attempt to paint her in a bad light."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-directs-cops-to-ensure-protection-to-nun-who-faced-threats-from-authorities-859957.html
11-07-2020||South||NIA arrests Swapna, Sandeep Nair, accused in Kerala gold smuggling in Bengaluru||The key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh and co-accused Sandeep Nair, have been detained in Bengaluru by the sleuths of National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday evening.  A senior officer confirmed to DH that both Swapna and Nair were traced in BTM Layout in Mico Layout police station jurisdiction in southeastern Bengaluru based on a tip-off. Officials revealed that Swapna along with Nair and family members were detained from an undisclosed location in Bengaluru. "The accused are being examined and will be arrested," an official said.  The NIA had registered a case under UAPA against Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and others in the gold smuggling case under the cover of diplomatic baggage. The accused will be taken to Kochi on Saturday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-arrests-swapna-sandeep-nair-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-in-bengaluru-860006.html
11-07-2020||South||Earth mover used in Andhra Pradesh, auto-rickshaw in Telangana used to carry Covid-19 victims' bodies for cremation||A day after three Covid-19 deaths occurred at the Nizamabad government hospital in Telangana in a single night allegedly because of oxygen supply disruption, one of the dead bodies was taken for cremation in an auto-rickshaw. In neighboring Andhra Pradesh, the Jaganmohan Reddy government was slammed by the Opposition TDP, after three incidents of earth movers being used to carry Covid-19 victims' bodies were reported from Srikakulam, Chittoor and Nellore districts.     The burial or burning process of a Covid-19 victim’s body follows a strict protocol and is carried out by trained personnel in full PPE. Four deaths, including that of three Covid-19 patients, occurred at the hospital on Thursday night, allegedly because the emptying oxygen cylinder was not replaced. However, hospital authorities refuted such reports and stated that the deaths of a 75-year-old female, and 58 and 50-year-old males occurred due to their co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension. One of the bodies was, on Saturday, taken to the cremation ground in an auto by the driver and a person sitting in the front seat. Both of them were in plain clothes wearing only face masks. “Two bodies were earlier taken in our ambulance. The auto belongs to the family of the dead person and unwilling to wait for the ambulance’s return, his relatives (driver, etc.) took away the body in the auto,” Dr Nageshwar Rao, Nizamabad government hospital superintendent told DH. “The person accompanying is trained in Covid-19 dead body disposal but seems to have become careless after cremating several such bodies. This should not have happened. We have ordered an inquiry on the incident and the mortuary staff who allowed the body to be taken in an auto,” Dr Rao said.  “We have a centralized automated oxygen supply, which alerts if the levels are falling. And to supplement in contingency, we have regular cylinders available,” Dr Rao stated. Meanwhile, Telangana Health Minister Etela Rajender has announced that the government would supply a Covid-19 kit for the positive patients in home isolation. Medicines, vitamin tablets, facemasks, sanitizers, hand wash, Covid-19 guidebooks, etc., would be in the bag. Since last month, Telangana is advising and keeping positive patients with mild or no symptoms in home isolation. As of Friday evening, Telangana has recorded a total of 32, 224 positive cases, with 339 deaths. The state has 12,680 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/earth-mover-used-in-andhra-pradesh-auto-rickshaw-in-telangana-used-to-carry-covid-19-victims-bodies-for-cremation-860025.html
11-07-2020||South||Union Minister G Kishan Reddy visits city hospitals, discusses Covid-19||Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy visited different hospitals here on Saturday and interacted with doctors and others on the steps to deal with Covid-19. "Shri Kishan Reddy (a Lok Sabha member from Secunderabad) spoke to the doctors and staff about the details pertaining to testing, facilities and measures to handle the pandemic...", an official press release said. As part of his visit, he visited the Railway hospital, Secunderabad, which has been designated to provide Covid-19 care upon his request, and also the NIMS hospital at Punjagutta||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-minister-g-kishan-reddy-visits-city-hospitals-discusses-covid-19-860039.html
11-07-2020||State||All UG, PG students except those in final semester to be promoted in Karnataka||All undergraduate and postgraduate students, except those in the final/terminal semesters, will be promoted without examinations for the 2019-20 academic year. This applies even to engineering courses. For final/terminal semesters, the respective universities will conduct examinations before September.  A decision to this effect was taken by the Higher Education Department considering the safety of students during the Covid-19 crisis.  Final semester students, who are unable to attend the examination in September, will be allowed to appear in the next examinations for such courses, which may be conducted by universities as and when feasible. To promote intermediate semester students to higher semesters, 50% internal assessment and 50% of marks in the previous performance would be considered. In case previous semester marks are not available, particularly for first year of annual pattern of examinations, 100% evaluation may be done on the basis of internal evaluation. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said, “If a student wishes to improve the grades, he/she may appear for exams for such subjects during the next semester.” “We have consulted vice-chancellors of all universities and academicians at various levels before taking this decision. Considering the safety of students, we have taken the decision,” said the minister. Students welcomed the announcement. “We demanded that the government promote students without exams as we were unable to grasp the subjects in online classes,” said a student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-ug-pg-students-except-those-in-final-semester-to-be-promoted-in-karnataka-859651.html
11-07-2020||State||Mysuru MLA fears of Covid-19 as his PAs test positive||KR Assembly segment MLA S A Ramdas and a host of BJP leaders are feared of Covid-19 as two of his personal secretaries tested positive. Two persons had worked closely with the MLA at his home office in Vidyaranyapuram and official office in CADA office premises. The secretaries had close contact with several people, who visited the offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-mla-fears-of-covid-19-as-his-pas-test-positive-859774.html
11-07-2020||State||New DPR for Kuduchi-Bagalkot railway line soon: Angadi||Works for the Kuduchi-Bagalkot railway line will commence after both Belagavi and Bagalkot District Administrations make land available for the 142 km railway line. Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the works will be prepared along with the estimates after land being handed over and we expect to commence the works within five months of land acquisition, informed Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi.  Angadi conducted meeting of elected representatives and officials from Belagavi and Bagalkot districts and South Western Railway (SWR) at the Deputy Commissioners office here on Saturday to expedite the works.  Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Angadi said, land acquisition process if commenced will facilitate to prepare DPR and release funds for the project. Land required for the project was 2487 acres and 1301 acres has been acquired so far. The project will be implemented on a cost-sharing basis with state and centre contributing 50% each. During the meeting Assistant Commissioners from Chikkodi, Raibag and Bailhongal in Belagavi and from Bagalkot have assured to meet the demands at the earliest.  Works for the railway line from Bagalkot to Kajjidoni has been completed and further has to be done, but not taken off during resistance by landowners at Lokapur in Bagalkot. As the line passes from the limestone area, alignment to has been changed. Bagalkot officials have assured to resolve the land issues at the earliest to facilitate the works, he said. Kuduchi-Bagalkot railway line will benefit sugar and cement industries from both the districts and also open gateway for exporting sugar. Employment opportunities for local youth will also be created, he stated.  Angadi said, estimates prepared in the year 2010-11 had anticipated cost of Rs 986.30 crore for the project. With a decade passing and land acquisition process yet to be completed, new DPR with changed alignments will be prepared and the costs of the project could be estimated.  Earlier during the meeting, MLA Veeranna Charantimath suggested that meeting presided by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa be convened regarding the land acquisition process and funds to be released. Details of the project if given to the chief minister will become helpful. He also suggested commencing works from Belagavi district as the land acquisition process in Bagalkot was yet to complete.  SWR General Manager A K Singh said that as the project has been delayed, works should be commenced from the available funds and commence land acquisition process. Funds for land acquisition if pending from the railways will be released soon.  Belagavi Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath and Bagalkot Deputy Commissioner Captain Rajendra gave details of the status of the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-dpr-for-kuduchi-bagalkot-railway-line-soon-angadi-859798.html
11-07-2020||State||No decision on Saturday lockdown, govt to decide depending on situation: Karnataka Deputy CM||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Saturday clarified that the government has not taken any decision on imposing lockdown on Saturdays, amid spike in Covid-19 cases and said necessary action will be taken if the need arises, depending on the situation. Under Unlock 2.0 the state government has already announced complete lockdown on five Sundays in Karnataka, starting from July 5 to August 2. Following the spike in Covid-19 infections, speculations are rife that the government was considering extending it to Saturdays too, aimed at controlling the spread by restricting the movement of people. "As of now there is no (lockdown on Saturdays). It's Saturday today and there is no lockdown. No such decision has been taken so far," Narayan said in response to a question from reporters. "Looking at the situation, in future if there is such a need, the Chief Minister will decide," he said. Following the increase in cases, some experts have reportedly suggested that the government reimpose lockdown, if not for an extended period, at least on Saturdays, along with Sundays. As of now there is a complete lockdown on Sundays. However, essential activities and marriages already fixed on those days have been permitted by the government. "Lockdown is one of the solutions, there is no doubt about it, as it restricts the movement of people. But with lockdown you can only postpone the spread and not eradicate it," he said. The government would also have to consider the impact of the lockdown on people, the Deputy Chief Minister said. "Lets see...many in the government are of the opinion that there should be no lockdown. Looking at the situation, the Chief Minister and the government will take appropriate decisions," he said. As of July 10 evening, cumulatively 33,418 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 543 deaths and 13,836 discharges. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 15,329 infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-decision-on-saturday-lockdown-govt-to-decide-depending-on-situation-karnataka-deputy-cm-859883.html
11-07-2020||State||Coronavirus: Complete lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts from July 14 to 22||After delaying the inevitable for days citing economic activities, the state government on Saturday announced a complete lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts from 8 pm on July 14 to 5 am on July 22 to “break the Covid-19 chain” in Bengaluru, which recorded a new high of 1,533 cases on Saturday. Following recommendations from experts and prolonged discussions with his Cabinet colleagues, especially ministers in charge of eight zones of Bengaluru, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa agreed to reintroduce complete lockdown yet again.  According to the state government, the complete lockdown will be strictly enforced in both the districts by sealing the borders and banning the entry and exit of people. However, Yediyurappa clarified that essential services including supply of milk, vegetables, fruits, medicines and groceries will continue uninterrupted. The CM also said that detailed guidelines pertaining to the lockdown will be released on Monday. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa ordering the reimposition of lockdown tweeted, "Considering the suggestions from experts to curb the increasing number of Covid cases, Government has decided to implement complete lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural Districts for 7 days starting 8 PM on Tuesday, 14th July. Detailed guidelines will be released on Monday." The CM further clarified that all essential services including supply of milk, vegetables, fruits, medicines and groceries will continue uninterrupted. "I appeal to people to cooperate with the government, follow all guidelines, take all precautionary steps and help us contain the pandemic," BSY said. All essential services including supply of milk, vegetables, fruits, medicines and groceries will continue uninterrupted. I appeal to people to cooperate with the government, follow all guidelines, take all precautionary steps and help us contain the pandemic. (2/2) Recommending the complete lockdown in Bengaluru which is reporting more than 1,000 cases on a daily basis, experts had cautioned the government that if the situation continues, Bengaluru is likely to go the New Delhi way. The experts, according to sources close to the CM, had recommended complete lockdown for at least one week “to break the chain of Covid-19 in Bengaluru and bring down the number of cases”.Even as ministers were divided on the lockdown, a video of the CM reportedly discussing the lockdown with Chief Secretary T M Vijaybhaskar went viral on social media. In less than a few minutes of his discussion with the Chief Secretary, Yediyurappa tweeted, “Considering the suggestions from experts to curb the increasing number of Covid cases, Government has decided to implement complete lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural Districts for seven days starting 8 pm on Tuesday, 14th July.”   Expressing hope that the reintroduction of lockdown will help the government contain the spread of Covid-19, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, said, “We have already seen that Covid-19 cases were well under control all through the lockdown. The numbers spiralled only after relaxing the lockdown rules. It is proven without doubt that the lockdown will help in reducing the number of cases.” Asked whether the complete lockdown will be extended beyond seven days, Sudhakar said, “The infection is spreading fast and we have to wait and watch until the end of the lockdown.” Sources in the state government revealed to DH that, unlike the previous lockdowns, the ensuing lockdown will be strictly imposed keeping in mind the seriousness of Covid-19 scenario across Bengaluru.  Earlier in the day, several public and resident welfare associations from Bengaluru South, West and Eastern Bengaluru, where there has been a spurt in Covid-19 cases, had also appealed to the government to impose lockdown in Bengaluru. Echoing the public sentiment, several corporators, especially from the central business district, had also personally appealed to the chief minister to order a lockdown in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-complete-lockdown-in-bengaluru-urban-and-rural-districts-from-july-14-to-22-859972.html
11-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Daily Covid-19 cases jump to 2,798 in Karnataka; 70 deaths||Karnataka reported the highest single day spike with 2,798 cases reported on Saturday and a record 70 deaths taking the death toll to 613. Bengaluru alone accounted for 1,533 cases and 23 deaths. Despite the high number of deaths, Medical Education Minister K Sudhkar claimed that the fatality rate in the state was 1.69% and 1.35% in Bengaluru. "It is still less than the national average of 3% and world average of 4.5%. Tuberculosis takes two lives every three minutes. There is no need to panic so much about Corona," he said. For the first time, as many as 20,587 samples were tested in the state on a day. A total of 890 people were discharged from hospitals and 404 recovered in Bengaluru.  There are 504 people in the ICU out of whom 322 are in Bengaluru alone. The total number of active cases in the state is 20,883 and the total number of positive cases are 36,216.  The government revised its testing protocol on Saturday. To improve turnaround time of tests, for samples that come under the category 'A', that is, those who are symptomatic and are primary contacts, the tests will be conducted individually. However, for those who fall under category 'B', that is, international travellers and asymptomatic individuals, pooled testing method will be used (maximum five samples only). Dead bodies are to be tested using TrueNAT and CBNAAT "on priority" when tests are available. If unavailable, individual tests are to be conducted so that results are available within hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/daily-covid-19-cases-jump-to-2798-in-karnataka-70-deaths-859999.html
11-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannur, Kerala to Bengaluru||For HR professional Sajan Kumar (name changed), the road trip from Kerala’s Kannur to Bengaluru was an entirely different experience. En route to the Karnataka border, he and his family were stopped at multiple points every time they entered or left a town. “At the first stop our details (including photos) were collected and fed into their handheld devices. The details were verified at every stop,” he narrated. But a surprise awaited them at the border. “As opposed to the rules we had read, there was no stamping, no temperature check and I’m not even sure they verified the number of people in the vehicle. They only checked the pass validity,” said Kumar. No instruction was given on quarantine. “When I asked about it, I was told to go home. After that we weren’t stopped anywhere although there were a few police checkposts on the way.” The family had installed Arogya Setu, Quarantine Watch and Apthamithra apps, which were not verified at the border. “We assumed based on the app someone might track us and give us a call.” The next day, Kumar recalled, “we started our quest of making our quarantine official. We called various numbers only to keep getting bounced off. We were being royally ignored. Finally we got through to a health official who asked us to pass on our address details. He told us we would get a visit from the health department soon. No one turned up.” The family’s quarantine period had got over quite a while back. “Till date, no one has enquired. Looking at the Covid numbers of both the states, we can conclude that this pandemic can only be controlled through extensive contact tracing and a combined effort of the administration and health department starting from the grassroots level,” observed Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannur-kerala-to-bengaluru-860004.html
11-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus continues to hit frontline warriors hard||Non-stop duty in the virus-hit areas is taking its toll on the frontline warriors in the state, which is witnessing a daily jump in infections among Covid warriors, including the doctors, health workers and cops. On Saturday, at least two dozens of virus warriors across the state tested positive for novel coronavirus. The Magadi taluk hospital in Ramanagara district was sealed for a day on Saturday after a lady doctor tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital staff was sent for home quarantine. The district has, so far, witnessed eight medical staff test positive for the virus. A Satanuru police station staff in Kanakapura taluk tested positive for Covid-19. The number of cops from the district to test positive for coronavirus has increased to seven. Three journalists, a doctor, a nurse and a lab technician were among the 74 people who tested positive for coronavirus in Yadgir district on Saturday. Five policemen, including an ASI of Humnabad police station in Bidar district, contracted the virus on Saturday. Humnabad, Bhalki Rural, Bhalki Town and Bidar New Town police stations were sanitised on Saturday after the staff tested positive for Covid, Bidar SP D L Nagesh told reporters. Meanwhile, the Covid lab at BRIMS resumed operations on Saturday. The lab was closed for two days after four technicians were sent to home quarantine.  The community healthcare centre at Nidagundi in Vijayapura district was sealed on Saturday after two of its staff tested positive for Covid.  The Chikkaballapur zilla panchayat president is suspected to have contracted Covid-19. ZP president Chikkanarasaiah is taking treatment at M S Ramaiah Hospital in Bengaluru, sources said.  Meanwhile, a police constable, on Raj Bhavan duty, from Hampapur in HD Kote taluk in Mysuru district has tested positive for Covid-19 after he returned home. He's been admitted to the designated Covid hospital in Mysuru. An ASI of Kaup police station in Udupi district and a head constable of Mulki police station also tested positive for the virus. Both are said to have contracted the disease while on the Covid duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-continues-to-hit-frontline-warriors-hard-860005.html
11-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress wants answers to 6 posers from govt on Covid-19||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday posed six questions to the government as part of a ‘Lekka Kodi’ campaign that the Congress has launched to corner the B S Yediyurappa administration on its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.  The ‘Lekka Kodi’ campaign evoked sharp rebuke from the BJP. “It is the right of the people to ask for accounts and it is the duty of the government to give answers,” Siddaramaiah said.  The six questions are: How much has the state government spent till date during the Covid-19 pandemic and how much has the Centre provided? How much have the departments spent and on what? What is the market price of PPE kits, test kits, gloves, sanitisers, thermal scanners, kiosks and at what cost has the government purchased them? How many food kits have been provided till date, to whom and what’s the cost of each one? How many food kits were given to migrant workers during their travel, what was given and the cost of each kit? What packages have been announced by the state and Centre to help those in distress, how much money has been released to which persons and communities? How much has been spent on caring for those affected by corona? The ‘Lekka Kodi’ campaign comes on the back of Siddaramaiah alleging a scam worth Rs 2,000 crore in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment.  Health Minister B Sriramulu was amused. “Siddaramaiah should first explain the basis on which he is claiming a scam worth Rs 2,000 crore when the government has spent only Rs 500 crore to Rs 600 crore so far?,” he said.  Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the government will give account for “every single paisa” that is spent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-wants-answers-to-6-posers-from-govt-on-covid-19-860008.html
11-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC lays down norms for physical presence in trial courts||The High Court has laid down guidelines on dealing with the requirements of physical presence of parties and sureties as per three different acts in view of restricted functioning of the courts in the state.  A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka has passed the order in relation to the requirement of physical presence under Code of Civil Procedure (1908), Hindu Marriage Act (1955), Special Marriage Act (1954) and Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).  In the first issue, the bench stated that in terms of a compromise petition, the personal presence of the parties is not mandatory, if they are represented by the advocates. The bench stated that the apex court has reiterated that an advocate appearing for a party is fully competent to put his signature on the terms of any compromise on behalf of his client. The second issue is about conduct of the proceedings under Hindu Marriage Act and Special Marriage Act. The bench stated that it has been observed by the apex court that when both the parties file a consent memorandum after the reconciliation fails, the family court can conduct hearing through video conferencing, including examination of witnesses. The court can also record the evidence on oath of parties through video conferencing.  In the third issue pertaining to the production of a surety while granting of the bail, the bench held that the advocate representing the accused can produce the bail bond signed by the surety in prescribed form along with an affidavit. After the submission of the required document, including the property documents, the court may hold an enquiry to decide whether the surety is fit and/or sufficient. However, the court can procure the attendance of the surety by video conferencing if it entertains any serious doubt about the identity of the surety or the genuineness of the documents, the bench said.  As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SoP), district and trial courts in the state are not allowing the litigants into the court premises in view of Covid-19. “We must note here that, as far as possible, no court shall direct the personal/physical presence of the surety before it. As repeatedly held by us, it is the duty and responsibility of every court and all the stakeholders to ensure that the functioning of court does not become a source of spread of Covid-19,” the court directed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-lays-down-norms-for-physical-presence-in-trial-courts-860010.html
11-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||12-year-old Ballari girl youngest to die of Covid in K'taka||A 12-year-old girl from Uttangi village in the taluk died due to Covid-19 at the Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Ballari, on Saturday. She's the youngest Covid-19 victim in the state. The girl was admitted to VIMS for treatment of pneumonia and heart ailment 10 days back. She was subjected to Covid-19 test after she developed breathlessness. On Friday, her report came back positive for novel coronavirus following which she was shifted to the Covid ward in the hospital. The girl, however, breathed her last on Saturday. The panchayat officials have sanitised her Uttangi house and sealed it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/12-year-old-ballari-girl-youngest-to-die-of-covid-in-ktaka-860012.html
11-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Tightrope walk for netas who can't say no to people||Even as several MLAs and an MP have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past week, political leaders are walking the tightrope of carrying out public interaction amid the pandemic. Unable to completely cut themselves off from interacting with people, leaders have come up with their own measures.  Speaking to DH, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said his interactions henceforth would strictly be based on appointments only. “I will issue a separate set of timings for legislators and party workers. Holding this office, I cannot avoid meeting people. So, I am thinking of this new measure,” he said. The Congress also held a meeting on Thursday to chalk out measures related to Covid-19. “We are completely sanitising the party office. We are working out ways in which we can further bolster our measures,” Shivakumar added.  BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar, on his part, has streamlined visits to his office. “I have not stopped public interaction. But I am insisting that anyone who comes to meet me needs to maintain two metres distance, wear a mask and use a sanitiser. Also, I am ensuring that not more than two people enter my office at a time. If there are five or six visitors, I am asking them to come in two batches,” he said. According to sources in JD(S), its leader H D Kumaraswamy has more or less migrated to online. Except for visit to his constituency (Channapatna) on crucial issues, he has limited himself to online interactions, party memberssaid.  Meanwhile, after a staff member in his office tested positive, political secretary to Chief Minister M P Renukacharya tweeted that he would, until Friday, take meetings from his home office and would not meet people directly. “I request well-wishers and the public, not to meet me directly. Please connect with me over telephone,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-tightrope-walk-for-netas-who-cant-say-no-to-people-860013.html
11-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka & Kerala: Difference in home quarantine rules stump travellers||Two Bengalureans, one heading to Kerala and another returning to the city discovered two vastly different rules for home quarantine, last week. Their experiences showed just why one state had the complex system of Covid-19 case-monitoring under tight control and how laxity reigned inanother. For Muzaffar Ahmed (named changed), the travel plan to his home in Kerala’s Malappuram district had begun to get tough right from the day he applied for a pass. “The pass was approved only after a panchayat member went to my house and confirmed that it had a quarantine room with attached bathroom. Neighbours too were informed,” he recalled. But the pass was only the first step. Reaching the Muthanga checkpost on the Karnataka-Kerala border by a private taxi on June 30, Ahmed and the driver were stopped by the Karnataka police. “They checked our passes and reminded the driver to be back within 24 hours.” Kerala policemen at the Karnataka checkpost collected Ahmed’s pass details and mobile number, before a full-fledged inspection at a makeshift facility ahead of the Kerala checkpost. “Our vehicle was sanitized, and at a shed with about 20 health personnel, we had to wash our hands with soap and sanitizer.” Asha workers posed the duo a flurry of questions on symptoms. “After a thermal screening, detailed instructions on the home quarantine followed. They fed our details into a system, generating an SMS on my phone. We were finally on our way after a revenue official gave us thegreen signal.” Before they reached Malappuram, an Asha worker called to check whether they were on track. “Another call came when I arrived, reiterating the home quarantine instructions. I was told not to be in touch with anyone, my parents included. My wife and child had already been shifted.” Next day, the local police sub-inspector called Ahmed and strictly warned him not to get out of the room for 14 days. “Asha workers then visited the house, after which a health inspector called to check whether the others had called,” he recalled, awaiting more such calls over the nextweek. Kannur, Kerala to Bengaluru: For HR professional Sajan Kumar (name changed), the road trip from Kerala’s Kannur to Bengaluru was an entirely different experience. En route to the Karnataka border, he and his family were stopped at multiple points every time they entered or left a town. “At the first stop our details (including photos) were collected and fed into their handheld devices. The details were verified at every stop,” he narrated. But a surprise awaited them at the border. “As opposed to the rules we had read, there was no stamping, no temperature check and I'm not even sure they verified the number of people in the vehicle. They only checked the pass validity,” said Kumar. No instruction was given on quarantine. “When I asked about it, I was told to go home. After that we weren't stopped anywhere although there were a few police check posts on the way.” The family had installed Arogya Setu, Quarantine Watch and Apthamithra apps, which were not verified at the border. “We assumed based on the app someone might track us and give us a call.”  The next day, Kumar recalled, “we started our quest of making our quarantine official. We called various numbers only to keep getting bounced off. We were being royally ignored. Finally we got through to a health official who asked us to pass on our address details. He told us we would get a visit from the health department soon. No one turned up.”  The family’s quarantine period had got over quite a while back. “Till date, no one has enquired. Looking at the numbers of both the states, we can conclude that this pandemic can only be controlled through extensive contact tracing and a combined effort of the administration and health department starting right from the grass root level,” observed Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-kerala-difference-in-home-quarantine-rules-stump-travellers-860014.html
11-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Biggest single-day spike of 2,798 Covid-19 cases in Karnataka; 70 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported the biggest single-day spurt of 2,798 cases and a record 70 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections in the state to 36,216, the health department said. The day also saw a record 880 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 2,798 fresh cases, a whopping 1,533 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on July 10 with 2,313 cases. As of July 11 evening, cumulatively 36,216 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 613 deaths and 14,716 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said out of 20,883 active cases, 20,379 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 504 are in ICU. Out of 70 deaths reported, 23 are from Bengaluru urban, 8 from Mysuru, five from Dakshina Kannada, among others. Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Out of 2,798 cases tested positive today, contacts of the majority of the cases are still under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounts for 1533 cases, followed by Dakshina Kannada 186, Udupi 90, Mysuru 83, Tumakuru 78, Dharwad 77 and Yadgir 74. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 16,862 infections, followed by Dakshina Kannada 2,026 and Kalaburagi 2,024. A total of 7.99 lakh samples were tested so far, out of which 20,587 were tested on Saturday alone. So far 7.46 lakh samples have been reported as negative, and out of them 17,488 were reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/biggest-single-day-spike-of-2798-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-70-deaths-860021.html
11-07-2020||West||Fire breaks out at shopping centre at Mumbai's Borivali West||A major fire broke out at a shopping mall in suburban Borivali here early on Saturday, but there was no report of any casualty, a fire brigade official said. The fire brigade received the call about the blaze in the basement of Indraprastha Mall on S V Road in Borivali West around 3 am, he said. "The mall is a three-storey structure. The fire started at its basement and spread to the ground and the first floors," he said. "Thick black smoke enveloped the complex and its surrounding area, which was visible from far away. The fire brigade personnel faced difficulties in firefighting, following which a robot was deployed in the operation," the official said. At least 14 fire engines, 13 jumbo tankers and other vehicles were used in the operation. According to the official, the blaze was initially categorised as level-2 fire, but was marked as level-3 around 4 am and then level-4 after that. The fire was brought under control by around 12.30 pm, he said, adding that the cooling operation was still on. The exact reason behind the fire was being ascertained, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-shopping-centre-at-mumbais-borivali-west-859687.html
11-07-2020||West||MVA is successful experiment, says Sharad Pawar, denies being remote control of Maharashtra govt||Describing the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government as a "successful experiment", NCP supremo Sharad Pawar made it clear that he was neither a "headmaster" nor a "remote control" of the government in Maharashtra. The 79-year-old Pawar, one of the seniormost politician of the country, also hit out at the BJP saying that "powerful leaders" like Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee too had to taste defeat. The style of working of late Balasaheb Thackeray and Uddhav Thackeray are different but as chief minister the latter is doing a good job, Pawar said in an interview to Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, conducted by its executive editor Sanjay Raut. "Definitely.... the MVA is a successful experiment," Pawar said about the government that comprises of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress besides smaller groups. Asked whether he was headmaster or remote control of the government, Pawar, who is the chief architect of MVA, said: "None of these.... I am neither headmaster nor remote control.... this is a government of democracy and cannot be run through remote control... the government is run by chief minister and his council of ministers." Pawar also came down heavily at leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis over his 'mi punha yein' (I will come back) refrain during the last year's Vidhan Sabha polls. "Voters thought that this stance smacked of arrogance and felt that they should be taught a lesson," said Pawar,  former leader of opposition in Lok Sabha. Pawar also said that that there was not an "iota of truth" in reports about differences in the three ruling allies- Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress- that are part of the MVA government.This is for the first time that a non-Shiv Sena leader has featured in a marathon interview series in the party mouthpiece. It has so far published marathon interviews of late Bal Thackeray and Uddhav Thackeray. Replying to a query over BJP's defeat in the last assembly polls in the state, Pawar said, "In a democracy, you cannot think that you will remain in power eternally. Voters will not tolerate if they are taken for granted. Powerful leaders mass base with like Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee (both former prime ministers) had been defeated. It means that in terms of the democratic rights, the common person is wiser than the politicians." He said the change of government in Maharashtra was not an accident. "People of Maharashtra voted in line of the sentiment prevailing in the country during the national elections. But the mood changed during the assembly polls. Even though BJP did well in the Lok Sabha polls, it fared poorly in assembly elections in different states. Even people of Maharashtra voted for a change," he said. To a question on reported differences with Thackeray on the issue of lockdown in the state, Pawar said, "Absolutely not. What differences? For what? During the entire period of lockdown, I have had good rapport with the chief minister and continue to do so."  "I have been reading reports of growing differences among the three allies, but there is not an iota of truth in that," he said. Pawar, who is a former union minister and a four-time Maharashtra chief minister, also said that he never thought the ideology of Bal Thackeray was in sync with that of BJP.  “The Balasaheb Thackeray that I know…maybe you people know about him more. But I never felt that his (Balasaheb) ideology, his working style was in sync with that of BJP”, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-is-successful-experiment-says-sharad-pawar-denies-being-remote-control-of-maharashtra-govt-859739.html
11-07-2020||West||Goa: Chief Minister Pramod Sawant rules out lockdown amidst rise in Covid-19 cases||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has ruled out the possibility of imposing further lockdowns in the coastal state, which is grappling with the rise in Covid-19 cases. Speaking to a TV channel on Friday, Sawant said the process of unlocking has started and priority should be given to resume economic activities. "The lockdown was initially imposed to create awareness and educate people about coronavirus. That phase has passed now," he said. As on Friday, Goa has recorded 2,151 cases of Covid-19, including nine deaths and 1,347 recoveries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-chief-minister-pramod-sawant-rules-out-lockdown-amidst-rise-in-covid-19-cases-859763.html
11-07-2020||West||300 beds added to Covid-19 hospitals in Maharashtra's rural Thane||At least 500 more beds will soon be made available for Covid-19 patients and this will take the bed capacity to 2,000 in Thane rural, district health officer Manish Renge said. Sufficient beds were available at the district civil hospital and IGM Hospital in Bhiwandi, apart from other government-run hospitals in the district, he said. According to the official data, 2,819 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in the rural areas of Thane district so far, while the toll in the region stood at 78. The mortality rate in Thane rural is 2.77 percent and the recovery rate is at 34.69 percent, the official said. Meanwhile, in a mega drive against people violating the lockdown rules, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation on Friday collected fines to the tune of Rs 1.50 lakhs in just one day, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/300-beds-added-to-covid-19-hospitals-in-maharashtras-rural-thane-859770.html
11-07-2020||West||Aadhaar card must to procure Covid-19 drugs remdesivir, tocilizumab in Maharashtra: Report||FDA Minister Rajendra Shingne said that the decision was taken due to complaints of shortages and concerns about the experimental drug sold in black. “We have received information that people who do not need the drug are trying to purchase it and then selling it at an inflated rate,” the minister said. “These documents will now have to be produced by people buying it from druggists. This will help us track the sale and use of these drugs.”  Some doctors have opposed the move saying it will be harrowing for relatives of patients to acquire so many documents.  A regulatory authority is investigating if hospitals are hoarding after getting them from the manufacturers directly.  Shingne visited Masina Hospital in Byculla and a wholesale druggist store for surprise checks. The FDA official who accompanied him said they did not find any discrepancies. Maharashtra has the highest number of cases with a total of 2,38,461 cases of which 95,943 are active as of July 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aadhaar-card-must-to-procure-covid-19-drugs-remdesivir-tocilizumab-in-maharashtra-report-859771.html
11-07-2020||West||WHO lauds Dharavi model to fight Covid-19||The largest slum cluster of Asia, Dharavi is sandwiched between the Central and Western suburban lines in Mumbai. Spread over 2.1 sq km, Dharavi is a sort of mini-India, with over 7 to 10 lakh people staying and working here.  The WHO praise comes as a major boost to the efforts of the Maharashtra government. Dharavi is located nearly 1.5 km away from Matoshree, the private bungalow of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. "There are many examples from around the world that have shown that even if the outbreak is very intense, it can still be brought back under control," said WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. "And some of these examples are Italy, Spain and South Korea, and even in Dharavi - a densely packed area in the megacity of Mumbai - a strong focus on community engagement and the basics of testing, tracing, isolating and treating all those that are sick is key to breaking the chains of transmission and suppressing the virus," he said. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has thanked the WHO and citizens of India's financial capital. "Thank you @WHO for acknowledging #MissionDharavi where we partnered with citizens to #ChaseTheVirus from one of the most populous blocks of the city. With your guidelines & Mumbai’s community efforts, we will beat #COVID19 one block at a time by Tracing-Tracking-Testing-Treating," the BMC tweeted. "I am proud of all my Dharavians as today we have set an example for the world as WHO has recognized and praised our efforts against this war against corona. Let's keep up the good work and we will fight in the most strongest way," said state school education minister and Dharavi MLA Dr Varsha Gaikwad. The first Covid-19 positive case and death from Dharavi was reported on April 1 when a 56-year-old man who tested positive for novel coronavirus died. The number of Covid-19 cases zoomed throughout April and the first fortnight of May but then it was brought down.  As of now, there are less than 500 active cases in Dharavi. The Dharavi-model of fighting Covid-19 is being replicated in Mumbai's suburbs of Malad, Kandivli, Borivli and Dahisar on the Western line and Mulund and Bhandup on the Central line. "We adopted the Chase-the-Virus strategy rather than the patient coming to us," Assistant Municipal Commissioner Kiran Digavkar, who heads BMC's G/North ward, that comprises Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim, told DH last week. As part of the strategy, several fever clinics were opened and people were checked.  As part of the war against virus, the Chase the Virus initiative was launched to break the cycle. Against every patient, 15 close contacts were quarantined. The frontline caregivers were also given medicines. A new institutional quarantine facility was also opened. Senior citizen patients were shifted to the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion and the King Edward Memorial Hospital at Parel. A senior official of the Maharashtra Medical Council also noted that a very large migrant population has moved out from Dharavi. "That ensured physical distancing. The CRPF was also deployed along with the local police station," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/who-lauds-dharavi-model-to-fight-covid-19-859772.html
11-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Goa to launch campaign to encourage plasma donation||The Goa government on Saturday said it would launch a campaign to encourage the recovered Covid-19 patients to donate their plasma for treatment of others in the state. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said this awareness campaign would start from Sunday. "We will be encouraging the recovered Covid-19 patients to come forward and donate their plasma. It will save lives of other people," he said. Rane said that an apheresis machine, which is required for the plasma therapy, would be installed at the state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) by Monday. "We will do whatever is required to save lives of the people," he said. Meanwhile, two patients, who were undergoing treatment at ESI Hospital in Margao town of South Goa, succumbed to the infection between Friday night and Saturday morning, a senior health department official said.  These two victims- a 80-year-old man and a 31-year-old man- took the state's death toll to eleven, he said. The number of COVID-19 cases in the state has now grown to 2,251, of which 895 are active patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-to-launch-campaign-to-encourage-plasma-donation-859835.html
11-07-2020||West||Proactive screening helped to curb Dharavi's Covid-19 spread: BMC||With the WHO lauding the efforts taken to contain the spread of the Covid-19 in Mumbai's Dharavi, one of the world's largest slums, the local civic body said proactive screening with the assistance of private doctors and community support helped it in the fight against the disease. World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, had said during a virtual press conference in Geneva on Friday that there were many examples from around the world that have shown that even if the outbreak is very intense, it can still be brought back under control. "And some of these examples are Italy, Spain and South Korea, and even in Dharavi - a densely packed area in the megacity of Mumbai," he had said. The Asia's largest slum, which was once declared a Covid-19 hotspot, has managed to flatten the curve of the viral spread. Talking to PTI on Saturday, Kiran Dighavkar, Assistant Commissioner of the G North ward of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the civic body had to change its traditional approach of waiting for patients, contact tracing, isolation and home quarantine to begin proactive screening instead. "Proactive screening helped in early detection, timely treatment and recovery," he said. At least six to seven lakh people have been screened in Dharavi, while 14,000 persons were tested and 13,000 were placed in institutional quarantine with medical facilities and community kitchen for free," the senior official said. The efforts taken by the civic authorities and the local participation is evident from the doubling rate of the virus in Dharavi, which is spread over 2.5 sq km and has a population of 2,27,136 per sq km. According to the official data, while in April, the doubling rate was 18 days, it gradually improved to 43 days in May and slowed down to 108 and 430 days in June and July respectively. As many as 2,359 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in Dharavi so far, of which 1,952 patients have recovered from the deadly infection, while there are only 166 active cases at present. However, achieving this monumental feat was not easy for the local authorities, who had to overcome their fair share of challenges. "At least 80 per cent of Dharavi's population depends on 450 community toilets and the administration had to sanitise and disinfect these toilets several times a day," Dighavkar said. Social distancing was next to impossible in Dharavi, where families of eight to 10 people live in 10x10 hutments and residents have to walk along narrow lanes lined with crowded tenements on either side, he said. Apart from the congested slum pockets, Dharavi, is also home to several small-scale leather, pottery and textile manufacturing units. The area has 5,000 GST-registered enterprises, 15,000 single-room factories and is a hub of international exports with an annual turnover of 1 billion USD. "Our approach to tackle the virus was focused on four Ts - tracing, tracking, testing and treating," he said. Doctors and private clinics, as part of proactive screening and fever camps, covered as many as 47,500 houses, while 14,970 people were screened in mobile vans, the official said. Apart from this, special care was taken for the elderly residents and 8,246 senior citizens were surveyed, he said. Manpower was a major issue for organising fever camps and proactive screening in high-risk zones, Dighavkar said. "We mobilised all private practitioners. At least 24 private doctors came forward and the civic body provided them with PPE kits, thermal scanners, pulse oxymetres, masks, gloves, and started door-to-door screening in high risk zones and all suspects were identified," he said. Later, all medical practitioners were asked to open their clinics and alert the civic body about suspected patients, he said, adding that all private hospitals were also acquired for treatment. The civic body also had to ramp up institutional quarantine facilities and used schools, marriage halls and sports complexes to house suspected patients, he said. "Under the guidance of municipal commissioner I S Chahal, a 200-bed hospital was set up in record 14 days with oxygen supply," Dighavkar said. There was a strict enforcement of lockdown in the containment zones, during which only critical patients were moved out of the area to other hospitals and 90 per cent were treated in Dharavi itself, he added. Community participation was crucial to contain the spread of coronavirus in Dharavi and local community leaders were appointed as "Covid yoddhas" (warriors) to address the concerns, the senior official said. According to him, grocery kits and food packets were distributed in containment zones to prevent the movement of people and this helped in a big way. Taking to Twitter, the civic body thanked the WHO for acknowledging 'Mission Dharavi. "We partnered with citizens to chase the virus from one of the most populous blocks of the city. With your guidelines and community efforts, we will beat Covid-19 one block at a time by tracing, tracking, testing and treating," the BMC tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/proactive-screening-helped-to-curb-dharavis-covid-19-spread-bmc-859869.html
11-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Two held for selling remdesivir at high prices||Two persons were arrested in Mira Road township of Maharashtra's Thane district for allegedly selling medicines used in Covid-19 treatment at high prices, police said on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off, the district rural police on Friday nabbed Sonu Darshi (25) and Rodrigues Raul (31) from Saibaba Nagar locality for allegedly selling vials of remdesivir injections at exorbitant prices, an official said. The police seized four vials of the injection from the accused, who were selling each vial for Rs 20,000 as against the original price of Rs 5,400, he said. Offences under section 420 (cheating) of the IPC along with relevant provisions of the Essential Commodities Act and FDA Act have been registered against the duo at Mira Road police station, the official said. Further probe is underway to find the source of the medicines, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-two-held-for-selling-remdesivir-at-high-prices-in-thane-859902.html
11-07-2020||West||Covid-19 in Maharashtra jails: 774 cases, 444 recovered, 4 deaths||A total of 774 Covid-19 cases have been reported from 14 jails in Maharashtra so far, comprising 600 inmates and 174 staff, most of whom have recovered while four have died, an official said on Saturday. Nagpur Central Jail is the worst-affected with 219 cases, followed by Mumbai Central Jail which has 181, while Akola and Solapur prisons have 72 and 62 cases respectively, the prisons department official said. "Of the 596 inmates, 351 have recovered. Of the 174 jail staff who were infected, 93 have now recovered. Four inmates have died of the infection so far," he added. Incidentally, Pune's Yerawada Central Jail, among the most crowded in the state, has reported only one Covid-19 case so far, officials pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-in-maharashtra-jails-774-cases-444-recovered-4-deaths-859904.html
11-07-2020||West||Dharavi a global role model of Covid-19 management: Uddhav Thackeray||Hours after the WHO lauded the way Covid-19 spread in Dharavi was arrested, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that largest Asian slum has emerged as a role model. "Asia’s largest slum and densely populated area like Dharavi has not only shown the world that through collective effort Covid-19 can be controlled but has also made a name for itself globally as a role model in the fight against Corona," Thackeray said. He praised the integrated efforts taken by BMC, NGOs and the people of Dharavi and congratulated them. “This is the success of your efforts”, he said. The chief minister  said that such examples of human triumph over global pandemic can inspire others. He praised the efforts taken to control the spread of Corona and said the global recognition of Dharavi as a role model in this fight will strengthen our effort in this 'War Against Virus'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-a-global-role-model-of-covid-19-management-uddhav-thackeray-859920.html
11-07-2020||West||Maharashtra restricts height of idols of Lord Ganesh||After a series of discussion and consultation meetings, the Maharashtra government has decided to restrict the height of idols of Lord Ganesh - two-feet for those installed in homes and maximum four-feet in public places. A notification to this effect was issued on Saturday amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai, the larger Mumbai metropolitan region, Pune and elsewhere in Maharashtra. As a matter or fact, in the new normal, the festival organisers will have to ensure physical distancing and ensure sanitisation. The notification was issued by additional director general of police Amitabh Gupta, who is the principal secretary of Home department.  The comprehensive advisory also asked citizen to keep metal of marble Ganesh idols. In case, one installs clay Ganesh idols, it may be immersed in homes or artificial ponds. Besides that, the government also asked Ganesh mandals to look at the possibility of performing the visarjan (immersion) next year during Maghi Ganeshutsav in February, 2021 or Ganeshutsav in September, 2021. All processions have already been banned, either for welcoming the elephant-headed God or for his immersion ceremonies, besides barring immersion at any public place like beaches, rivers, lakes, ponds. The Ganeshutsav madals have been urged to make all arrangements possible to provide online Ganesh darshan, puja, arti, etc. through cable, websites or social media networks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-restricts-height-of-idols-of-lord-ganesh-859958.html
11-07-2020||West||Traders, BJP oppose re-imposition of lockdown in Pune||Traders and opposition BJP on Saturday expressed displeasure over the Maharashtra government's move to reimpose lockdown in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Traders association said the decision would lead to unrest among businessmen in the city. A 10-day lockdown will be implemented in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas adjoining the Pune municipal limits from July 13 amid the rising cases of coronavirus infection. This decision was taken in a review meeting held on Friday with guardian minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar. BJP MLA Sidharth Shirole said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had not even paid a single visit to Pune amid the Covid-19 crisis. "I fail to understand how the state government and local administration plans to revamp and rebuild Pune's medical infrastructure during the upcoming 10-day lockdown when they had failed to do so far," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/traders-bjp-oppose-re-imposition-of-lockdown-in-pune-859970.html
11-07-2020||West||Maratha quota: Kapil Sibal to join Maharashtra legal team for SC hearing||Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Kapil Sibal has joined Maharashtra government's legal team entrusted with defending the Maratha quota decision in the Supreme Court. Sibal will argue in favour of intervener in the case Rajendra Dak, a statement issued by the office of PWD minister Ashok Chavan said here on Saturday. Senior advocate Rafique Dada will also argue in favour of the quota. The cabinet sub-committee headed by Chavan held a meeting with the government's lawyer Mukul Rohatgi and Paramjit Singh Patwalia. The next hearing of the case in the apex court is on July 15. A plea was filed in the SC challenging the Bombay High Court order upholding validity of quota for the Maratha community in education (12 per cent) and government jobs (13 per cent).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maratha-quota-kapil-sibal-to-join-maharashtra-legal-team-for-sc-hearing-859979.html
11-07-2020||West||CID to probe case of firing on Nagpur mayor's vehicle||The Maharashtra government has transferred the probe into firing on Nagpur mayor Sandip Joshi's vehicle in December last year to the CID, an official said on Saturday. The incident had occurred on Wardha Road here on December 17 when two motorcycle-borne men fired three rounds at the mayor's car while he was returning home with his family members and friends. Crime Branch of the Nagpur police had investigated the case for the last seven months. Senior police officers discussed the case with Home Minister Anil Deshmukh who has directed the state DGP to transfer the probe to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Nagpur, the official said. Police have handed over the probe documents to the CID.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cid-to-probe-case-of-firing-on-nagpur-mayors-vehicle-860015.html
11-07-2020||West||Opposition is only doing disaster tourism: Aaditya Thackeray||Thackeray visited Kalyan in the district to review the measures taken by the civic body to check the spread of the virus. "We are focusing on keeping people healthy, but the opposition is busy with disaster tourism here," he told reporters. A few days ago, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis had criticized the poor health infrastructure in Kalyan-Dombivali area. Thackeray asked officials to intensify "Chase the Virus" campaign in Kalyan and Dombivali on the lines of Dharavi by focussing on contact tracing and increasing the number of tests. Officials should not panic if numbers appeared to be rising, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-is-only-doing-disaster-tourism-aaditya-thackeray-860032.html
11-07-2020||West||Covid-19: 117 new cases, 3 deaths in Goa on July 11||Goa on Saturday reported 117 new Covid-19 cases, taking the count to 2,368, while three deaths during the day, including that of an 80-year-old woman and a 75-year-old man, increased the toll from the infection to 12, an official said. A total of 81 people were discharged during the day, leaving the state with 928 active cases, he added. "A total of 5,637 samples were tested on Saturday, of which 117 were positive, 1,886 negative and 3,634 reports are awaited. The third death of the day was that of a 31-year-old man," the official said. Earlier in the day, state health minister Vishwajit Rane said plasma therapy would begin soon, adding that an apheresis machine for the therapy has arrived at Goa Medical College and Hospital and is ready for installation. Goa's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 2,368, new cases: 117, deaths: 12, discharged: 1,428, active cases 928, Samples tested till date: 90,817.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-117-new-cases-3-deaths-in-goa-on-july-11-860043.html
11-07-2020||West||Maharashtra's coronavirus death toll crosses 10,000-mark||Covid-19 death toll crossed the 10,000-mark in Maharashtra on Saturday while total positive cases inched towards 2.50 lakh. On Saturday, 223 deaths and 8,139 cases were recorded in Maharashtra, the worst-affected state in India. This pushed the death toll to 10,116 and total cases to 2,46,600, according to the data released by the Public Health department. Discharge rate in the state is 55.55%. The case fatality rate in the state is 4.1%. Out of 12,85,991 laboratory samples, 2,46,600 have been tested positive (19.17%) for Covid-19 till Saturday. Currently, 6,80,017 people are under home quarantine and 47,376 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-coronavirus-death-toll-crosses-10000-mark-860046.html
