12-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sunday lockdown evokes good response in Mangaluru||The Sunday lockdown announced by the state government to check the unnecessary movement of people to check spread of Covid-19 evoked good response in Mangaluru. All markets, shops except milk parlours remained closed.   The police had kept barricades at various junctions to prevent unnecessary movement of people. Buses, autorickshaws and taxis remained off the road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sunday-lockdown-evokes-good-response-in-mangaluru-860153.html
12-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 patient in Karnataka's Hubballi walks to cops seeking ambulance||Police officials deployed on duty, and media persons covering the Sunday lockdown at Channamma Circle in Hubballi had anxious moments after a Covid-19 positive patient, staying in a lodge nearby, walked to them complaining of non-availability of the ambulance to take him to Karnataka Institute of medical science, Hubballi. The patient, aged about 45 and a native of Uttar Pradesh is working in Hubballi as contract work for a railway project. He was staying in a lodge for the last four months. On Saturday night at 10:30 pm, he received a message confirming him to be Covid-19 positive.  And since then he has been trying to reach KIMS requesting them to send an ambulance. However, his calls went unanswered. In the morning at 10:00 am he walked out of the lodge and informed the police that he was positive.  The police personnel ran helter-skelter after hearing him. "I have been trying to reach KIMS since last night, but one responded. I have tested positive and have mild symptoms" he told a section of media persons from a distance.  4 ambulances As soon as the issue was brought to the notice of Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, not one but four ambulance rushed to the spot to pick him up. The patient was shifted to KIMS at around 11 am, after Chief ministers office rang up Dharwad DC, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-patient-in-karnatakas-hubballi-walks-to-cops-seeking-ambulance-860175.html
12-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||No decision on lockdown in Dakshina Kannada: Poojary||Dakshina Kannada District-in-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary has clarified that no decision has been taken on imposing lockdown in Dakshina Kannada district. A meeting was convened at DC’s office in Mangaluru to discuss on Covid situation in the district on Sunday. The meeting was attended by MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, DC Sindhu B Rupesh and others. However, no final decision has been taken on the lockdown,he said. The Minister said the decision on future course of action will be  taken after attending a video conference with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on July 13 at 11 am.“The issue of self-regulated lockdown initiated by public in various parts of the district has come to my knowledge. We will not take any hasty decision , which will put commonman to hardship. The public should not panic,’ said the Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-decision-on-lockdown-in-dakshina-kannada-poojary-860207.html
12-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Newlyweds killed for seeking police help after getting threat to life||Infuriated over a newlywed couple lodging a police complaint of a threat to their lives, the bride's kin allegedly killed five of the bridegroom's family, police said on Sunday. The crime took place at Sindhanur in Raichur district on Saturday night and five people were arrested, the police said. Maunesh and Manjula had eloped and entered into wedlock against the wishes of her parents eight months ago, they said. On Saturday, Maunesh brought Manjula to his house, the police said. On coming to know of this, Manjula's relatives allegedly threatened her and her husband. Fearing for their lives, the couple approached the police and lodged a complaint. Enraged over this, Manjula's relatives stormed into Maunesh's house and fatally attacked the couple with rods and sticks, the police said. Maunesh's parents and one of his sisters and two brothers died in the attack. Maunesh's two other sisters, who were injured, have been hospitalised, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-newlyweds-killed-for-seeking-police-help-after-getting-threat-to-life-860311.html
12-07-2020||National||Rajasthan going MP way? Gehlot says BJP luring Congress MLAs with cash||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s allegation on Saturday that the BJP was trying to topple his government sent the political temperature in the state several notches up as the Congress apprehended a repeat of Madhya Pradesh, where it lost the government just a few months ago. At a press conference in Jaipur, Gehlot said the BJP was trying to topple his government by offering his legislators Rs 10 crore in advance and Rs 15 crore after the government was toppled and cited the examples of Goa, Manipur, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, where the BJP carried out Operation Lotus. The high-voltage drama took an interesting turn on Saturday when the Rajasthan police issued notices to Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot to record their statements on the issue.  The police’s special operations group (SOG) also sent a notice to government Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi to record his statement. Joshi, during the Rajya Sabha polls, had made a written complaint about attempts of horse-trading by the BJP. Interestingly, Pilot had then said that he had no such information. Pilot’s supporters feel that Gehlot has been trying to project the crisis scenario to get the sympathy of Congress central leadership and paint Pilot as someone liable to effect a split like Jyotiraditya Scindia did in Madhya Pradesh. Congress MLAs in Rajasthan are divided in two groups — supporters of Gehlot and Deputy Chief Minister and state chief Sachin Pilot, who was earlier a strong contender for the CM’s post. In 2018, a decision on Rajasthan chief ministership got delayed as Pilot’s supporters demanded the post for him. Since then, the rivalry between the two has intensified. When Gehlot was asked whether the alleged efforts to weaken his party were happening because of two groups in the Congress, the chief minister gave a cryptic reply saying, “There may be five-seven leaders here who could be claimants for chief minister’s post and they may also have capabilities, but when a chief minister is appointed, such talks end and peace prevails.” The political drama in Rajasthan began late Friday night when 24 Congress MLAs issued a joint letter alleging that the BJP was luring legislators to topple the Gehlot government and alleged a conspiracy with the involvement of top BJP leaders at Centre.  Unlike Chhattisgarh, where Congress won with two-third majority, the victory margin in Rajasthan and MP were narrow. Dismissing Congress allegations as its “internal problems”, BJP legislators had on Friday given a notice of breach of privilege to the Rajasthan Assembly secretary against the chief minister for his statement over alleged horse-trading ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections. Regarding Gehlot’s allegation that BJP was trying to topple his government by offering his legislators large sums of money, BJP state chief Satish Poonia said the political situation in the state was the result of infighting in the Congress and the chief minister was just trying to shift the blame.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-going-mp-way-gehlot-says-bjp-luring-congress-mlas-with-cash-860062.html
12-07-2020||National||India, China just started pulling back troops, says External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar||India and China have “just commenced” pulling back troops from the scenes of the face-offs along the disputed boundary between the two nations, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday. “What just happened is that we have agreed on the need to disengage because the troops on both sides are deployed very close to each other. So, there is a disengagement and de-escalation process which has been agreed upon,” he said, during an online interaction session at the “India Global Week” – an event held by the India Inc. Group.    “It (the process of disengagement of troops) has just commenced. It is very much a work in progress,” said minister, apparently indicating that the two sides would take time to completely resolve the eight-week-long stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). His comment came a day after the senior diplomats of India and China had a video conference to review the progress of “disengagement” of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The “disengagement” started after the Senior Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had agreed upon it after three rounds of meetings on June 6, 22 and 30. A two-hour-long phone-call between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi – the Special Representatives of the two governments for boundary negotiation and strategic consultations – on July 5 added momentum to the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-just-started-pulling-back-troops-says-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-860075.html
12-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 12||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 8.50 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 8,78,938 as of July 12 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 23,139   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 5,34,621 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-12-860090.html
12-07-2020||National||DH toon: A coronavirus vaccine by diktat?||Nearly 35 years ago, Maharaj Kishan Bhan, a young medical researcher at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences stumbled upon a new virus strain during a regular check of the slum kids in South Delhi. The discovery of that strain (116E) was the first step in making an indigenous commercial rotavirus vaccine, which was released in 2015 after Bhan, who rose to become the longest-serving Secretary of the Department of Biotechnology, had retired from government service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-a-coronavirus-vaccine-by-diktat-860091.html
12-07-2020||National||Mamata Banerjee wishes Amitabh Bachchan speedy recovery||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday expressed concern following hospitalisation of Bollywood megastar Amitabh Bachchan after he tested positive for Covid-19. Expressing her sadness on hearing the news, Banerjee, who shares a great rapport with Bachchan, prayed for his speedy recovery. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amitabh-bachchan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-nanavati-hospital-860036.html "Extremely saddened to hear the news of Shri #AmitabhBachchan Ji testing Covid Positive. Praying for his strength & speedy recovery. Sr Bachchan please get well soon," Banerjee tweeted. The 77-year-old actor on Saturday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and got himself admitted to the isolation ward of Mumbai-based Nanavati hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-wishes-amitabh-bachchan-speedy-recovery-860093.html
12-07-2020||National||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar distributes free helmets||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar launched a safety campaign on Saturday in Karnal named ‘Har Sar Helmet’ where he distributed helmets to the youth.  “Students will get a learner license while graduating from college at the age of 18 yrs with basic training on road safety & regulation. Wearing a helmet is important,” he said, ANI tweeted. The CM said that all girl students in Haryana will be provided with passports when they graduate. He directed that the educational institutions in the state will complete the entire process with the help of the regional passport office. The document will be presented to the student with their graduation degree, a Hindustan Times article said.  A giant mural of late astronaut Kalpana Chawla was also inaugurated ten days after her birthday during the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-distributes-free-helmets-860126.html
12-07-2020||National||State-of-the-art bus stand in downtown Kochi: Report||The Kaloor bus stand in Kochi is not like your usual bus stand with rusted metal seats and a shade barely big enough to shelter a few people.  Hibi Eden, ex-MLA of Ernakulam, tweeted on Saturday saying, “Completed a beautiful bus waiting for shelter in Kochi using my previous MLA Funds...with a State-of-the-art feeding room, toilet, Television, CCTV cameras and ramp for the differently-abled” Situated in downtown Kochi, which has a number of companies and shopping malls, the Kaloor bus stand had a huge space. After getting a number of requests from women and students, Eden decided to build a shelter which was safe and secure. The stand had a well which has been left intact. It has well-maintained CCTV cameras as well. Some of the other bus shelters that Eden has renovated are solar-powered with multiple charging units and music systems but toilets and safety was a major demand.  Eden has also been trying to hand over the maintenance to Kochi Municipal Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-of-the-art-bus-stand-in-downtown-kochi-report-860138.html
12-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Government updates self-declaration form for airplane passengers as recovery improves||The Civil Aviation Ministry has told the airlines that passengers who submit a self-declaration form that they have not tested positive for Covid-19 during the three weeks prior to the departure date are allowed to take their flight, officials said. On May 21, the government had made it mandatory for all passengers to submit the self-declaration form before a flight stating that they did not test positive for Covid-19 during two months prior to the departure date. The officials told PTI that as there are a large number of people in India now who have recovered from the deadly virus, a need was felt to update the self-declaration form to avoid any hardships to them. Therefore, a few days back, the government told the airlines that passengers need to give a declaration that "they have not tested positive for Covid-19 in the last three weeks" prior to the flight, the officials said. "Persons who have recovered from Covid-19 and who fulfil the three-week criteria will be allowed to travel by flights if they show a COVID-recovery or COVID-discharge certificate from their hospital," they mentioned. Out of around 8.2 lakh people who have tested positive for Covid-19 in India till now, around 5.15 lakh have recovered. This means the recovery rate is around 63 percent. More than 22,000 people have died due to the virus in the country. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-government-updates-self-declaration-form-for-airplane-passengers-as-recovery-improves-860174.html
12-07-2020||National||China bigger enemy than Pakistan: Sharad Pawar||For India, China is a bigger threat than Pakistan,  NCP founder-president and former defence minister Sharad Pawar said. "When we think of an enemy the first name that comes to our mind is that of Pakistan. But we need not worry about Pakistan. In the long term, it is China that is acting against Indian interests," Pawar said in an interview to Saamana,  the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, that is conducted by Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut. According to Pawar, one of the senior-most politicians in India,  since China is economically powerful,  the threat to India is far worse. "By creating a picture of camaraderie, you cant resolve issues of two countries," he said referring to prime minister Narendra Modi's series of meetings with Chinese president Xi Jinping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-bigger-enemy-than-pakistan-sharad-pawar-860176.html
12-07-2020||National||Eight shortlisted for RBI deputy governor post; interview on July 23||A search panel headed by the cabinet secretary is scheduled to interview eight shortlisted candidates on July 23 for the post of RBI deputy governor, sources said. The post had fallen vacant after senior-most deputy governor N S Vishwanathan demitted office three months ahead of his extended tenure on March 31 on health grounds after serving the monetary authority for 39 years. The Financial Sector Regulatory Appointment Search Committee (FSRASC) has a list of eight names who would be interviewed via video conference on July 23, the sources said. The selected name from the interview will be sent to the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister for final approval, they added. Besides the cabinet secretary, other members of FSRASC include the RBI Governor, financial services secretary and two independent members. This vacancy of RBI deputy governor has been reserved for the central bank's internal candidate, who would look after the key supervisory and regulatory functions at the Mint Road. As per the RBI Act, the central bank should have four deputy governors -- two from within the ranks, one commercial banker and another an economist to head the monetary policy department. At present, the RBI has three deputy governors -- B P Kanungo, M K Jain and Michael Debabrata Patra. Earlier this year, the government extended Kanungo's tenure by a year with effect from April 3, 2020. Kanungo, whose term was to end on April 2, had taken charge as a deputy governor in April 2017. The deputy governor appointments are made for an initial period of three years and the person is eligible for reappointment. The deputy governor gets a fixed salary of Rs 2.25 lakh per month plus allowances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-shortlisted-for-rbi-deputy-governor-post-interview-on-july-23-860188.html
12-07-2020||National||One unidentified terrorist killed in encounter in Jammu & Kashmir||One unidentified terrorist was killed in an encounter in the Rebban area of Sopore, Jammu and Kashmir, news agency ANI reported. The encounter began early morning. More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-unidentified-terrorist-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-kashmir-860197.html
12-07-2020||National||Varavara Rao's health deteriorating, claims family||The health of poet and activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, is deteriorating and he is "hallucinating and is in a delirious state", his family claimed on Sunday and urged the authorities concerned to provide him better medical aid. The 81-year-old activist is currently lodged at the Taloja jail in Maharashtra's Navi Mumbai township. Addressing an online press conference, Rao's wife, daughters and other family members said they wereworried about his "deteriorating health". They claimed his health condition has been deteriorating ever since he was shifted to the state-run J J Hospital in Mumbai in an unconscious state on May 28, 2020. Three days later, he was discharged and sent back to the jail even as there was no improvement in his health condition, they said. "We were very much disturbed as during his routine calls (to family members) allowed by police, his voice was weak, he was incoherent, mumbling and unable to speak," Rao's wife said. On Saturday, Rao did not answer straight questions on his health and went into a kind of "delirious and hallucinating state", she claimed, adding that he talked about the funeral of his father and mother, the events that happened decades ago. She said Rao's co-accused informed them that the activist was unable to walk on his own. "We were also told he is always hallucinating that the family members were waiting at the jail gate to receive him as he was getting released," she said. "The confusion, loss of memory and incoherence are a result of the electrolyte imbalance in the body and fall in sodium and potassium levels, leading to a possible brain damage," she claimed. The family also said the Taloja jail is "not equipped to handle his medical condition". "Thus, it is highly required that Rao be shifted to a better hospitalto save his life," his wife said. The family said at the present juncture, they were keeping aside all the pertinent facts of the case registered against Rao. "His life is the topmost concern for us right now. Our present demand is to save his life. We demand the government to shift him to a better hospital or allow us to provide the required medical care," Rao's wife said. "We want to remind the government that it has no right to deny the right to life to any person, much less an undertrial prisoner," she added. Rao has been in jail for over 22 months. His bail pleas, including thosefiled for relief on the ground of his age, ill-health and risk of COVID-19, have been rejected on multiple occasions. Rao and 10 other activists were arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case, which was transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) by the Centre in January this year. The case pertains to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave in Maharashtra's Pune on December 31, 2017, which the Pune police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/varavara-raos-health-deteriorating-claims-family-860216.html
12-07-2020||National||Indian students concerned about deportation, dropping out of semester as US announces new visa rules||Fear of deportation in the middle of a global crisis, unpaid loans, rising risk of Covid-19 infection, dropping out a semester and the possibility of never being able to return to campus are among the concerns of Indian students in the US after the announcement of the new visa regulations. In a move that is expected to adversely impact thousands of Indian students, the US immigration authority has announced that foreign students will have to leave the country or risk deportation if their universities switch to online-only classes in this fall semester due to the coronavirus pandemic. While Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Johns Hopkins University have filed a lawsuit seeking to revoke the order, some universities, including Princeton University, Stanford University, California Institute of Technology (Caltech), and Cornell University have announced their support for the lawsuit. India's Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla also raised the issue with US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs David Hale during an online meeting earlier this week stating there is a need to keep in mind the role of educational exchanges and people-to-people relations between the two countries as they played a key role in development of the overall ties. However, the students continue to be gripped with anxiety waiting for further updates. "This will be a big blow to students who came to the US with long term plans. I stayed back in the country when the campuses shut in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. I did not want to travel as well as different time zones would have made it miserable to attend online classes. But suddenly my stay here is now legally invalid," Shobhna Mukherjee, a student at Duke University told PTI. "What happens to the semester, what happens to the education loan, what happens to the work I was doing here at the university to aid my tuition fees? And most importantly if I am deported, will I ever be able to get back? There are no answers to these questions," she added. A student at University of Illionis in Chicago, who refused to be identified said, "Nobody saw this coming. I was shocked to hear this, something which was not imagined in the wildest of our dreams. When one moves to a country it is never a short plan, it has been thought through before. With this, the plan I had in mind for the next five years will also go for a toss. It is a situation where I don't know what to fear about more -- disease or deportation."  "I arrived in Boston in January only. Right now my university is deciding to conduct classes in hybrid mode, which may be changed to completely online if the coronavirus cases rise further. What happens then? Will my stay here turn illegal?," Kosha Thakur, an Indian student in Boston, said. Vatsala Thapar, who is pursuing a degree in Computer Science at University of South California, came back to India in March when the university suspended on-campus classes. "Threatening to deport students while they are already living in the middle of a global crisis shows their hostility towards non-citizens. Many of those students do not have the means to travel back to their home countries and some stayed back only to secure their visa status. How does their staying in the US while studying at an American university and contributing to their economy affect anyone else?" Thapar said in a social media post.  Pallav Upadhyay, an Indian student in Atlanta said, "For universities operating in a hybrid system and holding some classes in person, international students who are enrolled in those are allowed back into the US. " "However, if the status of those classes changes at any point, which is likely if cases rise on campus, we would be sent back. Alternately, if we choose to pursue classes online and the university switches to in-person teaching, we are expected to travel back to the US to preserve our student visas," he said. According to a recent report of the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP), there were 1,94,556 Indian students enrolled in various academic institutions of the US in January this year. Of these 1,26,132 were males and 68,405 were females. Universities in the US were forced to shift classes online in mid-March in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The country is the hardest hit by the pandemic with more than 3.3 million confirmed cases and 137,403 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-students-concerned-about-deportation-dropping-out-of-semester-as-us-announces-new-visa-rules-860220.html
12-07-2020||National||Hema Malini denies rumours of her hospitalisation||In a video message on Sunday, veteran star-MP Hema Malini put an end to the rumours of her hospitalisation, saying she is "completely fine" and "healthy". The 71-year-old actor dismissed the reports by sharing a 28 second-long clip on Twitter from home. "I am hearing rumours that I am not well and I am in the hospital but I want to inform all my loved ones that this is not true. Nothing has happened to me. I am healthy. By the grace of God, I am completely fine," Malini said in the video. "Thank you so much for your concern," she added. The veteran actor's statement comes hours after her daughter, actor-author Esha Deol rubbished rumours that her mother was admitted to a hospital. "My mother @dreamgirlhema is fit & fine!" Esha tweeted calling out the fake news earlier in the day. "The news regarding her health is absolutely fake so please don't react to such rumours! Thanks to everyone for their love and concern," she had further said. The rumours started to spread after megastar Amitabh Bachchan and his son, actor Abhishek Bachchan tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to a city hospital on Saturday. The Bachchan family, including veteran actor-MP Jaya Bachchan, actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, and her daughter Aaradhya have tested negative for the virus, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Sunday. The Bachchan residence is now a containment zone and all residents have been quarantined for 14 days, the mayor added. Veteran actor Anupam Kher on Sunday said his mother, Dulari, along with brother Raju and his family have tested positive for Covid-19. They are currently under quarantine, he added. Meanwhile, designer Riddhima Kapoor Sahni also slammed rumours that her mother Neetu Kapoor and brother, actor Ranbir Kapoor, have tested Covid-19 positive, urging people not to spread misinformation. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the coronavirus case tally in Mumbai rose to 91,457 on Saturday with 1,308 new patients found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hema-malini-denies-rumours-of-her-hospitalisation-860223.html
12-07-2020||National||Road Transport Ministry asks NIC to capture FASTag details while registering vehicles||To ensure smooth movement of vehicles during Covid-19 pendemic, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has decided to ensure capturing of FASTag details while registering or issuing fitness certificate to vehicles all over the country. In a letter addressed to National Infomatics Centre (NIC), the Ministry has informed that full integration of National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC) with VAHAN portal has been achieved, and the same has gone live on May 14. The VAHAN system is now getting all information on FASTags. "As such, the Ministry has asked to ensure capturing FASTag details while registering new vehicles, and also while issuing fitness certificates to vehicles plying under national permit", said a statement from the Ministry. The fitment of FASTag in new vehicles at the time of sales of vehicles of category M and N was made mandatory in 2017. But its integration with bank accounts or activation was being avoided by citizens, which would be checked now, said the Ministry of Transport. Fitment of FASTag will ensure vehicles crossing the National Highway fee plazas use electronic medium of FASTag payment, and cash payment is avoided. This usage and promotion of FASTag will also be effective to minimising possibilities of spreading Covid-19 at National Highways toll plazas, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-transport-ministry-asks-nic-to-capture-fastag-details-while-registering-vehicles-860231.html
12-07-2020||National||Road Transport Ministry asks NIC to capture FASTag details during vehicles registration||For smooth movement of vehicles in the pandemic, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has decided to ensure capturing of FASTag details while registering or issuing a fitness certificate to vehicles all over the country.In a letter addressed to National Infomatics Centre (NIC), the Ministry said that full integration of the National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC) with VAHAN portal had been achieved, and the same went live on May 14. The VAHAN system is now getting all information on FASTags."As such, the Ministry has asked to ensure capturing FASTag details while registering new vehicles, as also while issuing fitness certificates to vehicles plying under national permit", said a statement from the Ministry.The fitment of FASTag in new vehicles at the time of sales of vehicles of category M and N, was made mandatory in 2017.  But the integration with a bank account or its activation was avoided by citizens, which would be checked now, said the Ministry of Transport.Fitment of FASTag will ensure vehicles crossing the National Highway fee plazas use electronic medium of FASTag payment, and cash payment is avoided. This usage and promotion of FASTag will be effective in minimising possibilities of virus spread at National Highways toll plazas, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-transport-ministry-asks-nic-to-capture-fastag-details-during-vehicles-registration-860234.html
12-07-2020||National||Maharashtra: 2 aides of Vikas Dubey remanded in judicial custody||Two aides of slain Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey were remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by a court in Thane, an official said on Sunday. The two, identified as Arvind alias Guddan Trivedi (45) and his driver Sushilkumar alias Sonu Tiwari (30) were held on Saturday by Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad from a chawl in Dhokali area of Thane. First Class Judicial Magistrate R H Jha remanded them in judicial custody for 14 days on Saturday. Earlier, appearing for the accused, advocate Anil Jadhav told the court Trivedi and Tiwari feared for their lives and should be flown to Kanpur from Maharashtra. Eight policemen were ambushed and killed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey shortly after midnight on July 3. Dubey was later held from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh and was killed in an encounter after a police vehicle carrying him to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape. Late Saturday night, Kanpur Senior Superintendent of Police Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said in a statement that Arvind, alias Guddan Ramvilas Trivedi, who was arrested along with his driver Sonu Tiwari by Maharashtra's Anti-Terrorism Squad were neither wanted nor named in the ambush case in which eight policemen were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-2-aides-of-vikas-dubey-remanded-in-judicial-custody-860237.html
12-07-2020||National||DRDO makes cooling jackets for medical professionals to cope with heat||Chief Marketing Officer Dr Balwant Manda said, “These jackets that are to be worn inside PPE kits have been designed by DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation). The liquid in the jacket helps in keeping the body cool and cope up with heat.” Currently, there are over 23,000 positive cases in Rajasthan. India has crossed over 8.5 lakh coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-makes-cooling-jackets-for-medical-professionals-to-cope-with-heat-860238.html
12-07-2020||National||People testing negative for Covid-19 but showing symptoms should be treated: Experts||Test results may come out negative even if one has contracted Covid-19, experts have warned, advising that those showing symptoms of the disease must be treated without waiting for a confirmatory test to prevent aggravation of the infection. There have been several cases where patients showing clinical symptoms of Covid-19 have tested negative for the virus multiple times.They were confirmed positive after repeated tests, doctors said. The general perception of the experts now is that a high degree of suspicion arising out of the clinical symptomatology and the CT scan reports should be the guiding factor for treatment rather than relying only on the RT-PCR test which has a sensitivity of only 70 per cent, Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor in the Department of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, said. Even the rapid antigen test has a sensitivity of only 40 per cent. "So many patients will be missed if we rely only upon these tests," Dr Gupta said. The antibody tests has a sensitivity of 90 per cent but they are only useful for confirming past exposure for SARS-CoV2 and have no value in the early stages of the disease. "All the treatment strategies should be guided towards preventing the progress of the disease from its mild to moderate or moderate to severe and for that we cannot wait on test reports. We have to go by clinical symptoms," he explained. Dr Vijay Gurjar, an assistant professor in the Department of Geriatric Medicine at AIIMS here, said there have been several instances where the patients tested negative even after three or four RT-PCR tests despite clinical presentations and CT scans indicating atypical pneumonia which is highly suggestive of Covid-19.  Later on, they were found to have antibodies against coronavirus which means they had the infection but their results had not come out positive in the RT-PCR tests, he said "Thus, if patients have the symptoms, more so, if he or she is an elderly or has co-morbidities, they should be treated on the lines of Covid-19 and managed accordingly without waiting for the test confirmation," Dr Gurjar said. According to Dr Nikhil Modi, senior consultant of Respiratory, Critical care and Sleep Disorder at the Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, New Delhi, one of the main reasons behind incorrect test results is the improper procedure of sample collection from the throat and the nose. "If the sample is not collected in a proper manner, then it may lead to incorrect results. Also the viral load plays an important role, as when low, the test results may come out negative even if the patient has the infection," Dr Modi said. "In cases where symptoms are highly suggestive of Covid-19 and the RT-PCR test continues to be negative even after repeated tests, a CT scan of the lungs can be useful in reaching a correct diagnosis," he elaborated. The AIIMS' Resident Doctors' Association recently had written to the ICMR seeking formation of an expert committee for provision of professional enquiry for the unexpected, unexplained deaths during the pandemic.  A comprehensive diagnosis of Covid-19 verified by the expert committee involving clinical history, examination, imaging, biochemical, molecular testing and forensic investigations must be considered as cause of death in absence of an alternative diagnosis so as to help the bereaved families of the frontline healthcare workers to get compensation, it said. "This is to bring to your kind notice that many of the healthcare workers have lost their lives in line of their duty in Covid-19 pandemic. As per the literature sensitivity of none of the tests performed for Covid-19 diagnosis is 100 per cent. "This has led to alleged misdiagnosis of some health workers who succumbed to Covid-19-like illness," the letter stated. The AIIMS RDA mentioned the recent death of Dr Abhishek Bhayana, junior resident, from the department of Dental surgery at Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences, New Delhi, who presented with symptoms of sore throat and breathlessness. The death summary clearly mentions manifestations consistent with Covid-19 but his test results had come out negative, the RDA said.   Dr Gurjar said that major policies regarding compensation for corona warriors should not be decided just on the basis of microbiological reports.  "The clinical presentation and other findings shouldn't be ignored.We should have a comprehensive approach for Covid-19. Timely response and intervention will definitely help in improving patient's outcomes with suspected Covid-19 clinical presentations," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-testing-negative-for-covid-19-but-showing-symptoms-should-be-treated-experts-860245.html
12-07-2020||National||India's land under 'full possession' of our security and defence forces: ITBP and BSF DG amid Sino-India standoff||As Chinese and Indian troops move to disengage in eastern Ladakh after a tense standoff, the chief of ITBP and BSF on Sunday said all the country's land is under "full possession" of our security and defence forces. S S Deswal, Director General of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Border Security Force (BSF) were speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a plantation drive held at a BSF camp in Bhondsi. "All the country's land is with us. Our land is in full possession of our security forces," Deswal told reporters here. "All our borders are safe, be it the eastern, western or northern. The security forces of the country are very active, capable and dedicated. "They are capable to protect the borders against any kind of enemy with all their might and efficiency," the 1984-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer said. According to people familiar with the development, the Chinese military has further thinned down its presence in the ridgeline of Finger Four and removed some boats from the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh ahead of another round of Lt General-level talks between India and China aimed at finalising modalities for complete disengagement along the LAC. When asked if the ITBP had moved more troops to its posts along the LAC, Deswal said the forces are moved across the country as per requirement. "The morale of the troops of the army and border guarding forces is very high. Since independence, the security forces have made numerous sacrifices to protect the country's borders and for the security of the country whether is external threat or internal security," he said. "You can see our forces are quick and alert to ensure protection even at the cost of their lives," Deswal said. All the security arrangements are in place at the borders and we can say that the country's security is ensured, he said. Deswal is the head of the ITBP and has been holding an additional charge of the BSF for over four months now. The about 90,000 personnel strong the ITBP is a mountain-warfare trained force tasked to guard the 3,488-km-long LAC with China. It was raised in 1962 in the aftermath of the Chinese aggression and has decided to move at least 60 fresh companies to various locations along the LAC in the wake of the current situation in Ladakh. An ITBP company has an operational strength of about 100 troops. The BSF with about 2.5 lakh personnel is primarily tasked to guard Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-land-under-full-possession-of-our-security-and-defence-forces-itbp-and-bsf-dg-amid-sino-india-standoff-860251.html
12-07-2020||National||Over 400 cases heard till June 30 by National Green Tribunal via video conferencing||Over 400 cases were heard till June 30 by the National Green Tribunal via video conferencing during the lockdown period, according to official data. The principal bench headed by Chairperson Justice Adarsh K Goel heard 409 cases since May 5 and decided 210 matters between May 3 and June 30, the data released by the NGT Registry showed. The green panel received 267 fresh applications during this period. The tribunal, on its own, took cognisance of an article in the media relating to Covid-19 waste treatment establishment and passed several directives on it. It also took on priority incidents of gas leakage from LG Polymers, Sainor Life Sciences factory, SPY Agro Industries in Andhra Pradesh and imposed penalty on the companies while holding them liable. Besides, the NGT dealt with pan-India matters, including solid waste management and rejuvenation of water bodies like Ganga and Yamuna. It had earlier announced the cancellation of its summer vacation for 2020 to make up for its working days' losses due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus infection. The NGT had earlier issued instructions regarding its functioning stating that the chairperson, members and officers (deputy registrars and above) will attend the office with 100 per cent attendance. The entire premises of the tribunal was sanitised after an official was found positive for coronavirus. After the COVID-19 case came to light, the NGT followed the necessary protocols and the entire staff was asked to strictly adhere to all guidelines issued by the government from time to time. Civic authorities sanitised the NGT (Principal Bench) premises and high-risk exposure contacts were asked to quarantine themselves for 14 days, while the low-risk exposure contacts were directed to closely monitor their health and follow all applicable protocols. The green panel was established under the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 for effective and expeditious disposal of cases relating to environmental protection and conservation of forests and other natural resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-400-cases-heard-till-june-30-by-national-green-tribunal-via-video-conferencing-860253.html
12-07-2020||National||Suspended UP police SI moves Supreme Court for CBI probe into Vikas Dubey episode||A Uttar Pradesh Police Sub Inspector, suspended for allegedly tipped-off July 2 raid on gangster Vikas Dubey, has approached the Supreme Court for granting him protection inside the Kanpur jail, in view of threat to his life following spate of "extra-judicial killings". Though a part and parcel of police department, petitioner, K K Sharma contended that he was fearing danger to his life and liberty due to the fact that as per the news reports, the accused persons, namely Vikas Dubey, Prabhat Mishra, Ranbir Shukla alias Bauva Shukla, Amar Dubey, Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey alleged to have escaped police custody and were shot dead by police teams under suspicious circumstances. In a petition filed through his wife, Sharma sought SIT or CBI probe into the matter. He claimed, "The investigation would not be conducted in a lawful, fair, reasonable and transparent manner since the offences include the alleged killing of eight police personnel...extra judicial killings and encounters of other accused in the present FIR shows volumes of the conduct of the police department."  Sharma, along with SHO police station Chaubepur, Vinay Tiwari were arrested on suspicion on having tipped off gangster Vikas Dubey of raid on the night of July 2, leading to deadly attack on police party causing death of a deputy SP and three Sub Inspectors and four other personnel. As many as four pleas have been made in the top court for independent or CBI probe into killings of policemen in Kanpur and subsequent elimination of accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspended-up-police-si-moves-supreme-court-for-cbi-probe-into-vikas-dubey-episode-860265.html
12-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Dy CM Sachin Pilot lock horns; Aishwarya Rai, daughter test Covid-19 positive||In today's episode, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and her daughter Aaradhya have tested positive, differences between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot widen, Diesel price increased by 16 paise per litre and National Commission for Women seeks immediate action against a man for allegedly hurling abuses and giving rape threats to a female stand-up comedian on social media.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-dy-cm-sachin-pilot-lock-horns-aishwarya-rai-daughter-test-covid-19-positive-860272.html
12-07-2020||National||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate improves to 62.93%: Health ministry||Focussed and coordinated action by the Centre along with states and UTs, effective clinical management of coronavirus and timely diagnosis led to a consistent increase in the number of recovered cases in the country, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The number of recovered cases exceeds active Covid-19 cases by 2,42,362 as on date, it said. "The recovery rate has improved to 62.93 per cent," the ministry said. "As more people are recovering due to all-round efforts, the recovered cases exceed active cases by 2,42,362," it said. There are 2,92,258 active coronavirus cases in the country. In the last 24 hours, a total of 19,235 people were cured of the coronavirus infection. This has resulted in the cumulative total number of recovered cases among COVID-19 patients rising to 5,34,620 on Sunday. India, meanwhile, added a record 28,637 cases of coronavirus infection on Sunday, pushing the country's Covid-19 tally to 8,49,553. The death toll climbed to 22,674 with 551 people succumbing to the disease in a day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The country at present has 1,370 dedicated Covid hospitals, 3,062 Covid health centres, and 10,334 Covid care centres. The Centre has so far provided 122.36 lakh PPE Kits, 223.33 lakh N95 masks and 21,685 ventilators to various states, Union territories (UTs) and central institutions, the ministry said. Enabling factors like removing all impediments to Covid-19 testing and facilitating widespread testing by states and UTs continue to result in a steady rise in the total number of samples tested every day, it said. "As a result of these efforts, the testing per million for India is presently 8,396.4," the ministry said. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,15,87,153 samples have been tested till July 11, with 2,80,151 samples tested on Saturday. A crucial supporting factor in the progressive rise in testing numbers is a continuous expansion of the countrywide diagnostic lab network, which as on date, comprises 850 labs in the government sector and 344 private labs (total of 1,194 labs), the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-improves-to-6293-health-ministry-860290.html
12-07-2020||National||Indian Railways operates first parcel train to Bangladesh transporting dry chillies from Andhra Pradesh||Indian Railways has operated its first-ever special parcel train to Bangladesh, transporting dry chillies from Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district. Though earlier farmers and merchants in and around Guntur area earlier transported dry chillies by road to neighbouring country, due to lockdown they could not send their products. To help them, the railway officials approached the consignors and explained the facilities to transport the produce through parcel train. The dry chillies were then moved in bulk to Benapole in Bangladesh by rail through a Special Parcel Express on July 10 said the national transporter in a statement. Sending chillies to the neighbouring country by road cost around ₹7,000 per tonne while the expense for carrying the same by goods trains has come out to be Rs 4,608 per tonne. "For the first time the Indian Railways loaded a special parcel train beyond the country's borders to Benapole in Bangladesh with dry chillies from Reddipalem in Guntur District of Andhra Pradesh state," the railways said in a statement. Guntur and its surrounding areas in Andhra Pradesh are well known for the cultivation of chillies. The quality of this farm produce is internationally renowned for its uniqueness in taste and brand. For moving the consignment by goods trains, it is mandatory for farmers and merchants to mobilise the quantity in bulk — at least more than 1,500 tonnes in each trip. "To mitigate this problem and to facilitate the rail users to move their quantities in small amounts, i.e. up to a maximum of 500 tonnes in each trip, Guntur Division of South Central Railway took the initiative and moved the Special Parcel Express to Bangladesh," the statement said. "This has helped the farmers and merchants of Guntur to market their farm produce beyond the country border by transporting the dry chillies in small quantities through Special Parcel Express," it said. Accordingly, one Special Parcel Express train consisting of 16 parcel vans moved to Benapole in Bangladesh on July 10, the Railways said. The railways operated a  total of 4,434 parcel trains  between March 22 and July 11, transpoting  essential items like medical supplies, medical equipment, food, etc. in small parcel sizes are very important items needed for business as well as consumption purposes, across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-operates-first-parcel-train-to-bangladesh-transporting-dry-chillies-from-andhra-pradesh-860293.html
12-07-2020||National||PIL in SC for compensation to kin of Covid-19 victims||A petition has been filed before the Supreme Court seeking adequate ex-gratia monetary compensation to the next of kin of all Indian citizens who succumb to Covid-19, especially for the financially weaker sections of society. The PIL, which is likely to come up for hearing in the coming days, also sought a direction to the Centre as well as the state governments to formulate an appropriate 'compensation plan' to provide ex-gratia monetary compensation to the kin of essential/ healthcare workers who have succumbed to Covid-19. It urged the court to seek a status report from the governments on the total number of Covid-19 related causalities and measures taken by the authorities for compensating the loss of life due to this disaster in the country as well as abroad. The petition claimed that majority of the country's population belongs to financially weaker sections of the society, wherein only one person is an earning member and the others in the family solely dependent on that income for their sustenance. “The said citizens are also the tax payers of our country. In such a structure, whereby the death rate is only increasing at an alarming rate per day, it is imperative for the State to formulate appropriate guidelines, on compassionate grounds, for ex-gratia compensation to the families of the Covid-19 casualties, especially for the front-line workers such as doctors, nurses, paramedical staff etc., solely with the purpose of aiding the families for their basic survival and sustenance during this pandemic," the plea said. “Pertinently, the death of an Indian citizen not only impacts his/her own personal life, it affects the lives of all the members of the family who were dependent on the sole source of income. In the event of death of such a family member and while regarding the huge unemployment which Covid-19 has encompassed globally, the dependents are with no finances for survival,” the plea, filed by advocate Deepak Prakash, said. It claimed that the death rate due to Covid-19 is exponentially increasing with each passing hour, especially in cases of front-line workers such as police officials, doctors, para medical staff, government employees, media reporters etc., thereby rendering the whole family of the deceased in an extremely vulnerable position.  “Till date Covid-19 has no cure/vaccine and has been declared as a notified 'disaster', thus, it is the duty of the State, on compassionate grounds, to provide relief to its citizens by adequately compensating the kin of the deceased in order to financially assist the families thereof, who are in an extremely vulnerable and helpless position, having suffered due to the outbreak of this deadly virus,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-for-compensation-to-kin-of-covid-19-victims-860294.html
12-07-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh doctor sends his wife's tests under the house maid's name: Report||Dr Abhay Ranjan Singh works at the Khutar health centre in the state's Singrauli district. He allegedly committed the fraud to cover up his trip to Balliya, Uttar Pradesh, without any sanctioned leave to attend a wedding on June 23. He didn’t self-quarantine after returning to Singrauli on 1 July and continued his duties which included sealing containment zones. His wife developed symptoms for the infection over time and the officer sent his wife's samples with their maid's details on them. The fraud was revealed when the sample tested positive for Covid-19 and the authorities reached the maid's residence for confirmation. Two other family members and Dr Singh had also tested positive. "An FIR has been lodged against the doctor under the provisions of the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act. Once he recovers from the viral infection, action would be taken against him. The BMO's wife's samples- which were sent in another woman's name - tested COVID positive, after which a medical team went to the house to isolate her; it was found that it wasn't her sample,” Baidhan police station in-charge Arun Pandey told the news agency. As a result, 33 government staff, a sub-divisional magistrate included, have to be self-isolated. Their samples have been sent for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-doctor-sends-his-wifes-tests-under-the-house-maids-name-report-860295.html
12-07-2020||National||World seeing India's successful battle against Covid-19 under PM Narendra Modi: Amit Shah||India is in a "good position" in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic and the country will fight the disease with determination and enthusiasm, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. Shah spoke after participating in a mega plantation drive initiated by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) to plant 1.37 crore saplings in their campuses by this month-end. He planted a peepal sapling at the CRPF officers' training academy campus in Kadarpur village here. "The world is seeing that if a successful battle has been fought anywhere across the globe against the coronavirus it is in India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Shah said. "It was feared that how would a large country like ours would face this challenge given that we have a federal structure of governance, dense population of 130 crore people and no single chain of command," he said. But the 130 crore people of the country, all states and every individual fought the battle against Covid-19 as one nation, the home minister said. Across the globe, Shah said, governments are fighting this disease but in India everyone has joined hands. "We are in a good position in this coronavirus battle and will continue this fight with determination and there is no atmosphere of fear. We have the passion to battle it and the enthusiasm to defeat it," he said in his address to the chiefs of various CAPFs and troops who heard him via a web link. "As the home minister of the country, I can proudly say that the security forces of the country have a 'big role' to play in this battle fought by India," he said.  He praised these forces for rendering duties at airports, railway stations and public places apart from aiding the state police forces for law and order duties. Shah noted that Covid-19 is a very contagious disease that challenges the very existence of the humankind.   Saluting the 'corona warriors' of the CAPFs and other security and police forces, the home minister said they have set a new example of rendering their duty and fighting the pandemic at the same time.   He said over 31 CAPF personnel have laid down their lives while rendering Covid-19 duties out of which ten personnel are from the Central Reserve Police Force. "I assure you that your sacrifice will not go in vain. Your sacrifice will be written in golden words," he said.  Talking about the importance of trees in environment protection, he urged the personnel to adopt at least one plant and ensure that they protect it till it grows bigger than them. "Consider the plant like your child and treat it with the affection and care that you bring up your children," he urged them. "We are facing challenges of global warming, rise in temperature and depletion of the ozone layer. Only trees can save us from environmental challenges and they can help to lessen the existing pollution and nothing else," he said. He said the Home Ministry, under the ongoing mega plantation drive, has chosen a maximum of those plants which have a life span of over 100 years so that they can help preserve the nature for long.   Shah also said that he believes that his ministry should have a culture that all projects or initiatives launched by it should reach successful completion.   The Modi government, he said, is working to bring in more clean fuel and as part of that "we are enhancing the usage of ethanol over petrol". "I am happy to say that between 2014 and 2020 the production and consumption of ethanol in the country has risen by 20 per cent and we further plan to increase it by another 10 per cent," he said.   The minister also talked about PM Modi's speech during the Paris World Environment Summit. "The PM cautioned the world against over-exploitation of nature and the world accepted the Modi formula in the Paris declaration on tackling climate change. As a result of the prime minister's efforts, the International Solar Alliance was set up in India," he said. During the event, CRPF chief A P Maheshwari informed the minister that all the CAPFs are undertaking the mega plantation drive and his force will plant over 22 lakh saplings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-seeing-indias-successful-battle-against-covid-19-under-pm-narendra-modi-amit-shah-860299.html
12-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi set to hold virtual summit with EU leaders, review India-EU cooperation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual summit with European Union (EU) leaders on Wednesday – almost four months after it was originally scheduled to take place in Brussels. The 15th India-EU virtual summit will be co-chaired by Modi, the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, and the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. The Summit will review India-EU cooperation covering political and security relations, trade and investment and economic cooperation,” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. “The summit is also expected to discuss developments around the Covid-19 pandemic and contemporary global matters of interest to both sides.” The 14th India-EU Summit was held on October 6, 2017 in New Delhi. The 15th summit was originally scheduled to be held in Brussels on March 13. But it was postponed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The two sides have now decided to hold it through video-call on Wednesday. The two sides are likely to try to end the stalemate in the negotiations for the India-EU FTA, which remained stalled since 2013 due to differences over certain issues, including improved market access for some goods and services, government procurement, geographical indications, investment protection rules and sustainable development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-set-to-hold-virtual-summit-with-eu-leaders-review-india-eu-cooperation-860331.html
12-07-2020||National||India’s only 'Golden' tiger spotted in Assam's Kaziranga National Park||As India's 2018 Census makes its entry in the Guinness World Records, the nation is set to embrace more good news about the big cat. Recently, a golden tiger was spotted in the Kaziranga National Park, Assam. The photo of the rare tiger was taken by Mayuresh Hendre and shared by Indian Forest Services (IFS) officer Parveen Kaswan. According to Kaswan, this is the only documentation of a golden tiger or the Golden Tabby tiger in the 21st century. “Goldie” may be the world’s only “golden” tiger that lives in the wild, Twitterati incredulous at the marvel. Diversity is Nature’s Way.Following variants of Top Predators are found in🇮🇳 Tigers can be born “golden” due to a recessive gene that gets expressed due to inbreeding. Although it is pretty common to see 'golden' tigers in zoos across the world, where they are kept captive for years, 'Goldie' may be the only one that is free in the wild. Kaswan is known to share interesting photos and videos of animals in the wild on his social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-only-golden-tiger-spotted-in-assams-kaziranga-national-park-860334.html
12-07-2020||National||Rajasthan: Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal allegedly gets death threat||Rajasthan’s Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal has allegedly received a death threat, the video of which has gone viral on social media. A man, who identified himself as Lala Gurjar, threatened the MP for “speaking against” criminals like Jagan Gurjar and Papla Gurjar, an aide of Beniwal said. No FIR has been registered in this connection so far. Beniwal, the convener of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, had recently tweeted that Papla Gurjar is still absconding and it is a failure of the state government. Papla was detained by a police team in Alwar district's Behror in September last year but a few hours after his detention, his accomplices attacked a police station with AK-47 assault rifles and other weapons to free him from the lockup. He is still at large. On the other hand, Jagan Gurjar is a notorious dacoit of Dholpur district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-nagaur-mp-hanuman-beniwal-allegedly-gets-death-threat-860354.html
12-07-2020||National||DST start-up launches indigenous fluorescence probes used in RT-PCR tests||The VNIR Biotechnologies Private Limited, a spin-off by JNCASR under the Department of Science and Technology, has launched indigenous fluorescence probes, one of the critical components in RT-PCR test kits used in coronavirus diagnosis, a statement said on Sunday. A typical PCR based test kit has three critical components--oligos, enzymes and molecular probes. “The first two components (oligos, enzymes) are partly available in India and partly imported, while molecular probes used in Covid-19 tests are only imported. The molecular probes are used to track the amplification in PCR kits,” the statement said. Their immediate application is for Covid-19 testing, but they are general-purpose molecular tools for molecular diagnostic tests of several diseases, it said. The molecular probes were developed by Prof T Govindaraju and Meher Prakash, the co-founders of VNIR. The VNIR Biotechnologies Private Limited is incubated at Bangalore Bio-innovation Centre (BBC) of the Karnataka government. It is a spin-off by the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) under the Department of Science and Technology (DST). “We took up the risk and the challenge. Our team went back to the drawing board and planned the synthesis of these much-required probes for the Covid-19 tests. “VNIR's R&D effort in line with the Make-In-India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat missions of the Government of India are meant to contribute to self-reliance in Covid-19 testing,'' Govindaraju said. Molecular diagnostic tests used to be limited to research laboratories or for limited applications. “Covid-19 has presented a unique problem that the finest level of molecular diagnostic test has to be performed almost at a complete population level if needed. Given the scale of tests required for Covid-19, it is very important to become self-reliant with the critical test kit components,” the statement added. “The probes for RT-PCR based Covid--19 test is an excellent example of leveraging our basic science knowledge for development of critical new products that are until now being imported. Nor is this knowledge limited to one particular virus, but would help us rapidly develop molecular diagnosis in the future for other viruses as well,” Prof Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dst-start-up-launches-indigenous-fluorescence-probes-used-in-rt-pcr-tests-860361.html
12-07-2020||National||Govt extends time for duty-free import of diamonds sent for certification||The government on Sunday said it has relaxed the deadline for re-import of cut and polished diamonds that have been sent abroad for certification and grading by three months in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The three-month extension shall apply to all cut and polished diamonds that should have been re-imported between February 1 to July 31 this year but which could not be brought back due to disruption on account of coronavirus pandemic situation, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said in a statement. The extended time period would be available to exporters to bring back cut and polished diamonds after due certification and grading by specified laboratories abroad, it noted. "In view of Covid-19 pandemic situation, the government today extended relief to gems and jewellery sector by relaxing the requirement of re-import of cut and polished diamonds, which have been sent abroad for certification and grading, by three months," it said. It added that the re-import in the extended period would be without payment of Basic Customs Duty and IGST. "This facility is available to exporters with average annual export turnover of Rs 5 crore for the last three years. It may be noted that this relief is given to those exporters whose graded cut and polished diamonds were stuck abroad as the period of three months, ordinarily allowed for re-import had expired due to pandemic," it said. A number of such consignments were also awaiting clearance with Customs, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-time-for-duty-free-import-of-diamonds-sent-for-certification-860374.html
12-07-2020||National||Pakistan shells forward areas along Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri, Poonch||The Pakistan Army shelled forward areas along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri and Poonch districts on Sunday evening, officials said. The Indian troops also retaliated and the cross-border firing at Nowshera sector of Rajouri, and Kirni and Qasba sectors of Poonch was going on when last reports were received, the officials said. "At about 1930 hours, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along LoC in Nowshera sector. Indian Army is retaliating befittingly," a defence spokesperson said. A police official said Pakistan also targeted forward villages and posts along the LoC in Kirni and Qasba sectors of Poonch. "The firing and shelling from across the border started around 1945 hours and was still going on," the official said. There was no report of any casualty in any of the three sectors, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-line-of-control-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-poonch-860377.html
12-07-2020||National||Soldiers celebrate birthday with snow cake; watch heartwarming video here||In a 14-second clip, Indian soldiers an be seen cutting a birthday cake made of snow. A video of fierce Indian soldiers celebrating the birthday of one of their comrades, while braving harsh living conditions and unforgiving weather, has won hearts on Twitter. The video, posted by cricketer Virendra Sehwag on Twitter has been seen almost 90,000 times. Hundreds of people offered their love and respect for the personnel who are currently living in an area that is infamous for its weather conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soldiers-celebrate-birthday-with-snow-cake-watch-heartwarming-video-here-860378.html
12-07-2020||National||Income Tax department makes new utility for banks, POs to check TDS rate on high value cash withdrawals||The Income Tax department on Sunday said it has made available to banks and post offices a new utility to ascertain TDS rate applicable on cash withdrawal of over Rs 20 lakh in case of a non-filer of ITR and that of above Rs 1 crore in other cases. Explaining the details of this facility, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said that now the bank/post office has to only enter the PAN of the person who is withdrawing cash for ascertaining the applicable rate of TDS. On entering PAN, a message will be instantly displayed on the departmental utility -- "TDS is deductible at the rate of 2 per cent if cash withdrawal exceeds Rs 1 crore" (if the person withdrawing cash is a filer of ITR) and "TDS is deductible at the rate 2 per cent if cash withdrawal exceeds Rs 20 lakh and at the rate of 5 per cent if it exceeds Rs 1 Crore" (in case of non-filers). "The Income Tax Department has facilitated a new functionality for Banks and Post offices through which they can ascertain the TDS applicability rates on cash withdrawal of above Rs 20 lakh in case of a non-filer of the income-tax return and that of above Rs 1 Crore in case of a filer of the income-tax return. "So far, more than 53,000 verification requests have been executed successfully on this facility," an official statement said. The functionality available as "Verification of applicability u/s 194N" on www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in since July 1, 2020, is also made available to the banks through web-services so that the entire process can be automated and be linked to the Bank's internal core banking solution. The CBDT said that the data on cash withdrawal indicated that huge amount of cash is being withdrawn by the persons who have never filed income-tax returns. To ensure filing of return by these persons and to keep track on cash withdrawals by the non-filers, and to curb black money, the Finance Act, 2020 w e f July 1, 2020 further amended Income-tax Act to lower threshold of cash withdrawal to Rs 20 lakh for the applicability of this TDS for the non-filers and also mandated TDS at the higher rate of 5 per cent on cash withdrawal exceeding Rs 1 crore by the non-filers. In order to discourage cash transactions and move towards less cash economy, the Finance Act, 2019 had inserted section 194N in the Income Tax Act with effect from September 1, 2019, to provide for levy of TDS @ 2 per cent on cash withdrawal exceeding Rs 1 crore from a Bank/Post Office account/s subject to certain exceptions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-department-makes-new-utility-for-banks-pos-to-check-tds-rate-on-high-value-cash-withdrawals-860386.html
12-07-2020||National||Early detection of Covid-19 cases has resulted in low fatality rate of 2.66%: Vardhan||Early detection of Covid-19 cases through widespread testing, surveillance and clinical management has resulted in India having one of the lowest fatality rate at 2.66 per cent, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday. The minister, who visited the Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre (SPCCC) at Chhattarpur to review its COVID-19 management status, also said that "our success" can be seen in the recovery rate which is almost 63 per cent at present. The 10,200-bed SPCC has been developed at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas as part of coordinated efforts of the Centre and the Delhi government to bolster containment measures, the health ministry said in a statement. Briefing reporters after his visit, Vardhan said India's clinical protocol has focused on early detection through widespread testing, surveillance, prompt triaging and clinical management of cases. "This has resulted in one of the lowest case fatality rate of 2.66 per cent. Our success can be seen in the recovery rate which is almost 63 per cent with more than 5.3 lakh patients recovered," he was quoted as saying in the statement. The minister said that "as we proceed further into Unlock 2.0, it is critical to ensure that all of us rely on the 'social vaccine' – 'Do Gaz ki Doori' and each one of us must follow COVID appropriate behaviour". At the Chhattarpur facility, the health minister visited its kitchen area and inspected the SPCCC's stores, according to the statement. It said the SPCCC follows naturopathy and protocols of ayurveda to boost immunity of in-patients at the centre and "they are given 'ayurvedic kadha' in the morning followed by meals as advised by dieticians and the day ends with milk with turmeric". Vardhan, who was in a PPE suit, "interacted with nearly 12 patients and enquired about their health and wellbeing, in addition to the facilities and health care that they receive at the centre," the statement said. He also enquired about the sanitation and hygiene at the SPCCC and visited nursing stations. The minister lauded the services being provided by doctors, nursing staff and sanitation workers, among others, at the coronavirus care centre. Vardhan also interacted with the 30 people who after recovering from the disease are now offering their services at the centre as volunteers. Calling them "COVID Warriors", he thanked them for their contribution and dedication. The minister also thanked all those who made donations for establishing the SPCCC and its daily operations. Vardhan was informed that out of the 10,200 beds at the SPCCC, 2,000 are operational. There are 88 enclosures each with a capacity of 100 to 116 beds with two enclosures supervised by one nursing station. Ten per cent of the beds have oxygen support. The statement said that as on date, 123 patients are admitted out of which five patients with co-morbidities have been shifted to hospitals for tertiary care. In-house psychological counselling and psychiatry services are being provided by NIMHANS trained counsellors at the SPCCC. Meditation and Yoga sessions for the patients are conducted and telemedicine support is being provided by the Referral Hospital, ITBP, it said.   The health minister said that "we have ramped up the public healthcare infrastructure across the country to combat COVID-19" and commended the coordinated efforts of Delhi district authorities and ITBP personnel in setting up of the SPCCC in a record ten days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/early-detection-of-covid-19-cases-has-resulted-in-low-fatality-rate-of-266-vardhan-860387.html
12-07-2020||National||Karnataka, UP, Bengal emerge as new Covid-19 hotspots||Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal are emerging as the new hotspots of Covid-19 as India crossed the 8.5 lakh-mark of the fast-spreading disease on Sunday India added record 28,637 Covid-19 cases on Sunday morning, pushing the country's tally to 8,49,553.  Karnataka was reporting fresh infections at a faster pace than Delhi, which had shown consistent improvement after the Centre stepped in to increase testing to identify new patients exponentially. While Karnataka added 2,798 new cases on Saturday and 2,627 cases on Sunday, Delhi had reported an increase of 1,781 and 1,573 cases on the respective days. Uttar Pradesh reported 1,392 new cases on Saturday and 1,384 on Sunday while the numbers for West Bengal were 1,334 and 1,560 respectively. Maharashtra was the worst-affected state in the country with 8,139 new cases on Saturday and 7,827 on Sunday. According to the DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 8,74,841 total confirmed cases of the disease, while the death toll had touched 23,107 at 8:30 p.m. on Sunday. “The recovery rate has improved to 62.93%,” the Health Ministry said as 5,344,621 persons had recovered from the disease on Sunday.  The country at present has 1,370 dedicated Covid hospitals, 3,062 Covid health centres, and 10,334 Covid care centres. Enabling factors like removing all impediments to Covid-19 testing and facilitating widespread testing by states and UTs continue to result in a steady rise in the total number of samples tested every day, it said. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,15,87,153 samples have been tested till July 11, with 2,80,151 samples tested on Saturday. A crucial supporting factor in the progressive rise in testing numbers is a continuous expansion of the countrywide diagnostic lab network, which as on date, comprises 850 labs in the government sector and 344 private labs (total of 1,194 labs), the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-up-bengal-emerge-as-new-covid-19-hotspots-860389.html
12-07-2020||National||Lt Gen-level talks likely by July 15 to finalise next phase of disengagement in eastern Ladakh: Sources||The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA are expected to hold another round of high-level talks by Wednesday to thrash out modalities for the next phase of de-escalation as part of complete disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh besides finalising a roadmap for ensuring peace and tranquillity in the high-altitude region, military sources said on Sunday. There was no change in the ground position, and the next phase of the de-escalation process will kick off only after the fourth round of talks between corps commanders of the two sides, they said. China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) has already completed pulling back troops from Gogra, Hot Springs and Galwan Valley and significantly thinned down its presence in the ridgeline of Finger Four in the Pangong Tso area in the last one week as demanded by India. India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. A relative calm prevails in the areas, the sources said adding India has been maintaining a hawk-eyed vigil in all areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh region and was fully ready to deal with any eventualities. The top military brass in Delhi is monitoring the situation in the region round-the-clock, they said, adding there is no question of lowering guard at all. The sources said the fourth round of Lt General-level talks are likely to be held on either Tuesday or Wednesday and the main focus of it would be to finalise modalities for withdrawal of troops from rear bases of the two militaries. The formal process of disengagement of troops began last Monday after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday. On Friday, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks during which both sides resolved to push ahead with "complete disengagement" of troops in eastern Ladakh in a timely manner for "full restoration" of peace and tranquillity. In the meeting, it was decided that senior commanders of the two armies will meet "soon" to discuss further steps to "ensure complete disengagement and de-escalation". The two militaries have held three rounds of Lt General-level talks so far and the last one took place on June 30 during which both sides agreed on an "expeditious, phased and stepwise" de-escalation as a "priority" to end the standoff. The second round of talks took place on June 22. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for over eight weeks since May 5. The tension escalated manifold after a violent clash in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Both sides have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few weeks to ease tension in the region. Tensions had escalated in eastern Ladakh around two months back after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lt-gen-level-talks-likely-by-july-15-to-finalise-next-phase-of-disengagement-in-eastern-ladakh-sources-860402.html
12-07-2020||National||Covid-19: 6 states against conducting university exams, HRD says student evaluation crucial||With six states expressing reservations against conducting final year examinations in universities in view of the Covid-19 situation, the HRD Ministry has asserted that the guidelines issued by the UGC have to be followed mandatorily and academic evaluation of students is crucial to ensure credibility and career opportunities. Last week, the University Grants Commission (UGC) in its revised guidelines directed the higher education institutions that final year examinations would be conducted in the month of September 2020, instead of July 2020, as per its guidelines announced in April. Punjab, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Delhi have announced reservations against the plan citing the Covid-19 situation. "The guidelines have not stated that the exams have to be conducted right away, the exams have to be concluded by September end. States can devise a calendar whenever it is feasible to conduct exams in this timeline. Also, the exams can be conducted either online, offline or in blended mode. Totally doing away with exams is not a feasible situation. The UGC guidelines are binding in nature," a senior HRD Ministry official said. "Academic evaluation of students is a very important milestone in any education system. The performance in examinations gives confidence and satisfaction to the students and is a reflection of competence, performance and credibility that is necessary for global acceptability," the official added. The HRD ministry may meet state education secretaries this week to ensure uniformity with regard to final assessment of students pursuing degrees. "As per the UGC Act, the directive by the commission is binding. As of now the plan to conduct exams is very much in place. The Ministry is open to discussing the concerns with states and work out a feasible solution but academic credibility cannot be compromised. "Top-ranking universities of the world have opted for final exams to be done remotely. Like Princeton and MIT, University of Cambridge, Imperial College of London, University of Toronto and McMaster, University of Heidelberg and University of Hong Kong have resorted to the online technology-based model of conducting exams," the official added. The UGC guidelines of April and the revised guidelines of July changed the examination window from July to September. However, it directed all higher education institutions to conduct the terminal semester or final year examinations either offline, online or in blended mode. The first and second year students were exempted from the exams and will be assessed based on previous semester performance and internal assessments. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16, when the Centre announced a nationwide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. While the government has eased several restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-6-states-against-conducting-university-exams-hrd-says-student-evaluation-crucial-860403.html
12-07-2020||National||More cities to come under lockdown as India's Covid-19 tally surges to nearly 8.5 lakh||As the country's Covid-19 tally rose to nearly 8.5 lakh, authorities were getting ready to reimpose lockdown for varying periods in more cities, including in Bengaluru and Pune, in the coming days, while there appeared to be an improvement in the situation in the national capital. The Uttar Pradesh government decided to implement strict restrictions across the state on weekends to check the spread of coronavirus, joining Karnataka and Tamil Nadu which have been imposing Sunday lockdown. Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Bihar were among the states that have already announced area-wise lockdown for different durations. Karnataka government has now announced a complete lockdown in Bengaluru for seven days from July 14. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami extended the curbs in Madurai and nearby regions including the Paravai Town Panchayat and several village panchayats till July 14. The Maharashtra government had earlier announced a comprehensive lockdown in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad from July 13-23. The state government had imposed similar curbs in areas around the state capital Mumbai. Authorities in Kashmir too began strict implementation of another phase of the lockdown on Sunday, sealing off historic Lal Chowk and 67 other areas in Srinagar which have been declared containment zones after a sudden surge in Covid-19 positive cases over the past one week. However, there have been some positive developments in Delhi where the Covid-19 case count on Sunday remained below the 2,000-mark for the second consecutive day. And with the recovery rate improving to nearly 80 per cent, authorities have for now put on hold plans to use stadiums as makeshift coronavirus care facilities. In the last 24 hours, the national capital has recorded 1,573 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 1,12,494 in the city, while the death toll mounted to 3,371 after 37 fatalities were reported, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that Delhi has been able to minimise deaths of coronavirus patients in home isolation through pulse oximeters, which he termed as "suraksha kavach'' (protective shield). Maharashtra was still struggling to contain the surge in cases which rose by 7,827 to 2,54,427 on Sunday, the highest in the country. With 1,263 new Covid-19 cases being recorded on Sunday, Mumbai's case count mounted to 92,720, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Sixteen personnel at the Raj Bhavan in south Mumbai have tested coronavirus positive, a civic official said. In a statement, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said he is perfectly alright and had tested negative. Superstar Amitabh Bachchan, his son Abhishek, daughter-in-law Aishwarya and grand daughter Aaradhya are among those who have tested positive for COVID-19. In a series of tweets, Abhishek said he and his father will "remain in hospital till the doctors decide otherwise". "Aishwarya and Aaradhya have also tested Covid-19 positive. They will be self quarantining at home," he said. Veteran actor Anupam Kher said his mother, Dulari, along with brother Raju and his family have also tested positive for Covid-19 and are currently under quarantine. Tamil Nadu has the second highest number of cases in the country. With 4,244 fresh infections being reported, its tally rose to 1,38,470, the state health department said. The state came to a virtual standstill under an intense 'Sunday lockdown' as only police and health personnel could be seen on roads, and hospitals, labs, ambulance services and pharmacies alone worked as per government directives. Such curbs will be observed on two more Sundays this month. Health workers, however, continued their routine of door-to-door checks to ascertain if people had flu-like symptoms in Chennai and several other parts of Tamil Nadu. Mist cannons, which are huge blowers mounted on trucks, went around several neighbourhoods in Chennai spraying disinfectants. In Karnataka too, most vehicles stayed off the roads and shops remained shut due to the Sunday lockdown. The number of coronavirus cases in Karnataka may double in the next 15 to 30 days and the coming two months would emerge as a big challenge for the government in tackling the pandemic, state Health Minister B Sriramulu said. "Lockdown has been announced in Bengaluru from Tuesday 8 pm for the next seven days. Abide by the regulations. Everyday more than 2,000 cases of coronavirus are coming to fore," Sriramulu said late Saturday. As on Saturday, the cumulative tally of Covid-19 cases in the state touched 36,216. Bihar registered the highest single-day spike of 1,266 novel coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 16,305 on Sunday even as nearly a third of its 38 districts were under lockdown to contain the pathogen. Patna, Bhagalpur, Nalanda, Nawada, Begusarai and West Champaran districts have been under restrictions for more than 24 hours. The Health Department attributed the spike to the enhanced testing capability. In Uttar Pradesh, Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi told PTI that the lockdown restrictions will be imposed from coming Saturday on weekends and will remain in place at least for July. Meanwhile, shops and business establishments, other than those dealing in essential services, remained closed in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. The state government had on Thursday announced 55 hour-long restrictions from 10 pm on Friday till 5 am on Monday following a surge in coronavirus cases. The state has reported over 35,000 cases so far. The Arunachal Pradesh government had on Saturday extended the lockdown in the capital region for another week till 5 pm on July 20 in view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the region. Several states reported highest single-day spike on Sunday. Among them was Gujarat where the tally rose by 879 to reach 41,897. West Bengal's Covid-19 cases crossed the 30,000-mark with record 1,560 new cases reported from different parts of the state, according to a bulletin issued by state the health department. A new daily record of 1,933 cases pushed the coronavirus tally in Andhra Pradesh to 29,168 on Sunday. India added a record 28,637 cases of coronavirus infection pushing the country's Covid-19 tally to 8,49,553, while the death toll climbed to 22,674 with 551 people succumbing to the disease in a day, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of recoveries stands at 5,34,620, while there are 2,92,258 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country, the updated data at 8 am on Sunday showed. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said early detection of Covid-19 cases through widespread testing, surveillance and clinical management has resulted in India having one of the lowest fatality rate at 2.66 per cent The minister, who visited the Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre (SPCCC) at Chhattarpur in Delhi to review its Covid-19 management status, also said that "our success" can be seen in the recovery rate which is almost 63 per cent at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-cities-to-come-under-lockdown-as-indias-covid-19-tally-surges-to-nearly-85-lakh-860408.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Students from poor families getting stepmotherly treatment: Akhilesh Yadav on online classes||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday accused the Centre of following wrong policies in the education sector, alleging that it had led to chaos. "Schools and colleges are closed because of corona. For online classes, the children belonging to poor families do not have smartphones," Yadav said in a statement. "There is a problem of network connectivity in many places, especially in villages" The online classes are only helpful for those belonging to affluent families and the students belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes are getting "stepmotherly" treatment from the government, Yadav said. The SP leader alleged the BJP government did not think about the livelihood of the teachers and other employees working in the educational institutions that got closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Yadav pointed out that there was pressure on the school managements not to take fees during this period, following which he said the guardians who were in a position to pay fees were not doing so. As a result, he added, over 10 lakh employees were facing immense hardships. According to Yadav, some private colleges had paid salaries for March and April, while there are others who have not paid the salaries even for the month of March. This is a serious problem before the people who are dependent on teaching work for their livelihood and some of them are facing depression, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/students-from-poor-families-getting-stepmotherly-treatment-akhilesh-yadav-on-online-classes-860095.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Decision on monsoon session of Parliament soon: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said a decision will be taken "very shortly" on when to start the monsoon session of Parliament. Both Houses of Parliament were adjourned sine die on March 23, nearly two weeks before schedule, as the budget session was curtailed due to the coronavirus pandemic. "There will be a monsoon session. But when....it will be decided very shortly," Joshi told PTI. He said with regard to the monsoon session, the time in hand is till September, and many a time the session has been called by August-end. "As far as Covid is concerned, it is on the surge now. Let's wait how it unfolds further," he said. The productivity of Lok Sabha was about 90 percent and that of Rajya Sabha was 74 percent in the budget session, the minister had earlier said in an official statement. The budget session commenced on January 31 and was scheduled to conclude on April 3. Both the Houses adjourned for recess on February 11, and reassembled on March 2. The first part of the Budget Session yielded a total of nine sittings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, and in the second part, there were 14 sittings of both the Houses. The minister had said the session was curtailed with consensus among all parties in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. During the session, a total of 19 bills (18 in Lok Sabha and one in Rajya Sabha) were introduced, the Parliamentary Affairs Ministry had said in the statement. As many as 15 bills were passed by Lok Sabha and 13 by Rajya Sabha. Total number of bills passed by both Houses of Parliament were 12, it had added. The all-important Finance Bill was passed by both houses before they were adjourned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/decision-on-monsoon-session-of-parliament-soon-pralhad-joshi-860166.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||What happened that China took away India's land during Narendra Modi's rule: Rahul Gandhi asks govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday again attacked the government over the Ladakh face-off, and asked what happened that China "took away" India's land when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is at the helm. He also tagged a news report quoting a defence expert, alleging that the Government is "misleading" the media on the Chinese disengagement along the LAC and that disengagement at the Galwan Valley is disadvantageous to India. "What has happened that under Modi ji rule, China took away Mother India's sacred land," he asked in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi has been attacking Modi and his government on the standoff in Ladakh and has accused the prime minister of "surrendering" India's land to China. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last eight weeks. The tension escalated manifold after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-happened-that-china-took-away-indias-land-during-narendra-modis-rule-rahul-gandhi-asks-govt-860168.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi demands thorough investigation into woman panchayat officer suicide case||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday demanded a transparent probe into the death of young PCS officer Mani Manjari Rai, who allegedly died of suicide a few days ago. In a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, she said the young and honest officer posted in Ballia had raised several questions on the functioning of her department. "The facts coming to the fore have pointed to the deep-rooted corruption in the system. A thorough and transparent investigation in this matter is very necessary for providing justice to Mani Manjari's family and all those officers working with honesty," Gandhi said in the letter. In a Facebook post, she said the family of the officer was upset over the sudden tragic incident. "The family members say that there should be a transparent investigation. I have written to the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and requested him to conduct a transparent probe and bring all the facts to the fore. I hope Mani Manjari Rai's family will get justice," she said in the post written in Hindi. Rai, 27, allegedly died by suicide by hanging herself at her rented accommodation last Monday, with her father claiming that she was "murdered". The officer's brother, Vijayanand Rai, alleged that "people put undue pressure on her for payments and tender for new work". The officer's family stays in Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh. In her suicide note, which was recovered from the spot, Mani Manjari Rai said she was "cheated and had to do some wrong work". Rai was the executive officer of the Maniya Nagar Panchayat and this was her first posting to Ballia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-general-secretary-priyanka-gandhi-demands-thorough-investigation-into-woman-panchayat-officer-suicide-case-860183.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan political crisis: Kapil Sibal says he is worried for Congress||After Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot accused the BJP of trying to topple his government, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Sunday was the first to go public on the crisis saying he he was worried for the party. Seeking a quick resolution of the "crisis", he asked when would the party leadership "wake up".   "Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables," he said on Twitter. Sources said a crisis is brewing within the Rajasthan Congress with deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his supporting MLAs not sharing good ties with Chief Minister Gehlot. The flash point between the two top leaders in Rajasthan was a probe ordered by the state police into "poaching" of MLAs and a notice sent to Pilot, which has not gone well with him. The Rajasthan police has issued notices to Gehlot and his deputy Pilot to record their statement in connection with the alleged attempts to topple their Congress government, sources said on Saturday. The police's special operations group (SOG) also sent a notice to Government Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi to record his statement, they said. The move came after the SOG on Friday registered an FIR against two people, who have been detained, for their alleged involvement in horse trading of Congress MLAs for toppling the Gehlot government. Gehlot on Saturday accused the opposition BJP of trying to topple his government by offering his legislators large sums of money and said his administration is not just stable but will complete its five-year term. The BJP had asked Gehlot to prove his allegation of horse-trading levelled against it or quit politics, and claimed he was targeting the opposition party as he was unable the check the infighting in the state Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-kapil-sibal-says-he-is-worried-for-congress-860184.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan crisis: Sachin Pilot-Ashok Gehlot differences on the boil; Congress leadership steps in||Congress’ central leadership swung into action as differences between Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot came to a boil amid allegations against the BJP trying to topple the state government. The latest flashpoint between the two arch-rivals appears to be the inquiry launched by the Special Operations Group (SOG) that claimed to have busted a plan to buy MLAs, allegedly by BJP leaders, in a bid to de-stabilise the Rajasthan government.  The SOG had issued notices to both Gehlot and Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan Congress chief, to record their statements, a move that incensed the latter who rushed to Delhi to apprise the central leadership of the developments in the state. Pilot had a meeting with Congress Treasurer Ahmed Patel late Saturday night and apprised him about the situation. Patel is learnt to told Pilot to sit down with Gehlot and sort out the differences. Reports had it that at least 12 Congress MLAs owing allegiance to Pilot were camping in the national capital to meet the party’s central leadership. “The attempts to destabilise the Congress-led government in Rajasthan by trying to buy MLAs will not succeed. No matter what inducements the BJP offers to the legislators to change their allegiance, our MLAs, Congress-backed Independents are united in their support of the Congress leadership and the Gehlot government,” AICC General Secretary, in-charge of Rajasthan, said. In Jaipur, the Chief Minister held a meeting with several ministers and MLAs late Saturday night as well as Sunday to send a message that he still enjoyed the support in the state assembly. In the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly, Gehlot government enjoys the support of 124 MLAs that include 107 Congress MLAs, 12 Independents, two MLAs each of BTP and CPI(M) and one RLD legislator. BJP has rejected allegations levelled by Gehlot at a press conference on Saturday accusing it of making attempts to topple his government. “The Congress government is battling internal differences and is divided into two camps. Finding itself in trouble, the Gehlot government itself has sent a notice to the government. The responsibility to run the government and save the government rests with the Chief Minister,” Rajendra Rathore, Deputy Leader of the BJP in Rajasthan assembly said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-crisis-sachin-pilot-ashok-gehlot-differences-on-the-boil-congress-leadership-steps-in-860185.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Power games in Rajasthan, Congress MLAs meet Ashok Gehlot to indicate support||Several ministers and MLAs visited Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s home Sunday, indicating support to him amid speculation over a widening rift with his deputy Sachin Pilot. Some Congress MLAs, considered close to Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, who also heads the state Congress unit, have gone to Delhi, sources said. The posturing comes amid allegations by Gehlot that the BJP is trying to lure Congress MLAs to topple the state government. The BJP has dismissed the claim, saying the developments reflect a power struggle between Gehlot and Pilot, simmering since the Congress leadership in Delhi picked the more senior leader for the CM’s post. Revenue Minister Harish Choudhary, Labour Minister Tikaram Jully, Health minister Raghu Sharma were among those who visited the chief minister’s residence here. “We all are meeting the chief minister since yesterday to express faith and confidence in his leadership. The MLAs have confidence in Gehlot's leadership,” independent legislator Babulal Nagar said. The crisis surfaced on Friday when the Rajasthan Police issued notices to Gehlot, Pilot and the government chief whip, seeking time from them to record their statements over an alleged bid to topple the state’s Congress government. Sources close to Pilot said the letter from the special operations group (SOG) had upset the Rajasthan Congress chief, who apparently saw this as a snub. In a tweet Sunday, Gehlot stressed that the notices had gone to several people. He did not name Pilot in this connection but said that a section of the media had interpreted the notices wrongly. “The notices have been issued to the chief minister, the deputy chief minister, the government chief whip and some other MLAs. It is a part of the process,” SOG Additional Director General Ashok Rathore told PTI on Sunday. He said as the investigation proceeds, others could also be issued notices. Babulal Nagar is among the legislators issued with the notice. “The SOG has issued notice to me and has sought time. There are other MLAs who have received such notices,” Nagar told reporters outside the CM’s residence, where he had gone to meet him. “We have faith in the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and we have expressed this to him,” he added. Apart from the SOG action, the state’s Anti Corruption Bureau has also begun a probe into the alleged bid to destabilise the government. The Congress government has distanced itself from the three independent MLAs -- Khushveer Singh, Omprakash Hudla and Suresh Tak -- who were named in the preliminary enquiry (PE). Earlier, the government had the support of all 13 independent MLAs, who also voted for the Congress candidates in the Rajya Sabha elections last month. At a press conference Saturday, Gehlot had blamed the BJP of trying to bring down his government and cited the FIR registered by the SOG. The FIR is based on an alleged tapped phone conversation between two men, said to be BJP members. The Congress has 107 members in the state 200-MLA state assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/power-games-in-rajasthan-congress-mlas-meet-ashok-gehlot-to-indicate-support-860227.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||New team of BJP office-bearers likely to be announced soon||Several new faces are likely to enter the BJP parliamentary board, the highest body of the party, as its president J P Nadda appears set to announce a fresh team of office-bearers soon. Nadda had taken over as party president in January and, sources said, the Covid-19 outbreak has delayed the announcement of the new team of office-bearers. A senior party leader said the fresh appointments, a customary practice under a new president, will be a mix of continuity and new faces. Deaths of senior BJP leaders Ananth Kumar, Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley and election of another party veteran M Venkaiah Naidu as the country's vice president have caused vacancies in the parliamentary board, and they will be filled soon, sources said. Swaraj was the only woman member of the board, and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is seen by many as a probable replacement to her in the body. BJP leaders, however, have given no indication about the new faces likely to be inducted in the board and at other levels of the organisational machinery of the party. There has been speculation about a reshuffle in the Union Council of Ministers and that some office-bearers may join the government and a few ministers may be moved to the party organisation. The exercise to give the organisation a more youthful look, which had started under Nadda's predecessor Amit Shah, also appears to be over with a top leader asserting that almost all district presidents in the party are under 50 years of age.  In most cases, BJP state presidents are much younger than what they used to be, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-team-of-bjp-office-bearers-likely-to-be-announced-soon-860256.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Up to Election Commission to decide when to hold Bihar Assembly polls: BJP||After insisting for weeks that the Bihar elections will be held as per the schedule, the BJP, in a major climbdown, has now conceded it was for the Election Commission to decide whether polls were possible or not during the Covid-19 pandemic. “It’s for the EC to decide whether Assembly polls are possible in Bihar. We will abide by the EC decision,” said senior BJP leader and Bihar’s Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi. His statement comes at a time when the chorus to defer Bihar polls is getting louder by the day. Recently, another NDA ally - the LJP chief Chirag Paswan joined the Opposition ranks in voicing concern over holding Assembly polls and argued that “it will put people at risk and may result in a very low voter turnout.” Elections for 243 Bihar Assembly seats are due in October and November this year. However, as of today (July 12), the State has been afflicted with 15039 coronavirus cases, which excludes 146 deaths. “Not only Bihar, but entire country is affected by the coronavirus. It has impacted finances of the Centre as well as Bihar. Holding elections amid this will financially burden the State more,” tweeted Chirag Paswan, son of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who is also a Lok Sabha MP from naxal-infested Jamui constituency in Bihar. The Congress and the RJD leaders have already voiced their concern over holding polls during this pandemic. “The present situation is not conducive for elections as it could put lives of lakhs of people at risk. The EC should, therefore, convene an all-party meet and, after getting feedback, take an appropriate decision,” senior Congress legislator Prem Chandra Mishra told Deccan Herald here on Sunday. The RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav too had echoed similar sentiments a few days back, thereby drawing flak from the ruling party JD (U) which mocked at him by saying: “those students, who never study, are always scared of examinations.” Meanwhile, an advocate Badri Narayan Singh has filed a PIL in the Patna High Court pleading that the Bihar Assembly polls be deferred to February next year. Former MP Pappu Yadav too is contemplating to move Supreme Court with a prayer to the apex court to defer Bihar polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-to-election-commission-to-decide-when-to-hold-bihar-assembly-polls-bjp-860257.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||BJP warns Jyotiraditya Scindia by poaching another Congress MLA||One more Congress MLA on Sunday joined BJP, presumably after an assurance of being made a minister like 11 other defectors who had quit the Congress with Jyotiradtya Scindia in March, causing fall of the Kamal Nath government. MLA from Bada Malehara constituency in Chhatarpur, Pradumn Singh Lodhi was welcomed in the BJP by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state president VD Sharma at the party headquarters in Bhopal. Before that, Lodhi went to the state assembly to tender his resignation from member ship of the house which was immediately accepted by pro-tem speaker Rameshwar Sharma. Former chief minister Uma Bharti was instrumental in engineering Lodhi’s defection. The Sadhvi, a prominent Lodhi leader, has reportedly lured the Congress MLA with promise to get him a berth in the Shivraj Singh cabinet. Significantly, Uma Bharti had expressed displeasure that no member from the powerful Lodhi community was inducted in the Shivraj Singh cabinet which was expanded on July 2. She had won from the Bada Malehara seat in 2003 from where the new entrant in the BJP won assembly election in 2018 on Congress ticket. Pradumn Singh Lodhi sought blessings of Uma Bharti at her bungalow before going to the assembly for tendering his resignation. BJP sources said by roping-in Pradumn Singh in the party, the chief minister has killed two birds with one stone.  While he has placated Uma Bharti, he has also given a message to Jyotiraditya Scindia that his arm-twisting tactics might compel the BJP to poach more Congress MLAs to ensure the government’s survival. Scindia has played hardball in dealing with the chief minister, whether it was cabinet expansion or allocation of departments. The turncoat politician has extracted huge price for helping the BJP to topple the Kamal Nath government by getting 11 out of 22 of his loyalists made ministers. This has caused huge resentment in the BJP. Party sources say more Congress MLAs could be lured in future to reduce dependence on Scindia supporters. With Lodhi’s resignation, number of vacant seats in the state has gone up to 25. The BJP has 107 MLAs white Congress‘s strength has further reduced to 91. The 230-strng state assembly has two BSP one Samajwadi Party and four independent MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-warns-jyotiraditya-scindia-by-poaching-another-congress-mla-860264.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Congress' 'arrogance' shows something is fishy: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi alleged on Sunday that the Congress party is in "chaos" due to its "garbage of corruption" and its leadership's "arrogance" shows something is fishy. “The garbage of corruption under the dynasty's carpet is crystal clear. This has caused chaos in Congress. The arrogance of these merchants of corruption proves that there is something fishy," he told reporters. In a swipe at the opposition party, Naqvi said its leadership can not differentiate between solar plant and solar park or "pyaz and pizza". The Congress leadership is looking for a political opportunity in the coronavirus pandemic and the China issue, he said, accusing it of giving ignorant comments on the economy, security and reforms. Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, Naqvi said India is the only democratic country in the world which provided free food to 81 crore people, free gas cylinders to eight crore families and 'Garib Kalyan' package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore to the poor. "These steps instilled a sense of development with trust among people of the country," Naqvi said. The Modi government has brought historic and path-breaking reforms in socio-economic-educational fields, administration, trade, labour, defence, coal, civil aviation, power distribution, space, forest land, agriculture, communication, banking and investment sectors. "These bold reforms have ensured that India has converted a disaster into an opportunity," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-arrogance-shows-something-is-fishy-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-860271.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||BJP ally IPFT seeks one more berth in Tripura Cabinet||The Indigenous Peoples' Front of Tripura (IPFT), an ally of the ruling BJP reached out to central leadership of the saffron party seeking one more Cabinet berth as the relation between the two parties reportedly turned soar ahead of the district council elections. In the 60-member Assembly, BJP has 36 MLAs while IPFT is an ally with eight MLAs. IPFT at present has two ministers in the Cabinet, NC Debbarma (revenue minister) and Mevar Kumar Jamatia (forest and tribal welfare minister). In a memorandum to BJP's national general secretary Ram Madhav, IPFT sought one more cabinet berth and at the same time questioned the ruling party's delay in fulfilling the long demand for inclusion of Kokborok language in the Eight Schdule of the Constitution. The demand comes days after IPFT called a bandh at Khumulwng, the headquarters of Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Cuncil after one of its leaders was booked by police in connection with a case related to assault on a BJP leader. As the incident triggered open blame game by both BJP and IPFT, Madhav rushed to Tripura and met the IPFT leaders to break the impasse. "There are some minor issues and we will sort them out soon," Madhav told reporters in Agartala on Saturday. The BJP formed its first government in Tripura in 2018 by defeating the left, which at present has 16 MLAs. Sources said IPFT raised the issue of Kokborok language as the tribal votes play the crucial role in the autonomous council elections. The council areas cover parts of all the eight districts and constitute two-third of the state. BJP has strong presence among the Bengali voters while the IPFT is preferred by the indigenous people. The term of the 30-member council ended in March and is now being administered by the Governor. Elections for the council is likely to be announced once the coronavirus pandemic situation improves. The memorandum also stated that the issue of having a own script of Kokborok language remained delayed despite strong demand for long. "The state government also constituted a high powered committee in September 2018 to suggest ways for socio-economic, linguistic, cultural and other political development of the indigenous people of Tripura. It was supposed to submit it report within 90 days. But it has been observed that the issue is still lingering without any seriousness," said the memorandum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-ally-ipft-seeks-one-more-berth-in-tripura-cabinet-860297.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Sachin Pilot being 'sidelined', shows talent and capability find 'little credence' in Congress: Jyotiraditya Scindia||With factionalism hitting the Congress government in Rajasthan, BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia took a swipe at his former party, saying talent and capability find "little credence" there.    He claimed that Rajasthan's Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot was being "sidelined and persecuted" by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.    "Sad to see my erstwhile colleague Sachin Pilot, too, being sidelined and persecuted by Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot. Shows that talent and capability find little credence in the Congress," Scindia tweeted. Scindia had left the Congress a few months back and joined the BJP as he believed that he was being marginalised by senior party leaders in Madhya Pradesh.    More than 20 MLAs supporting him also left the Congress, leading to the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in March following which the BJP returned to power in the state.    There has been speculation that Pilot, too, has been facing similar issues in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sachin-pilot-being-sidelined-shows-talent-and-capability-find-little-credence-in-congress-jyotiraditya-scindia-860306.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Notices that created trouble for Congress in Rajasthan||Notices sent by the Special Operations Group to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, his deputy Sachin Pilot to record statements in the case of allegations of horse-trading ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections virtually pushed the Congress government in the state to the brink. The notice was given on July 10 by Additional SP SOG which said that they want to record statements of Pilot under 160 CrPC and a similar notice was given to the Chief Minister. Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan Congress chief, took the notice as an affront and left for Delhi on Saturday along with some MLAs supporting him to plead his case before the party high command. As the notice led to a full-blown controversy, Gehlot clarified that similar notices were served on some ministers and MLAs, including the Congress’ chief whip for recording their statements on the complaint filed by the Congress against the BJP accusing it of trying to lure MLAs with money. The Chief Minister on Saturday had maintained that he will abide by the notices given by the agency. Pilot claimed to have the support of at least two dozen MLAs who were lodged in different hotels in Delhi and Gurugram. A section of the party believes that the controversy was an attempt of posturing by Pilot, who wants to continue as the President of the Rajasthan Congress, a post he has held for more than six years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/notices-that-created-trouble-for-congress-in-rajasthan-860323.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||RJD searching for excuses to postpone Bihar polls: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi||Taking a dig at the RJD, Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi said it was looking for excuses for the postponement of assembly polls and likened it to "ill-prepared students unwilling to appear for examinations". “The NDA will follow the decision of EC, whether the assembly polls are held on time or not. We are ready for any kind of situation, but as ill-prepared students are unwilling to appear for examinations, RJD, looking at its potential loss, is searching for excuses to postpone the polls,” he said in a tweet in Hindi on Saturday. Sushil Modi, in an earlier tweet which he deleted, had mentioned “some political parties” instead of naming RJD, which was latched onto by the Congress to claim that he was targeting LJP and that the BJP was giving a raw deal to its ally. Congress MLC and AICC spokesperson Prem Chandra Mishra, in a video message, alleged that the “ill-treatment” meted out to Ram Vilas Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) is now evident. “It is just a matter of time before the NDA disintegrates in Bihar,” he said. Mishra has been, for some time, holding out an olive branch to the LJP leadership, reminding the party about its old association with the Congress during the UPA regime wherein the party founder had held a cabinet berth. Commenting on the latest developments, BJP state president Sanjay Paswan told reporters, "NDA is intact and raring to go. We will fight together and defeat our rivals.” The LJP, however, has not reacted to the episode even though NDA sources said the "slip up" from the deputy CM came at a delicate time when Chirag Paswan, son of Ram Vilas Paswan, was sulking over getting short shrift from Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his Janata Dal (United) (JD-U). Kumar is said to be sceptical about setting aside a sizeable number of seats in the assembly polls for the LJP, which had contested six out of 40 seats in the Lok Sabha elections and won them all. Moreover, the LJP has also been feeling slighted over the chief minister's reluctance to accommodate the party in the state cabinet ever since it lost its sole berth upon Pashupati Kumar Paras, Chirag's paternal uncle, getting elected to the parliament. The LJP, which has been with the NDA since 2014, hopes that the BJP will intervene and help it get its due, in recognition of the party's steadfast support to the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP, however, is said to be in a fix since it values LJP but also realises that after the Shiv Sena parted ways with it in Maharashtra, the JD(U) is its oldest and most prominent ally in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rjd-searching-for-excuses-to-postpone-bihar-polls-deputy-cm-sushil-kumar-modi-860333.html
12-07-2020||National Politics||Pilot rebels, pushes Rajasthan's Gehlot govt to the brink||The Congress government in Rajasthan was pushed to the brink on Sunday as Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot raised a banner of revolt against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, claiming support of 30 MLAs and some independents in the 200-member state Assembly. Pilot, the state Congress chief, said in a statement that he would not attend the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party convened by Gehlot on Monday morning, as simmering tensions between the two came to boil. “Rajasthan Deputy CM and Congress leader Sachin Pilot not to attend Congress Legislative Party meeting scheduled to be held tomorrow,” said a message posted on the WhatsApp group of the leader. Pilot had been a contender for the top post after the Congress’ victory in the Assembly elections in December 2018, but was edged out by the experienced Gehlot, sowing the seeds of distrust between the two. Engaged in a power struggle with Gehlot, the notice by the Special Operations Group on Friday proved to be the final straw for Pilot. After a late Saturday night meeting with Congress Treasurer Ahmed Patel, Pilot remained incommunicado, triggering buzz that he joining the BJP. The Congress also dispatched AICC General Secretary in charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande and senior leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken to Jaipur as central observers to salvage the situation. A meeting of the Congress Legislative Party is scheduled at 10.30 am on Monday, which Pande hoped would be attended by Pilot. Reports had it that Pilot had the support of 16 Congress MLAs and three Independents, whom the Congress had distanced itself with for allegedly hobnobbing with the BJP. “I am hopeful that he (Pilot) will definitely be there on Monday. He is the state unit president, the deputy chief minister and our senior leader,” Pande told reporters before leaving for Jaipur. The Congress had also succeeded in convincing three MLAs, purportedly supporters of Pilot, in returning to the party fold. The trio — Rohit Bohra, Danish Abrar and Chetan Dudi — addressed a press conference in Jaipur on Sunday evening and expressed confidence in Gehlot’s leadership. The BJP has rejected allegations levelled by Gehlot at a press conference on Saturday, accusing it of making attempts to topple his government. “The Congress government is battling internal differences and is divided into two camps. Finding itself in trouble, the Gehlot government itself has sent a notice to the government. The responsibility to run the government and save the government rests with the chief minister,” Rajendra Rathore, Deputy Leader of the BJP in Rajasthan Assembly, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pilot-rebels-pushes-rajasthans-gehlot-govt-to-the-brink-860375.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Congress gives Rs 5.10 lakh to family of journalist who committed suicide at AIIMS||The Delhi Congress on Saturday handed over a draft of Rs 5.10 lakh to the family of a journalist who allegedly jumped to his death from the fourth floor of AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he was undergoing treatment for COVID-19. The journalist, Tarun Sisodia (37), worked for a Hindi daily. He allegedly committed suicide on Monday. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar handed over the draft of Rs 5.10 lakh to Sisodia's wife. He said the Delhi government should treat journalists like Sisodia as corona warriors. It should give his family adequate compensation and ensure that the education of his two young daughters is taken care of. The Congress leader also demanded a judicial probe into the journalist's death. "A judicial inquiry should be conducted to find out the truth behind Sisodia's suicide," Kumar said. "If there was nothing to suspect in Sisodia's suicide, why was the medical superintendent of the AIIMS Trauma Centre, Dr Amit Lathwal, removed? This leads to the premise that there was reason to doubt Sisodia's death by suicide," he said. He claimed that Sisodia's wife has also said that the journalist had no reason to take his own life, and the family suspected "foul play". Following the incident, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had asked the AIIMS director to set up a committee to probe the matter. The Trauma Centre superintendent was removed after the four-member committee submitted its report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-gives-rs-510-lakh-to-family-of-journalist-who-committed-suicide-at-aiims-860080.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey's aide who was held in Thane 'not named' in Kanpur ambush case: UP Police||The Kanpur police claimed on Saturday that an associate of slain gangster Vikas Dubey who was arrested in Maharashtra was "neither wanted nor named" in the ambush case in which eight police personnel were killed. Senior Superintendent of Police Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said in a statement that Arvind, alias Guddan Ramvilas Trivedi (46), who was arrested along with his driver Sonu Tiwari by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra Police in the morning, were neither wanted nor named in the encounter case. "It is to inform that it has come to light that the above accused are old gang members of dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey," the statement said. Trivedi's role in the encounter case is being investigated in depth. The above accused are neither named nor wanted in the Chaubeypur incident, it said. There was however no word on why the police had released Trivedi's photo along with 14 others, claiming them active gang members of Dubey and wanted in the Bikru village massacre. On Saturday morning, the Maharashtra Police arrested Arvind and his driver in Thane, an ATS official. Trivedi's was allegedly involved in many criminal cases along with Dubey, including the 2001 murder of UP minister Santosh Shukla, who was killed inside a police station. The Uttar Pradesh government had announced a reward for Trivedi's arrest. After the Kanpur ambush, Trivedi had left his phone at a shop near the village and went to Madhya Pradesh with his driver, an official said on the condition of anonymity. From Datia in Madhya Pradesh, he travelled to Nashik, then Pune and finally reached Thane, the official added Trivedi stayed at a friend's house in Thane and kept close watch on news to keep stock of the situation and police actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubeys-aide-who-was-held-in-thane-not-named-in-kanpur-ambush-case-up-police-860084.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||People going out of Rajasthan will have to get passes||People going out of Rajasthan will have to obtain passes from authorities, the state government said in an order on Saturday night as it decided to regulate inter-state movement in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases. The passes will be issued by district collectors, police commissioners, deputy commissioners, sub-divisional magistrates, deputy superintendents of police and local police stations, the home department order said. In addition, a counter shall be set up by district administrations at airports, railway stations and bus stands to provide on spot passes after verification of identity, it said. For those travelling outside the state by road, other than scheduled buses, screening and verification of passes and identity will be ensured at check posts, which will be set up at inter-state borders, the order said. Those entering the state will also be screened at these check posts, it said. People travelling by scheduled flights, trains and state roadways buses on July 12, with prior confirmed reservation, will be exempted from requirement of passes, it said. Personal emergency like death and accident of immediate family members or those rushing for hospitalisation will also be exempted from passes, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-going-out-of-rajasthan-will-have-to-get-passes-860086.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||J&K's COVID-19 tally crosses 10,000-mark||Jammu and Kashmir's Covid-19 tally crossed the 10,000-mark on Saturday with 268 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 169 as 10 more patients succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, officials said. Twelve security personnel were among those who tested positive, they said. With Saturday's fresh cases, the total number of infected people in Jammu and Kashmir has climbed to 10,516, the officials said. Of the fresh cases, 181 were reported from Kashmir and 87 from the Jammu region, they said. Srinagar district in central Kashmir recorded the highest number of fresh cases at 67, followed by 37 each in Baramulla and Kupwara districts in the north, they added. There are 4,092 active cases in the union territory and 5,895 patients have recovered from the infection.  The cases detected on Saturday included 62 people who had returned to the union territory recently. Of the total 10,516 cases, 7,975 are in Kashmir and 2,181 are in the Jammu region, the officials said. "Ten people, who were Covid-19 positive, have died over the past 24 hours in Jammu and Kashmir," they said. This has taken the death toll in the union territory to 169. Of these, 153 were from the valley and 16 were from the Jammu region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jks-covid-19-tally-crosses-10000-mark-860087.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||DH Toon: Government has shown zero tolerance towards crime. corruption in state, says CM Yogi Adityanath||"It is our responsibility to take whatever steps required for the betterment of people. For development and for attracting investments in the state, better law-and-order situation is a pre-condition. "Keeping that in mind, we have shown zero tolerance towards crime and corruption and the perception about the state has changed in the last three years," CM Yogi Adityanath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-government-has-shown-zero-tolerance-towards-crime-corruption-in-state-says-cm-yogi-adityanath-860092.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Prime land retrieved in J&K's Samba, several structures demolished||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district on Saturday demolished several concrete structures during an anti-encroachment drive along the Jammu-Pathankot highway and retrieved 11.25 acres of prime land worth crores, an official said. The drive was carried out at Birpur village near Bari Brahmana, the spokesperson said. He said the land is situated adjoining the highway connecting Jammu-Samba and the market value is estimated to be around Rs 90 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prime-land-retrieved-in-jks-samba-several-structures-demolished-860102.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Doctor arrested for issuing fake medical certificates to help criminals get bail||A 61-year-old doctor and his associate were arrested for allegedly issuing fake medical certificates to help criminals get bail, officials said on Wednesday. Gajender Kumar Nayyar, a resident of Uttam Nagar, has been temporarily suspended by the Delhi Medical Council (DMC). The other person named in the case is Mukesh Sangwan (38), a resident of Pankha road, police said. Nayyar had prepared fake medical documents for Sangwan in a rape case to get him bail in 2015. Sangwan used to provide clients to the doctor, they said. On June 29, the Delhi High Court had ordered the Crime Branch to probe the matter after the South-East District Police found Nayyar indulging in malpractices. The court had ordered that the deputy commissioner of police (Crime Branch) conduct an inquiry and file a 'status report' before July 16. Nayyar used to work at the N C Hospital, Dwarka, and the K S Nursing Home at Noida, police said. "During the investigation, Crime Branch officials found that the doctor was registered with the Delhi Medical Council, which has placed him under suspension till November," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) Rakesh Paweriya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctor-arrested-for-issuing-fake-medical-certificates-to-help-criminals-get-bail-860107.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Expand plasma therapy facilities for Covid-19 patients: Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday asked officials to expand plasma therapy facilities for Covid-19 patients after getting permission from the ICMR. After encouraging results of plasma therapy at the SMS Hospital in Jaipur, it should be expanded to other hospitals as well, he said in a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the state. For this, Gehlot asked officials to seek necessary permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). He also gave directions to increase Covid-19 testing capacity. Health Minister Raghu Sharma, Chief Secretary Rajeeva Swarup, Principal Secretary for Health Akhil Arora and other officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/expand-plasma-therapy-facilities-for-covid-19-patients-rajasthan-chief-minister-ashok-gehlot-860111.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Encounter between militants and security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Sopore area of Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district on Sunday, police said. Security personnel launched a cordon and search operation around midnight in the Reban area of Sopore town following information on the presence of militants, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter around 4.00 am on Sunday when athe hiding militants opened firing on the security forces, who retaliated. No casualties have been reported so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-between-militants-and-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-baramulla-860112.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Separatist leader, Jamaat members detained in Kashmir, to be booked under PSA: Police chief Dilbagh Singh||Senior separatist leader Ashraf Sahrai was arrested by Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday and subsequently booked under Public Safety Act (PSA). Reports said septuagenarian Sehrai was arrested from his uptown Baghaat residency in Srinagar early Sunday morning. He was subsequently booked under the PSA, sources said. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh while confirming Sehrai’s detention said besides him about a dozen other members of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami, J&K, have also been taken into custody Sahrai, a longtime aide of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani, took over as the chairman of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat (TeH) in March 2018 when the later stepped down as its head.   The police action comes two weeks after Geelani announced his complete disassociation from separatist politics by resigning from hardline Hurriyat Conference faction as its chairman. Hurriyat Conference is an amalgam of various groups and the TeH is one of it. Sehrai and Geelani, both strong votaries of implementation of the UN resolutions on Kashmir, have been close associates for the last almost six decades, first in Jamaat-e-Islami J&K and later in the TeH. Sehrai, in his late 70s, is a senior leader of Hurriyat's hardline faction and, like Geelani, has been in and out of jail for years together. Saharai's son, Junaid, a commander of Hizbul Mujahideen outfit was killed in an encounter along with his associate in Srinagar in May this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/separatist-leader-jamaat-members-detained-in-kashmir-to-be-booked-under-psa-police-chief-dilbagh-singh-860143.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Srinagar emerges as Covid-19 hotspot of Jammu and Kashmir||Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, is emerging as Covid-19 hotspot in the Union Territory with the city recording 18 deaths and over 650 positive cases in the last 10 days. With a population of 1.2 million, the district has recorded the highest number of positive cases in J&K, which on July 11 reached 1611 with 43 deaths. Since July 1, the number of positive cases has increased by over 640 and the district has also recorded the highest number fatalities reported due to this virus. On July 1, the number of fatalities in the district due to Covid-19 was 25. Amid rising numbers of positive cases and Covid-19 deaths, doctors and medical experts have urged the government to re-impose lockdown. A rapid progression over the past one month led to J&K crossing 10,000 Covid-19 positives on Saturday with 268 new cases. On Saturday J&K recorded 11 Covid-19 deaths, highest since the pandemic outbreak.  President, Doctors’ Association of Kashmir, Dr Nisar ul Hassan said that the rate at which the cases are increasing is alarming. “Srinagar district has recorded the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases and deaths. There is a dire need that the government should re-impose restrictions as it is the only option,” he said. Head, Department of Community Medicines, at SMHS hospital in Srinagar, Dr Salim Khan said there is need to move beyond rhetoric statistics of available beds “as in coming weeks, if not days, health set up is going to get compromised.” “We have limited resources in the government sector to cater to severe cases with no back up from the fragile private sector. All designated Covid-19 hospitals are fully occupied with a majority of moderate to severe cases,” he said and added there’s urgent need to revisit lockdown relaxation policy and strict re-enforcement of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-emerges-as-covid-19-hotspot-of-jammu-and-kashmir-860152.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Measures taken to stop spread of Covid-19 in J&K jails: DG Prisons||After a prisoner tested positive for Covid-19 in district jail Anantnag on Saturday, prison authorities in Jammu and Kashmir said required measures have been taken, but there is no indication of a release of detainees in near future. Reports said Zahoor Ahmad Bhat of northern Kupwara district, detained under Public Safety Act (PSA) since March this year was shifted to the isolation ward of GMC Anantnag hospital after he tested positive for the deadly virus. J&K Director General of Police, Prisons, V K Singh while confirming the incident said they have started immediate contact tracing and other measures to stop its further spread. “A team of doctors and other people are busy in Anantnag jail. This is the first case since (Covid-19) outbreak,” he said and added that to stop spread in jails, medical check-ups of inmates were being regularly carried out. At present 3633 people, including 109 females, are lodged in different jails in J&K. However, Singh said there is no indication of a release of any detainees in the near future. “Those get released who are being bailed out by courts,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/measures-taken-to-stop-spread-of-covid-19-in-jk-jails-dg-prisons-860156.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan reports four more Covid-19 deaths, 153 new cases||Of the new cases, 42 were reported from Alwar, 31 in Jaipur, 25 in Ajmer, 14 in Kota, 13 in Sirohi, eight in Karauli, seven in Barmer, four each in Bundi and Jhunjhunu and two in Banswara. Three patients from other states also tested positive for Covid-19, according to an official report. A total of 17,902 patients have recovered from the disease so far, and there are 5,492 active cases in the state at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-reports-four-more-covid-19-deaths-153-new-cases-860160.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||BSF jawan arrested by Punjab police in drug smuggling case||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan posted along the International Border in Jammu has been arrested by the Punjab police in a drug smuggling case, officials said on Sunday. Arms and ammunition have also been recovered from the personnel, a resident of Gurdaspur district in Punjab. The jawan, whose name was not immediately available, was posted with a BSF unit deployed in the Samba sector of Jammu. A pistol, 80 bullets of 9mm calibre gun, 2 rounds of 12 bore rifle, 2 magazines and 3 mobile phones have been recovered from the jawan, they said. The BSF guards the over 3,300 kms long border with Pakistan running across the states of Jammu, Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-jawan-arrested-by-punjab-police-in-drug-smuggling-case-860167.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Authorities re-impose lockdown in Srinagar||After a huge rise in Covid-19 positive cases and deaths in recent days, the administration Sunday decided to re-impose lockdown in Srinagar from Monday. “In view of a major spike in Covid-19, we'll have to carve out containment zones for effective restrictions in different areas of Srinagar. Local cooperation is solicited in the best interest of public health. Notified (sic),” Deputy Commissioner Srinagar, Shahid Choudhary, tweeted. An official said no entry and exit will be allowed without a movement pass from the red zones in case of essential services. “No civilian or employee shall be allowed to come out or go inside a red zone without a valid movement-proof,” he said. Besides, all the departments have been put on high alert, the official said and added no employee of the essential services department will be allowed to proceed on leave.  He informed that a roaster of sanitization will be made by Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC), adding that the SMC team will be accompanied by health and revenue teams during the sanitization. The Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Srinagar, has been directed to immediately alert all Block Medical Officers and Zonal Medical Officers to depute medical staff by order for respective red zones. In the last 10-days, Srinagar has recorded 18 deaths and over 640 Covid-19 positive cases. Authorities in north Kashmir’s Baramulla and Kupwara district have already re-imposed lockdown in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 positive cases. Due to the spurt in Covid-19 cases, doctors and medical experts have been urging the government to re-impose lockdown to prevent the spread of deadly virus further. A rapid progression over the past one month led to J&K crossing 10,000 Covid-19 positives on Saturday. While J&K had reached 5000-mark of cases on 14 June, in less than a month, the cases doubled and reached 10156 on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-authorities-re-impose-lockdown-in-srinagar-860179.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Man tests positive for Covid-19 after death in Jammu, toll reaches 17||A 58-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus after his death at a hospital here, taking the total fatalities to 17, officials said on Sunday. The critically ill patient, hailing from Simbal Morh, was admitted in the Government Medical College (GMC) hospital here on Friday and died the next day, the officials said. They said the deceased was suffering from lung disease and his test for coronavirus came positive several hours after his death. His body was cremated in accordance with the set protocol in the presence of his family members this morning. His death raised the Covid-19 related fatalities in the Jammu region to 17. He is the 10th person to die of the infection in Jammu district, while the rest of the seven deaths have taken place in Doda (two) and Udhampur, Kathua, Rajouri, Poonch and Samba (one each). The Jammu region has recorded a total of 2,181 Covid-19 cases till Saturday evening. While 1,468 patients have recovered, 697 are still undergoing treatment at various facilities in different districts. Meanwhile, the Janipur police station in Jammu was closed for public on Sunday after an Assistant Sub-inspector (ASI) was tested positive for Covid-19. As per a notice at the entrance gate of the police station, the building has been turned into a quarantine centre following detection of the Covid-19 case. A police official said the police station has been kept out of bounds for the public for the time being as all the policemen posted there are being tested for coronavirus as a precautionary measure. In another related development, the officials said district magistrate, Jammu, Sushma Chauhan had declared four localities as containment zones after fresh coronavirus cases were reported from these areas. The localities include Ustad Mohalla, Gole Pulli Vikas Lane in Talab Tillo (municipal ward number 30 and 31) and camp gole Gujral, the officials said, adding that strict lockdown restrictions were imposed in the areas to prevent the spread of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-after-death-in-jammu-toll-reaches-17-860189.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi sees over 23,000 vehicle registrations in June, up from 8,455 a month ago||In a sign of revival of economic activities in Delhi, over 23,000 vehicles were registered in the city in June, up from just 8,455 a month ago, Transport department officials said here on Sunday. Registration of cars and two-wheelers picked up after the restrictions due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown were relaxed, they said. "The registration of vehicles picked up after 'Unlock 1' was declared, and total registrations were 23,940 in the month," said a senior Delhi Transport department officer. Official data shows the registrations in June included 18,741 two-wheelers(motorcycles and scooters) and 4,755 four-wheelers, he said. Seventy-four three-wheelers (both goods and passenger vehicles) and 280 e-rickshaws were also registered in the month, it stated. In comparison, 6,711 two-wheelers, 1,650 cars, 72 e-rickshaws and seven three-wheelers were registered in May, the figures showed. The situation is still far from what it used to be before Covid-19. Back then, nearly 40,000-45,000 vehicles were registered in Delhi every month, the officials said. J S Nayol, president of the All India Car Dealers Association, said the Covid-19 pandemic ravaged the business and the situation will take time to return to normal. "People are facing financial hardships, so they are going for used cars instead of new ones. We have demanded the government to give relief from GST so that sale of new cars also picks up," he said. Most of the vehicles being bought by the people are in the range of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 8 lakh. There is not much demand in high-end cars upwards of Rs 10 lakh. The highest demand is in the small car segment, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-over-23000-vehicle-registrations-in-june-up-from-8455-a-month-ago-860199.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||SIT probing Vikas Dubey's link with police to visit Bikru village||Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy, who is heading the special investigation team probing the local police's alleged connivance with slain gangster Vikas Dubey, will on Sunday visit Bikru village near Kanpur where eight policemen were killed by the henchmen of the gangster. "We will visit the location where firing took place (Bikru village)," Bhoosreddy told PTI on his way to Kanpur. He refused to elaborate further. The state government had constituted the SIT on Saturday. Bhoosreddy is heading the team, which will have Additional DG Hari Ram Sharma and DIG Ravinder Goud as its members, according to an official statement. The SIT will submit its report by July 31 after looking into all the angles, studying all related documents and spot inspection in Kanpur, it said. The team has been asked to probe into what effective action was taken in all the cases lodged against Dubey, the statement said. The SIT will also probe what action was taken to cancel the bail of "such a dreaded criminal", what action has been taken against him under the Goonda Act, the National Security Act, Gangsters Act, and if there was any laxity and at what level, it added. On July 3, eight police personnel, including a DSP, were gunned down in Bikru village by the henchmen of Dubey. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack from a rooftop after the police team entered the village past Thursday (July 2) midnight to arrest Dubey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-probing-vikas-dubeys-link-with-police-to-visit-bikru-village-860203.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh minister tests positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Sports and Youth Welfare Upendra Tiwari has tested positive for Covid-19, his representative said. Rakesh Chaubey 'Bhola, the representative of the minister said, "Tiwari felt feverish almost two days back and his Covid-19 test was done on Saturday." "The report on Sunday morning stated that Tiwari has tested positive for Covid-19," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19-860211.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt announces complete lockdown on weekends to check coronavirus spread||"The lockdown on weekends will be implemented from the coming Saturday and Sunday especially in the crowded areas. The markets and offices will remain closed on these days. However, the banks will remain open," Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi told PTI. "This is being done basically to stop the spread of infection through unwanted physical movement. Economic activities will, however, not suffer," he added. The lockdown will remain effective in both urban and rural areas of the state. "It (lockdown) will be in place for the month of July at least," Awasthi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-announces-complete-lockdown-on-weekends-to-check-coronavirus-spread-860212.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Three LeT militants killed in Kashmir’s Sopore||Three unidentified militants, believed to be affiliated with Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit, were killed in an encounter with security forces in Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Sunday. “#SoporeEncounterUpdate: 02 more #unidentified #terrorists killed (total 03). #Incriminating materials including #arms & #ammunition recovered. Search going on. Further details shall follow (sic),” police tweeted. The gun fight erupted after a joint team of army’s 22 Rashtriya Rifles and police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Rebban area of Sopore at around 4 am on Sunday following a tip-off over the presence of militants in the area, sources said. The hiding militants opened fire on forces, who retaliated triggering a gunfight which lasted several hours. All the three militants hiding in the area were killed in the encounter, they said. On June 25, two militants were neutralized in a similar encounter with security forces in Sopore. On July 1 a CRPF personnel and a civilian were killed in a militant attack in Sopore. There has been an increase in anti-militancy operations in the Valley since March. Security forces have launched multiple anti-militancy operations in Srinagar, south and north Kashmir. Since Covid-19 lockdown, nearly 100 militants and two of their associates have been killed, while 27 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, have lost their lives. From January this year, over 125 militants have been killed across Kashmir in dozens of encounters with security forces. 154 militants were killed in gun battles across Kashmir in the first seven months of 2019. In the next five months, only 20 militants were neutralized by the security forces as anti-insurgency operations almost came to a halt as security and communication clampdown was imposed to prevent civilian protests in the wake of revocation of Article 370 on August 5. Last month Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said that 100-200 militants were still active in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-let-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-sopore-860213.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||UP assembly polls to be fought under leadership of Priyanka Gandhi: UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be the "face of the party" in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said on Sunday. He also made it clear that the Congress will not enter into a tie-up with any political party, but will forge an alliance with the "public, democracy, youth, farmers, poor, Dalits, oppressed and deprived people". "UP is her land. She (Priyanka Gandhi) hails from this place. She and her family have an affection for the soil of UP, and for the crores of people of UP. She resides in the heart of crores of people of the state. And undoubtedly under her leadership, the party will contest the UP Assembly elections," he told PTI in an interview. Priyanka Gandhi will be the face of our party. The party will become the voice of the people and they will shower their blessings on us, he said. The UP Congress chief asserted that the public sentiment of UP is that "we should form the government under her 'dekh-rekh' (monitoring)". To a question on forging any pre-poll or post-poll alliance during polls, Lallu said, "Congress will not enter into an alliance with any political party in UP. We will forge an alliance with the public, democracy, youth, farmers, poor, Dalits, oppressed and deprived people." On some BJP leaders dubbing Priyanka Gandhi as a Twitter leader, Lallu said, "This (UP) government is afraid of Priyanka Gandhi. She took to the streets, and fought for tribals of Sonbhadra despite being detained by the state government. The way she is cornering the government on almost every issue, it seems it is feeling afraid (sarkaar darri hui hai) and entangled (phansi hui hai). Hence, it is speaking in this manner." When asked as to whether the Congress is lagging behind as far as preparations for the 2022 UP polls are concerned, the UP Congress chief said, "The Congress is continuously raising issues, which directly and indirectly impact the public of the state. We are consistently strengthening our voice. The Congress is becoming the voice of the people on various issues, even as the state government is engaging itself in anti-people activities." He also claimed that since 1989, the time from which the Congress has been out of power in UP, the development of the state has significantly declined. "You can see for yourself the condition in which the SP, BSP and BJP have ruled this state. In the past (during the Congress rule), UP was known by its industries, small-scale industries and sugar mills. Today, on the contrary, a large number of sugar mills are lying closed. "The traditional industries associated with a particular district are also in a bad condition, be it the glass bangles of Firozabad, locks of Aligarh, leather of Kanpur, brass of Moradabad or carpets of Bhadohi. The condition of weavers in the state is very bad," Lallu said. He claimed that hospitals and medical colleges built during the Congress rule in the state are proving their utility in the current time. "If voted to power, the Congress will strive to make a developed UP and a prosperous UP (vikasit UP, samriddh UP). This is what we are telling the people of the state," Lallu said, and added that farmers are forced to commit suicide in the state. When asked to comment on the UP Government's One District, One Product programme, the UP Congress chief said, "ODOP is an eyewash. The UP Government is organising investors summits, but not even a single project has been implemented on the ground". To a question as to whether there is any leadership vacuum in the UP Congress or shortage of workers, Lallu said, "Congress workers have hit the street on a number of issues which affect the public including the hike in the prices of petrol and diesel". "Cases were registered against more than 100 party leaders in every district of the state. We were caned, and picked up by the police. The Congress is now becoming the voice of the Dalits, backwards, deprived and oppressed sections of the society," the UP Congress chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-assembly-polls-to-be-fought-under-leadership-of-priyanka-gandhi-up-congress-chief-ajay-kumar-lallu-860214.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi man gets challan for speeding, over 20 days after car was stolen||A resident of the national capital has received a traffic challan for speeding more than 20 days after his car was stolen from near Vivek Vihar Police Station in east Delhi. A resident of Hari Nagar in West Delhi, Yogesh Poddar’s vehicle was stolen on June 6 and remains untraceable, police said. However, on June 28, he received a challan for speeding near Millennium Depot. According to Poddar, he parked his car near Vivek Vihar Police Station on June 5 at around 8 pm. "I visited my in-laws in E-block, Jhilmil Colony, behind Vivek Vihar Police Station on June 5. Since the streets there were congested, I parked my vehicle on the main road near the police station. However, the next day, my car was not there,” Poddar, who deals in the packaging of pharmaceutical materials, said, adding that he filed an FIR online. Police claimed that there were no CCTV cameras near the spot where Poddar parked his car and despite analysing the footage from nearby areas, they could not spot his car. "The area where his car was parked did not have a CCTV camera installed but we scanned footage from multiple CCTV cameras installed in the adjoining areas to identify the culprits who fled with the vehicle but we could not find anything,’’ an officer privy to the investigation said. “Despite our best efforts, we could not trace the car and after a few days, following due procedure, we filed an ‘untraceable report’ in the court,” the officer said. However, barely a week later on June 30, the complainant received the challan along with a photo of his stolen vehicle. Poddar immediately informed the investigating officer as he was hopeful that police will now be able to trace the stolen vehicle. "Until I received the challan on June 30, I thought the culprits must have either dismantled the car or sold it to someone outside Delhi," Poddar said. "But after I received the challan with the photo, I was surprised to see that neither the colour of my car nor its registration number had been changed, only a few stickers and an idol on the dashboard were missing. Despite this, police have failed to trace my vehicle," claimed Poddar. Although the untraceable report was filed before the car was challaned, it is still pending with the court and efforts are being taken to trace the stolen vehicle, a senior police officer said. Earlier this month, the husband of a Delhi court judge received a traffic challan for speeding two months after their car was stolen from their west Delhi residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-man-gets-challan-for-speeding-over-20-days-after-car-was-stolen-860221.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Congress MLA quits party, joins BJP||Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Pradyuman Singh Lodhi resigned from the party and as member of the state Assembly, and joined the BJP on Sunday. Lodhi, who was a legislator from Bada Malhera seat in Chhatarpur district, joined the BJP at the ruling party's state headquarters here in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. On the occasion, state BJP chief V D Sharma announced Lodhi's induction into the party fold. "I have resigned as MLA. My resignation has been accepted. Only the BJP can develop my Assembly seat areas. The chief minister also approved developmental schemes for my area," Lodhi told reporters after joining the saffron party. With this, the Congress's strength in the state Assembly has reduced to 91. In March this year, 22 Congress MLAs resigned from the Congress after former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the party, resulting in the fall of the Kamal Nath-led Madhya Pradesh government. On March 23, Chouhan took oath as chief minister for a record fourth term. The BJP currently has 107 MLAs in the state Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-congress-mla-quits-party-joins-bjp-860239.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Amid crisis in Rajasthan, CM Ashok Gehlot summons meeting of party MLAs||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has convened a meeting Sunday night of Congress MLAs and others supporting his government, amid speculation over his rift with deputy Sachin Pilot. Gehlot has alleged that the opposition BJP is trying to topple the Congress government, and cited an FIR registered by the state police. The BJP has dismissed the allegation, saying that the developments are related to infighting within the state unit of the ruling party. Several ministers and Congress MLAs called on the CM during the day, indicating their support. However, some MLAs said to be close to Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, who is also the state’s Congress chief, are reportedly in Delhi. The meeting is being convened at 9 pm at the CM's residence, party sources said. Apart from the party MLAs, other supporting legislators have also been invited for the meeting, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-crisis-in-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-summons-meeting-of-party-mlas-860244.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Kanpur ambush: SIT probing police's 'connivance' with Vikas Dubey visits Bikru village||Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy, who is heading the special investigation team probing the local police's alleged connivance with slain gangster Vikas Dubey, on Sunday visited Bikru village near Kanpur where eight policemen were ambushed by the henchmen of the gangster. Bhoosreddy was accompanied by additional DG Hariram Sharma and DIG J Ravindra Gaud who are part of the SIT. The team which arrived here early Sunday will also probe the role of Dubey's sympathisers and political patronisers, said an official. According to the official, the SIT reached Bikru village where they inspected the site of the ambush to get an idea about how the policemen including a deputy SP walked into the trap set by Dubey falling to a shower of bullets fired from rooftops, the official added. The SIT also gathered information from the district magistrate (DM) and senior superintendent of police (SSP) about Dubey's rise and the cases against him apart from post ambush actions, official said. They also asked the DM and SSP to explain as to why no process was initiated to cancel the gangster's bail in earlier cases lodged against him and the arms licenses issued to Dubey's henchmen. "The SIT will probe how despite being involved in several criminal cases, the gang members could manage to get arms licenses,” another official said. The SIT took a round of the village and interacted with the locals whom they persuaded to come forward and share information about Dubey's terror and illegal activities apart from his political patronage. The officials also asked the villagers to apprise them about their complaints against Dubey and his associates if they had failed to it so far. The Uttar Pradesh government had constituted the SIT on Saturday. It will submit its report by July 31 after looking into all the angles, studying all related documents and spot inspection in Kanpur, according to an official statement. The team has been asked to probe into what effective action was taken in all the cases lodged against Dubey, the statement said. The SIT will also probe the action taken to cancel the bail of "such a dreaded criminal", what action has been taken against him under the Goonda Act, the National Security Act, Gangsters Act, and if there was any laxity and at what level, it added. On July 3, eight police personnel, including a DSP, were gunned down in Bikru village by the henchmen of Dubey. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack from a rooftop after the police team entered the village past Thursday (July 2) midnight to arrest Dubey. Dubey was killed in an encounter on Friday after a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-ambush-sit-probing-polices-connivance-with-vikas-dubey-visits-bikru-village-860252.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||UP govt forms panel to probe Kanpur ambush, Vikas Dubey's encounter||Under attack from the opposition parties and the human rights activists, the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday formed a commission to probe the killing of eight cops at Bikaru village in Kanpur by gangster Vikas Dubey and his associates and also the gunning down of Vikas and his five goons in 'encounters' with the police. An official spokesman here said that the one-man commission would be headed by Justice (retd) Shashi Kant Agarwal. ''The commission will submit its report in two months,'' he added. The spokesman said that the ambush in which eight UP policemen had been killed and the subsequent 'encounters' in which Vikas and his five associates were gunned down were subjects of ''public importance'' and hence the commission was set up. He also made it clear that the commission, which would be based at Kanpur, would also investigate the alleged nexus between the gangster and the cops and politicians. ''The commission will also suggest ways to prevent recurrence of such incidents in future,'' he added. Eight UP cops, including a circle officer, had been killed, when a police team raided Vikas' residence at Bikaru village on July three. Five associates of Vikas were subsequently killed in 'encounters' with the police at different places in the state. Vikas, who was 'arrested' from the famous 'Mahakal' Temple in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain town on Thursday, was gunned down a day later in an 'encounter' with the cops near Kanpur. The 'encounter' triggered a huge controversy and the opposition parties as well as the rights activists demanded a thorough probe into the same claiming that it was 'fake'. The Special Task Force (STF) of the UP police, which gunned down Vikas, claimed that the gangster snatched the pistol of a cop and tried to escape and was killed in the ensuing gun battle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-forms-panel-to-probe-kanpur-ambush-vikas-dubeys-encounter-860266.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Akhilesh Yadav suggests four-day workweek to UP government||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday suggested the Uttar Pradesh government to implement a four-day working week to contain coronavirus instead of imposing a stricter lockdown on weekends. The SP chief, however, said emergency services should operate round the clock on all days. His reaction came on a day the government decided to impose stricter curbs across the state from coming Saturday amid a spike in infection cases. Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi earlier told PTI that the restrictions will remain in place at least for July. "Instead of imposing a lockdown on weekends, the government should implement a four-day workweek system in view of the Covid-19 spread and it should be for a long period," Yadav said. "The government should concentrate on increasing the efficiency of the workforce and develop a new work culture so that nothing is affected,” he added. Elaborating further, the SP chief said while Monday to Thursday should be working days, the closure should be effective from Friday to Sunday. It will not only check the spread of the virus but also help people concentrate on their health, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-akhilesh-yadav-suggests-four-day-workweek-to-up-government-860267.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir HC issues notice to govt over 'illegal' appointment of SPOs as police constables||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court has issued a notice to the government after admitting an application seeking a CBI investigation into alleged illegal appointment of Special Police Officers (SPOs) as constables from 2018 to March 2020. A division bench of Justice Ali Mohammad Magrey and Justice Vinod Chatterji Koul issued the notice earlier this week to the chief secretary, the principal secretary (Home), the director general of police (DGP), and the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Anantnag after hearing Salih Pirzada, lawyer for the petitioner. The PIL alleged that the senior police officer of Anantnag, in connivance with the DGP, had appointed SPOs working on consolidated wages as constables in the police department on the basis of operational functions in the south Kashmir districts of Anantnag, Pulwama, Shopian and Kulgam. "It is submitted here that the persons recruited/selected/appointed on the basis of operational functions were either working as SPOs with the high-profile bureaucrats or were performing the duties at the residences of police officers or many other bureaucrats. By indulging in this act, the respondents 3 (DGP) and 4 (SSP Anantnag) have indulged in mass-scale irregularities in appointing them as constables," the PIL read. Claiming that the filling of vacancies of constables amongst SPOs in such a manner is "bad in law" and against the "spirit of fair selection", the petitioner, who hails from a minority community, alleged that there is a nexus in the police department and due to the present situation, such recruitments are made with impunity. "There is gross manipulation in selection/appointments to various ranks in the police department, especially from the rank of SPOs to constables, as had been done in the year 2018 to 2020. The appointees are illegally shown to have participated in operational duties, particularly in south Kashmir, where there is no scope of their proximity in the field operations," the petitioner claimed. He claimed the police department has neither uploaded the orders of these constables on its website as on date, which manifests malice and arbitrariness on the part of the DGP and the SSP of Anantnag nor has the list whereby these appointees were originally working as SPOs made public. "The approach of the respondent-police department needs to be ascertained and looked into by an agency other than the one which directly controls the police department. Therefore, in the fitness of things, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) needs to be directed to take the case into their hands and investigate the matter thoroughly and submit the report to the court," the petitioner said. Demanding that a list of persons recruited or appointed on the basis of operational functions by the DGP and the SSP Anantnag from 2018 to March 2020 be submitted in the court, the petitioner urged the bench to direct the chief secretary and the principal secretary (Home) to initiate an inquiry into the matter and file a status report before it. After hearing the counsel for the petitioner, the division bench issued the notices and directed the respondents to file their responses before the next date of hearing on August 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-hc-issues-notice-to-govt-over-illegal-appointment-of-spos-as-police-constables-860275.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Kashmir's 'comedian King' Shadi Kaul passes away||Noted actor Shadi Lal Kaul, popularly known as 'comedy king of Kashmir', died at a hospital here on Sunday, his family said. He was 66. “Kaul sahib was suffering from cancer and was admitted to a hospital about a week ago. He breathed his last around 2.45 am,” his son Vijay Kaul told PTI. Shadi Lal Kaul is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. Having an enormous fan following in the Valley, the versatile theatre actor had played lead roles in hundreds of serials and live plays over the past four decades of his association with the art world and the television industry. Born in downtown Srinagar, Kaul migrated to Jammu following the exodus of his community from the valley after the eruption of militancy in early 1990. However, he kept his date with Kashmir and played roles in different television serials. He was known among his fans as 'Shamas Din” after his lead role in a 104-episode serial 'Shabrang', which was telecast for three successive years from 1981 to 1983 on Doordarshan Srinagar on popular demand. The self-taught artist, who won many awards besides the title of 'king of comedy', had also played a role in a Doordarshan serial under a Shyam Benegal banner with Om Puri and a houseboat owner in Balwant Gargi's play “houseboat”. Kaul’s popularity grew in the valley with his role in 'Dastaar' (Turban) which was staged at Tagore hall in 1978 in a drama festival. The other television serials which became a hit among the people included 'Rangan Heund Rang', 'Cherry Treuch', 'Ghulam Begum Baadshah', 'Tijarratuk Aasan Tarikaa', 'Gaash Innuss Taam' and 'Gul Gulshan Gulfaam'. Noted writer and convener at the northern regional board, Sahitya Akademi, Aziz Hajini expressed grief over the demise of Kaul. “His inborn talent gave a new direction to the theatre in Kashmir during the 20th century. Later he emerged as a leading and everybody's beloved actor on the screens of Doordarshan Kendra Srinagar and DD Kashir," he said. “His death has created a void in the field of performing arts, especially in the Kashmiri Language. It is next to impossible to fill this gap for a long time,” Hajini said. People's Democratic Party (PDP) also paid rich tributes to the deceased and said his acting “rekindled our love for Kashmiri language and rejuvenated the world of vernacular art and television”. Another prominent actor King C Bharat, in his message on social media, said Kaul’s departure has left a big void in the Jammu and Kashmir artist fraternity. “He was a master of his craft and a perfect gentleman. It (his death) is a great loss to J&K.” Kaul's son Vijay said his father was diagnosed with cancer in 2016 but he did not allow the dreaded disease to overcome him and tried his best to see the smile on the faces of the people through his acting.  "I am indebted to his fans for their love and concern," he said after the cremation of his father at Ban Talab cremation ground here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmirs-comedian-king-shadi-kaul-passes-away-860276.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey reached Ujjain from Rajasthan by bus: Police probe||With police hot on his heels, slain gangster Vikas Dubey had reached Ujjain from Rajasthan by bus, and took a dip in the Kshipra river here before reaching the Mahakaleshwar temple where he was eventually arrested last week, investigations so far have revealed. Various details emerged as police here in Madhya Pradesh probed further about his escape from Uttar Pradesh after the Kanpur ambush in which eight policemen, including a deputy superintendent of police, were killed on July 3. Dubey, the alleged mastermind of the Kanpur ambush, was killed in an encounter on Friday after he tried to flee following a road accident at Barra area in Kanpur, a day after his arrest here. Ujjain's Superintendent of Police Manoj Singh said 11 teams were constituted to investigate how Dubey arrived here and the circumstances leading to his arrest, that ended the week-long multi-state manhunt for the gangster. These teams examined CCTV footage of various areas and enquired with some hotels, lodges and bus owners/drivers, he told reporters on Saturday evening. "According to our investigation so far, Dubey reached Jhalawar from Alwar (Rajasthan) in a Rajasthan transport corporation bus, Singh said. From Jhalawar, Dubey took a private bus to Ujjain. "After travelling on seat no. 6 of a bus from Jhalawar, he reached Ujjains Dewas Gate bus stand at 3.58 am (on Thursday). From there, he took an auto-rickshaw and reached the Mahakaleshwar temple and enquired with a couple of hotels nearby (but did not check-in), he said. After getting to know that the temple opens around 7.30 am for devotees, he went to the Ram Ghat located near the temple where he took a dip in the Kshipra river. He then reached the temple where he was finally caught by police, Singh said. On Thursday, police said flower and puja material shop owner Suresh Mali recognised Dubey when he was enquiring with him about the opening of the temple. Mali then informed the police and the Mahakaleshwar temple's security personnel about the gangster, they said. Dubey was subsequently intercepted by the police at the temples exit gate and taken into custody. The Ujjain police later handed over Dubey to the Uttar Pradesh Police. Asked about statements given by Dubey during the custody of Madhya Pradesh Police, Singh said, He was a dreaded criminal and killed police personnel. His statements are useless until verified in our investigations." To a question on one of Dubeys local contacts, the official said it was not verified so far. "We continue to share intelligence inputs with the Uttar Pradesh Police and will do so further also as the investigations are underway," he said. Asked if there was any evidence of Dubey talking over mobile phone during his movement in Ujjain, Singh said there was no proof of it so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubey-reached-ujjain-from-rajasthan-by-bus-police-probe-860277.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Locusts enter Haryana districts, agriculture minister says necessary action taken||Swarms of locusts entered Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Mahendragarh districts of Haryana, Agriculture Minister J P Dalal said on Sunday. He said the locusts entered the districts on Saturday, with some settling in the fields during the night, adding officials swung into action and took necessary steps to ward off the threat posed by the short-horned grasshoppers. The minister said the agriculture department deployed fire tenders filled with chemicals and tractor-mounted spray guns to kill the insects. “Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed deputy commissioners of these and adjoining districts to remain alert,” Dalal said. He said deputy commissioners (DCs) have been directed to send a preliminary report about any loss to crops suffered by farmers after which a 'special girdwari' (revenue survey) will be ordered. He said since there had been such locust attacks recently, the farmers too had been asked to remain vigilant. Dalal assured the farmers that the government would take all necessary measures if locusts are spotted in any district of the state and compensate the peasants in case of any loss to crops caused by the insects. Meanwhile, in many villages where locusts were spotted, the farmers beat 'thalis' (plates) and other utensils in a bid to ward off the insects to protect their crops like cotton and bajra. A fortnight ago, a huge swarm of locusts had reached Rewari from Rajasthan, with parts of it settling overnight in the district and the remaining headed towards Gurgaon the next morning and even covered the skyline of the millennium city for a while before moving away towards Uttar Pradesh. Notably, Haryana had issued a high alert over a month ago after locust swarms attacked crops in neighbouring Rajasthan and a few other states, but the insects moved away from the state. Locusts, popularly known as 'tiddi dal', are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/locusts-enter-haryana-districts-agriculture-minister-says-necessary-action-taken-860282.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Increase in suicidal tendency among kids amid lockdown||At least 66 children have ended their lives in Kerala since the Covid-19 lockdown began on March 25 with youngsters facing stress unable to bear the unprecedented situation where schools are shut and friends are out of reach to share their woes. According to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, there has been an increasing instance of suicidal tendencies among children in the state due to various reasons, including parents scolding them over mobile phone use and failure to attend online classes. This has prompted the government to launch a teleconsultation facility for children facing stress and also cautioning parents against hurting their sentiments while being concerned about welfare of their wards. It has also ordered a study into the issue. "Among the children an increasing instance of suicidal tendency is being witnessed which will become an extremely serious social issue. Since March 25, when the national lockdown was imposed, 66 children, below 18 years of age, have ended their lives due to various reasons", Vijayan said. A mother scolding her child for not attending the ongoing online classes, or a parent questioning a child for downloading a sleazy video on the smartphone or the constant rift between the parents were among the reasons which triggered the suicidal tendency, he said on Saturday. As the schools have not yet re-opened due to the lockdown, the children are unable to meet their friends and share their problems. Vijayan said though the parents were intervening keeping in mind their child's welfare, it was essential to ensure that the young minds were not hurt in the process. To helpthe children facing issues relating to mental pressures, 'Chiri'atele-counselling initiative has been started by the government under its Our Responsibility to Children Programme (ORC), a planned community intervention that connects with people between the age of 12-18 years. The state health department has also launched "Ottakalla Oppamundu" (You are not alone,we are with you) programmeto help children facing any kind of mental distress and to prevent the suicidal tendencies among them. Health Minister K K Shailaja said under the psychosocial support assistance, her department has so far reached out to 68,814 children and 10,890 children have been given counselling. The changes in the behaviour of their children should be noted by the family members and if they find something amiss, the district psychosocial help desk should be informed, she said. A 15-member team of Students Police Cadets will be constituted in each of the 14 districts to help the children needing any assistance,police sources said. Education should not be a competition, but a means to gain knowledge, Vijayan said. A society's future lies with the children and it is the duty of the society and the government to ensure their physical and mental well being. Taking a serious view of the situation, the state government has constituteda committee headed byFire and Rescue Services DGP R Sreelekha to conduct a study on child suicides in the state. The aim of the ORC was also to create a multi collaborative platform for government and professional agencies, parents and teachers to equip youth with appropriate know-how to face challenges, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-in-suicidal-tendency-among-kids-amid-lockdown-860289.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Davinder Singh shared 'sensitive' info with Pak High Commission: officials||Suspended Deputy Superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Police Davinder Singh allegedly shared information including “sensitive" particulars with his contacts at the Pakistan High Commission which was grooming him to get some confidential details, officials have said. While probing Singh’s role, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had cracked passwords of his “secure” social media accounts which indicated his involvement with some staffers of the Pakistan High Commission, who had since been repatriated following their role in espionage activities in the national capital, officials said here. The NIA filed a chargesheet against Singh, at present lodged in Jammu jail, and five others on July 6 in a case of allegedly waging "war against India" with the help of Pakistan-based terror groups especially the Hizbul Mujahideen. Before his arrest, Singh's last posting was at the crucial anti-hijacking unit of the strategic Srinagar airport. Immediately after his arrest on January 11 this year, the Centre began the process of handing over the security of the airport to the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) as a precautionary measure. The 3,064-page chargesheet, filed in a Jammu court under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code, names Singh, self-styled commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen terror group Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu and his alleged network of aides. The others named are his brother Syed Irfan Ahmad as well as the group’s alleged overground worker Irfan Shafi Mir, alleged accomplice Rafi Ahmad Rather and businessman Tanveer Ahmad Wani, former president of the Line of Control Traders Association. In the chargesheet, the NIA gave details of his role alleging that Singh was "in touch with certain officials of Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi through secure social media platforms. Investigation revealed that he was being groomed by Pakistani officials for obtaining sensitive information". The chargesheet, which comprises 3,017 oral and documentary evidences, gives details about his contacts at the Pakistan High Commission and also about the information shared by him. The officials said he had been sharing "sensitive information" from the latter part of 2019 but refused to divulge further details. The officials said Singh was in close contact with a person identified as Shafqat, an assistant working with the Pakistani mission here. The official was among the 50 per cent staff which was repatriated late last month. The officials said Irfan Shafi Mir, an advocate who worked as an overground worker for the terror group, had always been negotiating with the High Commission officials and even receiving money on a regular basis. Before his arrest, the accused had received a huge amount for organising seminars in Jammu and Kashmir and was tasked with fuelling unrest in the union territory especially in the Kashmir valley, they said. Mir also visited Pakistan from where he allegedly carried information for the cadres of Hizbul Mujahideen in the Valley about the future course of action, the officials said. Singh was arrested on January 11 this year along with Naveed Babu, Rather and the advocate when their car was intercepted by Jammu and Kashmir police near Qazigund on the national highway connecting the Valley with the rest of the country. A search of the vehicle led to the recovery of an AK-47 rifle, three pistols and a cache of ammunition and explosives. The NIA took over the case on January 17. The investigation found that Singh, in an apparent bid to shield Naveed Babu, had shifted him along with the advocate to Jammu and arranged safe shelter for them in the city in February last year as well. Singh used his own vehicle for the movement of the Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists and also assured them help in procuring weapons, the NIA alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/davinder-singh-shared-sensitive-info-with-pak-high-commission-officials-860298.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||1,573 fresh Covid-19 cases take Delhi tally to 1,12,494||Delhi has recorded 1,573 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,12,494 in the city, while the death toll mounted to 3,371, authorities said on Sunday. This is the first time in July that the fresh case count has remained below the 2,000-mark for two consecutive days. On Saturday, 1,781 cases were detected. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital now stands at 1,12,494. The death toll due to the disease increased to 3,371 after 37 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin. As many as 89,968 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 19,155 active cases, it said. The bulletin said as many as 9,443 RT-PCR tests and 11,793 rapid-antigen tests were conducted during the last 24 hours. Till date, a total of 7,89,853 tests have been conducted, which is 41,571 tests per million population, it said. The total number of Covid-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 11,059, it said. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by around two per cent every day. For every 100 confirmed cases, three have died due to the virus in the city so far. The recovery rate has increased to more than 79 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1573-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-tally-to-112494-860303.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab police arrest Shiv Sena (Taksali) leader Sudhir Suri in Indore||The Punjab police on Sunday arrested Shiv Sena (Taksali) president Sudhir Suri over an objectionable video clip allegedly denigrating women and inciting enmity between different groups. He was arrested from Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Two Punjab police teams, comprising 11 personnel of Amritsar (Rural) district, nabbed Suri on Sunday morning, said Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta in an official release here. A manhunt was launched for him after the release of a video with alleged derogatory remarks against women, followed by a Facebook video in which he had subsequently claimed that the objectionable video clip was a voiceover by some other person using his name. The DGP said the Jandiala police in Amritsar (Rural) had booked Suri on July 8 in a criminal case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act after the first video went viral and was heavily criticised both in India and abroad. Despite Suri's denial of any involvement in the particular objectionable video clip that had appeared in the social media, the DGP said he had ordered a massive manhunt against the suspect through Amritsar (Rural) police. Gupta said he had also directed the Punjab Bureau of Investigation to get the clip examined though the Forensic Science Laboratory at the earliest. Subsequent investigations revealed that fearing arrest, Suri could have fled to Indore, said the DGP, disclosing that the operation was successfully conducted in coordination with the Madhya Pradesh police. The DGP said he personally spoke to Vivek Johri, his counterpart in Madhya Pradesh, at the time of the dispatch of the two police teams to Indore. The teams, consisting of one deputy superintendent of police (crime against women), two sub-inspectors, three assistant sub-inspectors and five constables, drove non-stop for 21 hours to reach Indore, where Suri was caught. Punjab police is now moving for bail cancellation requests before the concerned judicial courts in cases where Suri has already been bailed out earlier, said the release. The DGP asserted a zero-tolerance policy against any individuals or organisations trying to incite communal hatred and fan communal passions through their speeches, statements, writings, posts on social media platforms etc. He further said the Punjab police was highly sensitive towards dignity, safety and security of women and would take strict action, as per law, against anyone showing women in bad light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-arrest-shiv-sena-taksali-leader-sudhir-suri-in-indore-860304.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Plan to convert stadiums into makeshift Covid centres put on hold for now: Delhi authorities||Authorities in Delhi have put on hold their plan to use stadiums as makeshift Covid care centres for now in view of the city witnessing a good recovery rate, officials said on Sunday. Seeing the current situation, there is no need to convert stadiums into Covid-19 care facilities, an official in the East Delhi district administration said. However, he said, the stadiums can be converted into Covid facilities in the coming days if the need arises. Last month, a Delhi government panel constituted by Lt Governor Anil Baijal had suggested to use Pragati Maidan, Talkatora Indoor Stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, JLN Stadium, Thyagaraj Indoor Stadium and Dhyanchand National Stadium for the purpose. A government study on Saturday said that there has been a "sharp decline" in daily fatality figures in the city in the past two weeks. The recovery rate of patients stood at a little over 79 per cent on Saturday. "We can use them (stadiums) for such facility, but it would be an unnecessary step because many people are under home isolation and recovering from the virus," the official of the East Delhi district administration stressed. Another official in the south district administration said, "We are closely monitoring the situation. As of now, there is no need to use any stadium for the COVID-19 care facility". According to a Northwest Delhi official, the number of coronavirus cases in the city is under control as the recovery rate is improving every day. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal termed pulse oximeter a 'suraksha kavach' (protective shield) that has helped minimise deaths of patients under home isolation here. The city government has provided pulse oximeters to asymptomatic and mild symptom coronavirus patients under home isolation. Delhi recorded 1,573 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.12 lakh, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 3,371, authorities said. Thirty-seven fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plan-to-convert-stadiums-into-makeshift-covid-centres-put-on-hold-for-now-delhi-authorities-860320.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Recovery rate nears 80% in Delhi; plans to use stadiums as Covid-19 facilities put on hold||Delhi's daily Covid-19 case count on Sunday remained below the 2,000-mark for the second consecutive day and with the recovery rate improving to nearly 80 per cent, authorities have for now put on hold plans to use stadiums as makeshift coronavirus care facilities. In the last 24 hours, the national capital has recorded 1,573 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 1,12,494 in the city, while the death toll mounted to 3,371 after 37 fatalities were reported, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin. This is the first time in July that the daily case count has remained below the 2,000-mark for two consecutive days. On Saturday, 1,781 cases were detected. The Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 79.97 per cent on Sunday, as per the bulletin. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that Delhi has been able to minimise deaths of coronavirus patients in home isolation through pulse oximeters, which he termed as "suraksha kavach'' (protective shield). The bulletin said as many as 89,968 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 19,155 active cases in the city. The Delhi government has asked all district magistrates (DMs) to document initiatives taken by them in their respective areas to deal with the Covid-19 situation. For instance, the South Delhi district administration has set up a 10,000-bed Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre, one of the "largest" such facilities in the world, at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas. Similarly, a 500-bed Covid care facility was set up at the Commonwealth Games Village in East Delhi. In North West district, railway coaches were converted into insolation wards for Covid-19 patients. The DMs have been asked to also mention the difficulties they faced while executing such initiatives. "The need was felt to showcase all such initiatives taken by the district magistrates so that their efforts are reflected in documents. All the DMs have been asked to make proper documentation of these initiatives introduced by them to deal with the Covid-19 situation," an official told PTI. Seeing the good recovery rate, authorities in the city have for now put on hold their plans to use stadiums as makeshift Covid-19 care facilities. Last month, a Delhi government panel, constituted by Lt Governor Anil Baijal, had suggested to use Pragati Maidan, Talkatora Indoor Stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium and JLN Stadium, Thyagaraj Indoor Stadium and Dhyanchand National Stadium for the purpose. "Seeing the current situation, there is no need to convert stadiums into Covid-19 care facilities. We can use them (stadiums) for such facility, but it would be unnecessary step because many people are under home-isolation and recovering from the virus," an official in the east Delhi district administration said. He said that if such need arises in the coming days, the district authorities will use stadiums as makeshift Covid-19 care facilities. "We are closely monitoring the situation. As of now, there is no need to use any stadium for Covid-19 care facility," an official in the south district administration said. On Saturday, a government study said that there has been a "sharp decline" in daily fatality figures in the past two weeks. Terming pulse oximeters as ''suraksha kavach'', Kejriwal said these have helped minimise Covid-19 deaths of patients under home isolation in Delhi. The Delhi government has provided pulse oximeters to asymptomatic and mild symptom coronavirus patients undergoing home isolation. "Delhi has been able to minimise deaths of coronavirus patients in home isolation through this suraksha kavach called pulse oximeter. If patients detect their oxygen is falling they reach out to us for help. We immediately send oxygen concentrators to their home or take them to a hospital," Kejriwal said in a tweet. A pulse oximeter is a device that measures blood oxygen level. Coronavirus patients need to be hospitalised if their oxygen level reaches 90 per cent or below, according to health guidelines. A study of Covid-19 deaths reported in the last fortnight (from June 24), conducted by the Delhi government, has revealed that no one under home isolation has died in first week of July. The total number of daily deaths too have shown a sharp decline, the report said. In a sign of revival of economic activities post the coronavirus-forced lockdown in Delhi, over 23,000 vehicles were registered in the city in June, up from just 8,455 a month ago, transport department officials said on Sunday. Registration of cars and two-wheelers picked up after the restrictions due to the lockdown were relaxed, they said. "The registration of vehicles picked up after ''Unlock 1'' was declared, and total registrations were 23,940 in the month," said an official. Official data shows that registrations in June included 18,741 two-wheelers (motorcycles and scooters) and 4,755 four-wheelers, he said. Some restaurants reopened a month ago after being allowed to resume their business post the Covid-19 lockdown, but are still grappling with decreased sales, staff shortages and few dine-in customers. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, many restaurants have not commenced dine-in facilities and are relying on takeaways to drive their business. According to Rohit Aggarwal, director of Lite Bite Foods, post ''Unlock'', the situation has not been "very motivating, walk-in numbers are extremely low and the operational cost is soaring". "The highest number of dine-in guests we have served on a single day after opening following the Covid-19 lockdown is just 15 at Punjab Grill's Saket outlet. We are hoping to serve the same number of guests we had before very soon and are positive that this number will go up eventually. "We are making just 20 per cent sales of what we used to do. Dine-in sales account for just 25 per cent of the existing 20 per cent sales and rest all are delivery and takeaway orders," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovery-rate-nears-80-in-delhi-plans-to-use-stadiums-as-covid-19-facilities-put-on-hold-860344.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 40 per cent less rainfall||Despite the monsoon arriving early in the national capital, rains have remained subdued so far, with the city recording 40 per cent rainfall deficiency.  The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the rain forecast for the next seven days is also bleak.  Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting center of the IMD, said the monsoon trough shifted towards north, thus leading to only light rain in Delhi over the last few days. Also, there was no strong weather system affecting the region, he added. "Usually, during this time, a strong weather system forms in the Bay of Bengal, moves towards northwest India and enhances monsoon activity." Srivastava said only on and off light rains are expected over the next few days. "Good rainfall is not likely for another week." In July, at least three weather stations in Delhi have recorded less than normal precipitation. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has gauged 44 mm rainfall against a normal of 65 mm, a deficiency of 32 per cent.  The Lodhi Road weather station has recorded 50.1 mm rainfall, which is 23 per cent less than the normal of 65 mm.   The Palam weather station has so far recorded 81.3 mm precipitation, slightly less than the normal of 81.6 mm.  Since June 1, when the monsoon season began, the city has recorded just 79.7 mm rainfall against the normal of 132.6, a deficiency of 40 per cent. According to the IMD, the monsoon reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than the usual date of June 27. Normal rainfall was then predicted in the national capital during the season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-40-per-cent-less-rainfall-860349.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 Covid-19 tally reaches 36,476; death toll rises to 934||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday mounted to 934 after 21 more people succumbed to the disease, while 1,384 fresh infections pushed the tally to 36,476, health officials said. Additional Chief Secretary Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad said 23,334 of the total infected have been discharged. The state now has 12,208 active Covid-19 cases, he said. On Saturday, 39,623 samples were taken for testing, Prasad said during a daily media briefing on Covid-19. "We are now conducting 40,000 tests on a daily basis. In March, the daily testing capacity was 60 and now it has increased by 650 times," he said. A number of new laboratories have been set up and TrueNAT machines have reached every district. "Antigen tests are also being conducted. Till now, as many as 11,56,089 tests have been conducted," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradeshs-covid-19-tally-reaches-36476-death-toll-rises-to-934-860351.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Will follow party line, say 3 Congress MLAs after return from Delhi||Three Congress MLAs, who had left for Delhi and were being counted among those in Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s camp in the power tussle in Rajasthan, on Sunday said they will follow the party line. Addressing a press conference at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s home here, Rohit Bohra, Danish Abrar and Chetan Dudi called themselves “soldiers” of the party and said they will do whatever the top leadership tells them. The MLAs said their visit to Delhi was a normal affair and the media should not speculate over it. “We are with the Congress Party which gave us tickets. The media trial, which is going on, has no sense. We are soldiers of the party and will remain so for lifetime,” Bohra said. He said they had long association with the Congress and the media should not indulge in speculation. “I have been going to Delhi since childhood. Visiting Delhi is a normal affair but this time, it was made special,” Danish Abrar said taking a swipe at the media. "We are soldiers of the Congress Party at any cost,” he said. Chetan Dudi said they have full faith in the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-will-follow-party-line-say-3-congress-mlas-after-return-from-delhi-860352.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Rain lashes parts of Uttar Pradesh, heavy showers likely at isolated places on July 13||Rain lashed some parts of Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, while Etawah registered the highest day temperature in the state at 39.2 degrees Celsius, the MeT department said. Light to moderate showers occurred at a few locations in the state and thunderstorm, accompanied with lightening, was seen in isolated places, the Meteorological department said. Among the places which received rainfall were Kanpur (6 mm) and Agra (7.6 mm), it said. Lucknow recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees Celsius, and a minimum of 27.7 degrees Celsius, the MeT department said. The weatherman has predicted heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in eastern Uttar Pradesh on Monday. The MeT department has also forecast rain and thundershower at many places in eastern UP and at a few locations in western part of the state from Monday to Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rain-lashes-parts-of-uttar-pradesh-heavy-showers-likely-at-isolated-places-on-july-13-860362.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab to have stricter lockodwn to curb Covid-19: CM Amarinder Singh||The Punjab government will on Monday announce more stringent restrictions in the wake of rising coronavirus cases in the state, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said. He said strict measures were needed to check the spread of the disease as he did not want Punjab to go the way Mumbai, Delhi and Tamil Nadu were going. These are among the worst hit places in the country by the pandemic. "We will have to impose more curbs in the state. Our government will tomorrow announce further restrictions on social, public and family gatherings in the state. Besides, people while working must also wear masks," said Singh during his 'AskCaptain' Facebook live. Asked why he was not announcing weekend lockdowns like some other states, Singh said his government was keeping a close watch on the situation and will do whatever is necessary.  The chief minister asked people to adhere to all restrictions and also appealed to political parties to avoid any kind of gathering. "It is our joint responsibility to save Punjab. Politics can wait," he stressed, calling for a collective fight by one and all against "the biggest danger facing humanity". Expressing concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the chief minister said that with a vaccine still not in sight, it was left to the people to fight the disease. Punjab on Sunday reported four more fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 199 while 234 fresh cases pushed the tally to 7,821. Singh attributed the increase in Covid cases in Punjab to increased testing and the large number of people coming from outside the state. He said the testing capacity has been increased to more than 10,000 tests per day from the earlier 700 tests a day. Also, 63,000 people entered Punjab from other states, including Delhi, in the last four days, the chief minister added. All coronavirus deaths in the state were being audited to enable doctors and experts to make a strategy in a more focused manner, he was quoted as saying in an official release. To a request from the Medical Lab Technician Association, Punjab that their role be recognised as frontline warriors in Covid management, Singh said "the technicians are very much frontline workers and their role in the current crisis will never be forgotten". Asked about regularisation of contractual employees, he said the cabinet sub-committee set up to look into the matter would submit its report and a decision would be taken by his government soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-to-have-stricter-lockodwn-to-curb-covid-19-cm-amarinder-singh-860376.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||MLAs supporting Sachin Pilot find it 'untenable' to work under Ashok Gehlot after SOG letter to Dy CM: Sources||Amid a power tussle in the Rajasthan government, sources close to Sachin Pilot on Sunday said the letter asking the deputy chief minister to appear for questioning in a probe into alleged attempts to destabilize his own government has "crossed all limits" and made it "untenable" for those MLAs supporting him to work under Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The MLAs supporting Pilot cannot stand the repeated undermining of Pilot, also the state PCC chief, by the Gehlot camp and the letter by the police's special operations group (SOG) sent to the deputy chief minister was to "humiliate him", sources told PTI. Pilot is in Delhi, and MLAs supporting him have resolved that they cannot work under Gehlot's chief ministership after the letter was served to "publicly discredit" the PCC chief, sources said, and asserted that there were problems before also but this letter has crossed all limits and such humiliation cannot be tolerated. On the Rajasthan police issuing notice to Gehlot also to record his statement, sources said the notice to the chief minister, also holding the charge of state home affairs, was only an "eyewash" so that the deputy chief minister can be summoned by the SOG and humiliated. "Never before has a sitting state party president and deputy chief minister has been served with such a letter", a source said. The notices to Gehlot and Pilot were issued after the SOG on Friday registered an FIR against two people, who have been detained, for their alleged involvement in horse-trading of Congress MLAs for toppling the state government. Gehlot on Saturday accused the BJP of trying to topple his government by offering his legislators large sums of money, and said his administration is not just stable but will complete its five-year term. The BJP had asked Gehlot to prove his allegation of horse-trading levelled against it or quit politics, and claimed he was targeting the opposition party as he was unable to check the infighting in the state Congress. Soon after it had won the Assembly election, both Gehlot and Pilot were in the race for the chief minister's post. The party high command later named Gehlot as the CM and Pilot his deputy. The Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member state assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mlas-supporting-sachin-pilot-find-it-untenable-to-work-under-ashok-gehlot-after-sog-letter-to-dy-cm-sources-860393.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: FIR against journalist for raping girls; woman accomplice held||A case was registered against an elderly journalist and his female accomplice in Bhopal on Sunday in connection with the alleged rape of four girls and a woman, police said. The police have taken the accused woman into custody, while the man is absconding, an official said. "A case was filed against Pyare Miya (68) and his accomplice Sweeti Vishwakarma (21) under relevant sections of the IPC, including 376 (rape), and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for alleged sexual exploitation of four girls and a woman," Superintendent of Police (SP) of Bhopal (South) Sai Krishna Thota said. The case was registered at the city's Ratibad police station and it will be transferred to Shahpura police station, under whose jurisdiction the crime took place, he said. "The police had received information that four girls and a woman were roaming around in Ratibad area in a drunken state in the wee hours of Sunday," he said. The police called the child helpline and later questioned the girls, who told them that a man named Pyare Miya had invited them to a birthday party during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday in a flat under the Shahpura police station area of the city. One of these girls told the police that she was raped there by the man. The remaining four victims said that they had also been raped in the same flat by the accused on earlier occasions, Thota said. Ratibad police station sub-inspector Sanjeev Jakhar said that Pyare Miya is a journalist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-fir-against-journalist-for-raping-girls-woman-accomplice-held-860396.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||3-member SIT to probe Covid-19 testing scam in Amritsar: CM Amrinder Singh||A three-member Special Investigation Team will probe the alleged Covid-19 testing scam by a private lab in Amritsar, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Sunday. The chief minister announced this during his 'AskCaptain' Facebook Live session in which he warned that his government will not allow private hospitals or laboratories to profiteer from this unprecedented Covid-19 crisis facing humanity. Singh said he had received a complaint against the private lab and had asked the Vigilance Bureau to look into the matter. But when initial investigation showed that there was no involvement of any government department or officer, the case was transferred to the Punjab Police, he said. The three-member SIT will be headed by the police commissioner of Amritsar, who is a doctor, Singh said, adding that among its members will be a civil surgeon. Singh said that he has ordered the SIT to conduct a thorough investigation and submit its findings soon so that suitable action can be taken. Besides from the fact that the Vigilance Bureau had, prima facie, not found any complicity of any government department or official in the case, the lab itself had moved the court challenging the bureau's jurisdiction, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister's Office later said. The government deemed it fit to transfer the case to the Punjab Police to ensure that no legal hurdle is posed later, he said. The chief minister has also taken strong exception to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Majithia's attempts to "politicise" the simple jurisdictional decision of transferring the probe to the district police, the spokesperson said. Majithia on Saturday had demanded an independent inquiry by a central agency or a sitting judge of the high court into the "fake Covid-19 reports" scam by the private testing lab in Amritsar. Singh said that rather than raising such a "nonsensical" issue and weakening the morale of the police, Majitha should invest his time and energy in pressuring the SAD's political masters in Delhi to put a stop on the Central Bureau of Investigation's "interference" in the Punjab Police's probe into the Bargari and other sacrilege cases, and the subsequent policing firing incidents.           The SAD is an ally of the BJP, which is power at the Centre. On the issue of university and college exams for final-term students, the chief minister made it clear that he does not agree with the latest University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines that make it mandatory for the examinations to be held by September-end. The UGC should leave it to states to decide, given their ground realities in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. Singh hoped that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would understand the state's concern and intervene in the interest of the safety of students. He had written to Modi in this regard on Saturday. The chief minister tasked the education department to work out ways to ensure seamless delivery of education to students with no or inadequate online access. Given the Covid-19 situation, which is preventing regular offline classes to be held, it is imperative to ensure equal educational opportunity and access for all students, including the poor and rural students, Singh said in response to a question during the Facebook session. The department is exploring ways and means to deal with challenges of imparting education to those who do not have access to online systems, he said. The new processes would be put in place very soon to ensure that students do not suffer due to the prolonged suspension of physical classes, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-member-sit-to-probe-covid-19-testing-scam-in-amritsar-cm-amrinder-singh-860401.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Separatist leader, Jamaat members detained in Kashmir, to be booked under Public Safety Act: Police chief||Senior separatist leader Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, who was tipped to succeed Syed Ali Shah Geelani as chairman of the hardline faction of Hurriyat Conference, was on Sunday booked under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA) three weeks ahead of the first anniversary of revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status. Along with Sehrai, chairman of Muslim League Farooq Ahmed Tawhidi was also slapped with PSA, officials said. Sehrai, who is chairman of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat (TeH), was booked under the Public Safety Act, Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said. Nearly a dozen Jamaat-e-Islami leaders were also taken into custody ahead of the first anniversary of revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two union territories, the officials said. Sehrai and Tawhidi will be taken out of the Kashmir valley and lodged in a prison in Jammu region, they said. The PSA provides for detaining a person without trial for a period of one to two years, depending on the charges against the detenue. Sehrai, after being taken to Saddar police station near his Baghat Barzulla residence, was taken to the police hospital at the police control room where he underwent a medical check up -- a precursor to his formal booking under the PSA, they said. The police action comes days after veteran separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani announced his complete disassociation from Hurriyat Conference but pledged to continue his politics individually. The separatist conglomerate was planning to hold a meeting in the coming days to elect a new chairman to fill the post vacated by Geelani. Sehrai, a former Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) leader, is the chairman of TeH, a constituent of Hurriyat Conference which was headed by Geelani till he resigned from the amalgam last month. Seharai's son, Junaid Sehrai, a divisional commander of Hizbul Mujahideen, was killed in an encounter in Nawakadal area of the city in May this year. The officials said several other JeI cadres are being picked up ahead of the first anniversary of the revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The Centre on August 5 last year abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution which gave Jammu and Kashmir special status and divided the erstwhile state into two union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. A similar crackdown on separatist and JeI leaders was launched by the police ahead of the Centre's move last year. Most of the top separatist leaders are either under house arrest or in custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/separatist-leader-jamaat-members-detained-in-kashmir-to-be-booked-under-public-safety-act-police-chief-860406.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh minister tests positive for coronavirus||Uttar Pradesh Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Sports and Youth Welfare Upendra Tiwari tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, his representative said. Rakesh Chaubey 'Bhola', the minister's representative, said, "Tiwari felt feverish almost two days back and his Covid-19 test was done on Saturday." "The report on Sunday morning stated that Tiwari has tested positive for COVID-19," he said. Former India cricketer and cabinet minister for Sainik Welfare, Home Guards, PRD, Civil Security Chetan Chauhan has also tested positive for Covid-19. It came to light late on Saturday night that Chauhan had tested positive for the dreaded virus after his former colleagues Aakash Chopra and R P Singh took to Twitter to wish him a speedy recovery. "Chetan Chauhan ji is also tested positive for #COVIDー19. Sending best wishes in his direction too...get well soon, sir," Chopra said. "Just heard about @ChetanChauhanCr ji Chetan has tested positive for #coronavirus. Praying for his speedy recovery," Singh wrote. Thanking his well-wishers, Chauhan, the MLA from Naugawan Sadat assembly constituency in Amroha district, tweeted, "Your prayers will definitely work. I will get back to you healthily soon. All of you take care of yourself, thanks a lot." As of Sunday, Uttar Pradesh's tally of Covid-19 cases stands at 36,476 and the contagious disease has claimed 934 lives, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-minister-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-860418.html
12-07-2020||North and Central||J&K to welcome tourists arriving by air from next week||Days after opening parks and gardens to the public, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday decided to open the tourism sector in a phased manner with effect from Tuesday but limiting it to tourists arriving by air only. However, it advised the tourists above the age of 65 years to avoid coming to the union territory and also announced compulsory RT-PCR testing of all tourists at the airport on arrival.  Announcing the decision and the guidelines for entry of tourists in the UT in phase-1 valid with effect from July 14, an order issued by the State Executive Committee said, “Any deviation from this order shall attract penal action under the disaster management Act.” The tourism sector, the backbone of J&K's economy, was the worst hit by the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent nationwide lockdown in March. On July 8, the government opened gardens and parks to the public after 100 days of closure.   In phase-1, the order said there would be a partial opening of the tourism sector for external visitors from outside J&K, limited to tourists arriving by air only. "All incoming tourists must have confirmed hotel bookings for the duration of their stay. All incoming tourists must have confirmed return air tickets to any place outside J&K, either to their departure point or any other destination," the order said.  It said there would be compulsory RT-PCR testing of all tourists on arrival.  "Only tourists coming by air will be permitted. On arrival there shall be compulsory RT-PCR testing of all the tourists at the airport of arrival," it said.  The order said till the test result shows a negative result for Covid-19, a tourist would remain in the hotel where the booking has been made and shall not be permitted to move out.  It said the test results would normally arrive within 24 hours except in special circumstances. “The hotel management shall be required to ensure compliance with this protocol.” It said those tourists arriving with Covid-19 negative reports from their departure point would not be required to remain isolated in hotels. “They shall, however, be also required to give their sample for RT-PCR testing on arrival at the airport,” the order said, adding the tourists testing positive would be sent for treatment to a medical facility as per protocol.  It said the taxis or transport facilities have to be pre-booked through the hotel or travel agency for which procedures would be put in place by the tourism department on its website. "The tourists above the age of 65 should avoid coming on a tourism holiday. Tourists have to mandatorily pre-book their accommodation online in hotels, houseboats or guest houses.  "The proof of the same shall be checked on arrival. Taxis/transport to the hotel shall also be pre-booked by the hotels, travel agencies,” the order said, adding the list of such hotels and travel agencies would be available on the website of the J and K Tourism Department. It said all tourists should have the Arogya Setu app installed on their phones and shall be checked for 'safe' status on the app at the time of arrival before entering the premises. “The hotels, houseboats and guest houses or the travel agents will arrange for transport of the tourists to the airport for their departure from J&K,” as per the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-to-welcome-tourists-arriving-by-air-from-next-week-860419.html
12-07-2020||Opinion||Are we doing our real #WFH lives right? ||These days, I can’t make out where one activity ends and the next begins. There are mornings when I am stuck between a sink of unwashed dishes, an article that requires editing on the double and a homework submission that is not even mine to finish. I feel like I’ve fallen headlong into one long, unbroken activity with neither beginning nor end.  In the initial days of this new mode of existence, my brain very presciently read the hashtag #WFH as #WTF. Now, of course, I’ve become an expert at asking friends and acquaintances if they, too, are working from home or simply, WFH. Only, it’s not very clear to me, and it seems to those I am enquiring after, what this now commonplace term really signifies.  If we turn to the media, we have to be mostly content with advice on the right daily routines or the right furniture to achieve that perfect #WFH life. Online clothes retailers, I’ve realised lately, are one step ahead. There are now whole #WFH lines that you can order to wear to that all-important, ten-thousandth Zoom call.   Then, there is a glut of material warning us about the mental health impact of #WFH during these lockdowns and after. Although some of it has the merit of being well-intentioned, it’s largely uninspiring stuff. You’ll sooner find me outdoors in a crowded market area than browsing the internet for tips on how to maintain my ‘mental wellness’ at this time. I suspect that many like me are unconvinced about ‘mental health’ being just another internet keyword that can be maxed with listicles about what to do and what to avoid. All the same, it is becoming clearer that all of us need to process what has been happening over the past few months.  As lockdown has progressed into unlock, I sense that there are many more people who are feeling cut-off from themselves. Older people, for whom the act of going to the neighbourhood shop was never just that, want a breather. Every new extension of local containment measures seems to sap their spirits a little more. Children of all ages, but especially those for whom hanging out with friends is the most crucial aspect of their lives at this stage, are unable to understand why things can’t get back to normal. Those who are constantly ‘on’, whether working or doing something else, find themselves hostage to mind-numbing information loops that can’t be turned off.  For many, it may seem to crush their aliveness. I’ve caught myself feeling something close to total indifference towards all and everything on more than one occasion these past few weeks. With no clear end to the epidemic in sight, it is becoming apparent that the work of tending to our deeper emotional needs is something that each of us must undertake in earnest. I am not speaking here of people who might need help to manage existing mental health conditions or even emerging ones. These need to be looked at by doctors and professionals in the field. For many, there is the work of asking what it means to be really home and safe. To reflect upon what we mean when we speak of a ‘home’. While there is the physical structure and a place where we can ‘shelter in place’, what we are also talking about is a refuge. A sense of emotional security that was hopefully built up while being brought up by people who cared for us. Despite the widespread prevalence of the infection and the fear that we, or our loved ones, could be affected, are we able to locate an anchoring place, a home, from where we can operate on a day-to-day basis? It seems to me this is what really #WorkFromHome means right now. This task of locating our ‘homes’ and working from there is as important as, say, attending the next Hangout meeting or catching an upcoming deadline. As for me, I’ve found that I can cut through my lack of interest by doing what I love best -- writing in my journal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-we-doing-our-real-wfh-lives-right-860070.html
12-07-2020||Opinion||We know what we need to do, but we won’t do it||Last week, India overtook Russia to become the world’s third most-affected country. Meanwhile, at a time when hospitals have run out of beds to admit patients, doctors in Bengaluru warn us that our annual dengue season has begun. Simultaneously, North India braces itself to face a locust attack – caused by climate change – that is worse than anything we have faced in the past 26 years. At a time when agriculture is already in a serious crisis, locusts pose a major threat to the crops growing in farms across six northern states. Let’s move a bit farther out – much farther in fact, all the way out to Siberia. Siberia has long been known as one of the coldest inhabited parts of the world. Now? Parts of Siberia are on fire, reaching record temperatures that have crossed 38°C. The glaciers are melting, faster than ever before. The forest fires in Siberia pumped 59 million metric tons of CO2 into the air and atmosphere in June. That’s the order of emissions that a city like New York generates in a year.   Climate change is not a distant threat that lies in the future. The world ‘s environment is changing far faster than we thought. It is not our children and grandchildren alone who will bear the brunt of it. We will, too. We must gear up for the challenge. There are things we can do more easily, while other challenges will be very difficult to adapt to. If the weather system goes completely out of whack, can Bengaluru deal with a prolonged drought? That would be hard. But can we adapt to shorter, more irregular periods of rainfall that are more intense than before? Yes, we can – if each of us invests in rainwater harvesting structures, while the BBMP invests in the protection and restoration of lakes and their associated wetlands as functioning ecosystems. Of course, we are not doing this now. Instead, we persist in remaking our lakes into large pools of water, ringfenced with concrete jogging and walking tracks. Can we adapt to global warming? That may be a difficult task to deal with as a city. Instead, let’s ask – can Bengaluru reconfigure itself to reduce the threat of heatwaves, which arise from local urban heat islands caused by too much concrete? Of course, we can. We need to maintain our waterbodies and trees, and to plant millions of trees, to replace the many we have felled in the past. What are we doing, though? Rather than focusing on planting saplings, Bengaluru is engaged in plans to chop down thousands of trees. A plan to widen roads at the periphery of Bengaluru will leave us poorer by at least 8,500 trees. There is no proper environmental assessment that tells us the impact of such felling on our health, and physical and mental wellbeing. Some of these are gigantic trees that took decades, perhaps even centuries to grow to their current impressive size. What about air pollution? Bengaluru is one of the most polluted cities in India. During lockdown, air pollution levels in the city decreased by 28%, showing us what the city can achieve if public transport improves, helping more people move away from travel by cars. Trees are an important buffer against local air pollution, and locating trees on the side of roads is especially important. We seem intent on cutting trees across Bengaluru, though, incessantly widening roads, building flyovers and underpasses, only to demolish them for a new infrastructure project. It would be ideal if all other crises, local and global, would pause and give us a break while we are immersed in dealing with Covid-19. But that’s not going to happen. We need to invest our energies in making Bengaluru more resilient to future shocks -- epidemics, drought, heatwaves and air pollution are only part of a long list. Unfortunately, we seem determined to return to business as usual. Can’t we think of development with the environment, instead of against it?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/we-know-what-we-need-to-do-but-we-won-t-do-it-860071.html
12-07-2020||Opinion||Diseases without borders||It seems to me that while entire populations are focused on the economic devastation and the ever-increasing numbers of infections and fatalities brought on by Covid-19, some other pandemics also sweeping the world are largely being ignored. These other pandemics have to do with a mindset centred on the belief that certain lives are more valuable than others.  Donald Trump’s talk of ‘retaliation’ if the Indian government did not lift the ban on hydroxychloroquine, and India’s almost immediate capitulation, is a case in point. As to what form the ‘retaliation’ would take, one can only speculate, but sanctions and travel bans come to mind. The message that clearly came across is essentially this: American lives matter, Indian lives don’t. The Czech government’s seizing of face masks from an airliner bound for Italy while transiting through Prague is yet another example, except that the nationalities involved are different. The same may be said of French, German and Canadian lives vis-a-vis American ones. A French official’s suggestion that any putative coronavirus vaccines be first tested in Africa is perhaps the most egregious example of all since it shows utter contempt for African lives and an expression of racism in its crudest form. At least, the French official was being honest – it is no secret that medical research projects conducted by companies and universities have always involved men, women and children in countries such as Kenya, Tanzania, India, and Cameroon as guinea pigs for testing purposes. A mindset crossing international borders, no visa required and no wall to stop it.  The same mindset applies within a country’s borders. Across boundaries demarcating states, cities, towns and villages. Across racial and ethnic lines.  Across income levels. Across the digital divide. And, of course, political and religious affiliations. The list keeps growing. Just like the coronavirus. So, what does all of the above have to do with the current pandemic? Well, they represent a ready-made set of criteria which can be used in determining who among those infected (or has the potential for being infected) will get preference when it comes to distributing medical supplies, medical equipment administering coronavirus tests and the vaccine, when one becomes available. It is already happening in India, the US and elsewhere. Just think of the migrant workers who were subject to all manner of abuse as they trekked home, or the wealthy flying off to remote islands to isolate themselves without a care for what might happen to the locals. You may wish to supplement your knowledge of world history by finding out how smallpox got to the Americas and the ultimate impact it had on the natives. Perhaps you knew that already. Isn’t it curious that the coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, did not get labelled as the ‘China virus’ until the virus reached American shores? Recent genome studies have shown that most New York coronavirus infections came from travellers in Europe, mainly Italy. Perhaps, in the US, the pandemic should be called ‘Italian virus’, but it is not. After all, making China responsible for the virus-related economic fallout in the US and requiring it to pay could result in a significant reduction in the China-US trade imbalance. Name-calling is both good politics and may prove economically beneficial, given the right circumstances. Globalisation can tear down barriers quickly, but xenophobia and racism can put them back again, equally quickly. Meanwhile, social media disinformation, hoarding and price-gouging continue unchecked, unabated. According to the 18th century Swiss philosopher Jean Jacques Rousseau, during the French Revolution, when starving peasants were demanding bread, Queen Marie Antoinette is reported to have remarked, “Let them eat cake”? The veracity of the remark notwithstanding, I wouldn’t at all be surprised if modern-day emperors without clothes subscribe to similar sentiments. May we live in less interesting times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/diseases-without-borders-860072.html
12-07-2020||Opinion||The myth of Modi||The BJP responded to Chinese aggression in Ladakh by fiercely asking Indians, “What about Nehru?” This loudly nationalist government was first silent; then denied it; then lied; then belatedly uninstalled TikTok; then said it was in talks; then effectively conceded territory; and oh look, Vikas Dubey. People mistake mockery of the BJP’s lame reaction for warmongering. Far from it -- I would advocate every other possible solution before asking more soldiers to give up their lives. It is merely a mockery of its hypocrisy. If the BJP didn’t beat its nationalism drum until everyone’s ears bleed, it would look less ridiculous when circumstances rightly call for restraint and rationality. But it needs nationalism, to erase all kinds of unsavoury truths. The ugliest part of the BJP’s nationalism is that it isn’t even nationalism -- it’s just a tool to gain power. No surprise, given that its forebears largely sat out the freedom struggle. It is not ‘country first’, else it wouldn’t lie to the country; nor ‘people first’, since Indians live under the yoke of fear, surveillance and vindictive reprisal. It cannot be ‘party first’, since without Modi the party would founder. It is not even ‘Modi first’, dear reader. It is ‘the myth of Modi first’. The myth of Modi -- strong, decisive, nationalist, democratic, economic genius, versatile genius, internationally acclaimed visionary, ace administrator, friend to the poor, terror to terrorists, Hero No. 1 in the eyes of all the world -- must be constantly replenished to eclipse his reality. Else India would see a man who lies, breaks his promises, who has crippled the economy, made cringeworthy diplomatic love only to be snubbed or stabbed in the back, who has diminished every democratic institution and norm, and created a fresh humanitarian crisis in the middle of a pandemic, and gave up Indian territory -- all without ever holding an open press conference. The myth of Modi is his sole engine of self-preservation. And upon this blinding 56-inch breastplate, strapped over the shrivelled, moth-eaten truth, rests everything else -- his power, the BJP’s power which he fuels, and the government’s power to say that black is white. Does Modi say there has been no talk of the NRC? Well then, there has been no talk of the NRC. Truth is whatever Modi says it is. The myth-making engine has become monstrous, feeding on money, fakery, fear, ambition, greed, and delusion. It has fattened on the self-respect of journalism and eaten away the majesty of the law. It can’t stop, because the stakes are too high. The more reality flies in the face of the myth, the more reality must be mythified. Hence the saturation media campaigns about each ‘masterstroke’ and, when it fails, its opposite -- Modi holding hands with Nawaz Sharif, obliterated by the surgical strike; Modi on a golden swing with Xi, obliterated by Modi in camouflage in Ladakh. Inconvenient Indians still see a reality unsanctioned by the myth of Modi, including the fact that he is the Wizard of Oz, all fart and no poop. More than that, he and his government are destroying India. It’s all becoming harder to dress up. Controlling the terms of nationalism is an easy way to distract from truth and crush opposition. Is it any wonder that the myth-makers have taken off the gloves and picked up baseball bats, hiding the debacle in Ladakh behind their persecution of ‘internal enemies’? It would be laughable, except that being vilified, sued, beaten, jailed, and killed, thanks to that same bright breastplate, is not remotely funny. The BJP’s fake nationalism is merely a means to power, and it will cling to that power at the cost of rising unemployment, at the cost of ethics and of people’s lives and well-being; first of all, at the cost of truth; and ultimately at the cost of the country. What could be more anti-national than that? Satyameva Jayate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-myth-of-modi-860073.html
12-07-2020||Opinion||Xi’s China must watch out, it is overextending itself||Information trickling in from highly reliable sources on the Ladakh stand-off about Chinese forces withdrawing should come as great relief and as a victory for the Narendra Modi government’s efforts to diffuse the situation. The partial disengagement, after nearly nine weeks of stand-off between the Indian Army and an intruding PLA along the LAC, and the clashes on the night of June 15, in which we lost 20 soldiers, is the worst incident in several decades. The withdrawal symptoms will be severe for the Chinese as they are not used to easily giving up usurped territories. While India continues to repose faith in resolving the present conflict through diplomatic channels and structured talks, military preparedness cannot be lowered. Experts and citizens alike have warned the government about the treacherous behaviour of China in 1962, when withdrawal of forces was followed by a renewed attack leading to disastrous consequences for India. New Delhi will have to explore all other options to counter China’s expansionism under Xi Jinping, like using the Tibet issue as leverage, joining the nascent global anti-China coalition, extending support to the gathering anti-China momentum in Hong Kong, scaling up economic, military and diplomatic engagement with Taiwan, increasing our naval capabilities in the Indian Ocean Region, stepping on to the next level of action plan on the Quad and Indo-Pacific trade and security architecture, to list a few.   The present area of conflict is of great strategic importance to India as the Galwan Valley is close to Aksai Chin, which was one of the major conflict zones since 1959 when China usurped Tibet completely, forcing the Dalai Lama to flee and take refuge in India. The PLA is holding on in many other crucial positions all along the LAC close to the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie (DSDB) road that links Leh to Siachen Glacier and Karakoram Highway. For China, this Indian territory is at the southern tip of Xinjiang, which Mao annexed in 1955. There are reports of Chinese maps showing Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary in eastern Bhutan (bordering Arunachal Pradesh) as part of China and laying claim to the Russian territories of Khabarovsk and Vladivostok. In fact, China has a boundary dispute with Bhutan in the western and middle sector of their boundary but this is the first time that Beijing is picking up a fight with Bhutan on the eastern sector of their border as well. China’s expansionist agenda started with Mao in 1949 and is continuing today, with scant respect for world opinion or the very principles of co-existence that they have been flashing before the world since the 1950s. It is no secret that Mao fashioned his People’s Republic of China (PRC) on the premise that modern China is the resurrection of the centuries-old Zhou Empire, Middle Kingdom or Zhongguo, that lived under the illusion that it was the centre of the world and all else outside it were uncivilised and must know-tow to the Chinese emperor. Zhonghua renmin gongheguo, the official Chinese name of the People’s Republic of China (PRC), has come to symbolise the idea of ethnocentrism, the notion of superior race with an exceptional right to make rules and not merely follow them. Once such a template is set and an indelible blueprint is decided and handed out for action with no exit plan, the working tools become irreplaceable and indispensable. That is what has happened to the Chinese Communist Party. China’s expansionist agenda is the ultimate mandate for the CCP, with a clear political aim of gaining military and economic supremacy by seizing global institutions and resetting the global architecture. The veneer of Communism came off after Mao’s death and the disintegration of the USSR but Beijing continues to hang on to the fiction because it is convenient for the CCP to remain in control of 1.4 billion people. China is thus a country with religious people governed by a totalitarian Communist oligarchy powered by the Capitalist economic model. China’s top leaders have to necessarily ride the tiger, nay dragon, they have mounted to remain relevant and to keep the centuries-old Zhonghua era philosophy of the “Chinese dream” alive. But the philosophers of that era like Confucius advocated humanity and kindness as “social glue” to keep the society cohesive and to avoid conflicts between states. In today’s China, a leader who combines all the authority in one seat and prefers to remain unanswerable and unaccountable, is following in the footsteps of many other fascist dictators, exhibiting the qualities of a megalomaniac presiding over a cult rather than over a country which can boast of lofty philosophical traditions and a glorious civilisational past. A rising China cannot invest its future in one individual, the failed dogma of Communism and emerging as a bully on the world stage. If it continues on this path and unifies the rest of the world against it, far from becoming the world’s centre of gravity, China will over the next decades find itself marginalised and written off as a Jurassic park of withered dragons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/xi-s-china-must-watch-out-it-is-overextending-itself-860074.html
12-07-2020||Opinion||The Chinese decade: Rise of a new global superpower||It is quite extraordinary that a pandemic originating in a Chinese province, a disease whose initial cover-up briefly seemed likely to deal a grave blow to the Communist regime, has instead given China a geopolitical opportunity unlike any enjoyed by an American rival since at least the Vietnam War. This opportunity has been a long time building. Across the 2000s and early 2010s, China’s ruling party reaped the benefits of globalization without paying the cost, in political liberalization, that confident Westerners expected the economic opening to impose. This richer-but-not-freer China proved that it was possible for an authoritarian power to tame the internet, to make its citizens hardworking capitalists without granting them substantial political freedoms, to buy allies across the developing world, and to establish beachheads of influence — in Hollywood, Silicon Valley, American academia, the NBA, Washington, D.C. — in the power centers of its superpower rival. Eventually, America responded to all this as you would expect a superpower to react: It elected a China hawk who promised to get tough on Beijing, to bring back jobs lost to the China shock, and to shift foreign policy priorities from the Middle East to the Pacific. But there was one small difficulty: This hawk was no Truman or Reagan, but rather a reality-television mountebank whose real attitude toward China policy was, basically, gets me reelected. A mountebank, and also a world-historical incompetent, who was presented with exactly the challenge that his nationalism was supposed to answer — a dangerous disease carried by global trade routes from our leading rival — and managed to turn it into an American calamity instead. So China has won twice over: First rising with the active collaboration of naive American centrists, and then consolidating its gains with the de facto collaboration of a feckless American populist. Four months into the coronavirus era, Xi Jinping’s government is throttling Hong Kong, taking tiny bites out of India, saber-rattling with its other neighbors, and perpetrating a near-genocide in its Muslim West. Meanwhile, America is rudderless and leaderless, consumed by protests and elite psychodrama and a moral crusade whose zeal seems turned entirely inward, with no time to spare for a rival power’s crimes. Furthermore, Donald Trump’s likely successor is a figure whose record and instincts and family connections all belong to the recent period of American illusions about China. Joe Biden speaks more hawkishly than he did five years ago, but the very thing that makes him effective as a foil to Trump — his promise of a return to Obama-era normalcy — also makes him an unlikely person to drastically reevaluate the choices that gave China its advantages today. If you were scripting a historical moment when a rising power overtakes a fading hegemon, the cascade from establishment naiveté through Trumpian folly to the coronavirus disaster would be almost too on-the-nose. And foreign policy hands who fear a “Thucydides trap” — a scenario where a rising and an established power end up, like Athens and Sparta, in a war — have good reasons to be nervous about how the current combination of Chinese ambition and American decline might play out in, say, the Taiwan Strait. But there is another way to look at things. It’s possible that we’re nearing a peak of U.S.-China tension not because China is poised to permanently overtake the United States as a global power, but because China itself is peaking — with a slowing growth rate that may leave it short of the prosperity achieved by its Pacific neighbors, a swiftly aging population, and a combination of self-limiting soft power and maxed-out hard power that’s likely to diminish, relative to the U.S. and India and others, in the 2040s and beyond. Instead of a Chinese Century, in other words, the coronavirus might be ushering in a Chinese Decade, in which Xi Jinping’s government behaves with maximal aggression because it sees an opportunity that won’t come again. That aggression has inward and outward manifestations. The inward form is the attempt to lock in Han preeminence in China by forcibly suppressing non-Han birthrates, so that population decline doesn’t lead to swings in ethnic power. The outward form is what you see in Hong Kong and might see with Taiwan soon — an attempt to reach greedily for Greater China goals because the odds of success look better now than in the further future. If this is China’s true strategic calculus, it won’t make the 2020s any less dangerous. (History is thick with reckless decisions made because great powers felt that long-term trends had turned against them.) But it should condition the U.S. policy response, whether under a President Biden or a future Republican with more capabilities than Trump, toward a balance between resolve and caution, hawkishness and restraint. If we show too much indecision and weakness, or just too obvious a desire for the pre-Trump status quo, then Beijing’s escalation will continue, and the risks of war will rise. But if we find a way to contain China for a decade, the Chinese century could be permanently postponed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-chinese-decade-rise-of-a-new-global-superpower-860094.html
12-07-2020||South||9 deaths, 1,178 new Covid-19 cases in Telangana||Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Telangana on Saturday, with as many as 1,178 new cases and nine fatalities being reported, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 33,402 and deaths to 348. Out of the 1,178 fresh cases, 736 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Ranga Reddy and Medchal districts with 125 and 101 cases respectively. A state government bulletin said 20,919 people have been discharged so far, while 12,135 were under treatment. According to the bulletin, 11,062 samples were tested on Saturday, which is the highest number till date for a day. Cumulatively, 1,62,171 samples have been tested. As of Saturday, the government hospitals have established a capacity of 17,081 Covid beds, of which 11,928 are isolation ones and 3537 are oxygen beds, according to the bulletin. It also said 1,616 are ICU beds.  The bed occupancy is 10.7 per cent as of today and 89.3 per cent of the available beds are vacant. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and sufficient beds are available in government hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/9-deaths-1178-new-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-860079.html
12-07-2020||South||Union Minister Kishan Reddy visits Covid-19 hospital in Hyderabad, assures all support from Centre||The Union Minister of State for Home interacted with doctors, paramedical staff and patients in the state-run hospital and enquired about the facilities being provided and measures being taken to handle the pandemic besides inspecting the hygiene conditions, an official release said. He appreciated the efforts of doctors and other healthcare personnel of the hospital, which also functions as a Covid care centre, and "expressed gratitude for their godly service boosting their morale," it said. Reddy, who represents Secunderabad here in Lok Sabha, assured the patients and the doctors of all possible support from the Central government, it added. He had visited different hospitals in the city on Saturday and spoke to the doctors and staff about testing, facilities and measures to handle the pandemic. As on Saturday, Telangana's Covid-19 tally stood at 33,402 with 348 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-minister-kishan-reddy-visits-covid-19-hospital-in-hyderabad-assures-all-support-from-centre-860158.html
12-07-2020||South||Puducherry reports 81 fresh coronavirus cases; tally rises to 1,418||The Covid-19 tally in Puducherry rose to 1,418 on Sunday with 81 more people testing positive for the infection, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. The fresh cases were detected out of 866 samples tested in the last 24 hours ended at 10 AM in the Union Territory, which worked out to a positivity rate of 9.2 percent, he told reporters here. The total active cases in the UT stood at 661 with cumulative recoveries of 739 people after treatment. As many as 42 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. There were no fresh deaths and the toll remained at 18, he said, adding the fatality rate was 1.3 percent. Rao continued to insist that there should be a total lockdown on Sundays in the Union Territory as being enforced in neighbouring Tamil Nadu although Chief Minister V Narayanasamy had ruled it out. "I have urged the Chief Minister at least five times since recently for a lockdown on Sunday," he said expressing hope that at least from next Sunday it would be enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus. The Minister urged people to follow the safety norms to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Giving details of fresh cases, he said 71 patients had been admitted to hospitals here and the remaining to the government general hospital in Karaikal. Rao said of the 25,342 samples tested so far in the UT, a total of 23,697 turned out to be negative. The UT's Puducherry region had 581 active cases, Karaikal 52, Yanam 25 and Mahe three. He said insurance coverage would be available to all those involved in anti-Covid-19 measures in Puducherry. Director of Health and Family Welfare S.Mohan Kumar, who was also present, said a Covid-19 affected woman delivered a baby on Friday last at the government hospital in Karaikal. The baby had been kept in isolation and after 15 days would be screened for coronavirus. Both the woman and the baby were in a healthy condition now, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-81-fresh-coronavirus-cases-tally-rises-to-1418-860190.html
12-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Kerala's coastal area accords warm reception to health workers||Poonthura, a coastal area of Thiruvananthapuram city, where Covid-19 super spread was confirmed last week, on Friday witnessed a group of agitated people blocking health workers and even coughing at them as they felt that the Poonthura locality was being framed as the hub of Covid-19 in the state capital. However, on Sunday the same locality witnessed the local people according to floral reception to a medical team as an act of remorse. Of the 489 Covid-19 active cases in Thiruvananthapuram, the major chuck are at Poonthura. A super spread was confirmed in the locality and strict restrictions were imposed. Subsequently, there were alerts that since a large section of people of the locality were involved in fish sales at various parts of the city the chances of Corona's spread to other parts of the city through people of Poonthura was quite high. These reports have not gone down well with the people of the coastal area, who are quite sensitive, as they felt that a deliberate attempt was going on to frame the locality as the hub of Covid-19. They also alleged poor Covid-19 care facilities and insufficient supply of essential commodities in the locality which was declared containment zone.  To protest against this a group of local people came out to the streets and staged a protest on Friday. During the melee, a car in which a health team came for conducting rapid antigen tests were blocked by a section of agitated local people. Some of them put their head inside the car and coughed, saying that if the people of Poonthura were Covid-19 infected, let it spread to everyone. This incident had been widely condemned and many social workers and religious heads of the locality carried out a massive awareness campaign among the people. Government agencies ensured an adequate supply of food items and better Covid-19 care facilities were offered. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan even alleged of attempts by political opponents to create unrest among the local people. These had prompted the people of Poonthura to accord a warm reception to the health team that came down for conducting antigen tests on Sunday. Women and men showered flowers at the vehicles of the medical team and priest Bebinson Anthoniadimai of the local church received the team with bouquets. The local people ensured full cooperation with the efforts to fight Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-keralas-coastal-area-accords-warm-reception-to-health-workers-860196.html
12-07-2020||South||Karnataka's Covid-19 tally may double in next 15-30 days: Health Minister||The number of coronavirus cases in Karnataka may double in the next 15 to 30 days and the coming two months would emerge as a big challenge for the government in tackling the pandemic, state Health Minister B Sriramulu has said. However, there was no need for any panic and people should follow the Covid-19 related regulations to stay safe, he said in a series of tweets. As on Saturday, the cumulative tally of Covid-19 cases in the state touched 36,216, including 613 fatalities and 14,716 discharges. "Lockdown has been announced in Bengaluru from Tuesday 8 pm for the next seven days. Abide by the regulations," he tweeted. Every day more than 2,000 cases of coronavirus are coming to fore," Sriramulu said late Saturday. "The number of coronavirus cases may double in the next 15 to 30 days in Karnataka. The next two months set to pose a big challenge before us," he tweeted. Asserting that the state government was initiating all measures to control the coronavirus, Sriramulu said: "There is no need to panic or lose hope." Meanwhile, former chief minister and JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy supported the complete lockdown announced by the government in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts from July 14 to 22 in the wake of a spike in new cases in the past several days. He said there was a need to impose lockdown in other 'critical' districts and also demanded to ban inter-district travel except for the transportation of essential commodities. "As Covid-19 cases are increasing in the state day by day, based on the advice of experts, complete lockdown will be imposed in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural from July 14 Tuesday 8 pm to 5 am on July 22," Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had said in a statement on Saturday. The announcement came as the state recorded its single-day highest of 2,798 new cases and 70 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnatakas-covid-19-tally-may-double-in-next-15-30-days-health-minister-860202.html
12-07-2020||South||Visually impaired couple find savings of Rs 24,000 in demonetised currencies in TN||A visually impaired couple making a living by selling incense sticks in this district were shocked to learn their hard-earned cash savings of Rs 24,000 was worthless, being in Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes demonetised nearly four years ago. Somu (58) of remote Pothiya Moopanure village claimed he came to know about the scrapping of the high-value currency notes in November 2016 only on Friday when he took the savings of him and his wife Palaniammal to deposit in a bank. They chose to tap the reserve, kept with the man's illiterate mother, as they could not make earnings in the last four months owing to Covid-19 lockdown, he told reporters on Saturday. Somu had taken the cash to a bank for depositing when the officials there told him that the notes were demonetised. He said the money was saved by him and his wife over ten years from the sale of incense sticks and camphor in nearby Anthiyur and surrounding areas. Every week, he used to handover some money with his mother living with them and she kept it carefully. On a regular interval, he used to convert the cash into Rs 500 or Rs 1,000, he said. All the three were not aware of the demonetisation of Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,000 currencies, he maintained. Somu said he has sent a memorandum to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami to help his family. Police said they would inquire into the matter. In a similar case last year, two elderly sisters in neighbouring Tirupur district found their live-time savings of Rs 46,000 were in the demonetised Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 currency notes. However, District Collector K Vijayakarthikeyan played the role of a good samaritan and had arranged for an old-age pension for Thangammal (78) and Rangammal (75).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/visually-impaired-couple-find-savings-of-rs-24000-in-demonetised-currencies-in-tn-860204.html
12-07-2020||South||Devotee offers 20 gold bars in Tirumala temple 'hundi'||An unidentified devotee has offered 20 gold bars to the shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala Hills, near here, a top official of the temple said on Sunday. The gold bars weighing 2 kg were found in the 'hundi' (offering box) on Saturday when the day's collection was being counted, executive officer of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Anil Kumar Singhal said. The TTD governs the ancient hill temple. The total cash offerings amounted to Rs 16.7 crore during the last one month after the shrine was re-opened on June 11 following the coronavirus lockdown, Singhal said. About 2.5 lakh devotees thronged the shrine during the month, he said. Meanwhile, about 67,000 devotees, who had booked tickets online for worship, did not visit the temple for different reasons, including Covid-19 related issues, Singhal said. As many as 91 TTD staff members in the hills have tested positive for the virus as far after tests were conducted on 3,569 employees, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/devotee-offers-20-gold-bars-in-tirumala-temple-hundi-860209.html
12-07-2020||South||LDF, UDF two sides of same coin: J P Nadda at Kerala event||Nadda alleged that the Left government in the state was "inefficient, corrupt and believed" in violence. Speaking from the national capital at the inauguration of a party office in Kerala's Kasaragod district, Nadda said the CPI(M)-led LDF and the Congress-led UDF were two sides of the same coin and sought people's support to his party. With the BJP has been unable to make a serious political impact in the southern state despite its increased vote share in recent polls, Nadda accused the LDF and the UDF of joining hands to keep his party at bay and asserted that the saffron organisation was determined to emerge victorious there.  Nadda attacked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is a Lok Sabha MP from the state, as well for his criticism of the Modi government on the border standoff with China. In a dig at Gandhi, he said wryly that the country was aware of his patriotism, and added that the Congress leader had "secretly" met the Chinese envoy in India during the Doklam crisis and "misled" the nation before people got to know about it when the envoy put out the information. Gandhi skipped 11 meetings of the Parliament's committee on defence, and this shows his dedication to the issue, Nadda said and accused him of "demoralising" the defence forces. Raking up the gold smuggling case, which is being probed by the NIA, Nadda said the colour of gold is "red" in the state, as he attacked the Left government over the alleged role of an officer who worked in the chief minister's office. "Misappropriation of funds, atrocities against Dalits and women, nepotism in political appointments and political patronage are prevalent under the Pinarayi government. Not only is it inefficient but it is also corrupt. It also believes in violence," he said. Over 270 BJP workers have been killed in "CPI(M)-sponsored" political violence in the last two decades, Nadda said. The coronavirus situation in Kerala, he alleged, was messed up by the Left government as it suppressed actual figures and did not pay heed to experts' calls for ramping up testing facilities. "It has played politics at a time of crisis," Nadda said, adding that over 1.21 lakh people brought to the state as part of the Vande Bharat Mission were not given adequate help. On the other hand, he said, the Modi government has left "no stone unturned" to push development in the state. More than Rs 2 lakh crore has been given for the development of railway infrastructure, Rs 64,000 crore for national highways and Rs 3,400 crore for developing the Cochin shipyard, Nadda said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has an "emotional bonding" with Kerala, he said, highlighting the PM's interactions with its diaspora during his visits to the Gulf countries. Though the BJP has no Lok Sabha MP from the state, the party has given it representation in Rajya Sabha and a voice in the Union government by making V Muraleedharan a minister, Nadda added. Assembly election is due in Kerala next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldf-udf-two-sides-of-same-coin-j-p-nadda-at-kerala-event-860236.html
12-07-2020||South||Sunday lockdown brings Tamil Nadu to a standstill||Tamil Nadu came to a virtual standstill under an intense 'Sunday lockdown' to help fight Covid-19 as people stayed indoors, vehicles stayed off the roads and markets and shops were shut down. Chief Minister K Palaniswami, meanwhile, announced extension of intense lockdown in Madurai and nearby regions including the Paravai Town Panchayat and several village panchayats till July 14. While roads were deserted, only police and health personnel could be spotted and hospitals, labs, ambulance services and pharmacies alone worked as per government directives. Today is the second successive Sunday of implementation of 'intense lockdown without any relaxations' across the state and such curbs will be observed on two more Sundays this month. The state-wide intense lockdown is part of measures initiated by the government to help battle Covid-19. Major urban centres, Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchirappalli besides semi-urban and rural regions witnessed a complete lull. Health workers, however, continued their routine of door-to-door checks to ascertain if people had flu-like symptoms in Chennai and several other parts of Tamil Nadu. Sanitary personnel of civic bodies carried on with their work of cleaning up and disinfecting roads, streets, bus stations, markets and other locations frequented by the people. In Chennai, mist cannons which are huge blowers mounted on trucks, went around several neighbourhoods spraying disinfectant fumes and in containment zones, in addition to localities with positive patients. Health Minister C Vijayabaskar said of the 43,000 pulse oximeters ordered, 23,000 have been received and the remainder would arrive soon. More such devices, which measure oxygen levels in blood, would be procured if there was a need for it, he said. Fever camps were held in a slew of neighbourhoods here and Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash inspected the initiatives. In the camps, oxygen saturation levels of people were checked with pulse oximeters. In general, according to experts, if anyone's oxygen level slips below 94 per cent they must seek medical help immediately. Chennai police said except vehicles meant for milk distribution and those used for medical, emergency and funeral purposes, no other private vehicles would be allowed to ply on roads. Vehicles used for purposes other than these would be detained, police said adding as many as 193 check posts have been set up in the city for monitoring. For queries, traffic control room here may be contacted at 044-23452330, a police release said. The intense lockdown was implemented from June 19 to July 5, in Chennai and parts of neighbouring Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts. In Madurai, similar restrictions came into effect on June 24 and would be operational till July 14. The curbs in the southern regions, effective from June 24, have been extended to help more detection of people with flu-like and coronavirus symptoms and further aid prevention of the spread of the pathogen, the Chief Minister said. Utilising the lockdown, fever camps and door-to-door surveys were intensified to identify more people with symptoms and help prevent spread of the virus by treating them, he added. The stringent restrictions, first extended till July 5 and later till today, has now been extended for the third time in Madurai and nearby regions. From July 15, relaxations previously applicable like extended business hours for shops selling essentials would again come into force, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sunday-lockdown-brings-tamil-nadu-to-a-standstill-860249.html
12-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh records new single-day high of 1,933 cases, 19 deaths||A new daily record of 1,933 cases pushed the coronavirus tally in Andhra Pradesh to 29,168 on Sunday. The Covid-19 toll escalated to 328 as the state reported a fresh single-day high of 19 deaths, the government said in its latest bulletin. In the last 24 hours ended at 10 AM, a total of 846 patients were discharged from hospitals upon recovering from the infection, it said. So far, 15,412 coronavirus infected patients had recovered in the state, leaving 13,428 active cases. The gross 29,168 positive cases included 26,336 locals, 2,403 from other states and 429 foreign returnees. Guntur district now crossed the 3,000 mark, with 3,019 cases behind Kurnool (3,405) and Anantapuramu (3,290). The state so far tested 11,53,849 samples with a positivity rate of 2.53 per cent but the recovery rate slumped to 52.84 per cent. The mortality rate remained at 1.12 per cent, as per the government statistics. Meanwhile, there were widespread complaints about poor quality of food being provided to patients and bad sanitation in government-run Covid-19 hospitals. "Based on the complaints, the Chief Minister has directed that the Joint Collector (Development) in each district be made the nodal officer to check the quality of food and also sanitation in hospitals. "The government is spending Rs 500 per head, per day, on food so it should be of that (high) quality, state Covid-19 nodal officer and Principal Secretary M T Krishna Babu said. The government has ordered third-party random checks to monitor the food quality and ensure consistency and quality, besides standardisation of the menu. We are taking the help of IRCTC in packing the food in a proper manner, Krishna Babu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-records-new-single-day-high-of-1933-cases-19-deaths-860278.html
12-07-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case accused remanded; IAS officer likely to be quizzed||While the two accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case held from Bengaluru on Saturday were produced before the NIA court in Kochi on Sunday and remanded, a Malappuram-based businessman, Rameez, who was suspected to be involved in distribution of smuggled gold, was taken into custody by the customs. The NIA was learnt to be initiating steps for extradition of another accused in the case Fazil Fareed, who was suspected to be sending the gold from Dubai, while the Customs officials were likely to quiz Kerala chief minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar as it was suspected that the gold smuggling case accused used to meet at his flat in Thiruvananthapurm city. There was no evidence for his involvement in gold smuggling, said sources. Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, and Sandeep Nair, who runs an automobile carbon care centre here, were held from a hideout in Bengaluru. They were the second and fourth accused. They were brought to Kochi by road and produced before NIA special court after collecting sample for COVID test. They were remanded for three days and NIA is likely to file application seeking their custody on Monday. Sources said that the third accused in the case Fazil Fareed was suspected to be in UAE. He hailed from Kodungallor in Thrissur district and later shifted to Ernakulam. NIA was learnt to have initiated steps for his extradition. Meanwhile, the Congress and BJP alleged that Swapna and Sandeep managed to reach the hideout in Bengaluru from Kerala amidst travel restrictions over COVID with the help of influential persons in Kerala government. Various youth outfits of Congress and BJP staged demonstrations against Swapna and Sandeep at various parts of the state while they were being brought to Kerala from Karnataka by road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-accused-remanded-ias-officer-likely-to-be-quizzed-860284.html
12-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 4,244 Covid-19 cases, 69 fatalities||After a gap of a few days, the number of Covid-19 cases shot past the 4,000 mark on Sunday in Tamil Nadu with 4,244 fresh infections being reported, taking the tally to 1,38,470, the health department said. Sixty nine fatalities pushed the death count to 1,966, it said in a bulletin. Tamil Nadu had reported 4,343 cases on July 2, 4,329 on July 3 and 4,280 on July 4. The bulletin said the number of recoveries continued to remain significant as 3,617 people were discharged after recovery. Cumulatively, 89,532 patients have been discharged following treatment till date, while active cases, including those in isolation, stood at 46,969, the bulletin said. A total of 16,09,448 samples have been tested to date, of which 42,531 were on Sunday alone, it said Chennai continued to record a dip on the number of fresh cases as 1,168 people tested positive for the virus totalling 77,338 till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-4244-covid-19-cases-69-fatalities-860318.html
12-07-2020||South||Kasargod witnesses spike in Covid-19 local spread; two more deaths in Kerala take toll to 31||Kerala's Kasargod seems to be witnessing a fresh wave of concern with 41 of the 56 new Covid-19-infected persons in the district getting infected through local contacts. With that, the total tally of Covid-19 active cases in the district has reached 222. The number of cases through local spread continued to remain high in Kerala on Sunday. Of the 435 fresh Covid-19 cases, 206 were through local contacts. Poonthura in Thiruvananthapuram, where a super spread was confirmed, did not witness a fresh spike on Sunday. However, 31 of the 40 fresh cases in the state capital were through local contacts. Meanwhile, a 63-year-old woman who died in Thrissur and a 52-year-old Alappuzha native who died a few days back were found to be Covid-19 positive, taking the Covid-19 death toll in Kerala to 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargod-witnesses-spike-in-covid-19-local-spread-two-more-deaths-in-kerala-take-toll-to-31-860328.html
12-07-2020||South||Covid-19 tally rises to 7,873 in Kerala with 435 new cases||Kerala on Sunday reported more than 400 positive coronavirus cases for the third consecutive day, taking the tally of infections in the state to 7,873. State Health Minister K K Shailaja said 435 fresh cases were reported with Palakkad topping the list, with 59 cases The state also reported two Covid-19 deaths after the test results of 63-year-old Thrissur native who passed away on July 5 and a 52-year-old man from Alappuzha who passed away on July 7, came positive on Sunday. The state has reported 31 deaths so far. "Alappuzha district has 57 cases while Kasaragod has 56 cases. Ernakulam reported 50 cases and Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram reported 42 and 40 cases respectively," Shailaja said in a release. Out of the 435 new cases, 128 had returned from abroad, 87 came from other states while 206 people contracted the disease through contact. At least 10 health workers and two jawans from Defence Security Corps (DSC) and CISF were also among the infected. However, 132 people were declared negative of coronavirus on Sunday, taking the total number of those cured to 4,097. "As of now, 3,743 people are under treatment in the state. At least 1,81,784 people are under observation in the state out of which 3,990 are in isolation wards at various hospitals across the state," Minister said. The health department has tested at least 13,478 samples in the last 24 hours, the release said. The government has declared 30 regions in the state as hotspots taking the total number to 222. Meanwhile, the government has decided to implement triple lockdown in containment zones along the coastal areas in the state from July 13 till July 23. "The families in the containment zones will be provided five kg of rice free of cost. The essential shops in these areas can function from 10 am to 6 pm. There is a travel ban from 7 pm to 5 am unless it's an emergency," the release said. As per the latest medical bulletin, the state capital has 548 Covid-19 patients, the highest in the state, followed by Malappuram district with 521 cases and Alappuzha district with 372 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tally-rises-to-7873-in-kerala-with-435-new-cases-860336.html
12-07-2020||South||48 persons, including 28 policemen, test Covid-19 positive at Telangana Raj Bhavan; Governor tests negative||48 persons, including 28 policemen, have tested positive in the Covid-19 tests conducted at the Telangana Raj Bhavan. Telangana governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan who also took the test is negative. While a total 395 samples were tested in Raj Bhavan, 347 came negative. “Rapid antigen tests were carried out since few special police battalion personnel had tested positive in RT-PCR tests. The 28 police personnel tested positive were sent for isolation immediately. The 10 Raj Bhavan staff and 10 family members who are positive are admitted in the government Ayurveda Hospital, for treatment,” officials said. The governor who had arranged for the tests of the staff and police personnel also got herself tested, the result of which came negative. The governor tweeted on Sunday evening: "I got tested today for #COVID__19 and negative I appeal people who are in Red zones or with Contact history kindly get it done at the earliest. Early diagnosis not only to protect us but also others.Don't hesitate! Test yourself Motivate others! Follow 4Ts TEST TRACE TREAT TEACH". Dr Soundararajan, a physician, has been active in appealing the Chandrasekhar Rao government for more testing and surveillance. She visited a Covid-19 treatment hospital and held virtual conferences with private hospital managements urging them to provide affordable treatment with a humane approach. On Sunday, union minister of state for home affairs Kishan Reddy visited Telangana’s nodal Covid-19 treatment centre – Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad and stated that the TRS government should instill confidence among the public about the efficient treatment in the government hospitals. “We have established a capacity of 17,081 Covid beds in the government hospitals, of which 11,928 are isolations, 3,537 are oxygen, 1,616 are ICUs beds. As of Sunday, the bed occupancy is 10 per cent only,” said Dr Srinivasa Rao, director, public health. Meanwhile, 1,269 new positive cases were added to the state’s tally now standing at 34,671. Eight deaths were reported on Sunday, with total Covid-19 deaths at 356.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/48-persons-including-28-policemen-test-covid-19-positive-at-telangana-raj-bhavan-governor-tests-negative-860345.html
12-07-2020||South||Kerala has become 'hub' of smuggling gold, alleges Ramesh Chennithala||Sharpening his attack against the CPI(M)-led LDF government over the sensational gold smuggling case, Congress veteran Ramesh Chennithala has alleged Kerala has become a 'hub' of smuggling of the yellow metal and wants the NIA to expand its ambit of probe. With the premier investigating agency probing the case, having arrested key accused, including the alleged kingpin Swapna Suresh, Chennithala said NIA should investigate the possible role of government officials. Referring to the removal of IAS officer M Sivasankar as principal secretary to the Chief Minister and IT Secretary after his name emerged in the case, the senior Congress leader alleged that the action itself speaks about the link of the gold smuggling mafia with the state government. "The Chief Minister was forced to remove the officer from the post of his principal secretary following the emergence of some telling evidence of his links with Swapna," Chennithala told PTI. "I don't think any state government agency would carry out a free and fair probe into the illegal nexus between mafia and ruling dispensation," he alleged. Therefore, the NIA should expand its probe in the case covering the possible role of the higher-ups in the state government, he said. Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, is among the four accused booked by the NIA in the smuggling of 30 kg of gold through diplomatic baggage, which arrived at the Thiruvananthapuram International airport on July 5. The gold, valued at around Rs 15 crore, was seized by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi. Swapna, Sarith and Sandeep Nair of Thiruvananthapuram and Fazil Fareed of Ernakulam have been arraigned as accused. The Congress leader said the state government did not act against the gold smuggling mafia despite the Opposition raising it in the state Assembly and about the threat to the state's economy due to the illegal trade of the yellow metal. Chennithala said if the state government had used its effective powers under the new GST regime, the state exchequer would have got around Rs 3,000 crore as tax annually. "But the state could collect only Rs 300 crore annually. This is the result of the state government's less interest in the matter," he said. "The state's police department also did not take any concrete action against the mafia. It is because of the illegal nexus between ruling party politicians, mafia and officials. As a result, the state has become a hub of global gold smuggling mafia under the CPI(M)-led rule," he alleged. Earlier, the NIA had registered an FIR under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act on the matter and said it has taken up the probe as the case has international linkages and since initial inquiries revealed the proceeds of the smuggled gold could be used for financing terrorism in India. Also, as the case pertains to smuggling of a large quantity of gold into India from offshore locations, threatening the economic stability and national security of the country, it amounts to a terrorist act as stated in the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Vijayan has come under strong opposition criticism over the gold smuggling case, with the Congress and BJP staging protests targeting the left government and demanding the chief minister's resignation after Suresh was found to be working in the state IT department, a portfolio held by him. She had been sacked after her name surfaced in connection with the smuggling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-has-become-hub-of-smuggling-gold-alleges-ramesh-chennithala-860353.html
12-07-2020||South||Lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation limits extended by a week||The Thiruvananthapuram district administration on Sunday extended the lockdown in the city Corporation limits till July 20 to contain the spread of Covid-19. However, certain relaxations have been allowed including playing of taxis and autorickshaws following strict Covid protocols. Thiruvananthapuram district collector Navjot Khosa, in a Sunday evening order, said there was a need for continuation of total and complete lockdown within the limits of the corporation to contain the further spread of Covid-19. The city corporation has been under triple lockdown since July 6. "The entire Thiruvananthapuram Corporation will continue to be under strict lockdown with effect from 13.07.2020, 6 am onwards for a further period of 7 days," the order said. Also, there will be a night curfew in force in Thiruvananthapuramfrom 9 pm to 5 am. "... more than 550 live cases are treated in various hospitals in the district as on date and epidemiological investigation has been carried out in each and every case... As on July 12, a large number of cases with unknown sources leading to multiple clusters have been identified in the city," the Collector said. According to the order, the contact tracing of such cases were identified and are spread along various LSGs and most of these unknown cases and local contacts have a large number of contacts throughout the city. The district administration has decided to allow construction activities of basic infrastructure like highways, roads, bridges and hospital-related infrastructure, agriculture, horticulture, plantation, dairy, poultry, animal husbandry and veterinary services. IT parks can function with essential staff while taxisand autorickshaws can operate maintaining Covid-19 protocol including wearing masks and with a provision of sanitiser. The district administration has directed that banking services can operate with 50 per cent of staff. As per the order, there will be no door delivery of any item except for medicines and food from Janakiya Hotels run by Kudumbashree and the city corporation. Thiruvananthapuram district has548 Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state with 18,280 people under home quarantine and 1,794 under institutional quarantine. At least 538 persons are in isolations of various hospitals in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-in-thiruvananthapuram-city-corporation-limits-extended-by-a-week-860380.html
12-07-2020||South||DMK MLA 'opens fire' during clash in Tamil Nadu, arrested||A land dispute near Chennai between a realtor and a DMK legislator led to a violent clash and the latter allegedly fired at the opposite group, police said on Sunday. MLA L Idhayavarman, property developer Kumar and three others who had allegedly assisted the legislator have been arrested today, a senior police official said. Trouble started on Saturday after Kumar allegedly tried to level a "public land" so as to provide access to a parcel of his land at Sengadu village off Tiruporur near here. However, several villagers, the legislator representing Tiruporur, a suburb near here and his father Lakshmipathy opposed the move since the land in question was public in nature that abutted a temple. "It was essentially a civil dispute and an enquiry by the RDO (Revenue Divisional Officer) was pending for quite some time," the official said. Arguments led to a violent clash between a group of people led by the MLA and another by Kumar, who allegedly had "hired about 50 goons for his protection." In the melee, Idhayavarman had allegedly opened fire and a single barrel gun and a pistol used during the clash were later seized, he said adding though the MLA said that these were licensed firearms, the "licence period has expired." Also, a bullet allegedly fired by the MLA grazed through a bystander causing injury to him and he too has preferred a police complaint against the legislator and a car on the spot too had "bullet marks," on the bonnet and windscreen. The clash resulted in injuries to people from both groups and a number of two-wheelers were also set on fire leading to anxiety and tension briefly. To a question, the official told PTI that people from MLA's side have alleged that Kumar's group too had used firearms against them, which was being probed. Before starting the land levelling work, the realtor had submitted a petition to the police alleging that the MLA had drained water into his land by creating a trench, without obtaining his permission. Clashes erupted despite a police party visiting the spot and advising both sides to maintain peace, he said. A case has been registered under various sections of the IPC and the Arms Act and both the groups have filed complaint and counter plaints and a probe was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mla-opens-fire-during-clash-in-tamil-nadu-arrested-860390.html
12-07-2020||South||Scribe with Telugu TV channel dies of Covid-19||A 45-year-old journalist working for a Telugu TV channel died of Covid-19 in a hospital here on Sunday, an official of the hospital said. The scribe with fever and breathing problems was admitted to the facility designated as a Covid-19 centre on Saturday evening and tested positive for the virus, the official said. The bereaved family was taken to an isolation ward, the official added. Andhra Pradesh Ministers P Ramachandra Reddy and K Narayana Swamy and former Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu condoled the death of the journalist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/scribe-with-telugu-tv-channel-dies-of-covid-19-860414.html
12-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Second PU results to be declared by July 18||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education Suresh Kumar said that the State government has not taken any decision on online education. Speaking after visiting Kukke Subrahmanya Temple, he said there are more number of government schools in rural areas. There is no conducive environment for online education in rural areas. Hence, the government has not taken any decision on online education. "Online education is a private school's programme," he added. Further, he said II PU results will be announced by July 18. The evaluation of SSLC answer scripts will begin from Monday (July 13). The valuation will be completed by July 30 and the results are likely to be announced in the first week of August, explained the Minister.  Further, the minister said the government is mulling overuse of technology in education. 'Sneha Bandha' classes will be started in Doordarshana Chandana Channel shortly. The classes will provide information on lessons of Class 8 to 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-second-pu-results-to-be-declared-by-july-18-860154.html
12-07-2020||State||Krishna Rajamudi utsava at Melkote today||The Krishna Rajamudi Utsava, where Lord Chaluvarayaswamy's idol would be adorned with a diamond-studded crown and taken on a procession is being celebrated on July 12, at Melkote, Mandya district. However, the 10-day Sri Krishna Rajamudi Ashada Jatra Mahotsava is being held in a simple manner, in the wake of Covid-19. Hence, the procession would be limited to the premises of the temple. As lockdown is being implemented on Sunday, the diamond-studded crown and other ornaments were handed over to the temple authority, from the district treasury, on Saturday evening.It is alleged that there were violations of norms, with the officials not following the guidelines by wearing masks, during the ritual, on Saturday night. The officials are alleged to have allowed the family members to take pictures inside the temple, during the rituals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/krishna-rajamudi-utsava-at-melkote-today-860177.html
12-07-2020||State||Covid-19 lockdown: Cops cane those on roads in Kalaburagi||The police caned several motorists who were roaming around unnecessarily in the city even as all business establishments remained shut due to the Sunday lockdown.  Youths were seen roaming around on their motorbikes and auto-rickshaws near bus stand, Muslim Chowk, Jagat Circle, Super Market and other areas.  A few were seen triple riding on bikes. Hence, the cops started canning them. Some others who ventured out without valid reason had to pay fine.  Essential services remained unaffected. Merchants voluntarily downed the shutters of their establishments in the crowded Super Market.  Historical Sharanabasaveshwara temple, Khaja Bande Nawaz Dargah and other religious centres remained closed.  Buses which departed from Hyderabad, Bengaluru and other places reached Kalaburagi on Sunday morning. But the commuters who deboarded the buses faced hardship to reach their homes as auto-rickshaws and city buses were off the roads due to lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-lockdown-cops-cane-those-on-roads-in-kalaburagi-860191.html
12-07-2020||State||Covid-19 patient walks to cops seeking ambulance to reach KIMS||Police officials deployed on duty and media persons covering ‘Sunday lockdown’ at the Channamma Circle in Hubballi had anxious moments after a Covid-19 positive patient, staying in a lodge nearby, walked to them complaining of non-availability of ambulance to take him to Karnataka Institute of Medical Science (Kims) here. The patient, aged about 45 years and a native of Uttar Pradesh, is working in Hubballi as a contractor for a railway project. He was staying in a lodge near the Circle for last four months. He had showed symptoms two days ago, and got himself tested. On Saturday night at 10.30 pm he received a message on Aarogya Setu App confirming him to be Covid-19 positive. The message said an ambulance would come to pick him up. And since 11 pm on Saturday he has been trying to reach Kims, requesting the authorities to send an ambulance. However, his calls went unanswered. On Sunday at 10 in the morning, he walked out of the lodge and informed the police that he was a Covid-19 positive patient, and was unable to get an ambulance. The police personnel, and the media persons ran helter-skelter after hearing him. “I have been trying to contact Kims since Saturday night, but no one is responding. I have tested positive and have mild symptoms,” he informed a section of media persons from a distance. Four ambulances As soon as the issue was brought to the notice of Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, four ambulances rushed to the spot at 11.30 am to pick up the patient. This is not for the first time that Covid-19 patients have been made to wait for long hours to be shifted to Kims. A few days ago, a family at Moorusavira Mutt was made to wait seven hours for an ambulance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-patient-walks-to-cops-seeking-ambulance-to-reach-kims-860397.html
12-07-2020||State||DK, Dharwad, Kalyana K'taka see big spike in infections||The Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad and Kalyana Karnataka districts continued to grapple with rising number of infections. The three regions combined have recorded 724 Covid-19 cases on Sunday with Dakshina Kannada accounting for 196 cases, its biggest single-day tally. Mangaluru Mahanagara Palike commissioner was among 196 fresh infections reported from the coastal district. The commissioner had subjected himself to the Covid-19 test two days back after he developed fever. His report returned positive for the virus on Sunday. He was admitted to a private hospital and is responding well to treatment, sources said. Among the fresh cases, 91 patients are ILI cases, 16 SARI and 10 foreign returnees. Contact tracing is underway for 57 patients.Five Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday have taken the coastal district’s toll to 46. Dharwad’s tally hits1k mark Meanwhile, Dharwad district witnessed its highest single-day tally with 129 fresh infections on Sunday. The district’s Covid-19 tally has gone past 1000-mark - 8th district in the state to report cases in four-figure mark. On Sunday, Hubballi alone accounted for a whopping 119 cases. The district also had something to cheer for on Sunday. A total of 64 patients walked out of the designated hospital, post recovery. Community spread in Kalyana K’taka? Kalyana Karnataka continued to see a spurt in Covid-19 infections. The region (six districts combined) recorded 458 fresh cases on Sunday. The virus-hit Yadgir alone reported 120 cases. Its neighbour Kalaburagi has recorded 79 cases, Ballari 63, Bidar 62, Raichur 48 and Koppal 40 fresh cases. The high rate of infection, coupled with large number of asymptomatic cases and infection among the persons with no travel history, has sparked fears of community transmission in the region. On Sunday, the state capital saw 1525 fresh cases, three other districts reported cases in three figures while 20 districts recorded fresh infections in two digits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dk-dharwad-kalyana-ktaka-see-big-spike-in-infections-860398.html
12-07-2020||State||14 cops, 18 Palike workers contract virus in Vijayapura||Over 35 Covid warriors, including 14 cops deputed on Covid duty at the designated hospital and the containment zone in Vijayapura,  have tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours. Superintendent of Police Anupam Agarwal told reporters, "Five district armed reserve DAR police, six policemen attached to Gandi Chowk police station, two staff of DySP office and one constable from Vijayapura Rural police station have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The cops may have contracted the virus while on duty at the designated Covid hospital or in containment zone." The DySP office and the Gandhi Chowk police station have been sealed, the SP added. Meanwhile, 18 Vijayapura Mahanagara Palike workers and three health workers from Indi taluk have contracted the virus. Two employees of the water board also have tested positive for Covid-19. Measures have been taken to sanitise the respective offices and track and quarantine the contacts, the district administration sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/14-cops-18-palike-workers-contract-virus-in-vijayapura-860400.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Sunday lockdown brings Karnataka to a standstill||Most vehicles stayed off roads today including city buses, autorickshaws, cars and two-wheelers with only essential activities permitted. Policemen on duty were seen enforcing the curfew in a strict manner. While a majority of people abided by the curfew order and remained indoors, there were instances of violations too. The policemen were seen questioning the violators. In Bengaluru, police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao had appealed to the people on Saturday to abide by the curfew and had also warned violators. "Curfew will prevail in Bangalore City Commissionerate from 8 pm today to 5 am on Monday. Requesting all Bangaloreans to cooperate and stay home. This is in public interest. Those moving without reason will be dealt with legally," Rao had tweeted yesterday. In Yashwanthapur in the city during the curfew, a man was allegedly found travelling in an autorickshaw with a 'institutional quarantine' stamp on his hand, police sources said. They also said he was detained for questioning. At a few places such as Malleswaram, BTM Layout and Koramangala, police penalised violators. The state had announced a total lockdown on Sundays starting July 5 in view of the spike in the number of coronavirus cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-sunday-lockdown-brings-karnataka-to-a-standstill-860288.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa to take call on extending lockdown to other districts||Guidelines for the lockdown announced in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts will be issued on Monday morning. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa will also hold a video conference with DCs from all districts on Monday, following which the government will decide whether to extend the lockdown to other districts. The state government has announced a complete lockdown in the two districts from July 14 to 22 recently, in a bid to contain the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases reported in the state capital.  Yediyurappa held a meeting on Sunday morning to review the situation in Bengaluru, during which guidelines for the lockdown were discussed. According to sources, authorities were pulled up for failing to arrange adequate number of ambulances required to ferry Covid-19 patients in the city, which has cast the government in bad light. Speaking to reporters following the meeting, Revenue Minister R Ashok said that the meeting also discussed proposals to set up PPE kit factories and other medical industries. "Tomorrow, CM will chair a meeting with DCs from all districts. Based on the case load and inputs from DCs, CM will direct whether to implement the lockdown in a particular district or not," he said. Ashok admitted that there were a shortage of beds to treat patients at hospitals. "But, we have enough beds at Covid Care Centres. Apart from it, streamlining the beds from private hospitals and medical colleges will ensure that bed shortage is addressed," he said. To a question, he said that the government will take a call on whether to extend the lockdown based on an expert committee report. "Any decision will be communicated two days in advance," Ashoka added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-take-call-on-extending-lockdown-to-other-districts-860313.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Students want I PU supplementary exam cancelled||Several educationists and students are demanding that the government  cancel the supplementary examinations for I PU and to promote the students to II PU. Karan Kumar, academician and syndicate member of Bengaluru Central University, has written a letter to Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar requesting for cancellation of the proposed exam and for promoting all students to II PU.  The supplementary exams are scheduled to be held from July 16. “This unprecedented move by the department may give unjustifiable scope for adoption of illegal and farce practices by certain unscrupulous staff at PU colleges,” reads the letter. “At this juncture, holding I PU supplementary exam this year may not serve any purpose and the Department of PU Education should reconsider its decision,” it says. “Without any supplementary examination at first PU level, promoting all unsuccessful candidates/students from I PU to II PU will not in any way hamper pre-university education as they are bound to face their public examination in the coming year,” the letter adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/students-want-i-pu-supplementary-exam-cancelled-860356.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Only essential to work staff at police stations||Following a spike in Covid-19 cases among police personnel, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has issued directions to ensure all policemen are tested for the disease. Deploying only essential staff at police stations and allowing all those above 50 years of age to work from home are among the directionsissued. In a letter to senior police officers of the state, Bommai noted that it was essential to adapt policing to the challenges posed by the pandemic. “Funds under Arogya Bhagya should be released to all empanelled hospitals under the scheme to get police personnel tested,” he said.  Deputing constables and other staff on shift basis, taking measures to ensure complaints are filed online and ensuring financial assistance to all police stations to sanitise the premises are among the instructions. “Only essential staff should be deputed at police stations, issue instructions to all police personnel above 50 years of age to work from home and instal glass cabinets at the receptions of police stations where complaints are received,” Bommai said in his letter. Noting that many police personnel deployed at Covid-19 hospitals and crematoriums were prone to the disease, he said that masks, head gear, gloves and PPE kits should be compulsorily provided. Fifteen personnel attached to HAL police station had tested positive recently, following which the station was sanitised. Cases were also reported among staff in other police stations, raising concerns in thedepartment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-essential-to-work-staff-at-police-stations-860364.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM to decide on extending lockdown to other dists||Guidelines for the lockdown announced in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts will be issued on Monday morning. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will also hold a video conference with DCs from all districts on Monday, following which the government will decide whether to extend the lockdown to other districts. The government has announced a complete lockdown in the two districts from July 14 to 22 recently, in a bid to contain the rapid surge in Covid cases in the state capital. Yediyurappa held a meeting on Sunday morning to review the situation in Bengaluru, during which guidelines for the lockdown were discussed. According to sources, authorities were pulled up for failing to arrange adequate number of ambulances required to ferry Covid-19 patients in the city, which has shown the government in bad light. Speaking to reporters following the meeting, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the meeting also discussed proposals to set up PPE kit factories and other medical industries. “Tomorrow, CM will chair a meeting with DCs from all districts. Based on the case load and inputs from DCs, CM will direct whether to implement the lockdown in a particular district or not,” he said. Ashoka admitted that there was a shortage of beds to treat patients at hospitals. “But, we have enough beds at Covid Care Centres. Apart from it, streamlining the availability of beds in private hospitals and medical colleges will ensure that bed shortage is addressed,” he said. To a question, he said that the government will take a call on whether to extend the lockdown, based on an expert committee report. “Any decision will be communicated two days in advance,” Ashoka added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-to-decide-on-extending-lockdown-to-other-dists-860367.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HDK attacks govt over tests, wants results in a day||Raising concerns on an increase in 'invalid tests', former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy has urged the government to ensure Covid-19 test results of patients are out within a day. He also pulled up the government for increasing the allocation for development works at the Tirupati temple from Rs 26 crore to Rs 200 crore, especially when the state was battling the pandemic. In a video message, the JD(S) leader said that test results of several patients were not being revealed even a week or 10 days after the swab samples were collected. "This will result in invalid tests. According to the information I have, such invalid tests are in large numbers," he said. The government has said that one lakh testing kits were purchased. "Now, the state should ensure that patients who get tested in the morning will have their results known by evening. Such an arrangement will ensure that even asymptomatic patients do not go around and spread the disease," Kumaraswamy said. He also pulled up the government for allocating Rs 200 crore for constructing amenities for devotees from Karnataka near Tirupati Tirumala temple. "The cost of the project was Rs 26 crore when I was CM, which has now increased to Rs 200 crore within a year in Yediyurappa government. Let us support the government to tackle Covid, but not for such loot during the pandemic. The government should stop the project immediately," he said. Pointing out that the government was paying Rs 200 crore to Tirupathi Tirumala Daivasthanams for the construction, he said that 5% of the amount is paid to a private agency for the design. "Is the Public Works Department incapable to take up the project? Is there is no one in the department to design? What was the necessity for the project during the Covid crisis?" he said. Lockdown in Ramangar H D Kumaraswamy urged the government to lockdown Ramanagar district, along with Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts from July 14.Kumaraswamy, who represents Channapatna constituency in Ramanagar district, spoke to Revenue minister R Ashoka and officials from the district. "Ramanagar has a higher case load than Bengaluru Urban district," he noted, adding that it was essential to lockdown Ramanagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hdk-attacks-govt-over-tests-wants-results-in-a-day-860368.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Almatti dam 2 mts short of reaching full capacity||The Lal Bahadur Shastri reservoir (Almatti) in Vijayapura district is just two metres shy of reaching full reservoir level (FRL).The water level in the dam on Sunday touched 517 meters against the 519.6-metre FRL. Inflow into the reservoir, the lifeline of north Karnataka districts, clocked 69,868 cusecs (6 tmcft) on Sunday morning. As much as 45,000 cusecs was discharged into downstream. All six units of KPCL plant have resumed power generation, said sources. The taluk administration has cautioned the people of the villages on the banks of downstream Krishna against venturing into river. Meanwhile, the water level in upstream Krishna has decreased as all seven barrage-cum-bridges in Chikkodi and Nippani taluks, Belagavi district, are open for traffic. Inflow into Tungabhadra dam in Ballari/Koppal districts has come down on Sunday as rain activity in its catchment subsided. Also the outflow from Tunga dam in Shivamogga has decreased. In the last five days, Tungabhadra reservoir had received more than 5 tmcft of water. On Sunday, parts of north Karnataka districts, including Dharwad, Gadag, Koppal and Kalaburagi, witnessed mild to moderate rain. Coastal districts and Malnad region also experienced a few spells of moderate rain on Sunday. Yellow alert  Monsoon activity is likely to gather steam in coastal districts for next five days starting Monday. Predicting heavy rain, accompanied with thunder activity, the India Meteorological Department has declared yellow alert for three coastal districts and Malnad - Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu and Shivamogga - for next two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/almatti-dam-2-mts-short-of-reaching-full-capacity-860369.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||22k beds at care centres for asymptomatic in B'luru||With the increase in Covid cases in the city, 22,258 beds have been arranged in various places to treat the patients, said Rajender Kumar Kataria, IAS officer, and in-charge of a Covid care centres (CCCs) in the city. Kataria said care centres have been set up in various places to accommodate asymptomatic patients. Six centres with a capacity of 2,171 beds are already functioning with 65% occupancy. In Haj Bhavan 352 out of 384 beds are filled, at Sri Sri Ravishankar Ayurveda Hospital all 176 beds are filled, in GKVK campus 677 out of 716 beds are filled, in Government Ayurveda College 216 out of 250 beds are filled, in Koramangala Indoor Stadium 25 out of 245 beds are filled and in Horticulture campus boys' hostel 11 out of 200 beds are filled, he said. The officer added that five centres with basic infrastructure and a capacity of about 1,960 beds are kept ready at the UHS Girls' hostel, GKVK Campus, with 160 beds; NEGH, Jnana Bharathi Campus with 500 beds; Janan Bharathi Girls' Hostel with 350 beds; BGS Hospital with 200 beds; and RN Shetty Engineering College Hostel with 750 beds. In addition to the BIEC facility, seven stand-by CCCs have been identified and notified with around 8,027 beds and kept ready. They are PES College (110 beds), RV College of Engineering (577 beds), BGS Engineering Hostel (300 beds), Dayananda Sagar Hostel (250 beds), Palace Grounds (3,000 beds) and BDA Indraprastha Apartment on Mysuru Road (2,000 beds). Total 22,258 beds will be ready for asymptomatic patients at the centres, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/22k-beds-at-care-centres-for-asymptomatic-in-bluru-860392.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||30-km trench puts a brake on elephant menace||The 30-km stretch elephant trench dug by the Forest department has yielded results putting brake on the wild jumbo menace in the villages located on the periphery of Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Chamarajanagar district. The wild elephants were straying into the villages attacking people and damaging crops. The personnel of the forest department and farmers were keeping a night vigil and chasing the jumbos into the forests. Everyday, the department personnel on patrol, were driving the elephants away from the National Highway 67. Despite taking all these steps, the jumbos used to stray into the farm lands and destroy the crops. The Forest department, which identified the entry points, dug trenches and also erected rail fencing to keep the jumbos away. The measure has proved successful.  Bandipur Tiger Reserve Director T Balachandra said that a 30-km long elephant trench had been created at Onkar, Kundukere and Gopalaswamy betta range and trench needs to be dug for another 5 km more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/30-km-trench-puts-a-brake-on-elephant-menace-860394.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Only extremely urgent cases during lockdown||The Karnataka High Court has appealed to the advocates not to apply for listing of cases unless an exceptional urgency is involved and the cases cannot wait till lockdown is withdrawn. The Registrar General of the high court has issued two notices on the functioning of the courts in the High Court’s principal bench and courts in Bengaluru Urban andRural. The notice stated that in so far as principal bench of the court in Bengaluru, advocates and parties-in-person have been asked to make out a case of extreme urgency as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Unless extreme urgency is made out, listing of cases will not be permitted, it stated. Among the other instructions, fresh appointments for filing of fresh matters will not be given and appointments will be given only for filing of caveats and for filing of miscellaneous documents which are already permitted to be listed. The appointments will be provided for payment of process fees and court fees, while appointments which are already given for fresh filing of new cases from July 15, 2020 will not be disturbed. However, appointments given for rectification of the objections from July 15 stand cancelled till the lockdown is over. “Notwithstanding the fact that very few staff members will be able to visit the High Court from July 15, 2020 till the lockdown is over, efforts will be made to list all the cases for video conferencing in which dates have been fixed on the basis of memo filed by e-mail. http://dcxprodapp.deccanherald.co.in/device_dh/previews1/2018/08-20/f1/a7/file71j9ppgedx2cxpi4jb4.jpg But, sitting of a few Judges may be cancelled,’’ the notice said. In another set of guidelines in view of the new lockdown, it has been ordered that physical hearing will not take place in the district and trial courts in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts. The notice said while there will be no physical filing, appointments shall be given only for physical filing of caveats and for payment of court fees and process fees. The notice further said only extremely urgent cases will be heard in courts through video conferencing, by following the procedure which was prevailing prior to June 1, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-extremely-urgent-cases-during-lockdown-860399.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 patient walks to cops seeking ambulance to reach KIMS||Police officials deployed on duty and media persons covering ‘Sunday lockdown’ at the Channamma Circle in Hubballi had anxious moments after a Covid-19 positive patient, staying in a lodge nearby, walked to them complaining of non-availability of ambulance to take him to Karnataka Institute of Medical Science (Kims) here. The patient, aged about 45 years and a native of Uttar Pradesh, is working in Hubballi as a contractor for a railway project. He was staying in a lodge near the Circle for last four months. He had showed symptoms two days ago, and got himself tested. On Saturday night at 10.30 pm he received a message on Aarogya Setu App confirming him to be Covid-19 positive. The message said an ambulance would come to pick him up. And since 11 pm on Saturday he has been trying to reach Kims, requesting the authorities to send an ambulance. However, his calls went unanswered. On Sunday at 10 in the morning, he walked out of the lodge and informed the police that he was a Covid-19 positive patient, and was unable to get an ambulance. The police personnel, and the media persons ran helter-skelter after hearing him. “I have been trying to contact Kims since Saturday night, but no one is responding. I have tested positive and have mild symptoms,” he informed a section of media persons from a distance. Four ambulances As soon as the issue was brought to the notice of Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, four ambulances rushed to the spot at 11.30 am to pick up the patient. This is not for the first time that Covid-19 patients have been made to wait for long hours to be shifted to Kims. A few days ago, a family at Moorusavira Mutt was made to wait seven hours for an ambulance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-patient-walks-to-cops-seeking-ambulance-to-reach-kims-860404.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DK, Dharwad, Kalyana K'taka see big spike in infections||The Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad and Kalyana Karnataka districts continued to grapple with rising number of infections. The three regions combined have recorded 724 Covid-19 cases on Sunday with Dakshina Kannada accounting for 196 cases, its biggest single-day tally. Mangaluru Mahanagara Palike commissioner was among 196 fresh infections reported from the coastal district. The commissioner had subjected himself to the Covid-19 test two days back after he developed fever. His report returned positive for the virus on Sunday. He was admitted to a private hospital and is responding well to treatment, sources said. Among the fresh cases, 91 patients are ILI cases, 16 SARI and 10 foreign returnees. Contact tracing is underway for 57 patients.Five Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday have taken the coastal district’s toll to 46. Dharwad’s tally hits 1k mark Meanwhile, Dharwad district witnessed its highest single-day tally with 129 fresh infections on Sunday. The district’s Covid-19 tally has gone past 1000-mark - 8th district in the state to report cases in four-figure mark. On Sunday, Hubballi alone accounted for a whopping 119 cases. The district also had something to cheer for on Sunday. A total of 64 patients walked out of the designated hospital, post recovery. Community spread in Kalyana K’taka? Kalyana Karnataka continued to see a spurt in Covid-19 infections. The region (six districts combined) recorded 458 fresh cases on Sunday. The virus-hit Yadgir alone reported 120 cases. Its neighbour Kalaburagi has recorded 79 cases, Ballari 63, Bidar 62, Raichur 48 and Koppal 40 fresh cases. The high rate of infection, coupled with large number of asymptomatic cases and infection among the persons with no travel history, has sparked fears of community transmission in the region. On Sunday, the state capital saw 1525 fresh cases, three other districts reported cases in three figures while 20 districts recorded fresh infections in two digits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dk-dharwad-kalyana-ktaka-see-big-spike-in-infections-860405.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 71 Covid-19 deaths, 2,627 new cases||Karnataka on Sunday registered 71 Covid-19 deaths, its highest single-day toll, and 2,627 fresh cases, pushing the tally of infections in the state to 38,843, the health department said. The total positive cases include 22,746 active cases and 15,409 discharges, the department said in its daily bulletin. The total active cases include 532 people admitted in the ICUs across the state. Of the 71 fatalities, a record 45 were reported in Bengaluru alone including the death of 16 day-old baby girl and a 17-year-old girl with chronic kidney disease, taking the total mortalities in the city to 274. Among the districts, where new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 1,525 cases, followed by Dakshina Kannada with 196, Dharwad 129, Yadagiri 120, and 19 in Bengaluru Rural. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 8.39 lakh samples have been tested including 20,050 on Sunday alone, of which 7.80 lakh tested negative. Other than Bengaluru, five fatalities were reported in Dakshina Kannada, three each in Mysuru, Hassan, Davangere and Belagavi, two each in Haveri and Bagalkote and one each in Dharwad, Koppal, Tumakuru, Vijayapura and Chamarajanagar. While the majority of those who died of coronavirus suffered from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness and Influenza-Like Illness, significantly 21 victims did not have any pre-medical conditions while eight were the asymptomatic patients with pre-medical conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-71-covid-19-deaths-2627-new-cases-860409.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid: Waiting for 3rd test report, says C T Ravi||Tourism Minister C T Ravi has said that he was awaiting the results of the samples drawn for the third time for Covid test. "I have given my swab for third time for testing. In the two tests conducted in the last one week, one sample tested positive. Once again I have given my swab on Sunday and waiting for third umpire result," he tweeted. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar had confirmed Ravi testing positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-waiting-for-3rd-test-report-says-c-t-ravi-860413.html
12-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC evaluation in Bengaluru postponed||The evaluation of SSLC answer sheets scheduled to begin on Monday has been postponed in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts following the lockdown announced by government. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that the evaluation at Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts had been postponed and the work will go as per schedule in all other districts. The new dates will be announced after July 22, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-evaluation-in-bengaluru-postponed-860415.html
12-07-2020||West||1,308 new coronavirus cases in Mumbai, 39 deaths||The coronavirus case tally in Mumbai rose to 91,457 on Saturday with 1,308 new patients found, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). 39 patients died, taking the death toll due to the pandemic in the financial capital of the country to 5,241. However, the figures for Mumbai were different in the Maharashtra government's statement, which put the death toll in the city at 5,244 and increase in cases at 1,284 with over all count of 91,745 cases. As per the BMC, 1,497 patients recovered and were discharged during the day. So far, 63,431 patients have recovered in the city. There are 22,779 active patients in Mumbai, the BMC said. The doubling rate of cases is 50 days. As of July 10, 3,85,453 tests had been conducted, the corporation said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1308-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mumbai-39-deaths-860081.html
12-07-2020||West||Will fulfill responsibility with utmost sincerity: Hardik Patel||Soon after being appointed as working president of the Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee, Hardik Patel said on Saturday that he will fulfill the responsibility with "utmost sincerity". He will work to win the confidence of the people and resolve problems, especially those of unemployed youths and farmers, he said. The Congress on Saturday announced Patel's appointment as working president of the Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee. Patel, 26, rose to prominence during the Patidar reservation agitation in Gujarat. He is facing sedition cases in connection with the 2015 agitation which turned violent. "I am grateful to the party for giving me the responsibility of working president at such a young age. I will fulfill the responsibility with utmost sincerity," he said. "My first question to the (BJP) government is what is it doing for unemployed youths and farmers," said Patel. "The (BJP) government has failed to fulfill its responsibility. We would win the confidence of six crore people of the state and ask them to join us so that we could work together and try to resolve their problems," Patel told reporters. "Congress will go to the people with greater strength under the leadership of (state unit president) Amit Chavda and (leader of opposition) Paresh Dhanani," Patel said. "The BJP government has proved inefficient during its three-decade rule, so people should join the Congress," he said. Patel's appointment comes at a time when eight Assembly seats in Gujarat will have by-elections after respective Congress MLAs resigned ahead of the Rajya Sabha election recently. Five of them joined the BJP. Patel claimed that the Congress will win all the eight seats. "We will form the government in Gujarat in 2022," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-fulfill-responsibility-with-utmost-sincerity-hardik-patel-860083.html
12-07-2020||West||Pune civic chief transferred as Covid-19 cases rise||The Maharashtra government on Saturday transferred Pune Municipal Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and replaced him with Vikram Kumar who is currently CEO of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority. The city is among the worst hit cities in the state and, as on Friday evening, had 25,893 cases, with the rise particularly sharp and worrying over the past few days. Sources said Gaikwad was not keen on imposing lockdown and was in favour of opening up during a meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday. His transfer comes at a time when Pune city is set to undergo a 10-day lockdown with minimum exemptions from July 13. While Gaikwad, a 2003 batch IAS officer, has been made Sugar Commissioner in Pune, Kumar, from the 2004 batch, has been replaced at PMRDA by Suhas Diwase. Diwase, a 2009 batch officer, was Agriculture Commissioner in Pune. Jitendra Dudi, a 2016 batch IAS officer currently serving as assistant collector Manchar sub division in Pune has been made CEO of Sangli Zilla Parishad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-civic-chief-transferred-as-covid-19-cases-rise-860088.html
12-07-2020||West||Rahul Gandhi congratulates Dharavi residents, officials for flattening Covid-19 curve||A day after the World Health Organisation lauded Mumbai's Dharavi for breaking the chain of Covid-19 transmission, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday congratulated all those responsible for the achievement. At a virtual press conference on Friday, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Dharavi, among other places in the world, is an example that shows that even if the outbreak is very intense, it can still be brought under control. "A strong focus on community engagement and the basics of testing, tracing, isolating and treating all those that are sick is key to breaking the chains of transmission and suppressing the virus," he said. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "The WHO has praised our country's Dharavi model for preventing the spread of coronavirus infection. The entire team responsible for this achievement of Dharavi, especially the residents, deserve applause." Spread over an area of 2.5 square kilometres, Dharavi is one of the world's largest slums. It has a population of 6,50,000. In April, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Dharavi was 18 days, it gradually improved to 43 days in May and slowed down to 108 and 430 days in June and July, respectively, according to official data. As many as 2,359 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in Dharavi so far, while 1,952 patients have recovered. At present, there are only 166 active cases in Dharavi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rahul-gandhi-congratulates-dharavi-residents-officials-for-flattening-covid-19-curve-860099.html
12-07-2020||West||India needs another Manmohan Singh, says Sharad Pawar||India needs another Manmohan Singh to pull it out of the financial crisis, feels NCP supremo Sharad Pawar.  The 79-year-old veteran politician said that he was a minister in the government when Dr Singh was the union finance minister in the then government headed by PV Narsimha Rao.  Dr Singh later became India's prime minister and served in the top post for 10 years heading the Congress-led UPA government. Pawar also said prime minister Narendra Modi needs to consult experts and take the economy ahead. "We knew we were going through a financial crisis. Manmohan Singh  (as finance minister) gave a new direction to the country. He pulled out India form the financial crisis," Pawar said in an interview to Saamana, Shiv Sena's mouthpiece, that was conducted by its executive editor Sanjay Raut.  According to Pawar, he gives credit to both Dr Singh and Rao equally. "They took the vehicle to a new direction and the economy was taken back on the road," said Pawar,  who was a defence minister, when the Narsimha Rao-Manmohan Singh combine triggered economic reforms.  Asked specifically if India needs another Manmohan Singh, he said, "Hundred per cent." When pointed out that Modi considers him his guru, Pawar said: "By saying so he puts me in trouble."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-needs-another-manmohan-singh-says-sharad-pawar-860129.html
12-07-2020||West||Anupam Kher's mother, brother, sister-in-law and niece test Covid-19 positive||Anupam Kher's family members too positiveVeteran actor Anupam Kher's mother, Dulari, and other family members have tested positive for Covid-19. "This is to inform all that my mother Dulari is found Covid-19 positive, mildly. We have admitted her into Kokilaben Hospital,"  he said. "My brother, sister-in-law and niece in spite of being careful have also tested mildly positive.I got myself tested as well and I have tested negative. We have informed the BMC," he said. The news comes a day after megastar Amitabh Bachchan and his son Abhishek Bachchan tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to Nanavati Hospital. As per BMC, the coronavirus case tally in Mumbai rose to 91,457 on Saturday. There are 22,779 active patients in Mumbai and the doubling rate is 50 days.   With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anupam-khers-mother-brother-sister-in-law-and-niece-test-covid-19-positive-860146.html
12-07-2020||West||Security beefed up outside Nanavati Hospital, Amitabh Bachchan's home||Mumbai Police have beefed up security outside the Nanavati Hospital, where megastar Amitabh Bachchan and his son Abhishek Bachchan have been admitted after they tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Sunday. Security has also been stepped up outside the megastar's two bungalows in Juhu area here, they said. After the Bachchans on Saturday said they tested positive for coronavirus and were admitted to hospital, some people tried to gather outside the medical facility located in Vile Parle (West), but they were asked to leave and not allowed to stand on the road, a police official said. "We have beefed up security to avoid assembling of people outside the hospital. Other Covid-19 patients are also in the hospital, they should not face inconvenience. Our officers are outside the hospital and not allowing anyone to assemble," Santacruz police station's senior inspector Shriram Koregaonkar said.  Additional security has also been deployed outside the actor's bungalows where people may assemble, an official from Juhu police station said. Amitabh Bachchan and his son Abhishek Bachchan on Saturday said they had tested positive for Covid-19 and have been admitted to hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/security-beefed-up-outside-nanavati-hospital-amitabh-bachchans-home-860151.html
12-07-2020||West||NCW seeks immediate action against man for hurling abuses, giving rape threats to stand-up comedian||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has sought immediate action from Gujarat Police against a man for allegedly hurling abuses and giving rape threats to a female stand-up comedian on social media. In a letter to Gujarat Director General of Police (DGP) Shivanand Jha, the NCW said it has been tagged in a video posted on Twitter in which the man can be seen hurling abuses and giving rape threats to the woman. "The NCW is committed to creating safe online space for women and ensuring cybersecurity to women and is perturbed by the rise in use of cyberspace to instigate crime against women," NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said in the letter sent late Saturday night. "Considering the sensitivity of the matter, it is requested that the immediate action shall be taken as per the Information Technology Act, 2000, against the miscreant and feedback be apprised to the Commission," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncw-seeks-immediate-action-against-man-for-hurling-abuses-giving-rape-threats-to-stand-up-comedian-860159.html
12-07-2020||West||Raj Bhavan staff test Covid-19 positive; Maharashtra Governor Koshyari not in quarantine||Around a dozen employees of Raj Bhavan in Mumbai have tested positive for Covid-19. However, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari clarified that he was not in self-quarantine or isolation. In a statement, the Governor said: “I am perfectly alright, and not in self-isolation. I underwent relevant tests, the result of which came in the negative. There are no symptoms of Covid-19 either.  However, considering the \situation elsewhere, I am discharging all my official duties strictly adhering to protocols like social distancing, sanitizing, wearing of masks, etc. Reports appearing in a section of the press regarding my health are baseless. I am hale and hearty”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raj-bhavan-staff-test-covid-19-positive-maharashtra-governor-koshyari-not-in-quarantine-860161.html
12-07-2020||West||SOP for fighting Covid-19 in Surat: Sing 'Vande Mataram'||For the diamond industry, the circular was issued last week by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). It says, besides explaining dos and don'ts in combating the spread of the virus, that before starting business at Hira Bazaar each trader, worker must shout "Harshe Corona Jitse Surat, Ek Lakshya Hamara hai Corona ko Harana hai" (Corona will lose, Surat will win. We have one aim to defeat corona). The SOP mentions that the workers will have to shout the said slogan while opening every building, shop or unit of Hira Bazaar and take a pledge"I will follow the guidelines laid down by the government to contain the pandemic and adopt all safety measures..." These drills have to be followed at the time of opening the market while in the evening, they have been asked to wrap up the day by singing "Vande Mataram," the national song. When contacted, Surat Diamond Association's President Babubhai Kathiriya told DH, "We have been asked to follow these drills since last week but since then the market opened only for one day and no one followed it. No one will do that. I think everyone, not just people associated with this industry, must take this pandemic very seriously. It is affecting everyone."  He added, "we will see what happens from Monday when the market is likely to open again." The SOP says that all diamond workers will have to download the Arogya Setu app on their phones, wear masks, maintain social distance of minimum 1.5 metres, among others. Similar, guidelines have been issued to textile industry workers, wherein they have been asked to follow these drills. The textile market is also likely to reopen from Monday under restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sop-for-fighting-covid-19-in-surat-sing-vande-mataram-860163.html
12-07-2020||West||Thane: Evacuation process of residents in 'dangerous' buildings begins||Residents of all buildings classified as 'very dangerous' in Maharashtra's Thane city are being evacuated in view of the current monsoon season and the process would be completed in a couple of days, civic commissioner Vipin Sharma said on Sunday. As many as 79 buildings in the city are under the C1 category (which means very dangerous and need to be vacated immediately), while 123 buildings fall under the C2 category, Sharma told reporters. The C2A buildings are those that can be structurally repaired after which residents can reoccupy it, while C2B are those that can be repaired without residents having to evacuate it. Besides, the buildings under C3 category are those that require minor repairs. "The buildings classified as C1 are being vacated and the entire process would be completed within a day or two. The monsoon has already set in, and we cannot take another risk as we are already fighting a battle against Covid-19," Sharma told reporters. Some 150 families were yet to be shifted out of these buildings, he said, adding that the work will be completed at the earliest. Each ward committee has published a list of the dangerous buildings falling under its jurisdiction, he said. In the previous years, there have been incidents of building collapse in the city during the rainy season. Under these circumstances, the civic body's priority is to tackle the coronavirus crisis and pay salaries to its employees on time, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-evacuation-process-of-residents-in-dangerous-buildings-begins-860194.html
12-07-2020||West||Rajesh Tope makes faux pas over Bachchans testing Covid-19 positive||In a faux pas, Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope named actress Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and her daughter Aardhaya for having tested as Covid-19 positive patients. “Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and her daughter Aaradhya Abhishek Bachchan have also been detected positive for Covid-19. Jaya Bachchan ji is tested negative for Covid-19. We wish the Bachchan family to get well soon with a speedy recovery,” he tweeted in English and Marathi both. However, within minutes Tope deleted his tweets-Marathi and English versions,  both - following criticism in social media platforms for naming them. However, by that time,the screenshots have gone viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajesh-tope-makes-faux-pas-over-bachchans-testing-covid-19-positive-860254.html
12-07-2020||West||Gujarat minister's son, friends arrested for violating lockdown||The son of a Gujarat minister and his two friends were arrested on Sunday for allegedly violating the lockdown and the night curfew orders in Surat, a senior police official said. The arrests came a day after audio clips of a heated exchange of Prakash Kanani, son of Varachha Road MLA and Minister of State for Health Kumar Kanani, and his friends with woman constable Sunita Yadav, who tried to stop them, surfaced on social media. Prakash Kanani and two of his friends were arrested under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269, 270 (negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 144 (abettor present when offence committed), Assistant Commissioner of Police, A-Division, C K Patel said. They were later released on bail, he added. Surat Commissioner of Police R B Brahmbhatt on Saturday ordered an inquiry into the incident after the constable alleged that she was threatened by some men when she stopped them during the night curfew. Yadav stopped Prakash Kanani's friends around 10.30 pm on Wednesday during night curfew for allegedly violating the lockdown orders in force to contain the spread of coronavirus. The friends then called Prakash Kanani, who arrived in his father's car and allegedly picked up an argument with Yadav, the audio clips of which went viral on Saturday. In the audio clips, the men are heard telling the constable that they had the power to "make you stand at the same place for 365 days". The constable shouts back that she is not their slave or a servant of their fathers that they can make her stand there for 365 days. Meanwhile, Patel said Yadav has gone on sick leave and an inquiry is underway into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ministers-son-friends-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-860283.html
12-07-2020||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 cases cross 2.5 lakh-mark as state reports 7,827 fresh cases||The Covid-19 positive cases in Maharashtra crossed the 2.5 lakh mark on Sunday. In the last 24 hours, 7,827 Covid-19 positive cases and 173 deaths were recorded. The total progressive cases now stands at 2,54,427 and deaths 10,289, according to the data compiled by Public Health department. On Sunday, 3,340 patients were discharged taking the total to 1,40,325 who have recovered till date. The recovery rate in the state is 55.15 per cent. The case fatality rate in the state is 4.04 per cent. Out of 13,17,895 laboratory samples, 2,54,427 have been tested positive (19.3 per cent) for Covid-19 till Sunday. Currently, 6,86,150 people are in home quarantine and 47,801 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-cross-25-lakh-mark-as-state-reports-7827-fresh-cases-860316.html
12-07-2020||West||Maha: Teen girl ends life after fight with brother over phone||A 19-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide in Nagpur in Maharashtra after her brother refused to allow her to use his mobile phone, a police official said on Sunday. A Hudkeshwar police station official said the deceased had been asking her parents to buy her a mobile phone but the family's poor financial condition was a hindrance. "Her brother had a phone but he was not allowing her to use it. They had an argument over it on Saturday and she consumed poison and died in a hospital in the evening. An accidental death case has been registered," he informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-teen-girl-ends-life-after-fight-with-brother-over-phone-860326.html
12-07-2020||West||Mumbai's Covid-19 cases up by 1,263 to 92,720; 44 more die||With 1,263 new Covid-19 cases being recorded on Sunday, Mumbai's case count has mounted to 92,720, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. The number of fatalities has gone up by 44 to 5,285, it said in a statement. Mumbai's Covid-19 recovery rate now stands at 70 per cent while the doubling rate has improved to 50 days. A total of 3,91,222 samples have been tested till July 11, the BMC added. The number of the recovered cases went up by 1,441 to 64,872. Mumbai now has 22,556 active cases, the BMC added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-covid-19-cases-up-by-1263-to-92720-44-more-die-860343.html
12-07-2020||West||Using gas cutter, thieves steal Rs 10 lakh from Nagpur ATM||Unidentified persons used a gas cutter to steal Rs 10 lakh from a bank ATM in Dhapewada village in Seonar in Nagpur, police said on Sunday. The incident happened during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, a Seonar police station official said. "We have managed to get the digital video recorder (DVR) and are in the process of identifying the accused. The CCTV footage of the vicinity is also being checked," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/using-gas-cutter-thieves-steal-rs-10-lakh-from-nagpur-atm-860373.html
12-07-2020||West||Gujarat records single-day spike of 879 Covid-19 cases; tally 41,897||Gujarat reported its highest single-day spike of 879 coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, which pushed its overall tally to 41,897, the health department said. With the death of 13 more Covid-19 patients, the fatality count rose to 2,047, it said. Surat reported 251 new cases, the highest in the state, followed by Ahmedabad at 172, and Vadodara at 75. With this, Surat's case count rose to 8,372, and that of Ahmedabad to 23,095, the department said in a release. Among other districts, Rajkot and Bhavnagar reported 46 new cases each, Junagadh 42, Gandhinagar 29, Surendranagar 21, Morbi 19, Amreli, Kheda and Valsad 16 each, Bharuch 14, Banaskantha 13, Anand and Navsari 11 each, Panchmahal 10, Dahod nine and Kutch seven, it said. The number of recovered patients in the state grew to 29,189 after 513 of them were discharged on Sunday. The state currently has 10,661 active cases. The condition of as many as 67 patients is critical, while that of 10,594 others is stable, it added. Of the 13 fatalities on Sunday, Surat reported the highest number of five, Ahmedabad four, Junagadh two, and Kheda and Rajkot one each. The death toll in Ahmedabad rose to 1,519, while in Surat it reached 318. Out of the total 513 patients discharged in the state on Sunday, 172 were in Ahmedabad and 138 in Surat. The number of recovered cases in Ahmedabad has gone up to 17,822 and in Surat to 4,967. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 41,897, new cases: 879, deaths: 2,047, discharged: 29,189, active cases: 10,661 and people tested so far: 4,64,646.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-records-single-day-spike-of-879-covid-19-cases-tally-41897-860391.html
12-07-2020||West||Ahmedabad claws its way back after weathering coronavirus blow||Hospital beds are empty, most of the coronavirus care centres are closed, number of positive cases are dropping, and so are the casualties: this hardly seems like Ahmedabad, where the virus cut a swathe through the city. But over the past two weeks, Gujarat's largest city, where the pandemic blow fell the hardest, seems to be clawing its way back, especially in terms of mortality rate. Although the fight to contain the spread is far from over, the pandemic in Ahmedabad seems to be "under control". According to doctors, who are part of a panel being consulted by the state government, the situation has shown signs of improvement in the walled-city area. "As per the data, it seems that herd immunity has developed in the central part of Ahmedabad or walled-city, the most densely populated area, which was the first to have been hit hard and remained the epicenter for over two months," said Dr Dileep Mavlankar, Director of Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar. But government officials denied the "herd immunity" theory. A senior health official cited "proper planning" as the reason for improvement. "We are also witnessing the severity of the virus becoming milder," he said. "Besides, people are more aware and come to hospital early, unlike previously where they used to wait due to which many people died." Strangely, the government also denied that the pandemic was in the "community transmission" stage despite the fact that the tracing of the virus in the state was stopped more than two months ago.  But another doctor, who is also part of the panel, was not so sanguine. "The government is not transparent in providing us data," he said. "We are also witnessing that the average number of tests in Ahmedabad has gone down." The doctor said it was "too early to say that we have a model to control the coronavirus". "If you look at Ahmedabad's test positivity rate, it is still nearly 14% which is not very encouraging. It has to go down below 5%," he said. Ahmedabad city has over 22,590 positive cases. According to data, the positivity rate in the past couple of days has come down to 10%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-claws-its-way-back-after-weathering-coronavirus-blow-860421.html
12-07-2020||West||Gujarat: Author-columnist Nagindas Sanghavi dies at 100||Padma Shri awardee for 2019 and renowned columnist Nagindas Sanghavi died on Sunday in Surat in Gujarat due to age related problems, his relatives said. Sanghavi was 100. Formerly a professor of political science with several colleges under Mumbai University, Sanghavi wrote books on contemporary political issues as well as on Mahatama Gandhi, and his columns in Gujarati newspapers were widely read. In a tweet in Gujarati, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "Shree Nagindas Sanghavi was an enlightened writer and thinker. His articles and books had the knowledge of history and philosophy and extraordinary skills of analysis of political events. I am saddened by his demise. My condolences to shocked family and his readers." શ્રી નગીનદાસ સંઘવી પ્રબુદ્ધ લેખક-વિચારક હતા. એમના લેખો અને પુસ્તકોમાં ઇતિહાસ અને તત્વજ્ઞાનની સમજ અને રાજકીય ઘટનાઓનું પૃથક્કરણ કરવાની અસાધારણ શક્તિનો પરિચય થાય છે. એમના અવસાનથી દુ:ખની લાગણી અનુભવું છું. શોકગ્રસ્ત પરિવાર અને એમના વિશાળ વાચકવર્ગને સાંત્વના...ઓમ શાંતિ !! Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani described Sanghavi as someone who made thorough observations of social life and problems facing the country and world and had the ability to analyse issues in depth. His death was an immense loss to journalism, Rupani said. Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel said Sangahvi was one of the finest contemporary writers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-author-columnist-nagindas-sanghavi-dies-at-100-860428.html
