13-07-2020||First Edit||Health workers exposed to grave risk||While medical professionals have for long been complaining about the lack of personal protective equipment (PPE) exposing them to grave risk, the increasing number of other frontline warriors like pourakarmikas and policemen contracting Covid-19, especially in Bengaluru, highlights their total neglect by the state government. So far, about 500 policemen and  over 25 pourakarmikas have tested positive. While Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao says his men have been equipped with face shields, masks and sanitisers, pourakarmikas who have to deal with hazardous waste are not as lucky. The pourakarmikas’ association has alleged that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has provided them with only a single-use mask with instructions to wash and re-use them while sanitisers and gloves are in short supply. Ironically, when Rao paid a surprise visit to a police station, he found that none of the staff was wearing any of the protective gear, except masks. It is important the policemen take precautionary measures seriously as they deal with hundreds of people on the street without knowing whether or not they are Covid positive. In the case of pourakarmikas, what compounds the problem in addition to lack of protective gear, is the irresponsible disposal of masks and gloves by people without following proper protocol. However, the Yediyurappa government, instead of giving urgent attention to such important issues and saving lives by mitigating risk, seems to be more interested in window dressing. A case in point is the appointment of one minister for each zone of BBMP to supervise Covid-related operations. At the last count, there were at least nine ministers and one MLA with cabinet rank in charge of Covid. At a time when there is a need for a single chain of command to ensure cohesion, the appointment of several ministers who will act independently will only add to the existing confusion and derail the fight against the pandemic. Instead of a top-heavy approach, the government should equip staff at the lower level to facilitate a higher number of tests, admission of positive patients to hospitals without delay and effective contact tracing.  The safety of policemen, pourakarmikas, Asha workers and other personnel who are risking their lives on the line of duty should be given top most priority by the government and there should be absolutely no lag in providing them with the required protective outfit. Unless those who protect us are first safeguarded, any ammunition that the government may array against the virus will be of no use. For, if we do not have our foot soldiers in good health, who will carry the fight forward?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/health-workers-exposed-to-grave-risk-860461.html
13-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||As Covid-19 cases surge, complete lockdown re-imposed in Dharwad district from July 15||The announcement was made by district incharge minister Jagadish Shettar on Monday after having a discussion with CM B S Yediyurappa via video conference. Shettar said the lockdown will come into force from 9.00 am of July 15 and will end at 8.00 pm on July 24. The administration will issue lockdown guidelines shortly.  The minister said the enforcement of lockdown will be very strict and it will be along the lines of Lockdown 1.0. There will be an exemption to the sale of essential commodities. Interdistrict travel will be allowed only cases of medical emergencies and passes will be issued online.  Shettar appealed to the people to avoid crowding at prayer halls and place of worship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/as-covid-19-cases-surge-complete-lockdown-re-imposed-in-dharwad-district-from-july-15-860681.html
13-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Don’t come home: Neighbours tell ambulance drivers in Hubballi||“I wait outside the village for all the lights to switch off so that I can sneak into my house at night. If a neighbour sees me, my family will face social boycott,” says Shivanna Belgundi, an ambulance driver, who, for the last two and a half months, has been picking up Covid-19 patients from across Hubballi and dropping them at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS). “After reaching home, I take two buckets of hot water bath, eat my food sitting in a corner, sleep in a corner and leave home before the break of dawn. I can’t live without seeing my 8-year-old daughter. My neighbours in Hosakeri village of Belagavi district have ‘warned’ me twice not to come home as I come in contact with Covid-19 patients,” he says. This isn't just Shivanna's story. Almost all the six ambulance drivers and six emergency medical technicians (EMTs) working in Hubballi city, one of the worst-affected in Dharwad district, have faced similar or even worse treatment from their neighbours. One of the drivers, Vasudev H Mundinamani, said that a local BJP ex-corporator in Vidya Nagar had issued ‘strict instructions’ to him against coming home, as he can be ‘carrier of the virus’. Another driver, who did not wish to be named, said every time he goes home, which is once in every 15 days, his neighbours keep an ‘eye’ on him all through his stay. “Villagers have stopped allowing my children to play with theirs,” he says. They said none of them had rebelled against the villagers fearing social boycott faced by their families or worse, them being attacked in their absence. “We don’t handle Covid-19 patients. The patients walk into the ambulance by opening the doors themselves. The government has given us adequate safety equipment, including PPE kits, gloves, sanitisers, among other things. We also ensure adequate distance from the patient and only assist them in case of emergency,” they said, adding that they get permission to go home only after being tested for Covid-19. Work was not taxing in the earlier days but the number of cases had increased in the past 10-12 days, they said. Each one of them makes at least 10-12 trips a day and are behind the wheels for almost 10-14 hours a day. On Sunday (July 12), they had to shift over 109 patients to either KIMS or the other Covid Care Centres.  The government provides them with good food, but they don't get enough time to eat it, they added. Complaints of delay Even as the drivers work round the clock, there have been complaints of ambulances not reaching on time.  EMT Hanumanth T Nilgund pinned non-availability of beds at KIMS.as the cause behind the delays. “We can’t drop the patient at KIMS and leave. The ambulance has to wait at KIMS until the patient is taken in. As almost all the beds are filled at KIMS, the process is getting delayed,” he said. In spite of their hard work, the drivers and EMTs are not getting their payments on time, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/don-t-come-home-neighbours-tell-ambulance-drivers-in-hubballi-860791.html
13-07-2020||In Perspective||Land reforms, a must for just society ||The Karnataka Cabinet has decided to take the ordinance route to implement amendments to the Land Reforms Act that will enable anyone with enough money to buy agricultural land.   This amendment will open the floodgates for predatory capital to enter agriculture.  Land ownership will be consolidated in the hands of people with money.  It will also lead to large-scale mechanised agriculture.   Our policies must be aimed at optimum land holdings for sustainable, climate-resilient agriculture.  The importance of agriculture in ecological restoration and the fact that no sector of the economy can match agriculture in providing employment must not be forgotten while framing policies.  Land reforms must be part of a larger policy shift towards social justice and sustainability.  Our laws and policies must be framed so as to promote social justice and sustainability.  Thus far, our policies have been guided by considerations of economic growth rather than sustainability.   Since neo-liberalism gained ground, our policies came to be guided solely by pursuit of economic growth, without even bothering to think about who benefitted from it.  This has resulted in unacceptable economic inequality as well as ecological destruction.   Now that climate change has reached a point of crisis, it is necessary to recognise that the crisis is a symptom of the fact that humanity has been conducting its affairs in an unsustainable manner.   We are truly in an emergency and we must respond to it as we do to any emergency, that is, according it the highest priority.  Justice and sustainability must be the guiding principles of all our policies and our laws must also be aligned with these principles.  One of the most important steps in this direction is enacting suitable land reforms.  Recognising that the climate crisis is the result of relentless pursuit of economic growth disregarding ecological limits, profit maximisation must be rejected as the driving force of economic activities.   It should be replaced by considerations of security and minimisation of risk to all, especially to the poor.  Ecological restoration must now be undertaken on priority.  Rebuilding soil fertility, restoring water security and protecting biodiversity are important aspects of ecological restoration.   Our laws and policies must be changed so as to be aligned with this priority.  They should be guided by a holistic vision of a just and sustainable society. Knee-jerk reactions to situations arising from earlier shortsighted policies are to be avoided.   Further, alleviation of poverty itself must not be hostage to the desire of the rich to maximise profits.  It should follow from our constitutional commitment to right to life, dignity and equality of opportunities.  Amendments to Land Reforms must be guided by this constitutional commitment and the urgency of ecological restoration.  Agriculture must no longer be meant just for producing food but must also be an integral part of ecological restoration.  Seen from this point of view, it must not be an economic activity-driven by maximisation of return on investment.   Land must not be a commodity but should be considered as commons if anyone who wishes to do farming, not just for producing food but as part of a project of ecological restoration, is to have access to it.  Ecological restoration must be a mission and must attract not just those who have left farming but also other people who wish to participate in it.  Ideally, land use planning must be done based on considerations of ecological sustainability, taking micro-watersheds as units.  There should be usufruct rights for permissible use of land.  Usufruct rights must be given preferably to co-operatives.  The size of land holdings must be what is optimum for sustainable, climate-resilient agriculture.  Value addition from farming must be evaluated not just from the economic value of the produce but also on the ecological value of restoring soil fertility, water security and biodiversity.   Restoration work There must be a policy to train farmers in agro-ecological methods and farmers should be paid for doing restoration work.  Scientists must be consulted to device a rational method of compensating farmers for ecological restoration.   The possibility of strengthening programmes like NREGA for undertaking such work must be considered.  This has the potential to not just stop migration of farmers due to ecological degradation but even encourage them to return to their places to participate in restoration.   This work, being of the highest priority, should not suffer from paucity of funds.  Transparency and monitoring by local bodies must prevent corruption.  Taxation on all economic activities that are extractive in nature must be used for raising funds for the mission of ecological restoration.   The guarantee of security offered to farmers must be sufficient to wean them away from demanding subsidies and populist policies.  The policies suggested here will not find easy acceptance but are based on the realities of climate crisis and unacceptable economic disparities.  Changes in our laws and policies must at least proceed in this direction.   Policies leading to consolidation of land in the hands of powerful people or corporations should not be allowed at any cost since it will lead to greater economic inequality as well as further ecological destruction through the use of extractive practices in agriculture.  Using an ordinance to implement such a policy amounts to a fraud on the Constitution and on the people of the nation. (The writer, who taught chemical engineering at NITK Surathkal, now does farming as part of a sustainable lifestyle)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/land-reforms-a-must-for-just-society-860462.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka minister C T Ravi tests positive for Covid-19||"Yesterday, I along with my wife Pallavi & my staff members underwent COVID19 test. Fortunately, my wife Pallavi and all my staff members are tested Negative. Third umpire's result for me has confirmed that I'm Covid Positive. However, I'm feeling absolutely fine," he said in a tweet. Yesterday, I along with my wife Pallavi & my staff members underwent COVID19 test. Fortunately, my wife Pallavi and all my staff members are tested Negative. Third umpire's result for me has confirmed that I'm Covid Positive. However, I'm feeling absolutely fine. He had given swab samples for Covid-19 test thrice in the last one week. The samples had tested negative for Covid-19 on July 6 and the second sample was tested positive. To reconfirm, the third sample was tested on Sunday. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar too confirmed that Ravi tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier, the tourism Minister said that he was awaiting the results of the samples drawn for the third time for Covid-19 test. "I have given my swab for the third time for testing. In the two tests conducted in the last one week, one sample tested positive. Once again I have given my swab on Sunday and waiting for third umpire result," he tweeted. He went into home quarantine on July 11 after he came in contact with a coronavirus infected person. Earlier, his two separate tests had given two different reports including negative. The minister had to wait for a final report, which arrived on Monday confirming that he has tested positive for Covid-19. He said he was feeling "absolutely fine". Ravi said he would continue to work and undergo treatment. "Very soon, I'll get cured and come back to work with you all," the Minister said in another tweet. Another Karnataka Minister B C Patil too went into self-quarantine after one of his relatives in Bengaluru in his minister's quarters was found infected by the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-minister-c-t-ravi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-860507.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||A social media initiative to increase the green cover||A green enthusiast has initiated a hashtag challenge on Facebook to increase the green cover by planting saplings. #Manegondu_Urigondu challenge has been initiated to plant at least one sapling in the surroundings of the houses and one in the vacant public places, be it school premises, or beside the road, or in vacant land. The challenge has been receiving good response from people, including from enthusiasts residing in Mumbai. Those residing in Mumbai have supported the challenge by planting one or two indoor plants at their apartments in Mumbai. “During the lockdown, we heard of series of challenges on the social media. I decided to create awareness among people on the importance of planting saplings and preserving the environment and started this challenge using the hashtag to plant saplings and nurture it,”  Induchethana Borugudde, an HR working in a private firm in Karkala, informed DH. “The campaign was launched a few weeks ago to involve the youth in increasing the green cover. We have appealed to the people through the social media to take up the challenge by planting saplings and over 100 people had already supported and planted saplings in vacant places near their houses or in public places,” he says with pride. After planting a sapling, a photo with the sapling should be uploaded in Facebook and one has to challenge it with five more persons on social media using the hashtag to plant saplings and the chain continues, he explained. “I wish at least 1,000 saplings should be planted through this hashtag challenge before the end of monsoon,” he added. “I am also planning to seek the help of the Forest department in getting saplings for those who have keen interest in the initiative. Further, I am also planning to sow jackfruit seeds to get the plants to be distributed among those interested in planting saplings,” he added. Accepting the challenge, Vijetha, a teacher at Sacred Heart School in Bajagoli had planted two mango saplings near her house. “I used to plant flower-bearing plants in my house. Accepting the challenge, I have planted fruit-bearing saplings, which will give shade and fruits after they grows up into trees,” she said. “I have asked my students to accept the challenge and plant saplings in their surroundings and a few of them have supported the initiative. It gives immense pleasure to watch the plants grow. Motivated by the challenge, one of my colleagues too has asked the students to plant saplings on account of Guru Poornima,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/a-social-media-initiative-to-increase-the-green-cover-860540.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada sees 5 more Covid-19 deaths, toll at 46||In July alone (till July 12), Dakshina Kannada has recorded 31 deaths so far. According to DK Deputy Commissioner, a 72-year-old infected man suffering from diabetes and hypertension was undergoing treatment at ICU of the hospital died on Saturday late night. Another 50-year-old man suffering from diabetes and was on ventilator too died on Saturday night. While a 58-year–old woman suffering from diabetes and cardiac-related issue and was undergoing treatment at ICU had died on July 10 and her swab was tested positive. Another 68-year-old woman suffering from diabetes and hypertension and undergoing treatment at ICU too died on Sunday. A 55-year-old woman suffering from the symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) too died on Sunday.  The first death in the district was recorded on April 19 when a woman from Kasaba from Bantwal who was tested positive succumbed to the virus. The expert committee that conducted the death audit of 35 Covid-19 cases in DK district had declared that the death was due to late reporting to hospitals and severe comorbidities. Majority of the fatalities in the district were suffering from co-morbid conditions like kidney failure, brain tumour, TB, pneumonia, liver damage, high BP, diabetes, among others. The final rites of all the deceased were performed as per the government guidelines, sources told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-sees-5-more-covid-19-deaths-toll-at-46-860544.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu reports 10 new Covid-19 cases; tally rises to 179||DC Annies Kanmani Joy said of the 10 Covid-19 cases, nine are suffering from the symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI). A 24-year-old man has an interdistrict travel history from Bengaluru. The district administration has notified nine more containment zones at Neergund Kodlipet in Somwarpet, Karekoppa in Somwarpet, Kakkehole in Somwarpet, Gopalpura in Shanivarasanthe, Cherala Srimangala in SOmwarpet, Yemmegundi road in Suntikoppa, Gaddige in Madikeri, Bychanahalli in Kushalnagara and near Konemaramma Temple in Kushalnagara. Three containment zones at Bettadakadu Nellihudikeri, Holamala Chennayakanote and Polibetta have been denotified after the infected persons have been recovered and no fresh cases have been reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-reports-10-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-179-860549.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bangramanjeshwara residents rescue three stranded fishermen||The residents of Bangramanjeshwara in Kasaragod rescued three fishermen who were stranded in the sea for 16 hours after the engine of the traditional boat failed. The fishermen had ventured into fishing using a traditional boat belonging to Asif from Ullal.  Three fishermen from Tamil Nadu— Bala, Nagaraj, and Sukumar were on board. The engine of the boat failed in the sea when the boat reached Manjeshwara on Sunday. They remained stranded in the sea for 16 hours. All the food they had taken along with them too had remained exhausted. K M K Rashid from Bangramanjeshwar received information on stranded fishermen on Monday morning. He along with Kanvatheertha resident Dhanraj, Mustafa and Haneef from Hosabettu Kadappa, Mohammed and Razak from Bangramanjeshwar went in a separate boat and rescued the stranded fishermen. The boat too has been brought to the shores of Bangramanjeshwara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bangramanjeshwara-residents-rescue-three-stranded-fishermen-860632.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Over 57,000 people apply for HUDA sites in Hassan||The Hassan Urban Development Authority (HUDA) has received 57,765 applications and collected Rs 63.39 crore from the public seeking sites in Hassan. The HUDA had invited applications for sites to be developed on 1,200 acres of land. There are plans to develop 14,000 sites on the land, which would be developed into layouts in the next three years. HUDA has finished its first round of survey and has identified lands at Bhoovanahalli, Kanchatahalli, Samudrahalli and Gekarahalli. With the Karnataka government showing a green signal for it, the application process has been completed. Meanwhile, the farmers parting with their lands have demanded sites in 50:50 ratio and also higher compensation for the land acquired. The public had to apply through banks. Out of 70,000 applications, 57,765 people have applied for the sites, paying a registration fee. HUDA Commissioner Ramesh said that the farmers have come forward to sell their lands. The future course of action would be taken after a meeting with the elected representatives and officials, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-57000-people-apply-for-huda-sites-in-hassan-860637.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 lockdown in Dakshina Kannada for a week starting July 15: Kota Srinivas Poojary||Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh has been directed to issue guidelines for the lockdown. “All the shops will remain open till July 15. People can purchase all essential commodities required for a week.” The elected representatives and public in Dakshina Kannada were in the favour of another lockdown to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. Poojary appealed to the public to cooperate with the district administration in checking the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-lockdown-in-dakshina-kannada-for-a-week-starting-july-15-kota-srinivas-poojary-860665.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Highest single-day spike in Mysuru||With 151 Covid-19 positive cases on Monday, Mysuru recorded the highest single-day spike, taking the total tally to 966 and total active cases stood at 447. Six deaths were reported on Monday, taking the death toll to 37. The district has reported 364 positive cases and 25 deaths in a week. With 54 persons discharged on Monday, a total of 482 persons recovered and discharged from the hospital till date. Of 151 fresh cases, 57 are Influenza Like Illness (ILI), 16 Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), four have a inter-district and state travel history, 35 are contacts of infected persons. The authorities are tracing the contact history of 39 persons. It has to be noted that the cases of ILI and SARI are on rise. Majority of the cases are reported from Narasimharaja Assembly segment in the city. According to the authorities, 50% cases are from the segment and the cases are expected to increase from the segment. As the numbers of cases are on rise, the authorities are planning for a lockdown of the segment. However, it is yet to be finalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/highest-single-day-spike-in-mysuru-860829.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||'50% Covid cases from NR Assembly segment'||Over 50% of Covid-19 positive cases, reported in Mysuru district, are from Narasimharaja (NR) Assembly segment and a lockdown of the segment will be decided after holding a discussion said, District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar. The minister was attending a meeting of ministers and officials, chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyruappa, through video conference to discuss about handling Covid, water problems and flood. NR segment is the most problematic in the district. The people in the segment are reluctant to consult doctors until the last minute. It is planned to lockdown the Assembly segment to check the spread of the disease. However, it will be decided after holding discussion with the Deputy Commissioner, people's representatives and others, he said. The minister said, "There is shortage of group D employees in hospitals of the district and urged the CM to take measure to hire additional staff. The CM assured of filling the vacant posts and also directed the Chief Secretary to take measures." Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, "All possible measures are in place to contain the spread of virus and the district administration is prepared to handle Covid infected patients." Highlighting water-related issues, the DC said, "There is no water problem in the district and 65% of the farmers have started the cultivation process. The district administration is ready to handle floods." The DC also held a meeting with district-level officials later and directed them to take all necessary measures to combat Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/50-covid-cases-from-nr-assembly-segment-860832.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chamundeshwari Vardhanthi celebrated atop Chamundi Hill||Amid Covid-19, the Vardhanthi or birth anniversary of goddess Chamundeshwari was celebrated atop the Chamundi Hill on Monday. The Utsava Murthy was decorated with colourful flowers and Mahanyasa Rudrabhisheka, panchamruta abhisheka and other rituals were performed. Following Utsava Murthy, ‘mahamangalarathi’, the idol was taken out in a procession in a palanquin in the presence of the members of the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru -- Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar and his wife Trishika Kumari Devi. According to Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the Vardanthi is being celebrated on the day when then Maharaja Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar presented the Utsava Murthy of the goddess to the temple. The Maharaja installed the idol in Revathi Nakshatra of Aashada masa. In earlier days, there was no Utsava Murthy. The Wadiyar presented the idol and since then vardhanti is being celebrated as Chamundeshwari birthday, according to the priests of the temple. Yaduveer said that he prayed for the welfare of the people of the state and also prayed for strength to overcome the ongoing Covid crisis. Covid is a new experience and the government and World Health Organisation (WHO) have issued guidelines and the people should follow them for their own welfare, he said. Chief priest of the temple N Shashishekara Dixit said, “Due to outbreak of Covid, all rituals are being performed as per the tradition. Except Chamundeshwari temple atop the hill, no other Chamundeshwari temple celebrates vardhanti.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamundeshwari-vardhanthi-celebrated-atop-chamundi-hill-860834.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP MP V Srinivas Prasad condemns attack on B R Ambedkar's house in Mumbai||BJP MP V Srinivas Prasad has condemned the attack on Dr. B R Ambedkar's house in Mumbai and demanded immediate arrest of the attackers. In a press conference here, Prasad said that the attack must not be politicised and the police must conduct a thorough probe. "Congress and Shiv Sena are in power in Maharashtra and the government must consider the attached seriously. Mumbai police are intelligent and must crack the case soon," he said. Prasad also urged Dalit organisations not to level allegations against any group or organisations until police complete investigation. "The Dalit organisations can stage protest over the issue but, should not take law into hands. The leaders must speak about the attack and Ambedkar's name must not be used for politics," he added. Prasad also expressed displeasure over other non-Dalit organisations for not raising their voice against this issue||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-mp-v-srinivas-prasad-condemns-attack-on-b-r-ambedkars-house-in-mumbai-860628.html
13-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||See Jupiter today; Saturn, next Monday||The Covid crisis has provided a good opportunity for sky-gazers as they have more time, compared to other years. Besides, there are a good number of astronomical occurrences. To top it all, July is witness to some fascinating sky events. Already, comets Swan and Neowise have brought joy to those interested in planetary movements. Jupiter will be visible on Tuesday, while Saturn will be visible next Monday (July 20). This is the best time to see these planets, effortlessly. This occurrence is called ‘Opposition’. ‘Opposition’ is when a planet, farther from Sun than Earth, appears opposite the Sun. A planet is at opposition, when it is directly opposite the Sun, from our viewpoint on Earth. This implies, that Sun-Earth-planet are in a straight line. This is when the planet is as close as it can get to Earth, so it is the biggest and brightest. The planet rises when the Sun sets and is up all night, setting when the Sun rises. The planet is illuminated by the sun and appears disk-like, said S A Mohan Krishna, amateur astronomer. ‘Jupiter’ is the bluish-yellow planet and is regarded as the biggest. In 2019, it dominated the night sky in June, July and August. Jupiter reached ‘Opposition’ on June 10, in 2019. Jupiter, the fifth planet from the Sun, will be at a close opposition, providing an excellent opportunity to observe it, he said. Jupiter is also the second brightest planet, after Venus. A few weeks before and after ‘opposition’ on July 14, Jupiter will be very bright, reaching a visual magnitude of about -2.5 to - 2.6. This will be an excellent opportunity to observe Jupiter, its Great Red Spot and its four largest satellites — Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto. These satellites can be seen through a binocular also. A telescope with a magnification of 40 times or above is preferred in observing Jupiter, Mohan Krishna said. From Mysuru, Jupiter will be perceptible between 7 pm on Tuesday to 6 am on Wednesday. It reaches the highest point or pinnacle in the sky around midnight local time. Jupiter can be seen in the vicinity of constellations ‘Capricornus’ and ‘Sagittarius’. Generally, Jupiter reaches opposition every 13 months and the distance between Jupiter and Earth on July 14 will be 641 million km, he said. On July 20, Saturn will have a rendezvous with Earth and will be the right time to see this ringed planet. ‘Saturn’ is the sixth planet from Sun and the outermost planet perfectly noticeable with the unaided eye. Saturn reaches ‘opposition’ on July 20 and so it has its best visibility this month, Mohan Krishna said. From Mysuru, Saturn will be perceptible between 7.30 pm on Monday (July 20) to 6 am on Tuesday (July 21). It reaches the highest point in the sky around midnight local time. Saturn can be seen in the vicinity of constellations ‘Capricornus’ and ‘Sagittarius’, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/see-jupiter-today-saturn-next-monday-860831.html
13-07-2020||Main Article||China's lust for water||According to a school of foreign policy, India’s stance towards China has been wrong from the word go. We lost the game, many detractors say, when in an agreement signed with China in April 1954, India officially recognised that Tibet belonged to China. Regardless of whether we gave away Tibet, as if Tibet had ever been ours to give away, the basic point is that by getting hold of Tibet, China laid a stranglehold on its enormous water resources. Asia’s 10 great river systems including the Ganga, Indus, Mekong, Yangtse, Yellow River – fed by thousands of Himalayan-cum-Tibetan glaciers and mountain springs and flowing down from the Tibetan highlands – highlight the role played by this plateau as the continent’s ‘water tower’.  The numerous lakes on the plateau alone store, according to the Chinese Ministry of Water Resources, 608 billion cubic metres of freshwater that makes the Tibetan Plateau even more important. And now, if we trace the same motive to Chinese actions at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), particularly at the Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso, we can understand their actions better.  The oft-repeated quote of Mao terming Tibet as the ‘palm’ of a hand with its five fingers as Ladakh, Sikkim, Nepal, Bhutan, and what has so long been as NEFA that pertain to our north eastern states, and his claims that these were ‘Chinese’ territories that needed to be ‘liberated’ must not be lost on the current leadership of India because the current leadership of China continues to nurse such grand illusions if the Chinese behaviour of the last 60 years is any guide.  Beijing at one time had affirmed that ‘reunification’ of China is a ‘sacred duty’ of the Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA), implying that this was much more a task for the military than of political–diplomatic processes. Observers say that if Beijing had recognised the McMahon Line, it would have been akin to accepting that Tibet had enjoyed de facto independence at the time of the Shimla conference in 1914, weakening its claim that Tibet was an inalienable part of China. China’s hungry territoriality and downright irredentism could, to a large extent, be ascribed to water. If one does want to find potential water wars involving China, the natural place to look is its face-off with India over the river that flows out of western Tibet, where it is called the Yarlung Tsangpo, which takes the name Brahmaputra and flows through remote northeast India before crossing into Bangladesh.  Of the three mighty Himalayan rivers – the triad of great rivers in South Asia — the Ganga, Brahmaputra, and Indus — and their tributaries that feed five of the South Asian countries, namely, Nepal, Bhutan, India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan, the Brahmaputra and the Indus originate in the Tibetan plateau thus making China eligible to make claims on waters of these two rivers. The Mekong River snakes out of Chinese-controlled Tibetan glaciers for some 4,350 km, through Myanmar, Laos, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam. Since 2010, China has moved to take control of a larger share of the water in the Tibetan plateau. China plans to build more than 322 km of canals to divert melting Himalayan glacier water to the parched Yellow River. When China took over Tibet more than half a century ago, it may have had its eye on the Yarlung Tsangpo as expanding territories for China then made as such sense as it does now.  Besides being the source of Asia’s greatest rivers, the annexed Tibetan plateau is the world’s largest repository of freshwater after the Arctic and Antarctica that serve as the lifeblood for mainland China and South and Southeast Asia. Momentous battles over the glacial water of the Tibetan Plateau might well be on the anvil. Pangong Tso In his book, “Water, Peace, and War: Confronting the Global Water Crisis”, Brahma Chellaney pointed out to the attention deficit regarding some specific transboundary lakes, wetlands and glaciers such as the 134-km-long Pangong Tso, currently in contention and the 6,300-metre-high Siachin Glacier.  He recounted how the 4,350-metre-high Pangong Tso – the scene of bloody battles during the 1962 Chinese invasion of India – remains a hotly contested zone and how China, in control of two-thirds of this endorheic lake, seeks to test Indian defence preparedness in the area by intermittently dispatching armed patrols across the line of control, including by motorboat.  Chellaney reminded us that while Indian forces were deflecting a major Pakistani military incursion into the Kargil region of Ladakh in 1999, Chinese troops built a 5-km permanent track into Indian-administered territory along the lake, located on the opposite flank of the Ladakh border indicative of their lust for the region’s water resources. The so-called Chinese Claim Line runs very close to the confluence of the Shyok and Galwan rivers (referred to as Galwan Mouth) that is barely about 4 km west of the LAC. As the road from Darbuk to Shyok to Daulat Beg Oldie, the Indian landing strip, runs parallel to the Shyok river along its western bank, this location is of strategic importance.  An analysis of satellite imagery explains how China altered the Galwan river's ecosystem to eventually claim the region as its own. Unconfirmed Indian media reports claim Beijing has cut off the flow of the Galwan River which many feel should be challenged immediately, or else this could lead to cutting off waters to other rivers with serious consequences for agriculture and potable water in India.  China is occupying nearly 48,000 sq km of Indian territory (in Aksai Chin) in Ladakh, had obtained the Shaksgam Valley further west from Pakistan illegally, and also claims 94,000 sq km of Indian territory in the north-east constituting the state of Arunachal Pradesh. We have been putting up with such uneasy facts for far too long and now paying a price for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/chinas-lust-for-water-860463.html
13-07-2020||National||Nepal urges India to take steps against broadcast of anti-Nepal materials||Nepal has sent a 'diplomatic note' to India, urging New Delhi to take steps against the broadcast of materials what it called "fake, baseless and insensitive as well as abusive" to the country and its leadership by a section of the Indian media, a source said on Sunday. The move came days after Nepal on Thursday stopped the transmission of all Indian private news channels except Doordarshan, accusing them of airing reports hurting the country's national sentiment. There was no immediate reaction from India on the issue. In the diplomatic note to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) via the Embassy of Nepal in New Delhi on Friday, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that the materials disseminated by a section of the Indian media are “fake, baseless and insensitive as well as abusive to Nepal and Nepali leadership”, according to an aide of the Nepal Prime Minister. "Such materials are not only misleading and misinforming but also impair the sense of minimum public decency,” the ministry said in the note. The ill-intentioned "smearing campaign unleashed by a section of Indian media has deeply hurt the feelings of Nepali people and persona of Nepali leadership," read the note. It requested the Indian authorities to take measures against these obscene materials on Nepal by a section of the Indian media and make sure that such materials do not find space in the media. Meanwhile, the Federation of Nepalese Journalists and Press Council Nepal also condemned some reports of a section of the Indian media. The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory. Later, Nepal updated the country's political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating three strategically important Indian areas. India termed as "untenable" the "artificial enlargement" of the territorial claims by Nepal. India has handed over a diplomatic note to Nepal over the map issue, Nepalese media reports said. Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli, under pressure to resign amidst a rift in the ruling Nepal Communist Party over his style of functioning, has alleged that some of the ruling party leaders are aligning with the southern neighbour to remove him from power after his government issued a new political map incorporating three Indian territories. His allegations have been criticised by senior NCP leaders, including former prime minister 'Prachanda', who demanded Prime Minister Oli's resignation, saying his recent anti-India remarks were "neither politically correct nor diplomatically appropriate."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-urges-india-to-take-steps-against-broadcast-of-anti-nepal-materials-860475.html
13-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 13||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 8.7 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 9,01,646 as of July 13 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 23,665   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 5,34,621 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-13-860479.html
13-07-2020||National||DH Toon | Where art thou, Modi ji, asks Rahul Gandhi; Congress losing its ground in India||What happened that China took away India's land during Narendra Modi's rule: Rahul Gandhi asks govt Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday again attacked the government over the Ladakh face-off, and asked what happened that China "took away" India's land when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is at the helm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-where-art-thou-modi-ji-asks-rahul-gandhi-congress-losing-its-ground-in-india-860484.html
13-07-2020||National||Bachchans testing positive for Covid-19 an alarm bell for India?||When India’s biggest film star, Amitabh Bachchan, announced Saturday night that he had contracted the coronavirus, a loud alarm bell rang across India. Bachchan, known as Big B, is not simply an enormously successful actor. He is one of India’s most revered figures. His face and rich, avuncular voice, dripping with gravitas, are everywhere, deployed in ads for household products, voice-overs at museums and countless public service campaigns. He was recently roped into doing a campaign on — what else? — the coronavirus. The worry was that if Big B could catch the virus, anybody could, and with India getting walloped by COVID-19, Bachchan, 77, said on Twitter on Saturday, “All that have been in close proximity to me in the last 10 days are requested to please get themselves tested!” India is now racking up more new reported infections each day — about 30,000 — than any other country except the United States and Brazil — and it is rapidly catching up to Brazil. India now has the third-highest total cases after the United States and Brazil. Authorities in several big Indian cities and states are reinstating quarantines after attempting to loosen things up to stimulate a critically wounded economy. The borders between states are again being rigorously patrolled, with visitors shunted off to isolation centers. International travel is still blocked. Hospitals are overflowing with the sick. Even emergencies are being turned away. One pregnant woman was left to die in the back of an ambulance a few weeks ago after being rejected from eight hospitals in 15 hours. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been trying to lift spirits by saying in televised speeches that India is still doing better than richer countries, especially when it comes to the death rate. India has reported about 16 coronavirus-related deaths per million people, while the United States, Brazil, Spain and Italy have all lost hundreds per million. Experts think this might be for a few reasons. India’s average age, around 28, is younger than that of other countries. Obesity is less prevalent, too, and many doctors believe that obesity creates a greater vulnerability to the coronavirus. Some medical professionals also believe that Indians have strong immune systems because of their constant exposure to microbes, living in cities that are not as clean as cities in the West. Another explanation, though, might simply be testing — or the lack of it. India has performed far fewer coronavirus tests per capita than many other countries have. Either way, Indian authorities keep coming up with innovative ways to fight the virus. At airports, for instance, video cameras have been installed that enable security officers to check passengers’ boarding passes remotely to minimize face-to-face contact. The officers who use electromagnetic wands to screen passengers now use wands attached to 4-foot rubber poles to maintain distance. And many Indians, even the poorest, have been wearing face masks for months. India’s biggest enemy is the density of its population. This country has dozens of cities with more than 1 million people. Even in smaller towns and villages, many families live in cramped quarters, eight or even 10 people to a room, which makes a highly contagious illness like the coronavirus very hard to stop. In many of these areas, it is impossible to maintain social distancing. In recent weeks, Mumbai, one of India’s most-packed cities and home to Bachchan, the movie star, has especially struggled. The virus started out in Mumbai’s wealthier neighborhoods among the jet-setter crowd. Then it swept through the slums. Now it is gnawing through the entire city, home to 20 million. On Saturday night, Bachchan announced via Twitter — where he has 43.2 million followers — that he had tested positive. He was soon admitted to Nanavati Hospital, near the exclusive Juhu neighborhood in Mumbai where he lives, overlooking the Arabian Sea. It appears that several of his family members have fallen sick as well. His son, Abhishek Bachchan, also an actor, disclosed that he had contracted the coronavirus. Abhishek’s wife, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, an actress and model, tested positive, as did their 8-year-old daughter, Aaradhya. All seemed to have mild symptoms, officials said. The illness in the illustrious Bachchan clan was such big news that the health minister of Maharashtra state issued a Twitter post about it at 4:30 a.m. Sunday. “I pray to God that Amitabh Bachchan Ji recovers from this soon,” the minister, Rajesh Tope, said, adding the respectful “Ji” to Bachchan’s name. It is hard to overstate how big Big B really is. Walk through just about any city in India, and there is his handsome, gray-bearded face staring down from a billboard or a railway bridge, advertising a new phone app or chocolate bar or public health campaign. The son of a renowned poet, Bachchan is celebrated for his mastery of language and diction. He has acted in more than 200 films over the past 50 years — and he is still working and drawing admirers. Until the coronavirus lockdown brought life to a screeching halt this spring, thousands of fans would camp out in front of his Mumbai mansion nearly every Sunday, hoping to get a glimpse of him. Bachchan would step out from his gates for a few minutes and stand on a stool and graciously wave. “He’s like God,” said Shivendra Singh Dungarpur, a filmmaker who has worked with Bachchan. “I’ve never seen a star having such power, such credibility. He’s the biggest superstar this country has ever, ever seen.” Part of Bachchan’s appeal, Dungarpur said, was that, for half a century, Bachchan has carefully chosen roles where he is fighting against all odds, taking on the system, getting justice for the common man. He is also very civically minded and has helped out with many real-life causes. Dungarpur, who runs a film preservation foundation to save heritage films across South Asia, said Bachchan had helped him immensely, serving as the foundation’s brand ambassador. His contracting of the coronavirus might create more fear across India. But it could also help take away some of the stigma that infected Indians have endured, evidenced by people kicked out of their neighborhoods and a few even driven to suicide. Dungarpur predicted that a lot of Indians would find his struggle inspiring and say to themselves, “If Amitabh Bachchan can fight this, so can we.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bachchans-testing-positive-for-covid-19-an-alarm-bell-for-india-860501.html
13-07-2020||National||What we know about the Rajasthan political crisis so far||Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Sunday declared open rebellion and claimed that the Ashok Gehlot government in the state is in minority.  In the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72. The Congress also has the support of 10 out of 13 independents, and other party MLAs like Rashtriya Lok Dal (1), which is its ally. The Congress also has support from two MLAs each from the CPI(M) and the Bharatiya Tribal Party. Apart from its 72 MLAs, BJP's ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) has three MLAs. Earlier, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had accused the BJP of conspiring to topple his government by indulging in horse-trading, a charge denied by the opposition party which claimed it was the Congress's "infighting" at play. Citing the examples of Goa, Manipur, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, the chief minister said the BJP is trying to play similar games in Rajasthan too. Congress leader Avinash Pande on Monday said 109 MLAs have signed a letter of support to the chief minister. The BJP is now in a "wait and watch" mode over the unfolding crisis in the Congress in Rajasthan and will wait for the outcome of the show of strength between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot before deciding on its next course of action. Gehlot has called a meeting of Congress MLAs on Monday, which is likely to give a clear indication of how much support he and Pilot enjoy in the legislative group. The latest inquiry launched by the Special Operations Group (SOG) that claimed to have busted a horse-trading plan, allegedly by BJP leaders, in a bid to de-stabilise the Rajasthan government. (with inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-we-know-about-the-rajasthan-political-crisis-so-far-860548.html
13-07-2020||National||Record spike of 28,701 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, India's tally crosses 8.78 lakh||India saw yet another record single-day jump of 28,701 Covid-19 cases, pushing its tally to 8,78,254 on Monday, while the death toll climbed to 23,174 with 500 people succumbing to the infection, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of recoveries stands at 5,53,470, while there are 3,01,609 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country and one person has migrated, the updated data at 8 am showed. "Thus, around 63.01 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. This was the fourth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases in the country have increased by more than 26,000. According to the ICMR, 1,18,06,256 samples had been tested for Covid-19 till July 12, of these 2,19,103 samples were tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-spike-of-28701-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-indias-tally-crosses-878-lakh-860552.html
13-07-2020||National||Supreme Court upholds rights of Travancore royal family in administration of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple||The Supreme Court on Monday upheld the rights of the Travancore Royal family as shebait in one of the country's richest temples, Shree Padmanabhaswamy in Thiruvananthapuram. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Indu Malhotra ordered that a committee under district judge and comprising other members, only Hindus, would oversee the administration as an interim measure. It said the committee would decide on the opening of Kallara B (vault), believed to contain some mystical energy. Pronouncing operative parts of the judgement, the court said the death of the ruler who signed the covenant does not affect the shebait (maintenance and management) right of the Travancore Royal family. The judgement in the matter was reserved on April 10, 2019, after about nine years of hearing.   The controversy over the administration and management of the historic temple has been pending in the apex court since 2011 in the wake of charges of financial irregularities. The sprawling temple, an architectural splendour in granite, was rebuilt in its present form in the 18th century by the Travancore Royal family led by Shri Marthanda Varma who had ruled southern Kerala and some adjoining parts of Tamil Nadu before the integration of the princely state with the Indian Union in 1947. Even after India's independence, the temple continued to be governed by a trust controlled by the erstwhile Royal family for whom Lord Padmanabha (Vishnu) is their family deity||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-upholds-rights-of-travancore-royal-family-in-administration-of-sree-padmanabhaswamy-temple-860559.html
13-07-2020||National||68% believe weekend lockdowns meaningless or have no major impact: Survey||Two-thirds of those who were part of a survey believe that the weekend lockdowns imposed in several cities and states are either "meaningless" or have "minor" impact in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. At the same time, 69% citizens of those surveyed by LocalCircles felt that a stringent lockdown in 49 districts which have India’s 80% caseload is needed to contain the spread of the pandemic. To a question on whether they found the weekend lockdown useful, 28% of the around 16,000 surveyed answered in the affirmative while 44% were of the view that it was "meaningless" while 24% said that the impact would be "minor". "This means 68% of citizens believe weekend lockdowns have negligible or minor impact on containing the spread of Covid-19," the survey said. "Over two-thirds of the citizens in the survey believe that these weekend lockdowns have no or little effectivity and instead a targeted 3-4 week lockdown in all districts that make up 80% of India’s caseload is the best way forward," it said. The Uttar Pradesh government recently announced a 'weekend' lockdown. Odisha has a weekend shutdown in 10 districts with high caseload while Punjab too ordered a stricter lockdown on weekends and public holidays. In Madhya Pradesh, a state-wide Sunday lockdown is being implemented while cities like Bhopal and Indore were already having weekend lockdowns. Asked about the strategy for 49 districts with high case load, 46% supported a complete lockdown for three weeks or more while 23% said a lockdown should be implemented like it was done between March 25 and May 3. Only 9% said week-end lockdowns should be implemented for the next three months in these districts while 13% were of the view that no action is needed and the government should just continue with Unlock 2.0. Eight per cent of the respondents said a full normal functioning should be resumed and we should learn to live with the virus. In the remaining  687 districts, the survey said people are of the view that restrictions are not needed and the local economies should be able to function. As far as the goods movement within, from and to the 49 districts, that should continue. "While many businesses are opposed to the idea of lockdown, citizens are clear that it is critical to breaking the chain of Covid-19 spread. Some other businesses also stated that instead of 20-30% business volumes because of much lower foot falls in the market, it is better to shut things for a 3-4 week period and restart activity at a higher scale when people are not as fearful to step out," the survey claimed||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/68-believe-weekend-lockdowns-meaningless-or-have-no-major-impact-survey-860563.html
13-07-2020||National||CBSE class 12 examination 2020 results announced: How and where to check||CBSE announced results for class XII board exams on Monday. The overall pass percentage is 88.78%, an increase of 5.38%. Merit list will not be announced. Girls outshone boys with a record 5.96% higher pass percentage this year.   We congratulate you all for making this possible. I reiterate, Student's health & quality education are our priority.   Step 1: Login to the official website– cbseresults.nic.in or cbse.nic.in Step 2: Enter your exam details like school code, roll number and date of birth Step 3: Check your CBSE Board results for class 12||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-12-examination-2020-results-announced-how-and-where-to-check-860590.html
13-07-2020||National||Glenmark reduces generic version of Covid-19 drug favipiravir price to Rs 75||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd said on Monday it would lower the price of its generic version of favipiravir, FabiFlu, to 75 rupees ($0.9983) per tablet for restricted emergency use in patients with mild-to-moderate Covid-19 symptoms in India. Glenmark last month received Indian regulatory approval to make and sell anti-flu drug favipiravir, which is manufactured under the brand name Avigan by a unit of Japan's Fujifilm Holdings Corp. Glenmark had priced FabiFlu at 103 rupees per tablet earlier, making it one of the cheapest Covid-19 treatment available in the country. "Glenmark's price reduction aims to make FabiFlu further accessible for Covid-19 patients across the country," the company said in a statement. The price reduction comes at a time when coronavirus cases are continuing to surge across India. The country registered a record increase in infections on Sunday, and has over 870,000 cases as of Monday, with the death toll at 23,174, according to federal health ministry data. Social media users have also complained of a shortage of Covid-19 treatment in the nation. A treatment course with FabiFlu would require a patient to take 122 tablets over 14 days, and will now cost 8,475 rupees ($112.80) per patient at the new price. Meanwhile, Japanese researchers on Friday said a clinical trial of Fujifilm's Avigan yielded inconclusive results as a treatment for Covid-19. Dr.Reddy's Laboratories Ltd has entered into a deal with Fujifilm to sell Avigan globally excluding Japan, China and Russia. Mumbai-based Glenmark has also commenced a post-marketing surveillance study with FabiFlu to monitor its efficacy and safety in 1,000 patients that are prescribed with the oral antiviral, the company said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/glenmark-reduces-generic-version-of-covid-19-drug-favipiravir-price-to-rs-75-860600.html
13-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi interacts with Sundar Pichai, terms it 'fruitful'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke with Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Alphabet Inc and Google, and discussed issues such as leveraging the power of technology to transform the lives of India's farmers and youths and the importance of data security. During the interaction, they also spoke about the new work culture that is emerging in the times of Covid-19. "We discussed the challenges the global pandemic has brought to areas such as sports. We also talked about the importance of data security and cyber safety," the prime minister said in a series of tweets. Modi also shared pictures of the virtual interaction. "This morning, had an extremely fruitful interaction with Sundar Pichai. We spoke on a wide range of subjects, particularly leveraging the power of technology to transform the lives of India's farmers, youngsters and entrepreneurs," the prime minister said. "During our interaction, Sundar Pichai and I spoke about the new work culture that is emerging in the times of Covid-19. We discussed the challenges the global pandemic has brought to areas such as sports. We also talked about the importance of data security and cyber safety," PM Modi tweeted.  They also spoke about the significance of technology and how it can help the farmers, students and entrepreneurs of the country. He further praised Google's effort in the betterment of education and digital payments in India. Modi said he was delighted to know more about the efforts of Google in several sectors, "be it in education, learning, Digital India, furthering digital payments and more". Pichai and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad are participating in the sixth annual edition of "Google for India" on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-interacts-with-sundar-pichai-terms-it-fruitful-860601.html
13-07-2020||National||Karnataka II PUC results to be out on Tuesday||The results of the recently concluded II PUC (10+2) examinations will be announced tomorrow, Tuesday at 11:30 am. The results, according to Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar, will be sent in the form of SMS-es to the registered mobile numbers of the students by 11:30 am. Over 6.5 lakh students had appeared for the II PUC exams. Even though examinations for most of the subjects was completed in March, students had to wait close to three months, due to nationwide lockdown, to appear for the last exam -- for English -- which was held on 18th June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-ii-puc-results-to-be-out-on-tuesday-860603.html
13-07-2020||National||Govt asks PTI to pay Rs 84.48 crore for ‘breaches’ in its office premise plan||The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has sent a notice to news agency PTI, demanding it to pay more than Rs 84 crore as penalty for masterplan breaches at its office premises in the national capital. The notice dated July 7, issued by the Land and Development Office of the Ministry, sought Rs 84,48,23,281. "The lessor will be pleased to regularise the breaches in the premises temporarily up to 14.07.2020 and withdraw the right of re-entry of the premises subject to the following conditions being fulfilled by you within 30 days from the date of issue of this letter," said the notice. "The present letter offering terms will not act as a waiver for recovery of any other charges which may in the discretion of the lessor be found payable by you at a later stage," said the notice. The government also warned that if the PTI failed to furnish the concerned amount within the stipulated time period then it will have to pay an additional 10 percent interest.  The notice also said that the news agency has to give an undertaking on non-judicial stamp paper stating that it will pay the difference of "misuse/damage charges" if the land rates are revised with effect from 01.04.2016 by the government and will also remove the "breaches" by 14.07.2020 or get them regularised by paying charges. The notice also warned that further action to execute the deed has to be subject to complete payment and putting the premise to use according to the masterplan. "If the news agency fails to comply with the terms within the said period, the concession will be withdrawn and action under the terms of the lease will be taken against you without any further notice," the government warned. Earlier, national broadcaster Prasar Bharati had threatened to terminate its relationship with PTI after the news agency carried an interview with Chinese Ambassador Sun Weisong, where he blamed India for the India-China violent standoff in Eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-pti-to-pay-rs-8448-crore-for-breaches-in-its-office-premise-plan-860614.html
13-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Girls outshine boys in class 12 exams, CBSE not to announce merit list this year||Girls outshone boys in the class 12 examination, results of which were announced by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday. The board decided not to come up with a merit list in view of exceptional circumstances amid the coronavirus pandemic. Girls outperformed boys by 5.96 per cent whereas the overall pass percentage increased by 5.38 per cent as against last year. The Trivandrum region recorded the highest pass percentage at 97.67 whereas the lowest pass percentage was recorded at 74.57 in the Patna region. However, the results of 400 students could not be computed as per the scheme and will be announced later, a senior board official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-girls-outshine-boys-in-class-12-exams-cbse-not-to-announce-merit-list-this-year-860619.html
13-07-2020||National||Mike Pompeo, S Jaishankar, Nirmala Sitharaman to address virtual India Ideas summit||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will address a star-studded virtual summit next week on building a better future for both the countries and the world, amidst the Covid-19 and China's aggressive actions. The two-day virtual India Ideas Summit of the powerful US India Business Council (USIBC) would be held on July 21 and 22. "The theme for this year's summit is building a better future,” USIBC president Nisha Desai Biswal told PTI in an interview. “We are firmly committed to the US-India corridor that builds a better future,” she said. India, the US and their industries working together can not only build a better future for both the countries and its people, but they can actually be instrumental in building a better future for the world, she said. “And that's what we're looking for this year in the India Ideas Summit,” she said. The virtual summit will start on July 21, with inaugural keynote conversation on “Global Supply Chains & Combatting Covid-19” between Indian-American Congressman Dr Ami Bera and Piyush Goyal, Union Minister of Commerce and Industry and Minister of Railways. Union Finance Minister Sitharaman will join the USIBC members to share her vision for India's economic recovery and the path to future economic growth in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. Her remarks would be followed by conversation on India’s Economic Recovery by Tarun Bajaj, Secretary of Economic Affairs. On July 22, after a welcome address by Thomas J Donohue, CEO, US Chamber of Commerce, the External Affairs Minister Jaishankar along with Senator Mark Warner would participate in a discussion on “How the US and India Can Lead the Global Response Post-Pandemic” in a session moderated by former National Security Advisor Stephen Headley. Soon thereafter Pompeo would deliver a keynote address, followed by a panel discussion on “The Future of US-India Relations in a Post-Pandemic World” between US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster and his Indian counterpart Taranjit Singh Sandhu. Pompeo has already lashed out at China and said that Indians have done their best to respond to Beijing's incredibly aggressive actions. The top American diplomat said last Wednesday that China has a pattern of instigating territorial disputes and the world shouldn't allow this bullying to take place in the region. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a bitter standoff at multiple locations in eastern Ladakh since May 5. The tension escalated manifold after a violent clash in the Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed last month. Currently, both sides are engaged in talks to de-escalate the situation. The prestigious annual USIBC Global Leadership Awards would be presented to Jim Taiclet, CEO, Lockheed Martin & Co-Chair of the US-India CEO Forum and Natarajan Chandrasekaran, chairman Tata Group and Co-Chair of the US-India CEO Forum. “I think that the US-India partnership can become the engine for rebirth of a global economy post (coronavirus) pandemic,” Biswal told PTI in response to a question. Noting the US and India already have a very deep collaboration in terms of the services trade, Biswal, who was earlier the Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia, said it is well known that a large cross-section of the American economy has some operations in India. The Covid-19 pandemic showed India's strength and resilience in the service economy, and despite a national lockdown the US companies were able to maintain business continuity across the board on the vast majority of these services, whether it's hospital administration, financial sector, or processing of insurance claims. Across the board, the service economy in India has been able to operate, she said. India, Biswal said, is also known as the 'pharmacy to the world' and the really important role that it plays in both generic pharmaceutical production and in branded pharmaceuticals. Noting that concerns have been expressed in the US and India and other voices about too many of the inputs, the active pharmaceutical ingredients coming from a single source, she said New Delhi is looking to see what it can do to strengthen its pharmaceutical supply chain. “There is a strong interest in the United States in working with India on that,” said Biswal. “But we also know that as India looks to attract more global supply chains, that is something that the US supports, and wants to see India be more competitive and more attractive markets and to see more investment go into India to locate sourcing and manufacturing in India,” Biswal said. 5G is another area where both governments have had strong statements and high-level attention on how the US and India can be more collaborative in building the 5G architecture that the global digital economy is going to move. Energy partnership, she observed, has been moving in a strong direction. “Of course, the defence sector is important not only from the perspective of national security and strategic, but also in terms of the importance of India in the global defence supply chain,” Biswal said. The India Ideas Summit is also hosting a virtual performance by Sitarist Rishab Rikhi Ram, the youngest disciple of Bharat Ratna and world-renowned maestro Pt. Ravi Shankar. Brahma Kumari Sister Shivani will have an interactive session on how business leaders are embracing mindfulness, empowering their teams’ wellness journeys.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mike-pompeo-s-jaishankar-nirmala-sitharaman-to-address-virtual-india-ideas-summit-860640.html
13-07-2020||National||CA's May examination cancelled, to be merged with November cycle: ICAI tells SC||The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) Monday informed the Supreme Court that the May cycle of CA examination, scheduled between July 29 and August 16, has been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The counsel appearing for ICAI told a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar that now the May cycle examination will be merged with the November 2020 cycle of the CA exam. The apex court was hearing through video-conferencing a plea which had challenged the 'opt out' option provided by ICAI alleging that it "arbitrarily" discriminate between the aspirants in May cycle of CA examination. The plea had also sought more exam centres across the country. The bench, after hearing the submissions advanced by ICAI's counsel, disposed of the matter. Advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, appearing for the petitioner, pointed out to certain aspects related to the CA examinations. The top court told the advocate to make a representation before the ICAI in this regard.  On June 29, the apex court had said that ICAI should be flexible in conducting exams amid the pandemic and take care of concern of candidates. It had suggested that option for change in examination centre should be made available to the aspirants till the last week before the scheduled exams. It had observed that the situation is not static and continuously changing and the ICAI should be flexible on the issues of 'opt out' and change of examination centre. The ICAI's counsel had earlier told the court that out of around 3,46,000 registered aspirants, nearly 53,000 have taken the 'opt out' option. The plea filed in the apex court had alleged that ICAI had made an important announcement on June 15 by which it "arbitrarily decided to discriminate" between the aspirants by providing an option of 'opt out'. The ICAI's counsel had told the court that it has ensured that no prejudice is caused to anybody by a notification issued regarding the examination. The petitioner, president of 'India Wide Parents Association', had claimed in the plea that ICAI has stated that students, who have already submitted online examination application for May examination cycle, shall be allowed to 'opt out' and carry forward their candidature to November 2020 examination cycle. "It is respectfully submitted that Respondent No.1 ICAI has notified that for the students who choose opt-out option, this attempt (May 2020) will be treated as cancelled/not counted. Thus, such student will be deprived of May, 2020, attempt, as compared to another group of students, who choose opt-in option," the plea had said, while seeking quashing of the announcement made in this regard on June 15. "The said 'opt-out' option discriminates between those underprivileged group of CA students/ aspirants, who are living in remote areas of the country or living in the containment zones and thus are slated to lose one precious 'examination attempt' by choosing 'opt-out' option amidst ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, as compared to that privileged group of students/ aspirants, who are living in big cities/ green zones and thus they have no problem in appearing in the said examination," it had said. It had said that free transportation and accommodation should be provided to the aspirants near their respective examination centres. It had further sought directions to the authorities to conduct mandatory free COVID-19 test of all aspirants and teachers and staffs deployed at the examination centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cas-may-examination-cancelled-to-be-merged-with-november-cycle-icai-tells-sc-860641.html
13-07-2020||National||PM Modi, Google CEO Sundar Pichai discuss Covid-19, misinformation in virtual interaction||Ahead of US tech giant Google announcing a big investment plan in India, Google CEO Sundar Pichai interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conference on Monday. Pichai briefed the Prime Minister about the efforts undertaken by Google to help spread awareness and provide reliable information about Covid-19. He said that the strong step of lockdown initiated by the Prime Minister set up a very strong foundation of India’s battle against the pandemic. The PM also appreciated the proactive role played by Google in battling misinformation and conveying information about necessary precautions. He also talked about further leveraging technology in providing healthcare services, said a statement from the Prime Minister's Office. The PM said that Indians are adjusting to and adopting technology at a rapid pace. He talked about farmers benefiting from technology and the possible wide-ranging benefits of AI in agriculture. The PM also explored the idea of virtual labs that can be used by students as well as farmers. Sundar Pichai briefed the PM about new products and initiatives by Google in the country. He mentioned about the launch of AI Research Lab in Bengaluru, while also highlighting the benefits of Google's flood forecasting efforts. The Prime Minister remarked that India is amongst the most open economies in the world. He also spoke about recent steps taken by the government towards reforming agriculture and about the campaign to create new jobs, while also highlighting the importance of re-skilling, the statement said. The PM also discussed the issue of data security and concerns around privacy. He said that tech companies need to put in efforts to bridge the trust deficit. He also talked about cyber crimes and threats in the form of cyber attacks. Other areas of discussion included technological solutions to expand the scope of online education, access to technology in native languages, use of AR/VR to give a stadium-like viewing experience in the field of sports, and progress in the area of digital payments, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-google-ceo-sundar-pichai-discuss-covid-19-misinformation-in-virtual-interaction-860646.html
13-07-2020||National||Amitabh, Abhishek Bachchan stable, don't require aggressive treatment: Hospital sources affirm||Megastar Amitabh Bachchan and his son, actor Abhishek Bachchan, who were admitted to a hospital here after testing positive for coronavirus, are "clinically stable", hospital sources said on Monday. Amitabh, 77, and Abhishek, 44, revealed their diagnosis on Twitter on July 11, saying they were in the isolation ward of Nanavati Hospital. "They both are in the (isolation) ward and are clinically stable. At present, they do not requiring aggressive treatment. They are okay with the first line of medication. They are being given supportive therapy," a hospital insider told PTI. "Their vitals and appetite are fine," the source added. On Sunday, Amitabh's daughter-in-law, actor Aishwarya, 46, and her eight-year-old daughter Aaradhya also tested positive for Covid-19. Abhishek confirmed Aishwarya and Aaradhya's diagnosis on the microblogging site on Sunday, adding that they will be "self-quarantining at home". The actor said he and his father will "remain in hospital till the doctors decide otherwise". Taking to his blog on Sunday, Amitabh thanked his admirers for their prayers and concern for him and his family members. "My dearest extended family, your concern, your prayers and your wishes for Abhishek, Aishwarya, Aaradhya and me for a speedy recovery has filled me with unending gratitude. I thank you all," the screen icon wrote. With 1,263 new COVID-19 cases being recorded on Sunday, Mumbai's case count has mounted to 92,720, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amitabh-abhishek-bachchan-stable-dont-require-aggressive-treatment-hospital-sources-affirm-860647.html
13-07-2020||National||Supreme Court refuses to consider plea for restricting Shri Amarnath Yatra 2020||The Supreme Court on Monday refused consider a plea to restrict the access of the general public, devotees and pilgrims for the Shri Amarnath Yatra 2020, in view of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph said: "we cannot enter into arena of local and district administration". The matter whether to allow Shri Amarnath Yatra should be better left for the administration to decide, the bench added. Senior advocate Devadatt Kamat and advocate Rajesh Inamdar, appearing for Shri Amarnath Barfani Langars Organisation and its general secretary Rajan Gupta, cited instance of Shri Jagannath Rath Yatra. They contended that the right to practice religion must yield to larger public health concerns. They said they have sent several representations to the government but there was no response. The Yatra was being allowed despite guidelines against it. The petitioners sought a direction to the Union government and Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and others to provide for live darshan of the Lord Shri Amarnath Ji Shrine by way of the internet and the television, so that there can be access to crores of people across the country. They said the court should ask what precautions were taken to check spread of Covid-19. The petitioners cited the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines which stated there cannot be more than 50 people attending a marriage ceremony, and 20 people in a funeral. "This is primarily done to ensure that the outbreak of the pandemic is not furthered. Even applying these standards, the petitioners seek restrictions to be imposed, and close the Yatra for devotees and pilgrims," the petition drawn filed by advocates Amit Pai, Rahat Bansal and Rajesh Inamdar stated. More so, they said, in the absence of proper transportation and lodging facilities, such pilgrims and devotees will be put to great hardship. It would be impossible to implement the norms of social distancing at the Base Camps, Access Control Gates or the Holy Cave, due to heavy volume of pilgrims, the petitioners said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-consider-plea-for-restricting-shri-amarnath-yatra-2020-860667.html
13-07-2020||National||Singapore deports 10 Indians, bars their re-entry for violating circuit breaker rules||Singapore has deported 10 Indian nationals, including students, and barred them from re-entering the country for violating the "circuit breaker" rules enforced to curb the spread of the coronavirus, officials announced on Monday, warning that the government would not hesitate to take "strong action" against those blatantly disregarding the laws. The "circuit breaker" period in Singapore began on April 7 as part of which all non-essential work places were closed and residents were barred from leaving their houses except to buy food and groceries or to exercise alone in the neighbourhood. The period ended on June 2. Singapore is currently in the Phase-2 of its reopening -- starting from June 19 -- with the gradual resumption of operations by more businesses. As on Sunday, the country reported total 45,961 coronavirus cases and 26 deaths. The 10 Indians, holding student or work passes, were caught having a social gathering at a rented apartment on May 5, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) and the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) said in a joint press release. Last month, they pleaded guilty to their offences under the Covid-19 (Temporary Measures) Act and penalties ranging between SGD 2,000 (USD 1,439) and SGD 4,500 (USD 3,237) were imposed on them. As per the provisions of the Covid-19 (Temporary Measures) Act, first-time offenders can be jailed for up to six months and fined up to SGD 10,000 (USD 7,163). Repeat offenders can be jailed for up to a year and fined up to SGD 20,000 (USD 14,326). "Their passes were cancelled after their convictions. They were deported to India between June and July 2020 and barred from re-entering Singapore," the release said. "The authorities will not hesitate to take strong action against anyone who does not comply with (safe distancing measures) or shows blatant disregard for our laws, and this may include the termination of visas or work passes, where applicable," it stated. According to the authorities, on May 5, Navdeep Singh, 20, Sajandeep Singh, 21, and Avinash Kaur, 27, invited six men and one woman for a social gathering at their rented apartment along Kim Keat Road. Navdeep, Sajandeep and Avinash were charged with permitting other individuals to enter their residential unit without a valid reason. The seven visitors -- Waseem Akram, 33, Mohammed Imran Pasha, 26, Arpit Kumar, 20, Vijay Kumar, 20, Karmjit Singh, 30, Sharma Lukesh, 21, and Bhullar Jasteena, 23, -- were charged with violating the prohibition on social gatherings. In a similar incident, a 23-year-old Indian-origin Malaysian national was deported from Singapore to Malaysia for violating the "circuit breaker" rules. According to the authorities, Arvinish N Ramakrishnan had invited his friend to his residential unit for drinks on April 18, eleven days after the circuit breaker started. After drinking, Arvinish, who was in Singapore on a work permit, was riding the friend home on a motorcycle when they were stopped at a police roadblock. Arvinish was charged with drink-driving and violating restrictions on leaving his place of residence and the prohibition on social gatherings. He pleaded guilty and was fined SGD 4,000 (USD 2,878). His work pass was revoked after conviction and he was deported to Malaysia on June 5 and barred from re-entering Singapore. Arvinish's friend, a Malaysian, was issued with a notice of composition for violating restrictions on leaving his place of residence and given a “stern warning” for violating the prohibition on social gatherings. In another incident, a 37-year-old Chinese national, who was in Singapore on a work permit, was arrested in an anti-vice operation at a condominium on May 5, the release said. Cheng Fengzhao was found to have allowed a male customer into her residential unit for a massage service. She had provided services to the same client at her unit on April 19 as well. For both the offences, the woman was charged with two counts of permitting another person into her residence without a valid reason under the Covid-19 regulations. She pleaded guilty and was fined SGD 7,000 (USD 5,037). Cheng’s work pass was revoked after her conviction. She was deported to China on June 10 and barred from re-entering Singapore, the release said. Her client, a Singaporean national, was issued a notice of composition for violating the prohibition on social gatherings, the authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singapore-deports-10-indians-bars-their-re-entry-for-violating-circuit-breaker-rules-860670.html
13-07-2020||National||'All is well': Rajasthan Congress MLAs head towards a hotel after meeting||Rajasthan Congress MLAs boarded buses apparently headed towards a hotel after their meeting at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s official residence here on Monday. “All is well,” minister Mamta Bhupesh said before boarding one of the buses. Gehlot also boarded one of the buses. The Congress Legislature Party meeting began at the CM’s house at 1.30 pm, amid a tussle for power between Gehlot and Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. The meeting, meant to be a show of strength for Gehlot, ended two hours later. Some weeks ago, ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls, the Congress had shifted its MLAs to a resort for about a week to ensure that they were not “lured” away before the voting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-is-well-rajasthan-congress-mlas-head-towards-a-hotel-after-meeting-860689.html
13-07-2020||National||Petition seeks CBI probe into alleged suicide of PSU employee; Supreme Court issues notice to Telangana govt||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Telangana Government on a plea by mother of a woman finance officer, for CBI enquiry into the death of her daughter, who had committed suicide allegedly due to repeated sexual harassment at her workplace at BHEL Hyderabad office. A bench presided over by Justice AM Khanwilkar issued notice to  the state government and others in the matter. Advocate Alakh Alok Shrivastava, appearing for petitioner Rajkumari Chouskey said her daughter was a bright, young and intelligent finance professional, having other qualifications. She had joined BHEL in 2009, at a young age of 23 Years and served BHEL till her last breath i.e. till October 17, 2019. "The suicide note of the deceased and her last telephonic conversation with her sister, categorically established that her own supervisor and office colleagues subjected her to extreme level of sexual, physical and mental harassment and attempted to rape her, due to which she was forced to commit suicide," the petition claimed. The Telangana police, however, had illegally given clean chit to the accused persons, in their latest report of June 02, 2020, filed before the National Commission of Women (NCW), the petition claimed and sought a CBI enquiry into the entire case to unravel the truth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petition-seeks-cbi-probe-into-alleged-suicide-of-psu-employee-supreme-court-issues-notice-to-telangana-govt-860694.html
13-07-2020||National||Gangster Vikas Dubey's 'encounter' acquires 'casteist overtones'; Congress, BSP allege 'persecution' of Brahmins||Caste, which has been a part and parcel of Uttar Pradesh politics, has also penetrated the killing of Vikas Dubey, who had been gunned down in a controversial 'encounter' with the police near Kanpur on Friday, a week after he and his associated shot dead eight cops in an ambush. Congress and BSP have accused the Yogi Adityanath government of 'persecuting' the influential 'Brahmin' community in the state. Vikas hailed from the 'Brahmin' community. Congress' 'Brahmin' leader Jitin Prasada sought to link the 'encounter' of Vikas Dubey with the killings of the members of the community since the formation of the BJP government in the state in March 2017. ''Brahmins have been facing persecution in this regime...many members of the community have been killed since BJP came to power in the state..in many cases, the perpetrators have not been apprehended,'' Prasada said. Incidentally, Prasada, through a little known outfit 'Brahmin Chetna Parishad', has been mounting attacks on the saffron party regime on this issue. Congress leaders also pointed out that all the five 'aides' of Vikas Dubey, who were killed in encounters in different parts of the state by the police, hailed from the 'Brahmin' community. Not wanting to be left behind, BSP supremo Mayawati also saw a connection between the killing of Vikas Dubey and the overall attitude of the state government toward the community. ''The Brahmin community is scared and is feeling unsafe after Vikas Dubey's encounter,'' Mayawati said. Political analyst J.P.Shukla said that it was an attempt by the BSP and Congress to show themselves as the 'messiah' of the community. 'Brahmins' formed around nine percent of the total electorate in UP Vikas and his goons had shot dead eight UP cops, when the latter went to his residence at Bikaru village in Kanpur district to arrest him last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gangster-vikas-dubeys-encounter-acquires-casteist-overtones-congress-bsp-allege-persecution-of-brahmins-860699.html
13-07-2020||National||Next round of Lt Gen-level talks between India and China on July 14: Sources||The Indian and Chinese military are scheduled to hold their fourth round of Lt General-level talks on Tuesday with an aim to finalise modalities for the next phase of de-escalation and disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh, government sources said on Monday. The meeting is set to be held in Chushul on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, they said. The two sides are also expected to finalise a roadmap for restoration of peace and tranquility in the high-altitude region that witnessed an eight-week bitter standoff between the troops of the two countries. China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) has already completed pulling back troops from Gogra, Hot Springs and Galwan Valley and significantly thinned down its presence in the ridgeline of Finger Four in the Pangong Tso area in the last one week as demanded by India. India has been insisting that China must withdraw its forces from areas between Finger Four and Eight. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. The formal process of disengagement of troops began last Monday after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi the previous day. On Friday, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks during which both sides resolved to push ahead with "complete disengagement" of troops in eastern Ladakh in a timely manner for "full restoration" of peace and tranquility. At the meeting, it was decided that senior commanders of the two armies will meet "soon" to discuss further steps to "ensure complete disengagement and de-escalation". The two countries have already held three rounds of Lt General-level talks and the last one took place on June 30 during which both sides agreed on an "expeditious, phased and step wise" de-escalation as a "priority" to end the standoff. The first round of the Lt General talks was held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. The second round of talks took place on June 22. The Indian and Chinese armies were locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for over eight weeks since May 5. The tension escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Tensions had escalated in eastern Ladakh around two months back after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-round-of-lt-gen-level-talks-between-india-and-china-on-july-14-sources-860703.html
13-07-2020||National||Indian railways working to become green transporter by 2030||Indian Railways is working towards becoming a "Green Railway" by 2030 with net zero carbon emission. The number of steps are being taken to achieve net zero carbon emission including electrification, improving energy efficiency of locomotives and trains and fixed installations, green certification for installations/stations, fitting bio-toilets in coaches and switching to renewable energy sources, said a statement from the railways. The railways plans electrification of all routes on Broad Gauge by December 2023 and already completed electrification of more than 40,000 RKM (route km). As much as 365 km major connectivity work in electrification has been commissioned during even during the Covid-19 period. Solar and wind energy to power the Railway electricity grid in a big way as 100 MW of solar plants have been commissioned on rooftops of various buildings including 900 stations and 400 MW are under different stages of execution. The railway has 51,000 hectare of land potential of installing 20 GW land based solar plants. One project of 1.7 MW at Bina in collaboration with BHEL has already been installed, said a statement. In wind energy sector, 103 MW wind-based power plants have already been commissioned; planned to set up 200 MW wind energy plants in next 2 years in Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Karnataka. The national transporter already completed 100 per cent LED illumination of buildings and stations. A total of 69,000 coaches have been fitted with 2,44,000 bio-toilets, said a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-working-to-become-green-transporter-by-2030-860707.html
13-07-2020||National||DCGI approved life-saving Covid-19 drug to hit markets; priced at Rs 8,000 per vial||Bengaluru based biotech major Biocon on Monday announced that its drug Itolizumab, which will hit the market as ALZUMAb, has received permission from the Drugs Controller General of India for use in moderate to severe Covid-19 patients. "It is the first novel biological therapy to be approved by the DCGI for treating patients with moderate to severe Covid-19 complications," the executive chairperson of the company Kiran Mazumdar Shaw said at a press conference. Claiming that Itolizumab is a drug to save many lives, she said the DCGI gave permission for Biocon to market Itolizumab. "It is an injection containing 25mg/5mL solution for emergency use in India for the treatment of Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) in moderate to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ADRS) patients caused by the Covid-19," the Biocon chairperson said. Shaw said the therapy costing Rs 32,000 is given to the patient in four vials with each vial priced at Rs 8,000.  Itolizumab is a clinically proven therapy for the Covid-19 patients with ARDS, she said, adding that the drug has got successful results from a multi-centric, two-armed randomised pivotal trial conducted to study the efficacy and safety of Itolizumab in Covid-19 complications. "Itolizumab is a breakthrough. The beauty of this drug is it is working upstream, which means it actually starts regulating the immune system, rebooting the immune system and it starts downregulating the immune system, saying, do not make such pro-inflammatory cytokines start slowing down," Shaw said. She added that the body then recovers completely to fight the virus. "By effectively controlling, therefore, hyperactivation of the immune system prevents morbidity and mortality related to the cytokine storm," she added. According to her, this is an original innovative Indian drug, which Biocon has licenced from Cuba 20 years ago. "And we developed it in India. We actually did a lot of research in India. We actually did clinical trials in India, and it is made in India, innovated in India, drug, which we have licenced to a US company, which is also doing trials with the drug. And we are very proud that this is actually an original first in class drug," Shaw said. Stating that there is no other company in the world that has an anti-CD6 antibody, Shaw said Itolizumab is a unique drug.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-approved-life-saving-covid-19-drug-to-hit-markets-priced-at-rs-8000-per-vial-860717.html
13-07-2020||National||SC to hear on Tuesday pleas for probe into encounter killings of Vikas Dubey, associates||The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on Tuesday a batch of petitions for a CBI, or court monitored investigation to ascertain role of police-criminal-politicians nexus into killings of eight policemen on July 2 in Kanpur and other encounter deaths including that of Vikas Dubey and his gang members till July 10.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna would take up the petitions filed by advocates Ghanshyam Upadhyay and Anoop Prakash Awasthi. Mumbai advocate, Upadhyay filed a plea on the night of July 10, apprehending encounter killing of Dubey, just hours before his death on being taken from Ujjain on his arrest. He also sought independent probe into the entire episode, including encounter killings of Dubey's accomplices by UP Police showing "complete lawlessness". In his separate plea, a Supreme Court advocate, Awasthi also sought probe by the CBI, or the NIA, saying the Rule of law cannot be restored by actions of state machinery as outlaw. He contended that if trigger-happy attitude of cops was not put under check, it will lead to anarchy. He pointed out life can be taken only by a procedure established by law as guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution. Terming the encounters killings of six persons allegedly involve in Kanpur incident of July 2 as suspicious in nature, Awasthi said revenge cannot replace justice howsoever grave and instigating the crime may be. He also raised a question if instant justice delivered by police was permissible in a democratic society governed by rule of law bypassing the criminal justice system. Or if the entire episode was not a ploy to save a selected few by demolishing house of Vikas Dubey and eliminating him and his co-accused and thus closing all chances of breaking vicious nexus of police-criminal-politicians. PUCL, which had earlier questioned encounters in the state between January 1, 2017 and March 31, 2018, also filed a plea, contending that police encounter or administrative liquidation was a serious crime, an offence against the entire society. "The incidents, which have been revealed in the killings of the Dubey and his associates, are very shocking in particular, keeping in view continuous cases of mass encounters in the state from January 1, 2017 onwards," it said. It sought an SIT probe into encounter of Dubey and his aides by Uttar Pradesh police. It asked the court to constitute a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court judge to enquire into the encounters that have been taking place in Uttar Pradesh and the criminal political nexus, prevailing in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-on-tuesday-pleas-for-probe-into-encounter-killings-of-vikas-dubey-associates-860718.html
13-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Rajasthan Congress Legislature Party passes resolution supporting Ashok Gehlot government||The Rajasthan Congress Legislature Party passes a resolution supporting the Ashok Gehlot-led government in the state, Economists at Bank of America Securities have said that a long wait for a vaccine against Covid-19 virus may lead to a contraction of up to 7.5% in the Indian GDP in FY21 and the Supreme Court has upheld the rights of the Travancore royal family in the administration of historic Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Kerala.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rajasthan-congress-legislature-party-passes-resolution-supporting-ashok-gehlot-government-860733.html
13-07-2020||National||Lt Col moves HC against Army’s decision to ban officials from using social media platforms||A senior rank officer of the Indian Army Monday approached the Delhi High Court challenging a recent policy banning armed forces officials from using social networking platforms like Facebook and Instagram. The petition, likely to come up for hearing on Tuesday, sought the court’s direction to the Director-General of Military Intelligence to withdraw its June 6 policy to the extent that it orders all the members of the Indian Army to delete their accounts from Facebook and Instagram and 87 other applications. Lieutenant Colonel P K Choudhary, who is currently posted in Jammu and Kashmir, said in the plea that he is an active user of Facebook and uses the platform to connect with his friends and family as most of them are settled abroad, including his elder daughter. In the petition, filed through advocates Shivank Pratap Singh and Sanandika Pratap Singh, the officer sought a direction to the central government through Ministry of Defence to withdraw its June 6 policy to “ensure that the fundamental rights of armed forces personnel are not abrogated amended or modified by arbitrary executive action which is not backed by the mandate of law, offends the provisions of the Army Act and Rules made thereunder and is unconstitutional”. The plea said Choudhary got to know through a July 9 news report about the Army’s order requiring him and other personnel to delete Facebook, Instagram and 87 other applications by July 15. On July 10, he received a letter titled “Policy On Use Of Social Media Platforms And Mobile Phones In IA” issued by the Director-General of Military Intelligence, banning the use of 89 applications and websites and directed deletion the accounts, the plea said, adding that as the policy is classified as restricted, he is not reproducing any part of it here. The plea claimed that the provisions of the policy violate various fundamental rights of the petitioner under the Constitution including the right to freedom of speech and expression and right to privacy. It said soldiers serve in remote areas, extreme weather conditions, difficult terrain, with the lingering threat of an enemy attack at all times and the professional hazards are a direct cause of soldiers committing suicides and in some cases shooting at their fellow soldiers before taking their own lives. “In a majority of cases, the precursor to such incidents is a denial of leave to the soldier. The soldiers rely on social networking platforms like Facebook to address various issues arising in their families while posted in remote locations and often use the virtual connection to compensate for the physical distance existing between themselves and their families. “Soldiers can view pictures, videos etc. of events such as weddings, birthdays and other events of cultural significance in real-time or even at a later date as per their convenience and need. This is the beauty of social network platforms like Facebook. Therefore, the respondents (authorities) must wake up to the benefits that these websites/applications enable the use of these websites and applications for Soldiers and put in place a mechanism to ensure its misuse,” the petition said. It alleged that the policy which bans social media platforms is “illegal, arbitrary, disproportionate, violates the fundamental rights of soldiers including but not limited to the freedom of speech and expression, the right to life and the right to privacy”. It said the authorities have cited security concerns and risk of a data breach as the basis of imposing the restrictions contained in the policy regarding the usage of social media platforms but the act of banning it is a clear violation of Article 14 (Equality before law) of the Constitution. “It is submitted that no other professional army serving in a constitutional democracy has put such unreasonable and mindless restrictions on its soldiers. The respondent no.2 has conveniently shifted its own burden and responsibility to regulate the use of social networking platforms onto the soldiers, assuming that it has unfettered power to abrogate and restrict the fundamental rights of soldiers. “It is noteworthy that the policy has an entire section dedicated to measures such as sensitisation and training of personnel to avoid a breach of security and data. This gives rise to a glaring absurdity,” the plea said. It also sought to declare that the Director-General of Military Intelligence is not empowered under the Constitution or under any other law to modify, amend or abrogate the fundamental rights of the petitioner and other members of the armed forces. Besides, the Centre and Director General of Military Intelligence, the petition has also made Chief of the Army Staff, who is the professional head, commander and the highest-ranking military officer of the Indian Army, party to the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lt-col-moves-hc-against-army-s-decision-to-ban-officials-from-using-social-media-platforms-860737.html
13-07-2020||National||Babri trial: I am innocent, says Kalyan Singh, claims allegations baseless||Senior BJP leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh on Monday blamed the then Congress government at the Centre for levelling "false and baseless allegations" against him in the Babri mosque demolition case and said he was "innocent". "The then Congress government at the Centre levelled false and baseless allegations against me and filed a case out of political animosity," he told reporters after appearing before a CBI special court here in connection with the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case. The 88-year-old leader said, "As a UP chief minister, I and my government ensured adequate three-tier security of the disputed structure in Ayodhya.” Singh, during whose tenure the demolition took place, was assisted by two persons as he walked out of the court after over three-hour-long questioning. "I was falsely implicated, I am innocent," he asserted as he left the court premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-trial-i-am-innocent-says-kalyan-singh-claims-allegations-baseless-860761.html
13-07-2020||National||NHAI to collaborate with IITs, other institutes for improving highway infrstructure||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Monday said it will partner with institutes like Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) for improving road infrastructure ecosystem. The objective is to leverage the intellectual prudence of students and faculty towards the improvement of road infrastructure ecosystem of the country. "In its endeavour to provide world-class National Highways (NH) network, NHAI has approached all IITs, National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and reputed engineering colleges to collaborate and adopt nearby stretches of NH, on a voluntary basis, as part of Institutional Social Responsibility (ISR)," NHAI said in a statement. The institutes along with its faculty and students have a better appreciation of local requirement, topography, resource potential, among others, and these vital inputs can be utilised by NHAI during different stages of pre-construction, construction and operation of NH stretch, it said. This decentralised approach, besides building a sense of participation in decision making, also provides an opportunity to the students for hands-on-learning, option for internship and future areas of research, it said. Besides, the adoption of stretch by institutes opens an avenue for access to important data, which can be used to improve the quality and safety aspects of NH and enhance local capacity of institutes in terms of advanced lab and simulation systems. "Adoption of NH stretch by an institute would facilitate stakeholder engagement and help to mitigate the routine local problems such as traffic movement, congestion and immediate identification of accident prone sites," the statement said. The highway users become more empowered in resolving local problems through the institute and the Authority, it said, adding that such instances would help NHAI in understanding the local needs both in present and future projects, improve maintenance and riding comfort, and develop wayside amenities for enhanced user experience. "The overall outcome shall be commuter friendly and enjoyable ride on the NH stretch," NHAI said. The statement said large number of IITs, NITs and engineering colleges have opted to join the scheme and NHAI officers have started mutual consultation with directors of the interested Institutes. Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) are being signed between the individual institutes and NHAI for institutionalization of the scheme and bring reformative improvements in the road infrastructure of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-to-collaborate-with-iits-other-institutes-for-improving-highway-infrstructure-860783.html
13-07-2020||National||With 92.15% of attendees clearing the exam, girls outperform boys in CBSE Class 12||Girl students outperformed boys in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 examinations, results of which were declared on Monday. In a year when the Covid-19 interrupted the CBSE examinations, the pass percentage also improved by 5.38 per cent with 88.78 per cent of the 11.92 lakh students who appeared for the examination clearing the same. Out of the 16 regions, Trivandrum topped the performance charts registering a 97.67 per cent pass percentage, followed by Bengaluru region where 97.05 per cent of the total students who appeared for the examinations cleared them. The CBSE also did not come out with any merit list and marks for the papers that were cancelled due to the Covid-19 outbreak were calculated as per the assessment scheme approved by the Supreme Court The CBSE also did not use the term “Fail” in any of the results and replaced it with the term “Essential Repeat”. A CBSE statement said that results of 400 students were not announced as they could not be computed using the assessment scheme. Girls performed better than boys with a 92.15% pass percentage this year as against 86.19% boys who cleared the exam. As many as 66.67% transgender students passed the exams. However, students had anxious moments accessing the results as all CBSE websites crashed soon after the results were declared. “As informed by NIC there is a technical issue in accessing CBSE results. However, complete results have been sent to all schools and students can obtain their results from schools. The results are also being pushed through Digilocker,” the CBSE said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-9215-of-attendees-clearing-the-exam-girls-outperform-boys-in-cbse-class-12-860805.html
13-07-2020||National||PM Oli says "real" Ayodhya is in Nepal and Lord Ram is Nepali; BJP rejects claim||Stoking a potential controversy, embattled Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli on Monday claimed that the "real" Ayodhya lies in Nepal, not in India and that Lord Ram was born in Thori in southern Nepal. Condemning Oli for his remarks, BJP national spokesperson Bizay Sonkar Shastri said that the Left parties even in India played with people's faith, and the Communists in Nepal will be rejected by the masses in the same way they have been here. "Lord Ram is a matter of faith for us, and people will not allow anybody, be it prime minister of Nepal or anyone, to play with this," he said in New Delhi. Speaking at an event on the birth anniversary of Nepalese poet Bhanubhakta at the Prime Minister’s residence in Kathmandu, Oli said that Nepal "has become a victim of cultural encroachment and its history has been manipulated." Bhanubhakta was born in 1814 in Tanhu of western Nepal and is credited for translating Valmiki's Ramayan into Nepali language. He died in 1868. "Although the real Ayodhya lies at Thori in the west of Birgunj, India has claimed the Indian site as the birthplace of Lord Ram,” Oli said. “We also believe that deity Sita got married to Prince Ram of India. Actually, Ayodhya is a village lying west of Birgunj,” he said, adding that the marriage between bride and bridegroom at such a distance was not possible at the time when there was no communication and transportation system. "The place called Thori, near Birgunj is the real Ayodhya, where Lord Ram was born. In India there is great dispute on Ayodhya. But, there is no dispute in our Ayodhya," Prime Minister Oli was quoted as saying by his press advisor Surya Thapa. “Valmiki Ashram is also in Nepal and the holy place where King Dasharath had executed the rites to get the son is in Ridi, which is in Nepal,” he said. As Dasharath was the ruler of Nepal, it is natural that his son Ram was also born in Nepal, Oli argued. Therefore, real Ayodhya lies in Nepal, he claimed. Many scientific inventions and knowledge originated in Nepal, but unfortunately such a rich tradition could not continue later, Oli said. Prime Minister Oli, under growing pressure to resign amidst a rift in the ruling Nepal Communist Party over his style of functioning, has alleged that some of the ruling party leaders are aligning with the southern neighbour to remove him from power after his government issued a new political map incorporating three Indian territories of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. His allegations have been criticised by senior NCP leaders, including former prime minister 'Prachanda', who demanded Prime Minister Oli's resignation, saying his recent anti-India remarks were "neither politically correct nor diplomatically appropriate." The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory. Later, Nepal updated the country's political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating three strategically important Indian areas. India termed as "untenable" the "artificial enlargement" of the territorial claims by Nepal. India has handed over a diplomatic note to Nepal over the map issue, Nepalese media reports said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-oli-says-real-ayodhya-is-in-nepal-and-lord-ram-is-nepali-bjp-rejects-claim-860809.html
13-07-2020||National||ITC Hotels ties up with Zomato for delivery of food||ITC Hotels has tied up with food delivery platform Zomato for 'contactless' deliveries of all prepaid orders, a spokesperson of the leading hospitality chain said on Monday. She said that the tie-up will strengthen ITC's pan- India delivery of the hotel chain's cuisine. Earlier, at the time of reopening of hotels during 'Unlock 1', ITC Hotels had entered into similar arrangements with another online delivery platform Swiggy, which is continuing. COO of ITC Hotels Anil Chadha said with the changing world order owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, these arrangements will help customers get their favourite cuisines sitting at home. This arrangement will be available with all ITC Hotels including ITC Royal Bengal in Kolkata, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itc-hotels-ties-up-with-zomato-for-delivery-of-food-860813.html
13-07-2020||National||NIA files charge sheet against 17 key ISIS conspirators||The NIA on Monday filed a charge sheet against 17 people who allegedly formed a terror group to carry out strikes in India and were involved in furthering the activities of ISIS in the southern states, an official said. The accused, including Mahboob Pasha, Khaja Moideen and M Sadiq Basha, have been charged under the relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Arms Act before a special NIA court in Bengaluru. The 17 key conspirators formed a terror group initiated by ISIS terrorists -- Pasha of Bangalore and Moideen of Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu -- for furthering and perpetuating the activities of ISIS in India, especially in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, an NIA spokesperson said. Pasha, in association with Moideen and Basha, formed the terror group for spreading the ideology and activities of ISIS, a proscribed terrorist organisation, through its off-shoot outfit Al-Hind in Bengaluru, he said. They were conspiring with the other co-accused at the house and the Al-Hind Office of Pasha in Guruppanpalya and other places in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu since April 2019 for carrying out terrorist attacks in India, especially in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, and "for establishing the Islamic Khilafat in India", the NIA official said. In furtherance of the conspiracy, Pasha and Moideen recruited vulnerable youths and procured arms, ammunition and large quantities of explosives for making powerful IEDs, he said, adding that they also collected jungle training material to conduct training at Shivanasamudra and Gundelpet area and for securing hideouts. "The accused were also communicating with an unknown foreign ISIS handler through a secure chat (dark web) for perpetrating ISIS activities in India," the NIA official said. The other accused named by the NIA were Abdul Samad, Y Thowfeek, Syed Ali Navas, Jaffar Ali, Abdul Shameem, Imran Khan, Mohammed Haneef Khan, Mohammed Mansoor Ali Khan, Saleem Khan, Hussain Shariff, Ejaz Pasha, Zabiulla, Syed Fasiur Rehaman and Mohammed Zaid. The NIA has also declared a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh for the arrest of absconding accused Abdul Matheen Ahmed Taahaa, he said, adding further investigation in the case was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-17-key-isis-conspirators-860840.html
13-07-2020||National||Scuffle over not wearing mask ends in death of teenage girl||A scuffle over not wearing the mandatory face mask ended in the death of a teenage girl, who sought to save her father from a group of attackers in Rentachintala village of Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh. Four persons involved in the attack, which eventually caused the girls death due to severe head injuries, were arrested and remanded to judicial custody on Monday under the charge of murder, police said. The incident occurred a few days ago but became a cognizable offence following 19-year-old K Fatima's death in the Guntur hospital on Sunday. According to police, Fatima's father Yellamanda faced the ire of some people near the village tank early this month when he went there without wearing a face mask. Though the issue subsided then, it flared up when the same group were spotted in Yellamanda's street late last week. This time they were not sporting the face mask and Yellamanda and some of his kin confronted them over it.  The group picked up a fight and hit Yellamanda with sticks. Fatima rushed to her father's rescue but in the melee suffered blows on her head. She succumbed in the Guntur hospital while undergoing treatment, the police said. "We have altered the case to murder following Fatimas death and arrested A Mallikarjuna, his father, brother and uncle over their involvement in the attack. Further investigation is continuing," a district police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scuffle-over-not-wearing-mask-ends-in-death-of-teenage-girl-860842.html
13-07-2020||National||Abhishek Manu Singhvi moves Supreme Court for reviving D K Basu case||Noted senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi has filed a plea in the Supreme Court for reviving landmark 1986 case of D K Basu for issuing directions in case of custodial death, and torture. He said a dangerous trend has started lately wherein the elected representatives have made statements in public that tend to encourage, patronise and endorse custodial violence or deaths and encounter killings. The plea comes at a time when doubts have been raised over Uttar Pradesh police claims on encounter killings of gangster Vikas Dubey in Kanpur on July 10, days after he and his accomplices allegedly murdered eight policemen. In an application, Singhvi, who acted as amicus curiae in the case, said, in recent past, the custodial deaths and encounters have not seen the necessary push back from the citizenry that is accepted of it; on the contrary in few cases such incidents have had huge public support.  "The laws and guidelines are not enough and there is a need of informed and compassionate citizenry too. Unfortunately due to continued and prolonged use of state violence and its depiction in the popular culture, coupled with lack of proper awareness of one's rights, has normalized the custodial deaths/encounters with public often celebrating such "knee-jerk vengeance justice" thereby denying a victim the dignity of a fair trial," the plea stated. In the D K Basu case, the top court had on December 18, 1996 issued a slew of directions safeguarding rights of people arrested by the police. Singhvi asked the top court to issue direction to the Union government to ratify the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, 1987 and incorporate its provisions into domestic Indian law. Among others, he also sought a direction tonstates and union territories to establish a Human Rights Commission and Human Rights courts and ensure that all vacancies are filled promptly. He said that there should be time bound investigation in all the cases of custodial deaths and encounter killings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/abhishek-manu-singhvi-moves-supreme-court-for-reviving-d-k-basu-case-860844.html
13-07-2020||National||Nepal partially lifts ban on Indian private news channels||Nepal's cable television operators on Monday partially lifted the ban imposed on Indian private news channels. A meeting of the cable operators decided to lift the ban on the Indian news channels with only a few news channels still banned in Nepal, Vice president of television operators' association Dhurba Sharma told reporters. "A few news channels airing objectionable content are still banned in the country," Sharma said. On Thursday, cable television operators stopped the transmission of all Indian private news channels except Doordarshan, accusing them of airing reports hurting Nepal’s national sentiment. Nepal's Ministry of Communications and Information Technology also thanked the cable operators for taking action against Indian news channels. On Friday, Nepal sent a 'diplomatic note' to India, urging New Delhi to take steps against the broadcast of materials which it called "fake, baseless and insensitive as well as abusive" to the country and its leadership by a section of the Indian media. "Such materials are not only misleading and misinforming but also impair the sense of minimum public decency,” the ministry said in the note. The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory. Later, Nepal updated the country's political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating three strategically important Indian areas. India termed as "untenable" the "artificial enlargement" of the territorial claims by Nepal. India has handed over a diplomatic note to Nepal over the map issue, Nepalese media reports said. Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli, under pressure to resign amidst a rift in the ruling Nepal Communist Party over his style of functioning, has alleged that some of the ruling party leaders are aligning with the southern neighbour to remove him from power after his government issued a new political map incorporating three Indian territories of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. His allegations have been criticised by senior NCP leaders, including former prime minister 'Prachanda', who demanded Prime Minister Oli's resignation, saying his recent anti-India remarks were "neither politically correct nor diplomatically appropriate."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-partially-lifts-ban-on-indian-private-news-channels-860846.html
13-07-2020||National||Rail Bhavan to be shut after Covid-19 cases detected on premises||The Rail Bhavan, headquarters of the Indian Railways in central Delhi, will remain shut on July 14 and 15 as some more Covid-19 cases have been detected on its premises, according to an order issued on Monday.  Till now, at least 42 railway staffers working in the building have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Some of them resumed duties after recovering. The fresh cases were detected during rapid-antigen testing camps held at the Rail Bhavan on July 9, 10 and 13, according to the order. "Accordingly it has been decided to close all offices at the Rail Bhavan on 14 and 15 July, 2020, to carry out intensive sanitisation of rooms and common areas," it said. "During this period, all officers, staff would work from home and are to be available at all times on phone and other electronic means of communication," the order said. In case of any requirement for urgent work at office, specific directives will be given to officials concerned for attending office, it said. This is the third time since March that the railway headquarters has been shut due to Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rail-bhavan-to-be-shut-after-covid-19-cases-detected-on-premises-860847.html
13-07-2020||National||CBSE class 12 results: 94.3% students in Delhi pass exam, govt schools outperform pvt schools||Delhi recorded a pass percentage of 94.39 in the class 12 CBSE examinations, an increase of 2.52 per cent compared to last year. Continuing with the trend, girls outshone boys in CBSE class 12 examination results declared on Monday. In Delhi East region, 96.31 per cent girls cleared the exam, while 92.33 per cent boys passed. Similarly, in Delhi West region, the pass percentage of girls was 96.59 while that of boys was 92.71. Government schools recorded a higher pass percentage in both the regions than private schools, witnessing a considerable increase as against last year. The pass percentage of government schools in Delhi East region was 97.68, while private schools saw a pass percentage of 91.69. In Delhi West region, the pass percentage of government schools was 97.91, while that of private schools was recorded at 92.12.  Expressing happiness over the results, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "Feeling v proud to announce that the CBSE class 12 result of Delhi govt schools this year is 98% - highest ever so far. It's historic. Congratulations to my Team Education, all students, teachers, parents and education officers. Proud of you all." The results were announced as an alternate assessment scheme after the pending exams were cancelled in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. Section of students in Delhi had to bear the brunt of cancellation of board examinations thrice. In view of the violence in parts of northeast Delhi, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had postponed exams at over 80 centres in the area till February 29. The board had announced a fresh schedule, according to which class 12 exams in the area were supposed to begin on March 31 and conclude on April 14, while exams for class 10 were scheduled from March 21 to March 30. However, the exams had to be postponed again in view of the coronavirus outbreak and the resultant nationwide lockdown. The CBSE again announced a fresh schedule as per which exams were to be conducted from July 1 to 15. While class 12 exams were to be conducted across the country, it was decided that class 10 exams will only be conducted in northeast Delhi. However, in the wake of the spike in Covid-19 cases, the exams were again cancelled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-12-results-943-students-in-delhi-pass-exam-govt-schools-outperform-pvt-schools-860849.html
13-07-2020||National||US sends message to China, starts direct funding to exiled Tibet govt in India||The United States has for the first time directly provided funds to the Tibetan Government-in-Exile based in India, a move likely to rile up China. The US Agency for International Development or the USAID has committed to providing nearly $ 1 million to the Social and Resources Development Fund (SARD Fund)—a non-profit organisation set up by the Tibetan Government-in-Exile (TGiE), formally known as Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) and based at Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh. This is the first time any US government agency has provided funds directly to the TGiE, signalling a subtle move by President Donald Trump’s administration towards acknowledging a political entity spearheading the campaign against China’s occupation of and continued rule over Tibet. The US move came amid the military stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh “This funding signifies the US government’s support to the Central Tibetan Administration and the Tibetan community,” Kaydor Aukatsang, the Director of the SARD Fund of the CTA, told the DH on Monday.  The Dalai Lama set up the CTA on April 29, 1959, just a few weeks after he escaped from Tibet and arrived in India. The CTA calls itself the “continuation of the government of independent Tibet”. Beijing accuses the Dalai Lama and the CTA of running a separatist campaign against China. Though New Delhi publicly maintains that the Dalai Lama was an honoured guest of India, it never formally acknowledged the CTA as the exiled government of the erstwhile independent Tibet. China has always objected to India’s tacit support to the CTA and often demanded its closure.  The CTA set up the SARD Fund in 1997 to help mobilise resources and support development efforts of Tibetans living in South Asia. The Ministry of Home Affairs of the Government of India allowed it “to receive any amount of donations and foreign contribution for relief and development purposes”.  The direct funding by the USAID was an acknowledgement of “the capacity of the SARD as an international development agency to receive and manage such assistance”, said Aukatsang. The SARD earlier received financial support from the foreign governments through intermediary non-profit organizations. The USAID fund of $997,124 to the SARD fund of the CTA is intended to support “strengthening the financial and cultural resilience of the Tibetan people and contribute towards a sustained resilience of the Tibetan people’s economic and cultural identity.”  The US has been slamming China over the past few weeks for its military aggression, not only along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh but also in the South China Sea, the East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. The US Navy deployed its two aircraft carrier strike groups – USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan – in the South China Sea, in response to maritime muscle-flexing by the communist country.  President Donald Trump’s administration also imposed visa restrictions on some officials of the Chinese Government and the Communist Party of China (CPC) as they were allegedly involved “in the formulation or execution of policies” denying access for foreigners” to Tibet. The move was in accordance with the US Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act of 2018. The law allowed the Trump Administration to bar Chinese Government and the CPC officials from entering America if it is found that they had a role in denying permission to the US citizens, journalists and diplomats to Tibet.      US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo recently accused the Chinese government of human rights abuses in Tibet and said that the US remained committed to “meaningful autonomy” for the Tibetans. The US also imposed visa-restrictions and economic sanctions on the Chinese government and the CPC officials for atrocities on the Uighurs and violation of human rights in Xinjiang Autonomous Region of China. The Trump Administration also initiated similar measures for the Chinese government’s officials “responsible for, or complicit in, undermining Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy”. The move came after China imposed a new National Security Law in Hong Kong, which critics say would undermine the “one country, two systems” notion that the communist country had promised for the territory for 50 years while taking it back from the United Kingdom in 1997.      China too retaliated to the US move to impose visa restrictions on its officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-sends-message-to-china-starts-direct-funding-to-exiled-tibet-govt-in-india-860850.html
13-07-2020||National||Nurses at Delhi hospital allege services terminated for demanding basic facilities||A group of nurses working in the Covid-19 ward of the Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital, a private health facility here, protested against its management on Monday, alleging that their contracts were terminated for "demanding basic facilities".  The hospital authorities, however, said the non-renewal of contracts "is not linked to their demands". The 84 nurses, whose services have been terminated, protested on the hospital premises on Monday and also wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, seeking their intervention in the matter.  The nurses claimed that their contracts expired between February and June, but "we were asked to continue".  "All of a sudden they have asked us to go. They did not even follow the usual assessment process for renewal of contracts," a nurse said.  Every year, the hospital follows a process wherein nurses fill up an assessment form and nursing in-charges give their remarks.   The hospital, which is linked to the Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, has now constituted a committee for the assessment process.    The committee includes heads of clinical departments, the nursing superintendent and the medical superintendent. The protesters alleged that the hospital did not have basic facilities for nurses working in the Covid-19 ward.  "There is no proper donning and doffing area for female nurses. There is no drinking water," one of the protesters said. She said for every 20 patients in the coronavirus ward, there is only one nurse. The hospital management has not provided "proper PPE kits, masks and gloves" to nursing and sanitation staff, another protester claimed. "The nurses had asked the hospital to give them a Covid-19 allowance but the management denied it," she said, adding "there is no health policy for the staff working in the Covid-19 ward". The nurses residing in the hostel of the Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences claimed it does not have drinking water.  "Four to five nurses reside in the same room, there is no scope for following physical distancing measures," she claimed. However, the officiating Medical Superintendent, Sunil Kohli, said the non-renewal of the contracts is not linked to their demands.  "The contracts of these 84 nurses expired between February and June, but the paperwork could not be completed due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The contract renewal process has been changed this year. We are conducting fresh interviews and these 84 nurses can also apply," he said. Kohli said only a few of the nurses' demands were genuine. "The water problem is being looked into. Yes, the hostel rooms are over-crowded but there is no short-term solution to the problem," he said. Kohli said the hospital paid full salaries to the nurses but the management could not give a Covid-19 allowance as "it does not have means to do it". "As far as PPE kits and masks are concerned, we have provided best quality equipment to everyone," he said. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nurses-at-delhi-hospital-allege-services-terminated-for-demanding-basic-facilities-860853.html
13-07-2020||National||Pakistan summons senior Indian diplomat over 'ceasefire violations'||Pakistan on Monday summoned a senior Indian diplomat from the Indian High Commission here to register its protest over the alleged ceasefire violations by the Indian forces along the Line of Control (LoC). The Foreign Office said in a statement that due to the “indiscriminate and unprovoked firing” in Rakhchikri and Khuiratta Sectors on Sunday, six civilians sustained injuries. The Indian forces along "the LoC and the Working Boundary (WB) have been continuously targeting civilian populated areas with artillery fire, heavy-caliber mortars and automatic weapons," the statement alleged. It claimed that 14 people have been killed and 129 others injured in 1,659 incidents of ceasefire violations this year. The Indian side was called upon to respect the 2003 Ceasefire Understanding; investigate this and other such incidents of deliberate ceasefire violations and maintain peace along the LoC and the WB, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-summons-senior-indian-diplomat-over-ceasefire-violations-860862.html
13-07-2020||National||Vikram Doraiswami likely to be new envoy to Dhaka; Rudrendra Tandon to move to Kabul||In a diplomatic rejig, the government is set to appoint seasoned diplomat Vikram Doraiswami as India's next envoy to Bangladesh while another experienced hand, Rudrendra Tandon, is likely to be the new ambassador to Afghanistan, sources said. Doraiswami, a 1992 batch Indian Foreign Service officer, is currently serving as additional secretary in-charge of international organisations and summits at the headquarters of the Ministry of External Affairs in Delhi. He will succeed Riva Ganguly Das in Dhaka. The government's decision to appoint Tandon as India's ambassador to Afghanistan comes at a time when the long-pending peace and reconciliation process in the war-ravaged country is gaining momentum. India has been keenly watching the evolving political situation after the US inked a peace deal with the Taliban in February. India has been a key stakeholder in the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan. Tandon, who joined the Indian Foreign Service in 1994, is currently serving as Indian envoy to Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) at Jakarta. He has served in Indian missions in Paris, Algiers, Kabul and Moscow. He had also served as India’s Consul General in Jalalabad in Afghanistan. Tandon succeeds Vinay Kumar in Kabul. Sources said seasoned diplomat Gourangalal Das is expected to be sent to Taipei. He is likely to be the Director-General of India Taipei Association. Das is currently serving as joint secretary (Americas) in the ministry of external affairs. The government on Monday appointed Vidhu P Nair as the next ambassador of India to Turkmenistan. Nair, a 2002-batch IFS officer, is presently serving as director in the ministry. The government has also appointed Hemant Harishchandra Kotalwar, a 1996-batch IFS officer, as India's next envoy to the Czech Republic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vikram-doraiswami-likely-to-be-new-envoy-to-dhaka-rudrendra-tandon-to-move-to-kabul-860865.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||No reason for BJP to cheer, Congress govt in Rajasthan will complete full term: Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Sunday exuded confidence that the party's government in Rajasthan will complete its five-year term and said the BJP has no reason to cheer. Surjewala reached Jaipur along with party colleague Ajay Maken late on Sunday night. The two leaders have been sent by the Congress as central observers to save the party's government in the state. The action by the Congress leadership came in the midst of a widening rift between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot. "There is no reason for the BJP to cheer. Congress government will complete its five-year term," Surjewala, who is also the party's spokesperson, told reporters. Surjewala and Maken will hold a meeting with Gehlot and Congress MLAs to avert a crisis in the state. AICC general secretary Avinash Pande also reached the chief minister's residence for the meeting. Pilot, who has been camping in Delhi, skipped the meeting. Gehlot had on Saturday alleged that the opposition BJP was trying to lure Congress MLAs to topple the state government. The BJP dismissed the claim, saying the recent developments only reflected the power struggle between Gehlot and Pilot, simmering since the Congress leadership in Delhi picked the more senior politician for the CM's post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-reason-for-bjp-to-cheer-congress-govt-in-rajasthan-will-complete-full-term-surjewala-860470.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Operation Kamal will not succeed in Maharashtra, says Sharad Pawar||The BJP-sponsored Operation Kamal will not succeed in Maharashtra and there is no threat to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, NCP founder and president Sharad Pawar said.  His statement comes in the wake of a political crisis brewing in Rajasthan.  There will not be any impact on the government led by Uddhav Thackeray and it will complete five-year term, said Pawar, the 79-year-old veteran politician, who is the chief architect of the MVA comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress besides smaller allies.  The statement of Pawar comes in the third and final instalment of the interview given to Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, that was conducted by Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut. On asked what is Operation Kamal, the four-time Maharashtra chief minister said: "Straight away misusing power and destabilising a government, weakening it and for that misusing power at the Centre." On reports that Operation Kamal will be attempted in Maharashtra in October, he took a dig at BJP and said: "First they said in three months...then it became six months...now after six months the promise is September..some people are saying October."  According to Pawar, a three-time union minister, the MVA will complete five year time by giving effective government.  He said that Thackeray is working effectively but stressed on the need for enhanced communication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/operation-kamal-will-not-succeed-in-maharashtra-says-sharad-pawar-860523.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Fact-check | No, this pothole-filled road is not from Rahul Gandhi’s constituency Wayanad||A user ‘Priya Sharma BJP’ also shared the same image with the Wayanad claim on Twitter. Alt News has received several fact-check requests for the picture on its official mobile application.  An image of a road in Bihar filled with potholes was shared with the false claim that this is the current condition in Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s constituency in Kerala’s Wayanad. Furthermore, the road was repaired two years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fact-check-no-this-pothole-filled-road-is-not-from-rahul-gandhi-s-constituency-wayanad-860578.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||2014 support offer was 'ploy' to keep Shiv Sena away from BJP: Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar has said his offer of outside support to the BJP in 2014 to form government in Maharashtra was a "political ploy" aimed to keep the Shiv Sena away from its then ally. Pawar admitted he took steps to "widen the distance between the BJP and Shiv Sena". The two long-term saffron allies parted ways after the state Assembly elections last year over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. Pawar said after the last year's Assembly polls, BJP leaders approached him to support the Devendra Fadnavis government in the state, but he told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the NCP will not go with the BJP and if possible, it will form the government with the Sena or sit in the opposition. "The BJP doesnt believe that non-BJP parties have the right to function in a democratic set up," Pawar, who played a key role last year in the formation of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, said in an interview to Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'. The last of the three-part interview series was published in the Marathi daily on Monday. For the first time, a non-Shiv Sena leader has featured in a marathon interview series in the publication. "I made the statement (after 2014 state polls) consciously since I didn't want the Shiv Sena and BJPto come together. When I realised the post-poll alliance could materialise, I made that statement announcing readiness to support a BJP government from outside," Pawar said. "That didn't work out. The Shiv Sena joined the government and the alliance government completed its full term," he noted. The 78-year-old Maratha strongman said he believed allowing the BJP to be in power in Maharashtra was not in the interest of the Shiv Sena and other parties. "The power at the Centre was with the BJP (in 2014) and if it is the ruling party in Maharashtra, it would be a loss to the Shiv Sena. The BJP doesn't believe that non-BJP parties have the right to function in a democratic set up. I knew all other parties face a danger. The statement offering outside support was a political ploy," he said. "I accept that I took steps to widen the distance between the BJP and Shiv Sena," the veteran politician said. Pawar rejected the claim of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis that he (Pawar) was in talks with the BJP to form a government last year and then did a "U-turn". "Some BJP leaders spoke to my colleagues and myself about government formation, saying they didn't want the Shiv Sena on board. They said since I had good relations with the prime minister,he should intervene and I should give my approval," he said. "Hence, to avoid any confusion and perception about myself and my party, I met the prime minister in his chamber at Parliament House and told him the NCP will not go with the BJP. If possible, we will form government with the Shiv Sena or sit in the opposition," Pawar said. Targeting Fadnavis over his remarks that Pawar was in talks with senior BJP leaders to form government in Maharashtra, he said, "Where was he? I dont think he has a place in the decision-making process at the national level." Fadnavis became a known face after he became chief minister, while in the opposition he was only an active legislator and had "no say in the BJP's decision-making in the state and at the national level", Pawar said. He said Fadnavis is yet to come to terms with not being able to form government again (last year). "Power is never permanent. Whatever responsibility is given by people, we have to take it. When I lost chief ministership in 1980, I became leader of the opposition. There was more fun in that role for me," the former CM said. "What do we see today? A former chief minister saying it was hard for him to digest he is no longer in power. This is not good for him. He should accept the reality," he said. Asked about 'operation Kamal', Pawar said, "'Operation Kamal' of the BJP was misuse of power, weakening and destabilising democratically elected governments by misusing the power at the Centre." 'Operation Kamal' will not work in Maharashtra and the Thackeray government will complete its full term, he asserted. "The 'Thackeray Sarkar' will complete full term and MVA allies will contest the next election together," he added. Pawar also said that the opposition parties have the capability to provide an alternative to the nation (at the Centre). "But, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the process has stopped. Once this crisis is over, political momentum will gain ground," he said. Earlier this year, there were some meetings and the opposition parties discussed some policies. But then the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country, he said. "I will take the initiative. Providing an alternative is the need of the hour," he said. Speaking about the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government, Pawar said there was no problem in the dispensation, but dialogue among allies was lacking. "It is a three-party government and dialogue between the three parties was necessary. I can't see such a dialogue. If it is there, you will not hear rumours of rift or differences," he said. To a question on Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi being asked by the Centre to vacate the bungalow allotted to her in Delhi, Pawar said, "I don't think this is cultured behaviour. Power should be used with humility. Such things happen when the arrogance of power goes in your head." "Priyanka is the daughter of a former prime minister (Rajiv Gandhi) who was assassinated. You may have political differences. But, there is no wisdom in using the power in hand to harass political opponents, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/2014-support-offer-was-ploy-to-keep-shiv-sena-away-from-bjp-sharad-pawar-860594.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||D K Shivakumar confident Sachin Pilot won't quit Congress||Amid a deepening political crisis in Rajasthan, Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar on Monday expressed confidence that Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot will not quit the party and called him a "sincere Congressman". He accused the BJP of trying to destabilise the Congress as part of their agenda. "No, he (Pilot) will not leave. I have full confidence that he will not leave. He is a very sincere Congressman like his father (Rajesh Pilot). He has built the party for the past six-seven years. He is the President (Rajasthan state unit), he has done his best for the party," Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "there may be some issues, I'm not saying no, but everything will be sorted out." A crucial meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) will be held at Jaipur on Monday, amid deepening political crisis in Rajasthan, and the party has issued a whip to all party legislators mandating their presence. However, Pilot, who has openly displayed rebellion against the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has made it clear that he was not going to attend the meeting. In a statement issued on Sunday night, Pilot had claimed that the Gehlot government was in minority and more than 30 Congress and some independent legislators have pledged support to him. Stating that BJP wants to misguide Congressmen and people, Shivakumar said they want to destabilise us, it is their agenda and they are always trying for it. "I'm very confident, people have given us (Congress) a mandate to work (in Rajasthan). This is Corona time, we all have to work, power is next. I think good sense will prevail on all legislators and leaders," he said. Our national leaders are there, they will sort out the issue, he said, adding that "as a Congressman I feel that we should all stand united."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/d-k-shivakumar-confident-sachin-pilot-wont-quit-congress-860597.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi's envy causing Congress' destruction, says Uma Bharti on Rajasthan crisis||Amid the crisis in the Congress government in neighbouring Rajasthan, senior BJP leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti on Monday accused Rahul Gandhi of not allowing young leaders to flourish in his party due to envy. She said Gandhi creates rifts between Congress leaders and then blames the BJP when he is unable to control the resultant internal strife. "The envy of Rahul Gandhi is causing the destruction of the Congress. Rahul Gandhi does not allow young leaders to flourish. He creates an environment which creates rifts among party leaders, which he is then unable to control. And then he blames us for the crisis," Bharti said. "Rahul Gandhi feels he will be left behind if young and qualified leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot (who has revolted against CM Ashok Gehlot in Rajasthan) get important posts," she claimed. However, when such capable leaders come to the BJP, the party welcomes them as everybody has a place in it, Bharti said. The BJP national vice president said Gandhi was also responsible for the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh falling in March after 22 Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalist MLAs quit the Assembly and joined the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhis-envy-causing-congress-destruction-says-uma-bharti-on-rajasthan-crisis-860629.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||BJP MP asks Congress not to do politics in times of pandemic||BJP MP from Nainital Ajay Bhatt on Monday hit back at the Congress for protesting against what they term as poor healthcare facilities in the state, asking the party to refrain from doing politics in times of a pandemic.  Advising the Congress to think of the "appalling condition" of health facilities in the state when the party was itself in power, Bhatt highlighted the major steps taken by the state government after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out to ramp up healthcare infrastructure.      "Recruitment of doctors and paramedics has been carried out on a war footing in the recent months, testing facilities have been ramped up. There are nearly 22,000 isolation beds in the state and enough ventilators to deal with any emergency," Bhatt told PTI. The former Pradesh BJP president advised the opposition party to refrain from indulging in politics in times of a pandemic and move shoulder to shoulder with the government in the fight against Covid-19. "Instead of trying to belittle the state government's efforts, the Congress should shoulder its own responsibilities in the battle against Covid-19," he said. Bhatt also welcomed the sanction of Rs 2,000 crore by the Centre for BharatNet phase II programme in Uttarakhand, saying the state, especially its border villages, will benefit immensely from the digital connectivity initiative.  The Pradesh Congress has been protesting over the past few days against what they term as poor healthcare facilities in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mp-asks-congress-not-to-do-politics-in-times-of-pandemic-860642.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||No one has understood Uttar Pradesh govt's logic of weekend lockdown 'baby pack': Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government over the rising coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh, saying no one has understood the logic of the weekend lockdown "baby pack" and efforts are on to hide failures. Her attack came after the Uttar Pradesh government decided to impose a stricter lockdown across the state on weekends to stop the coronavirus spread. "UP: Coronavirus cases in the last three days -- July 10 -- 1,347, July 11 -- 1,403 and July 12 -- 1,388," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "No one has understood the logic of the weekend lockdown 'baby pack' till now," she said. Efforts are on to hide failures, the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP East said, adding a couplet "Marz badhta gaya, jyon jyon dawa ki" (the disease kept on growing as medicine was taken).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-one-has-understood-uttar-pradesh-govts-logic-of-weekend-lockdown-baby-pack-priyanka-gandhi-860653.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Gold smuggling case: Congress-led UDF to move no-confidence motion against Kerala govt||Opposition Congress in Kerala is planning to move a no-confidence motion against the ruling CPI(M)-led left front government in the wake of alleged nexus of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan's principal secretary with gold smuggling racket. A meeting of the Congress led United Democratic Front also decided to move a motion against the Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan as he turned up for the inauguration of a shop of one of the accused in the gold smuggling case. The fresh moves are part of the ongoing attack by the opposition parties against the government. The left front is having a comfortable majority of about 90 seats in 140 member Assembly, of which two seats were now vacant. Meanwhile, the chief minister said that apart from the alleged connections of his former principal secretary M Sivasankar with gold smuggling accused former UAE consulate employee Swapna Suresh, so far no issues of misusing the CMO came to light. Hence Sivasankar was not suspended from service. Already Sivasankar was kept off CM's office, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gold-smuggling-case-congress-led-udf-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-kerala-govt-860658.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Word wars, pacification in Rajasthan crisis||A political crisis has emerged in Rajasthan after Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot decided to rebel against Congress and threaten to destabilise the state government. He declared open rebellion, claiming that the Ashok Gehlot government is in minority now as over 30 Congress MLAs have “pledged support” to him. According to reports, Pilot had the support of 16 Congress MLAs and three Independents, whom the Congress had distanced itself with for allegedly hobnobbing with the BJP. Notices were sent by the Special Operations Group to CM Ashok Gehlot, his deputy Pilot to record statements in the case of allegations of horse-trading ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections. It has miffed the latter, who left for Delhi on Saturday along with some of his loyal MLAs to plead his case before the party high command. After what happened with the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh, the Rajasthan crisis too had heads turning. Anticipation of the Congress losing another state and yet another set of young leaders invited several word wars and allegations. Here's a brief glimpse of who said what: BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia took a swipe at his former party, saying talent and capability find "little credence" there. He claimed that Rajasthan's Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot was being "sidelined and persecuted" by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. "Sad to see my erstwhile colleague Sachin Pilot, too, being sidelined and persecuted by Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot. Shows that talent and capability find little credence in the Congress," Scindia tweeted. Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pandey told ANI that Sachin Pilot was not above the party and no indiscipline would be tolerated. "I'm hoping he will turn up for the meeting," he said. I've tried to speak to him (Sachin Pilot)& have also sent messages to him but he hasn't replied yet. He isn't above the party.The party is ready to listen to him but no indiscipline will be tolerated. I'm hoping he'll turn up for the meeting: Rajasthan Congress in-charge A Pandey PL Punia, AICC general secretary incharge from Chhattisgarh claimed that Sachin Pilot had joined the BJP. However, he later issued a clarification.   Senior BJP leader Om Mathur said, "People of Rajasthan had given an opportunity to Congress to form govt in the state, they should have used it properly. CM should have kept his government intact, but he is not able to do it. His party MLAs are not happy with him."   Rajasthan BJP president Satish Punia said, "Sachin Pilot was the rightful candidate for the post of Rajasthan CM but Ashok Gehlot took the charge, a conflict in the party began since then. What's happening today is the result of that conflict. The state government has lost the majority."   Congress leader Randeep Surjewala said, "I appeal to all Congress MLAs that people have voted for Congress to lead a stable govt in the state, so all MLAs should take part in the Congress Legislative Party meeting today and make our govt in the state stronger." He also said that if anyone has any problem, they must come forward and mention the issue on the party forum. The members of the party are like a family and must work together to find a solution. BJP leader Uma Bharti trained guns at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, saying, "Rahul Gandhi is responsible for what's happening now in Rajasthan and happened in Madhya Pradesh. He doesn't allow young leaders in Congress to grow. He feels that if educated and able leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot get high posts then he'll be left behind." Earlier, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal was the first to go public on the crisis saying he he was worried for the party. Seeking a quick resolution of the "crisis", he asked when would the party leadership "wake up".   "Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables," he said on Twitter.   Worried for our party Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables ? (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/word-wars-pacification-in-rajasthan-crisis-860662.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Delhi HC sends notice to Jagan's party, ECI over plea on 'illegal' use of YSR in name||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued notices to the Andhra Pradesh's ruling YSR Congress Party or YSRCP on a plea alleging illegal usage of abbreviation "YSR" in its name.  A bench of Justice Jayant Nath sought a response from Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy's party on a writ petition filed by the Anna YSR Congress Party. The petitioner led by senior advocate Meenakshi Arora and advocate Vipin Nair sought a direction for deregistration of Jagan's YSR Congress Party or YSRCP alleging misappropriation of use of the abbreviation "YSR".  It claimed that the Election Commission had mandated that YSRCP should use the full form "Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP)" and not use the abbreviated form "YSR" in its name. "Though YSRCP used the full name in all official correspondence, it is illegally using abbreviated YSR Congress in all their informal communication," the counsel contended. It sought a direction for the EC to withdraw status of Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP)" as a “recognised party” under Para 6A of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968 (“Symbols Order”) and to de-register it under its inherent powers. The petitioner said it is a registered political party formed in the state of Andhra Pradesh since September 29, 2015 with Shaik Mahaboob Basha as its party president and founder. In the last General Election of 2019, it claimed it contested under its name “Anna YSR Congress Party” under the symbol of a plough. The court issued the show cause notice after hearing all sides,  including petitioners, the Election Commission and senior counsel, Rajiv Nayar for Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party. The court fixed the matter for hearing on September 3, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-hc-sends-notice-to-jagans-party-eci-over-plea-on-illegal-use-of-ysr-in-name-860671.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi in touch with Sachin Pilot, trying to placate him: Report||Top Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, are in touch with Sachin Pilot and are trying to placate him, a day after the Rajasthan Deputy CM declared open rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, sources said on Monday. Pilot has claimed that the Ashok Gehlot government is in minority and that he has the support of over 30 MLAs in the 200-member Assembly. According to sources, top Congress leaders have talked to Pilot and have asked him not to rebel against the chief minister. They also assured him that his grievances would be redressed at the party level. Besides Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, other Congress leaders who are learnt to have spoken with Pilot are Ahmed Patel, former Union finance minister P Chidambaram and AICC general secretary K C Venugopal. It was not immediately known what transpired during the discussions. Sources said the leaders asked Pilot to attend a Congress Legislature Party meeting in Jaipur, but he has not given any assurance. Pilot, who is in Delhi, has not been taking calls of many party leaders. AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Avinash Pande has said that Pilot has not been responding to calls and messages have been left with him. Pilot has raised a banner of revolt against Gehlot after the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police sent a notice to him for appearing before it in the case involving "horse-trading" of MLAs in the state. The SOG has registered an FIR in this regard and has also sent notices to the chief minister, chief whip of Congress and some ministers and MLAs. Meanwhile, Congress has pulled out all the stops to save its government in Rajasthan and CM Gehlot has convened a meeting of the state legislature party. Pilot, who is also the state Congress president, is miffed with Gehlot and has alleged that he was not being kept in the loop on key decisions. The Congress Legislature Party meeting began about three hours later than scheduled, with ministers and MLAs flashed victory signs for the cameras. The Congress said 109 MLAs have already expressed support for Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, rejecting the claim by Deputy Chief Minister and the party’s state unit president Sachin Pilot that the senior leader does not have the majority. About 100 MLAs had walked into the chief minister’s residence by 12.30 pm, an hour before the meeting actually started. But some MLAs considered close to Pilot had not arrived till then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-priyanka-gandhi-in-touch-with-sachin-pilot-trying-to-placate-him-report-860675.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi takes a dig at Amit Shah, questions govt's claims on battling Covid-19||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday questioned the government's claims on battling Covid-19, asking is India at a "good position" in the battle against the virus. His remarks came a day after Union Home Minister Amit Shah said India is in a "good position" in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic and the country will fight the disease with determination and enthusiasm. In a tweet, Gandhi asked, "India at good position in COVID19 battle?". He tagged a graph of India's daily average Covid-19 cases that showed a steady rise, against that of other countries like South Korea and New Zealand which have shown a steady decline in cases. India saw a daily rise of 28,701 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 8,78,254 as on Monday morning, while the death toll climbed to 23,174 with 500 people succumbing to the infection, according to the Union Health Ministry data. Gandhi has been critical of the government on the handling of the Covid-19 crisis and has accused it of having failed to tackle the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-takes-a-dig-at-amit-shah-questions-govts-claims-on-battling-covid-19-860691.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh: Congess leader Vivek Bansal, 38 party workers booked for violating prohibitory orders||A Congress leader and 38 party workers were booked for violating prohibitory orders after they staged a protest against high electricity tariff in the state, police said on Monday. National Secretary of All India Congress Committee (AICC) Vivek Bansal, however, said that as the agitation was organised inside a private property, they had not defied any restrictions that have been enforced across the state due to the coronavirus pandemic. According to police, the Congress workers were booked under sections 188 and 269 of the Disaster Act for holding a protest at Dharampur courtyard marriage hall on Saturday without obtaining permission. Police said that social distancing norms were violated during the protest. Bansal argued that the right to peaceful protest is a fundamental right in a democratic country. By denying this right, the BJP government in the state is destroying the roots of democracy, he told the media on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-congess-leader-vivek-bansal-38-party-workers-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders-860693.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Kanpur ambush: UP police to request court to release wife of Vikas Dubey’s aide||The Uttar Pradesh Police will request the court to release wife of slain criminal Amar Dubey, an associate of gangster Vikas Dubey, in the absence of sufficient evidence against her in connection with the death of eight policemen in Bikru village, a police spokesperson said on Monday. The investigation officer (IO) has been asked to file a closure report before the concerned court here at the earliest and ensure her early release, he said. The IO has also been asked to take help of senior prosecution officers for filing the closure report against Khushi Dubey, wife of Amar Dubey, the spokesperson said. Khushi was arrested after her husband was killed in an encounter with the police in Hamirpur district on July 8 over his alleged involvement in the ambush in Bikru village. The couple reportedly got married just a week before the infamous ambush. Meanwhile, Bithoor Station Officer (SO), Kaushalendra Pratap Singh, who had sustained two bullet injuries during the ambush, appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Monday and recorded his statement. The SIT is headed by Additional Chief Secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy. He told the SIT that he got a call from the then SO Chaubeypur Police Station, Vinay Tiwari on the intervening night of July 2 and 3 following which he along with his sub-inspectors and around 10 constables went to Bikru village to arrest the dreaded history-sheeter, Vikas Dubey. According to an official pleading anonymity, Singh told the SIT that the police team, which had gone to arrest Vikas Dubey, was headed by Circle Officer (Billahur) and comprised about three dozen police personnel. The Bithoor station officer also informed the SIT that police vehicles were left about one kilometre away from the ambush site and the policemen walked on foot. The SO elaborated that as soon as they crossed the earthmover which was deliberately parked to block the path of the policemen, they fell to a shower of bullets (around 20 to 25 rounds), the official said. Singh said the policemen who were without weapons tried to hide themselves, while he and others, who had weapons took their position. He told the SIT that he sat against a wall with two other policemen and fired four to five rounds, but the assailants had stationed themselves at a height and were far away from his range of vision. The criminals were firing from the rooftops, he said. Singh said he struggled after being hit by two bullet shots, adding that constable Ajay Sengar informed him that he was shot in his stomach, while another constable was shot in the hand. He said he somehow managed to take his colleagues away from the spot through a dilapidated house which had a broken door, the official said. Singh also apprised the SIT that when they reached Bikru village, it was not dark. Street lights were on which proved to be a drawback as the assailants on the rooftops took their positions. There was a power outage later, he said. The Bithoor station officer also noted that SO (Chaubeypur) Vinay Tiwari, who has been sent to jail on charges of criminal conspiracy, was with his team when the police party reached Bikru village. He said Tiwari, however, lagged behind after other policemen crossed the earthmover parked to block their path. The SIT team visited the Shivli Police Station in Kanpur Dehat late Sunday evening to collect details about the murder of minister of state Santosh Shukla. Shukla was killed inside the police station in 2001 and Vikas Dubey was an accused in the case. Additional DG Hariram Sharma and Deputy IG J Ravindra Gour, who are part of the SIT, examined the action taken by the police in this case. They also tried to explore how Vikas Dubey or someone from his family headed the Bikru panchayat for the past 25 years. The SIT team was also curious to know how despite being in jail on murder charges, Vikas Dubey won the zila panchayat election from Ghimau, under which Bikru village falls, in 2000 after serving as the village head for two terms, officials said. The three-member SIT has been constituted by the state government to probe the Kanpur incident, including the alleged laxity and involvement of local police with slain gangster Vikas Dubey. It will submit its report by July 31. On July 3, eight police personnel, including a DSP, were gunned down in Bikru village by the henchmen of Vikas Dubey. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack from a rooftop after the police team entered the village past July 2 midnight to arrest the gangster. Vikas Dubey was killed in an encounter on July 10 after police claimed that he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area where the vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kanpur-ambush-up-police-to-request-court-to-release-wife-of-vikas-dubey-s-aide-860775.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||GoAir repatriates over 18,000 Indian citizens in 1 month||Budget carrier GoAir on Monday said it operated over 100 international charter flights and repatriated 18,195 stranded Indians in one month amidst the coronavirus pandemic. GoAir commenced repatriation flights on June 10 and gradually ramped up its services with a combination of 'Vande Bharat Mission' flights and private international charters, it said in a release. As of July 10, GoAir flew 103 international charters from the Gulf countries to Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kannur, Kochi, Kolkata, Lucknow and Mumbai, the airline said. "It is our endeavour to continuously support the nation in repatriation efforts -- be it Vande Bharat Mission or international private charters -- and help fly back our stranded citizens and reunite them with their families," GoAir Managing Director Jeh Wadia said. "GoAir will be supporting the government with many more Vande Bharat Mission and private charter flights that are required to help our fellow Indians to return to their loved ones," he added. The airline said it is geared up to fly 5-6 international charters on an average every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/goair-repatriates-over-18000-indian-citizens-in-1-month-860801.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||NIA arrests two from Pune in ISKP case||The NIA has arrested two persons, including a woman journalism student from Pune, for allegedly planning terrorist attacks in India and propagating the ideology of ISIS terror group as part of the activities of the outlawed Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), an official said on Monday. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had on Sunday carried out searches in Pune and arrested Nabeel S Khatri (27) and Sadiya Anwar Sheikh (22), both residents of Pune, in connection with the ISKP case, a spokesperson of the premier investigation agency said. Khatri runs a gym in Pune while Sadiya is a second year student of Mass Communication and Journalism at Baramati, he said. The case was initially registered by the Delhi Police Special Cell on March 8 after the arrest of a Kashmiri couple -- Jahanzaib Sami Wani and his wife Hina Bashir Beigh -- from Delhi's Jamia Nagar, the official said. The couple was having affiliations with ISKP, which is a banned terrorist organisation and a part of the ISIS, and was found to be involved in subversive and anti-national activities, he said, adding they were also found to be in touch with Abdullah Basith, who is lodged in Delhi's Tihar jail in another NIA case. Sadiya was in constant touch with Jahanzaib, Hina and Basith on various secure messaging applications and deliberating on how to propagate the ideology of ISIS and further its activities in India, the NIA official said. They were trying to build up a cadre of ISIS in India by recruiting gullible youth for terrorist activities, he said. It has also come to light that along with Jahanzaib and Basith, Nabeel was actively involved in the planning to carry out violent terrorist attacks in India by arranging logistical support such as procurement of weapons, fake SIM cards, assembling of improvised explosive devices among others to further the activities of ISIS in India, the NIA official said. He was continuously in contact with Jahanzaib on various secure messaging platforms, he said. Sadiya had been in contact with ISIS recruiters through social media since 2015 and was planning to execute a terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir, the official said, adding that she was detained by the Jammu and Kashmir Police in 2018. The two accused will be produced before a special NIA court in New Delhi, he added. Further investigation was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nia-arrests-two-from-pune-in-iskp-case-860803.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Congress is stable in Rajasthan after party central leadership's intervention, but for how long?||The widening chasm between old guard versus the new generation that came for during the desert storm in Rajasthan politics, seems to have been papered over for the time being with Congress central leadership making a last-minute intervention to ensure it does not lose another state won just less two years ago. The million-dollar question is how long this cosmetic unity will remain, especially when leaders from both the rival camps are not willing to give their claims to the top job. The truce worked out to buy temporary peace ensured that Ashok Gehlot remains Chief Minister “for now” with Sachin Pilot’s loyalists about to get more meaty portfolios after a state cabinet reshuffle soon and Sachin Pilot, who could not show the claimed support of 30 legislators as 89 of 107 Congress MLAs attended a meeting of Gehlot, making it clear that he is not joining the BJP. The saffron party, which had had recent experience of both success and failure on engineering a proper split in Congress in Madhya Pradesh and NCP in Maharashtra chose to exercise caution and despite some earlier bravado of Congress in crisis finally chose to make clear that no promise was made to Sachin Pilot in case he chooses to switch sides. BJP was able to snatch Madhya Pradesh from Congress, which it had lost in 2018 after the troika of Digvijay Singh, Kamal Nath and Jyotiraditya Scindia had come together to win back the state after a 15 years gap, realising well that they do not stand a chance other way.  The cosmetic unity forced down from the top and accepted grudgingly cracked as Nath and Singh joined hands to prevent Scindia from becoming Chief Minister and later the royal scion from Scindia family was not offered even the state chief’s post. When Scindia quit the Congress and joined the BJP, two dozen MLAs followed him, reducing the majority mark in the state and helping Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s comeback as BJP’s Chief Minister in March. In Maharashtra, when the BJP earlier tried to engineer a split in NCP by inducing Sharad Pawar’s nephew Ajit Pawar as Deputy CM in November last year after the hung mandate, the Junior Pawar miserably failed to bring the promised number of legislators with him and finally made with his uncle Sharad Pawar, leading to huge embarrassment to the ruling BJP. Unlike Scindia, who was cut up after not being offered state chief’s post and unwilling to be Dy CM under Nath, Pilot has more of an ego tussle as he already holds both the positions in Rajasthan. Unlike Scindia, whose writ runs large in a particular swathe of the state, which sends nearly 30 MLAs, Pilot’s appeal is limited to a particular community Gujjar. BJP has already an influential leaders including Kirori Singh Bainsla. Clearly there is also a realisation in the Congress it cannot let its pack crumble like this sort of an effort to placate the young leadership has begun. The appointment of young Hardik Patel as party’s Working President in Gujarat is to be seen in that context.  Both Scindia and Pilot, the young Turks were considered part of Rahul Gandhi’s team.  Earlier in the fight versus the young and the veterans, many of the leaders, who were once state close to Rahul, had to ultimately leave the party of were side-lined like Pratap Singh Bajwa and Navjot Sidhu in Punjab, Ajoy Kumar in Jharkhand, Ashok Tanwar in Haryana, Sanjay Nirupam in Maharashtra and Pradyot Deb Barman in Tripura.  Some joined BJP and AAP, some others floated their own outfit. Which way Pilot lands his politics will be seen in time to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-is-stable-in-rajasthan-after-party-central-leaderships-intervention-but-for-how-long-860807.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Come back, let's talk, says Congress as it aims to avoid a repeat of Madhya Pradesh; MLAs demand action||Keen to avoid a repeat of Madhya Pradesh, Congress leaders on Monday reached out to mollify its Rajasthan unit chief Sachin Pilot who had rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Top Congress leaders have been in touch with Pilot, the Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister, who remained in the national capital along with 15 of his supporters as Gehlot summoned a meeting of MLAs in Jaipur as a show of strength against the rebellion by the young leader. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal, a senior CWC member and former minister, and the Congress high command has been in touch with Pilot for the last “48 to 72 hours” in a bid to douse the crisis that had threatened the government in the state. “We appeal to all MLAs and to Deputy CM Sachin Pilot to attend the CLP meeting and discuss their differences in party fora. Personal ambitions are not larger than the interest of the state and the Congress government has been elected to serve the state for its full term,” Surjewala said. AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had also stepped in a bid to resolve the crisis and is learnt to have spoken to a few leaders, but not Pilot. However, the public show of attempts at reconciliation appeared more as a grand gesture to Pilot, who a section in the Congress believe has already burnt his bridges with the party leadership by his actions. “He should have remained within the system and sought redressal. Pilot has overplayed his hand,” a senior Congress leader said. The public offer asking Pilot to come back, was made before the meeting of the Congress Legislative Party at the residence of the Chief Minister in Jaipur. The resolution adopted at the CLP meeting gave away the mood of the legislators towards those trying to “weaken the government”. “This meeting of the CLP condemns strongly all the anti-democratic misdeeds that weaken the Congress party and the Congress government,” the resolution said. It also sought disciplinary action against any office bearer of the party or the legislative party who directly or indirectly indulged in anti-party activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/come-back-lets-talk-says-congress-as-it-aims-to-avoid-a-repeat-of-madhya-pradesh-mlas-demand-action-860814.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Gujarat adds highest 902 Covid-19 cases in day; ten die||Gujarat on Monday reported the highest single-day spike of 902 Covid-19 cases, taking the overall count in the state to 42,808, the state health department said. The number of fatalities has risen by 10 to 2,057, it said. A total of 608 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of the recovered cases to 29,806. The state now has 10,945 active cases, out of which the condition of 74 patients is critical, the department said in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-adds-highest-902-covid-19-cases-in-day-ten-die-860837.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||Ashok Gehlot claims majority in Rajasthan, Congress appeals to Sachin Pilot to return||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday staved off a challenge to his leadership by his deputy Sachin Pilot by a show of strength in Jaipur amid calls from Congress legislators for disciplinary action against those indulging in anti-party activities. On an action-packed Monday, Gehlot claimed support of 109 MLAs – 104 of which were present at the Congress Legislature Party meeting, that was delayed in the hope of getting some Pilot supporters to return to the party fold. Meanwhile, Congress has summoned yet another meeting of its Legislature Party at 10:00 a.m. on Tuesday in Jaipur, where greater clarity on the political situation in Rajasthan could emerge. Late Monday night, Congress also made a fresh appeal to Pilot and his supporters to attend the meeting. “The government has a comfortable majority,” a Congress leader said even as the Pilot camp made light of the claims with a counter that the chief minister’s garden was no place to prove a majority. The Pilot camp also made it clear that the 42-year-old leader was not headed to the BJP and dropped hints of exploring other options. Soon after the MLAs signed on a resolution expressing faith in Gehlot’s leadership, they were shifted to a Hotel Fairmont, a luxury resort on the outskirts of Jaipur, which incidentally was the target of Income Tax raids on Monday morning. The show of strength appeared to give a breather to the 18-month old Gehlot government and also took the wind out of Pilot’s claims of having support of 30 MLAs. Earlier, Gehlot allowed media persons to enter his official residence once the number of MLAs crossed the magic number of 101 and flashed victory signs to cameras, even as Pilot remained ensconced in the national capital along with his supporters that included three ministers. “Personal ambitions are not larger than the interest of the state and the Congress government has been elected to serve the state for its full term,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said just before the start of the meeting. Though Congress held the door open for Pilot’s return, the young leader appeared in no mood to oblige. Though he remained incommunicado throughout the day, sources close to Pilot doubted the claims made by the Gehlot camp and asked him to prove majority in the assembly. The mood of the MLAs at the CLP meeting, however, was not forgiving and demanded strong disciplinary action against those indulging in anti-party activities. The BJP adopted a wait and watch approach with Rajasthan unit chief Satish Poonia saying that he would await directions from the central leadership of the party. “The foundation of this government is based on contradictions,” Poonia said, adding that all options were open for the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ashok-gehlot-claims-majority-in-rajasthan-congress-appeals-to-sachin-pilot-to-return-860839.html
13-07-2020||National Politics||No orders issued for quarantining MPs after air travel in Delhi: Home Ministry||Lawmakers attending Parliamentary Standing Committee meetings are not required to be quarantined in Delhi after their domestic air travel, the Union Home Ministry said on Monday. In a communication to the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, the Home Ministry said it has not issued any such orders for quarantine, even though some states have made it compulsory for domestic air travellers to undergo quarantine for a few days on arrival. The issue was raised by some MPs seeking to attend the meetings of Standing Committees in the national capital and sought exemption from such quarantine. While a meeting of the Standing Committee on Science and Technology was held on July 10, another meeting of the parliamentary panel on home affairs is slated on July 15. The members had raised before Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu the difficulties in attending such meetings on account of quarantine norms in some states, in the context of resumption of meetings of parliamentary committees. Naidu, sources said, asked the Secretariat which wrote to the Home Ministry in this regard. Referring to the Rajya Sabha Secretariat letter of July 7, 2020, seeking exemption of MPs from quarantine on their arrival in Delhi to attend the panel meetings, the Home Ministry said, "In this regard, it is to inform that no such provision has been made in the orders of MHA requiring domestic air passengers to be quarantined on arrival." "However, some states have imposed such a restriction, based on their assessment of the situation," the Home Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-orders-issued-for-quarantining-mps-after-air-travel-in-delhi-home-ministry-860856.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM rules out quota in private jobs for state youths||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday ruled out quota for the state's youth in private sector jobs, saying Haryana's decision to give reservations to local candidates in such jobs will not stand judicial scrutiny. The chief minister was responding to questions by several youngsters during a 'AskCaptain' Facebook Live session. The Haryana cabinet on July 6 had approved a proposal paving way for an ordinance to give 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs to the youth of the state. The Constitution and the law bars any such discrimination in the matter of private jobs, Singh said when asked why his government could not follow the Haryana model of reservation in private sector jobs. The chief minister pointed out that Punjabis were employed all over the country, with no restrictions by any state. "We cannot stop youths from other states taking up jobs in Punjab," he said. Singh added that he did not believe Haryana's decision could be upheld in the courts. To a question on the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey in Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister said he could not comment on the issue but the Congress was right in demanding an inquiry. The truth needs to be revealed, Singh was quoted as saying in an official release. To a concern expressed by a Amritsar resident on the tender for supply of 'desi ghee' to the Golden Temple by a Pune-based company instead of Milkfed, Singh said he was not in favour of this as dairy was the "second crop" for Punjab and had to be supported. Commenting that no 'ghee' is better than Punjab ghee, he hoped the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) would reconsider its decision. The SGPC, an apex gurdwara body, had allotted a tender worth Rs 60 crore for the supply of 'desi ghee' and skimmed milk for making 'Karah Parshad' and 'langar' to a Pune-based firm. Earlier, the religious body was purchasing these items from Punjab Milkfed (Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers Federation Limited).            To a question on the slow pace of land mutations, he said he had directed the chief secretary to conduct a special drive to accelerate the process and clear pending mutations at the earliest.           On a point raised by a Khanna resident regarding the Punjab School Education Board certificate not recognised for international studies in some countries like Australia, the chief minister said he will take up the issue with the Australian government and urge it to give due recognition to PSEB school degrees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-rules-out-quota-in-private-jobs-for-state-youths-860435.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||BJP in 'wait and watch' mode on Pilot's rebellion in Rajasthan||The BJP is in a "wait and watch" mode over the unfolding crisis in the Congress in Rajasthan and will wait for the outcome of the show of strength between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot before deciding on its next course of action, party sources said on Sunday. Gehlot has called a meeting of Congress MLAs on Monday, which is likely to give a clear indication of how much support he and Pilot enjoy in the legislative group. Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan Congress president, is said to be in touch with some BJP leaders but saffron party sources declined to comment on whether it has held any discussion with him. Pilot, who is camping in Delhi, has declared open rebellion, claiming that he has the support of 30 Congress MLAs and some independents in the state assembly. A BJP leader said the rebel Congress leader seems to have "made up his mind" and does not look in any mood to reconcile with Gehlot's leadership. A statement released on Pilot's WhatApp group claimed that the Gehlot-led Congress government is in minority now. The Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member state assembly while the BJP has 72. After losing power to its rival in the 2018 assembly polls, the BJP had swept the 2019 Lok Sabha elections by winning all 25 seats in the state. The BJP has come to power in states like Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka through defection by MLAs from the Congress and other rival parties. Former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia was instrumental in toppling the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh and he joined the BJP with his supporters later. Scindia and Pilot have long enjoyed warm personal relations, and the former on Sunday tweeted in support of the Rajasthan leader and had a swipe at the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-in-wait-and-watch-mode-on-pilots-rebellion-in-rajasthan-860469.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Legislative assembly for Jammu and Kashmir would be formed 'very soon': Ram Madhav||There will be no rollback of the Centre's decision to revoke Article 370, BJP general secretary Ram Madhav asserted on Sunday and said a legislative assembly for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir would be formed "very soon". Madhav also demanded proper security for political activists in Kashmir in the wake of the killing of BJP's Bandipora district president, Wasim Bari, along with his father and brother on Wednesday by terrorists. He along with Union Minister Jitendra Singh and other leaders also visited the bereaved Bari family. "There can be a political discourse. (Let the politicians here) go to the people and tell them that we want Article 370 back. We are not opposed to the political argument, but we maintain that Article 370 was a roadblock and we abrogated it," he said while addressing party workers at the Tagore Hall here. The Centre on August 5 last year had revoked Article 370, which gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, and divided it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. The BJP leader, while hitting out at the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said if they want to do politics, they should go to the people rather than just tweeting. "You (NC and PDP) tell people it (Article 370) was beneficial, that is politics. But, here you will find people who will get others killed over it (Article 370) or leaders who just tweet from home. All leaders are free... some are in Kashmir, but they only tweet. They do not come on the streets," he said. Madhav said Article 370 was not going to make a comeback no matter how much political parties in Jammu and Kashmir "mourn". "One year has passed, if the NC and the PDP want to keep on mourning (over abrogation of Article 370) for one more year, if they want to keep on tweeting, let them," he said. Hinting at assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir, the BJP national general secretary said a legislative assembly would be formed soon. "Very soon a legislative assembly of the UT (Union Territory) will be formed. Legislative representation too will happen and the UT will march towards development," he said. Talking to reporters outside the venue, Madhav said the legislative assembly will be formed after the completion of the delimitation exercise. However, he said, the first priority was to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. To a question over allowing NC and PDP leaders to resume political activities, he said the two parties are not ready for such activities. "They are enjoying their Twitter world. They are not coming out in front of the people and raising their issues," Madhav said. After his visit to the Bari family, he said "We have come here to offer condolences with the bereaved family and provided them some help. The act committed by terrorists has definitely pained us a lot". "We have come here to give some immediate help to the family. All BJP leaders of the country stand by the (bereaved) family in this difficult situation," Madhav said. "Those who are responsible for the act should be neutralised. We also demand the political workers of any party be given proper security,” he said. Bari, his father and brother were killed on Wednesday evening outside their home. Following the incident, 10 of their PSOs were also suspended and arrested by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/legislative-assembly-for-jammu-and-kashmir-would-be-formed-very-soon-ram-madhav-860474.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Sachin Pilot rebels, claims support of 30 Rajasthan MLA||Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Sunday on Sunday declared open rebellion, claiming that the Ashok Gehlot government is in minority now as over 30 Congress MLAs have “pledged support” to him. “Rajasthan Deputy CM and Congress leader Sachin Pilot not to attend Congress Legislature Party meeting scheduled to be held tomorrow,” a statement from the leader, who is also the state Congress president, said on his WhatsApp group. “Pilot says Ashok Gehlot in minority after over 30 Congress and some independent MLAs have pledged support to Sachin Pilot,” it added. The statement surfaced just as ministers and Congress MLAs were gathering at Gehlot’s official residence in the state capital for a meeting to express support to the chief minister, amid the power tussle between the two leaders. Soon after the announcement Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the party remained intact and the government will complete its five-year term. Surjewala was in Jaipur to attend Monday’s Legislature Party meeting as an observer. Ajay Maken was also headed there, as the Congress tries to avert the loss of another state – after Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Party leaders were a huddle at the CM’s residence till late at night after Pilot’s announcement. Gehlot and other leaders are said to be in touch with allies and independent MLAs supporting the government, hoping to ensure at Monday’s meeting that the Congress government had the numbers to retain power. Pilot had been incommunicado for about two days. The All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of the state, Avinash Pande, told PTI that he had been trying to get in touch with the leader. “I have left messages for him," he had said. Pilot’s supporters had said he was camping in Delhi and was upset over a notice sent to him by the Rajasthan police, who claimed to have stumbled on a plot to topple the Congress government. The notice from the Special Operations Group had (SOG) sought time from him to record a statement. The same notice was also sent to Gehlot, Government Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi and some other MLAs, but those close to Pilot insisted that it was meant to “humiliate” him. Sunday’s meeting at the CM’s official residence in the state capital was scheduled to take place at 9 pm. Minutes later, Pilot’s statement surfaced. Independent MLAs supporting the Gehlot government had also been invited in what was planned to be a show of strength for Gehlot. Gehlot had alleged Saturday that the opposition BJP was trying to lure Congress MLAs to topple the state government. The BJP dismissed the claim, saying the recent developments only reflected a power struggle between Gehlot and Pilot, simmering since the Congress leadership in Delhi picked the more senior politician for the CM’s post. Congress leader Kapil Sibal had tweeted his concern during the day. “Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables?" he asked. Sports Minister Ashok Chandna had even urged MLAs to learn a lesson from what happened in Madhya Pradesh, where Jyotiraditya Scindia switched over to the BJP. “Any person who crosses the party line will not be respected anywhere in the world. This is not the time to lose the respect earned over generations,” Chandna said, without naming anyone. But as the drama unfolded, Scindia himself put out a tweet saying he was sad to see Pilot being “sidelined” in his party. Hours before the scheduled meeting at the CM’s residence, Revenue Minister Harish Choudhary, Labour Minister Tikaram Jully, Health Minister Raghu Sharma and several other MLAs met Gehlot. “We have faith in the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and we have expressed this to him,” Independent MLA Babulal Nagar told reporters. Sports Minister Ashok Chandna urged party MLAs to take a lesson from the recent developments in Madhya Pradesh, where Jyotiraditiya Scindia switched sides. “Any person who crosses the party line will not be respected anywhere in the world. This is not the time to lose the respect earned over generations,” Chandna said, without naming anyone. In a tweet Sunday, Gehlot stressed that the police notices had gone to several people, including him. He did not name Pilot, but said a section of the media had interpreted the notices wrongly. “The notices have been issued to the chief minister, the deputy chief minister, the government chief whip and some other MLAs. It is a part of the process,” SOG Additional Director General Ashok Rathore told PTI on Sunday. He said as the investigation proceeds, others could also be issued notices. Apart from the SOG inquiry, the state’s Anti Corruption Bureau has also begun a probe into the alleged bid to bring down the government. The Congress government has distanced itself from the three independent MLAs -- Khushveer Singh, Omprakash Hudla and Suresh Tak -- who were named in ACB’s preliminary enquiry (PE). Earlier, the government had the support of all 13 independent MLAs, who also voted for the Congress candidates in the Rajya Sabha elections last month. At a press conference Saturday, Gehlot had cited the FIR lodged by the SOG to accuse the BJP of trying to bring down his government and cited the FIR registered by the SOG. The FIR is based on an alleged tapped phone conversation between two men, said to be BJP members, who were later arrested. In the present 200-member assembly, the Congress has 107 members and the BJP 72.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sachin-pilot-rebels-claims-support-of-30-rajasthan-mla-860481.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Congress claims support of 109 MLAs in Rajasthan||Ahead of a meeting of the Congress Legislative Party in Rajasthan, the party on Monday claimed support of 109 MLAs in the 200-member House, enough to brave the challenge posed by the rebellion Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. At a media briefing at 2:30 am in Jaipur, AICC General Secretary Avinash Pande said the party has issued a whip asking all its MLAs to be present at the CLP meeting convened by Gehlot at his residence at 10:30 am today (July 13). "A total of 109 MLAs have signed a letter expressing their trust and support to Rajasthan government led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and leadership of Sonia Gandhiji and Rahul Gandhiji," said Pande, flanked by senior leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken. "A few more MLAs had telephonic conversations with the chief minister and they will also sign letters of support till morning," he said. AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal is expected to reach Jaipur for the meeting.  The Congress government in the state was pushed to the edge after Pilot declared rebellion on Sunday night, claiming support of 30 MLAs. Pilot has already announced that he would not attend the meeting called by Gehlot, an act of defiance that may lead to his expulsion from the party. The Congress has 107 seats in the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly and has the support of 10 independent candidates, two MLAs each from the CPI(M) and the Bharatiya Tribal Party and one MLA from the Rashtriya Lok Dal. The BJP has 72 members in the Rajasthan Assembly and has the support of three MLAs from RLP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-claims-support-of-109-mlas-in-rajasthan-860497.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Militant killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag||An unidentified militant was killed and a woman injured in an ongoing gunfight between security forces and ultras in Srigufara area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday. #AnantnagEncounterUpdate: So far 01 #unidentified #terrorist killed. Operation going on. Further details shall follow (sic),” J&K police tweeted. The gunfight erupted after a joint team of army’s 3-Rashtriya Rifles and police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Rebban area of Sopore, 50 km from here, during wee hours of Monday following a tip-off over the presence of militants in the area, sources said. The hiding militants opened fire on forces, who retaliated triggering a gunfight in which one militant was killed so far, they said and added one to two more ultras are believed to be trapped in the area. The latest encounter has come a day after three Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militants were killed in north Kashmir’s Sopore on Sunday. Police sources said the slain trio was involved in the recent attack in Sopore in which a CRPF jawan and a civilian were killed. There has been an increase in anti-militancy operations in the Valley since March. Security forces have launched multiple anti-militancy operations in Srinagar, south and north Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-anantnag-860499.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Congress to hold legislature party meeting, issues whip to MLAs||Amid deepening political crisis in Rajasthan, a crucial meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) will be held at the chief minister's residence here on Monday.   The Congress has issued a whip to all party legislators mandating their presence during the meeting which will be convened at 10.30 am by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot has made it clear that he is not going to attend the meeting. In a statement issued on Sunday night, Pilot had claimed that the Ashok Gehlot government was in minority and more than 30 Congress and some independent legislators have pledged support to him.   By doing so, he has openly displayed rebellion against the leadership of Gehlot. However, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Avinash Pande has said that 109 MLAs have expressed confidence in the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state and have signed a letter in support. Pande said a whip had been issued asking all the MLAs to attend the CLP meeting and that action will be taken against those who skip it. In the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72. The Congress has the support of 10 out of 13 independents, and other party MLAs like Rashtriya Lok Dal (1), which is its ally. The Congress also considers Bhartiya Tribal Party (2) and CPI(M) (2) MLAs as their supporters. BJP ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) has three MLAs in the assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-congress-to-hold-legislature-party-meeting-issues-whip-to-mlas-860511.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM allocates portfolios, Scindia loyalists get key ministries||Eleven days after expansion of the Madhya Pradesh cabinet, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday allocated portfolios to the new ministers, with BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia's supporters getting some of the key departments. The 28 new ministers who joined the Chouhan cabinet on July 2 include 20 of cabinet rank and eight ministers of state. The Chouhan ministry strength is now 34, including four women ministers. Scindia loyalist Tulsi Silawat retained the water resources department and also got charge of the fisheries and fisheries development departments in the allocation on Monday while Govind Singh Rajput retained revenue and transport departments, official sources said. Silawat and Rajput were inducted into the cabinet in the first 'mini expansion' of the Chouhans ministry. Scindia supporters Dr Prabhuram Choudhary got charge of the health and family welfare department, Pradyumna Singh Tomar got energy, Mahendra Singh Sisodia got panchayat and rural development while Imarti Devi got women and child development department. Chouhan has kept the general administration, public relations, Narmada valley development, aviation and some other departments with himself. Senior BJP leader Narottam Mishra retained the Home department, but had to give up health to Scindia supporter Prabhuram Choudhary. Mishra also got charge of the parliamentary affairs and law departments on Monday. Besides, Gopal Bhargava got the public works department and rural industries, Vijay Shah-forest, Jagdish Devda-finance and commercial tax, Bhupendra Singh-urban administration and development and Yashodhara Raje Scindia- sports and youth welfare. Kamal Patel, who was inducted during the first expansion earlier, retained farmers welfare and agriculture development departments. From the Scindia camp, Bisahulal Singh got food and civil supplies and consumer protection, Aidal Singh Kansana- public health engineering, Hardeep Singh Dang new and renewable energy, Rajwardhan Singh Dattigaon-industrial policy and investment promotion, Brajendra Singh Yadav-public health engineering, Girraj Dandotia-farmers welfare and agriculture development, Suresh Dhakad-public works department and OPS Bhadoria-urban administration and development. Yadav, Dandotia, Dhakad and Bhadoria have been inducted as ministers of state (MoS). The other BJP ministers include Dr Mohan Yadav, who got higher education department, Brajendra Pratap Singh- mineral resources and labour, Vishwas Sarang-medical education, Bhopal gas tragedy and relief, Prem Singh Patel- animal, social justice and divyang welfare, Om Prakash Saklecha-minor, small and medium enterprises and science and technology, Usha Thakur-tourism, culture and spiritual departments and Arvind Bhadoria-cooperatives and public service management. Meena Singh Mandve, who was inducted during the mini expansion, retained the SC/ST welfare department. Ministers of State with independent charge Inder Singh Parmar got school education department, Ramkhelavan Patel- backward class and minorities welfare, Ram Kishore Kanvre- AYUSH and water resources and Bharat Singh Kushwaha-food processing and horticulture. Chouhan took oath as chief minister for a record fourth term on March 23, after Kamal Nath resigned from the post following rebellion by 22 MLAs of the Congress. Out of the 22 MLAs who walked away with Scindia, 14 were inducted into the cabinet. All of them are not legislators at present and will have to contest bypolls. On Sunday, Congress MLA Pradyuman Singh Lodhi also quit the party and joined the BJP. In the 230-member state Assembly, 25 seats are currently lying vacant. Bypolls to these seats are necessitated due to the resignation of 23 leaders from their Assembly membership and death of two sitting legislators. PTI MAS ADU GK GK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-allocates-portfolios-scindia-loyalists-get-key-ministries-860550.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: 5 brothers held for breaching peace in Shamli||Five brothers were arrested for breaching peace in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, police said on Monday. An argument broke out between Sajid, Rashid, Abid, Salman and Arif over family property at Kairana town in the district on Sunday, police said. They were arrested for breach of peace and produced before a magistrate, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-5-brothers-held-for-breaching-peace-in-shamli-860568.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Courts in Jammu and Kashmir to hear cases through virtual mode in the wake of Covid-19||“To prevent further spread of the deadly infection, it is imperative that the High Court at Srinagar Wing and other allied subordinate courts, which are falling in ‘Red zones’, conduct hearing through virtual mode effective till July 31,” the order reads. It said that judges can hear the matters from their residences or office chambers. The order reads that the identification of cases and their listing shall be done in accordance with circular dated May 28 and July 1, while the advocates appearing for the cases shall cause their appearance through virtual mode as well from the residences or offices.  After a steep rise in Covid-19 positive cases and deaths in recent days, the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) government re-imposed lockdown in Srinagar and many other parts of the Valley. In Srinagar, restrictions on public movement and activities have been imposed in 88 areas notified as Covid-19 Red zones after a sharp spike in positive cases. The decision to impose restrictions was taken after recommendations of experts and is aimed at containing the further spread of the Covid-19 disease, an official statement said. Under these orders, all these areas are being sealed off completely but one entry and exit. To ensure there are no violations, the district administration is exploring possibilities of installing surveillance cameras at entries and exits of red zone areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/courts-in-jammu-and-kashmir-to-hear-cases-through-virtual-mode-in-the-wake-of-covid-19-860574.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Income Tax department conducts raids in Rajasthan, Delhi; Congress cries foul||The Income Tax Department on Monday conducted searches in Jaipur, Delhi and two other cities in connection with a tax evasion case against a Rajasthan-based hydro-power infrastructure company as well as establishments linked to two Congress leaders, prompting the party to question the timing of the action at a time the state is witnessing political drama. The IT Department started the searches in Delhi, Mumbai as well as in Jaipur and Kota in Rajasthan early morning in which around 80 officials besides police personnel are participating. Officials said the action came against the backdrop of inputs it received about huge cash transactions taking place and the business group's alleged links to these transactions. The business group, which is under the radar, was awarded the contract to build a dam in Rajasthan in 2018. The IT Department is also conducting searches at premises, including state Congress leaders Rajiv Arora and Dharmendra Rathore, who are considered close to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Arora is the Vice President of the Rajasthan Congress while Rathore is a former Chairman of the state seed corporation. IT officials conducted searches at Amrapali Jewellers showroom in Jaipur, which is said to be owned by Arora. Rajasthan is witnessing an intense power struggle between Gehlot and Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, who claimed support of 30 MLAs. Pilot did not attend a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party on Monday, as he stepped up attack against Gehlot after he was summoned by police in connection with allegations that the BJP was trying to topple the Congress government in the state. The summon came after police tapped phone conversations of two BJP leaders and later arrested them on Friday. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, who was sent by party leadership to Jaipur, attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home minister Amit Shah for the Income Tax raids. He said the Income Tax department, Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of Investigation are the BJP’s “frontal departments”, but such raids will not topple the state government. Rajasthan Cooperative Minister Udailal Anjana questioned the timing of the raids and said, "this was done to create pressure. It apparently looks like leaders who are sitting in Delhi are behind these raids."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/income-tax-department-conducts-raids-in-rajasthan-delhi-congress-cries-foul-860575.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Congress leaders question timing of Income Tax raids||Rajasthan government chief whip Mahesh Joshi on Monday condemned the income tax raids on premises linked to two Congress leaders. Joshi was speaking to reporters outside the residence of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot where a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party has been convened. "I condemn this. The raids are uncalled for and intended at threatening but we are not going to be distracted or scared by this," he said. "Entire country is watching this," Joshi added. The premises are linked to Congress leaders Rajiv Arora and Dharmendra Rathore. Cooperative Minister Udailal Anjana also questioned the timing of the raids. "This was done to create pressure. It apparently looks like leaders who are sitting in Delhi are behind these raids," he said. The Income Tax Department is conducting searches in four cities, including Delhi and Jaipur, in connection with a tax evasion case against a Rajasthan-based jewellery group. Official sources, however, refused to comment on reports claiming that the searches were linked to the current political crisis in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-congress-leaders-question-timing-of-income-tax-raids-860580.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: One death, 7 new cases in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district||According to District Magistrate of Shamli, Jasjit Kaur, there are 30 active coronavirus cases in the district. A total of 29 samples were sent for testing out of which seven including that of the station house officer (SHO) of Shamli district have tested positive, Kaur said. The man who died of Covid-19 on Sunday had been referred to a hospital in Meerut, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-one-death-7-new-cases-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-district-860581.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Strict coronavirus lockdown restrictions reimposed in parts of Kashmir after spike in cases||Strict lockdown restrictions were reimposed in most parts of Kashmir, including in the city here, on Monday after a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the valley over the past one week, officials said. They said strict restrictions have been imposed in Srinagar and other parts of the valley and no movement of people, except for essential services and medical emergencies, was being allowed. The authorities sealed most of the roads and market places, including the business hub of Lal Chowk here, and sought cooperation of the public to make the lockdown a success. In Srinagar, the district administration has identified 88 containment zones across the city and strict restrictions on public movement and activities were imposed after a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, they said. The administration has drawn maps of each of these containment zones and they have been sealed as per these maps with only one entry/exit point kept open, the officials said. They said each of the containment zones has been sealed at 300-500 meters from spots where Covid-19 cases have been detected and entries and exits of all these areas were being manned to ensure strict enforcement of restrictions on movement into and out of them. The district administration is exploring possibilities of installing surveillance cameras at entries and exits of these areas to ensure there are no violations, they said, adding that their connection with the central control room established at the Deputy Commissioner office once installed is also being explored with an aim to ensure effective enforcement of containment plan through its monitoring at more than one level. The administration has issued orders for cancelling of all leaves of government officials in the district and are calling them for duties.  Orders for strictest punishments under the Disaster Management Act and other relevant provisions of the law to those violating preventive guidelines of the government for containment of COVID-19 have also been issued, the officials said. The fine for not wearing a mask in public has been increased to Rs 1,000 and Rs 10,000 for those violating social distancing norms in the containment zones, they said. The officials said the decision to reimpose restrictions in the valley was taken after recommendations of experts and is aimed at containing the further spread of the disease.  A total of 295 out of the 357 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Kashmir on Sunday, while 62 were from the Jammu region. Srinagar district recorded the highest number of 97 new infections, followed by 40 in neighbouring Ganderbal, according to officials. While the union territory administration here had first announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir on March 22 as part of its efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19, restrictions were imposed in many parts of the valley, including in the city here, on March 19 after the union territory saw its first positive case from Srinagar. The lockdown was then gradually eased in June and the markets in the city re-opened after about three months in the second week of June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/strict-coronavirus-lockdown-restrictions-reimposed-in-parts-of-kashmir-after-spike-in-cases-860587.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Amid fresh Covid-19 lockdown, J&K to open for tourists in phased manner||The first phase will see tourists arriving by air only. The intending tourists, as per an order issued by the government, have been advised “to board a pre-booked transport vehicle from the airport on their arrival which will be arranged by the hotel they have already booked”.  “The tourists must have confirmed return air tickets to any place outside Jammu and Kashmir, either to their departure point or any other destination,” the order said. RT-PCR testing of all tourists at the airport on arrival is also mandatory. Pertinently, the tourists will not be allowed to move out from the pre-booked hotels unless the sample report comes negative for Covid-19. The tourists testing Covid-19 positive will be sent for treatment to a medical facility, as per the protocol. The tourists above 65 years of age have been advised to avoid coming to Jammu and Kashmir for tourism holiday. All tourists should have Aarogya Setu app installed on their phones and shall be checked for safe status on the app at the time of their arrival. However, the order has been issued at a time when restrictions on public movement and activities have been re-imposed in Srinagar and few other districts of Kashmir after a sharp spike in Covid-19 positive cases was reported in the last couple of weeks.  The tourism players have questioned the timing of throwing open Kashmir for tourists. “When we have been asked to shut our restaurants and hotels, how will tourists come and stay here? The government orders have only created confusion,” said Lateef Lone, owner of Hotel Eatout, in city centre Lal Chowk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-fresh-covid-19-lockdown-jk-to-open-for-tourists-in-phased-manner-860595.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan political crisis: Congress keeps door open for Sachin Pilot||With numbers in its favour, Congress on Monday appealed to Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot to come to the party forum to resolve differences, keeping the door open for a truce. Addressing a press conference in Jaipur, Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala also said that several leaders had spoken to Pilot in the past 48-72 hours. “Nobody leaves the family in anger. Whenever there are problems within the family, the solution also lies within the family and not outside,” Surjewala told reporters ahead of the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party convened by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Congress claimed support of 102 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly, giving Gehlot a wafer thin majority, prone to troubles in the future. “Pilot should tell us when he will come to attend the CLP (Congress Legislature Party) meeting. We have kept our doors open for Pilot and his MLAs. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are keen to resolve the crisis,” said Surjewala, flanked by senior leaders Ajay Maken and Avinash Pande. The trio was sent by the Congress high command to Jaipur to salvage the situation after Pilot stayed away from Jaipur, angry over the notice to him by the Special Operations Group to probe allegations of poaching of MLAs to topple the government. A statement issued by Pilot’s office late Sunday night claimed that he had support of 30 MLAs and that the Gehlot government was in the minority. However, the attendance at the CLP meeting showed that fewer MLAs were supporting Pilot than what he had claimed a day earlier. “We should not give BJP a chance to form the government," he said, adding that Pilot should come back to his home as he is a family member of the Congress. "If he is angry for any reason, we will convince him," he added.Surjewala also noted that Pilot had not made any statements against the party and renewed the appeal to him to come back and sort out the grievances by talking to the party leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-political-crisis-congress-keeps-door-open-for-sachin-pilot-860596.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||No holiday, official function on Martyrs’ Day in J&K for the first time in over 7 decades||For the first time in more than seven decades, there was no holiday and official function to commemorate Martyrs’ Day in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. The day used to be commemorated to remember 22 Kashmiris, who were gunned down by the forces of autocratic Dogra ruler after the people rose against Maharaja’s rule for their rights on July 13, 1931. After the abrogation of Article 370 and reorganisation of the erstwhile state into two Union Territories on August 5, two public holidays -- Martyrs' Day on July 13 and the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister late Sheikh Abdullah celebrated on December 5 -- were both omitted from the list by the administration in December 2019. July 13 was being observed as Martyrs' Day in Kashmir officially since the autocratic Dogra rule ended in 1947. While the separatist leadership was prevented from holding a rally on this day, the heads of the local government used to visit the graveyard and offer tributes to the martyrs. A senior official said there was no question of holding any function on July 13 this year as the government has already dropped the day from the list of gazetted holidays. “Strict restrictions were imposed in old city areas of Srinagar to prevent anybody from visiting the martyrs’ graveyard,” he said. However, leaders of regional political parties, including National Conference President and Member Parliament from Srinagar, Farooq Abdullah and party Vice President and former CM Omar Abdullah paid rich tributes to the 1931 martyrs’, saying the day marked the inauguration of the struggle of J&K against oppression and discrimination. “The brave men who laid their lives on the 13th of July, 1931, belonged to a generation of wisdom, and vision. It was them who saw in darkness and despair a vision for the forthcoming generations, they envisioned a society free from bondage, discrimination and oppression,” they said. CPI (M) leader, Mohd Yusuf Tarigami, while remembering the martyrs, said it is time to introspect and unitedly strive for the rights of the people of J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-holiday-official-function-on-martyrs-day-in-jk-for-the-first-time-in-over-7-decades-860598.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Man stabbed to death by juveniles for objecting to bike stunts||A 25-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by a juvenile and his two friends after the victim warned them not to perform bike stunts in west Delhi's Raghubir Nagar, police said on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Manish, a resident of Raghubir Nagar. He worked as a private car driver, they said. All the three persons involved in the killing are juveniles (aged 17 years), police said, adding they have been apprehended in connection with the incident. The incident took place on July 8, they said. “The entire incident was captured on CCTV cameras. In one of the footage, the main accused along with his friends was seen stabbing the victim multiple times on the busy streets of Raghubir Nagar. Even while one of his friends tried to take him away, he rushed back to stab the man again,” a police official said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said a case of murder was registered at the Khyala Police Station. With the help of the CCTV footage and local intelligence, all three absconding juveniles were identified and later apprehended. The weapon used in the offence was also recovered from them, police said. "On July 8, we received information from DDU hospital regarding admission of an unknown person who was declared brought dead. Our staff reached the hospital and found that the man suffered from multiple stab wounds. Later on, he was identified as Manish,” the official said. The victim sustained 28 stab wounds, including severe injuries on his chest, torso, and other minor wounds on his arms and legs, he said. During the investigation, it was revealed that the main accused indulged in bike racing and stunts. He rode his bike at high speed and often passed through the streets of Raghubir Nagar, where the victim lived. The victim objected to the bike stunts and racing. He also warned the juvenile against riding on the streets of Raghubir Nagar again, the DCP said. The juvenile, however, rode through the same street again following which the duo got into a fight, he said. In order to teach the victim a lesson, the juvenile arranged for two knives and on July 8, when he found Manish roaming the streets alone, he along with his two friends assaulted the man, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-stabbed-to-death-by-juveniles-for-objecting-to-bike-stunts-860624.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||SC asks Madras HC to decide on plea for 50% OBC quota in medical courses||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Madras High Court to decide upon a plea for implementing 50% reservation for OBCs in all-India quota seats in medical courses in Tamil Nadu. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Hemant Gupta said that pendency of Saloni Kumari's case before the top court was no impediment for the High Court to decide on the issue. The High Court had on June 22 allowed a plea by the Centre, the Medical Council of India and others to keep the petition filed by the state in abeyance since a similar plea was coming up for consideration before the top court. On Monday, the apex court said the Saloni Kumari case pending with it regarding the grant of 27% OBC quota in terms of a central Act cannot be an impediment for the Madras HC in deciding on the grant of 50% quota for OBC in Tamil Nadu on the basis of state law. This is the second time the top court referred the matter to the High Court in recent times. The Tamil Nadu government had moved the top court against the Madras HC's June 22 order declining to issue an order to the Centre to implement 50% reservation for OBCs in all-India quota seats in medical courses in the state. The state government contended that the High Court's decision was tantamount to denying relief as the time for filling up the seats was running out. It asked the top court to direct the Centre to provide 50% reservation for backward classes in admission to the seats shared by it in all India quota in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses in the academic year 2020-21, subject to the outcome of the matter. Besides Tamil Nadu, another petitioner, T G Babu, also filed a plea against the High Court's order. According to the Medical Council of India’s Regulations, 1997, 15% of seats in all undergraduate medical colleges and 50% in all postgraduate medical colleges are surrendered to the all-India quota.  The Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993, provided for 50% reservation for OBCs, besides 18% for SCs and 1% for STs.  On June 11, the top court had declined to consider a batch of petitions filed by DMK, AIADMK, CPI(M), the Tamil Nadu government and others for implementing 50% reservations for OBCs in medical courses in all-India quota seats in colleges in the state. The petitioners had then preferred to approach the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-madras-hc-to-decide-on-plea-for-50-obc-quota-in-medical-courses-860625.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Army chief visits forwards areas along IB in Pathankot-Jammu region, reviews security situation||Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Monday visited forward areas along the International Border (IB) and reviewed the security situation and operational readiness of the troops deployed on ground in the Jammu-Pathankot region, a defence spokesperson said. He visited areas falling under the operational command of the Rising Star Corps, including Kathua, Samba, Jammu and Pathankot, to review the security situation. The Chief of Army Staff was received here by Lt Gen R P Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen Upendra Dwivedi, GOC Rising Star Corps, Maj Gen V B Nair, GOC Tiger Division and Air Commodore A S Pathania, Air Officer Commanding (AOC), Air Force station Jammu, the spokesperson said. Gen Naravane was briefed by Lt Gen Dwivedi on the operational preparedness, upgradation of security infrastructure and the internal security matters.  The Army chief, accompanied by GOC Tiger Division, reviewed operational preparedness in the forward areas, the spokesperson said. He interacted with the field formation commanders and troops on ground during the visit.  Gen Naravane also visited the forward areas of Gurj Division and was briefed by Maj Gen Y P Khanduri, GOC Gurj Division, he added. He reinstated the fact of 'zero tolerance' against ceasefire violations by Pakistan and infiltration attempts by terrorists.  He further highlighted that all agencies of the services and government are working together relentlessly and will continue to do the same to defeat the nefarious design of proxy war being fuelled by our adversaries. The Army chief addressed all ranks of the Western Command through video conferencing and lauded the morale of the troops.  He expressed confidence in the Indian Army's capabilities to thwart any misadventure by the enemies of the country and handle any situation.  He also commended the efforts of all the formations of the Western Command in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic by supporting the ongoing 'Op Namaste'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-chief-visits-forwards-areas-along-ib-in-pathankot-jammu-region-reviews-security-situation-860652.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Make Vikas Dubey’s call records public: Akhilesh tells UP CM Yogi Adityanath||The Kanpur ambush in which eight policemen were killed is evidence that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s encounter policy, dubbed “thoko niti”, has failed, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Monday. Yadav also demanded that the call detail records (CDR) of slain gangster Vikas Dubey for the past years be made public. This is essential to expose the police-politician nexus and to find out who helped Dubey and who benefited from him, the SP president told PTI in a wide-ranging interview in which he also observed that the Covid-19 crisis in the state is getting out of control and discussed his party’s future plans. Dubey was gunned down by police while allegedly fleeing police custody on July 10, a week after eight policemen were killed in his village Bikru in Kanpur when they walked into a trap as they were going to arrest him. “Yogi-ji’s 'thoko niti' has failed miserably. Had it been successful and had criminals feared it, the Kanpur incident in which eight policemen were killed would not have happened. Giving a free hand to police is fine but there should also be effective checks and monitoring from the top," Yadav said.         Referring to Dubey’s killing, he said, "If we say it is fake, they say we are defending a criminal. If there is an unbiased probe, the truth will come out.”          He denied allegations that Dubey was in the SP and that his wife was given a ticket to contest panchayat polls. "BJP put pressure on his (Dubey’s) mother to take SP’s name. As far as an SP ticket to Dubey's wife is concerned, it's not true. Our party had supported Sudha Yadav in that panchyat polls."  "Fearing the disclosure of many secrets, the government has got him (Dubey) eliminated," he alleged.  The former chief minister also attacked the BJP-led government on its failure to check the spread of COVID-19. "If the government stops manipulating figures, UP will cross all records and because of UP, India will break the world record. The situation is getting out of control." The government, he suggested, should adopt a four-day week and allow home quarantine to patients with mild symptoms and treat only serious patients in hospitals. The state has 36,476 cases with 934 fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry figures on Monday.   Discussing the future of his party, Yadav said it has decided to give tickets to only candidates "who have a good image in the public" and not to those with dubious pasts.     The party chief said it will not tie up with any big party in 2022 and go for an adjustment with smaller parties with a base.        "This will help countering the BJP propaganda also that all parties have allied against 'Hindutva'," he explained.        About his experiences from past alliances, Yadav said, "Yes we lost in 2014, 2017 and 2019 too. We have learnt from experience and will strike back in 2022 by getting 351 of 403 (UP Assembly) seats." He welcomed Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra getting more active in the state and said all parties should raise their voice against this government. “It will send a message to people who already have made up their minds to vote against the BJP misrule." In the days to come, he said, party workers would go out on cycles to reach out to the people. The SP’s work might not have been acknowledged by people earlier but this time "kaam bolega" (work will speak), Yadav said.        "In the past 3.5 years, only the infrastructure developed in SP regime is being used by this government and they did nothing new for the people. Can anyone tell what new thing they have given to the state," he claimed.          "When we ask what demonetisation and GST have given, the BJP did not reply and resorted to non-issues to divert attention of people," he said.      He said the BJP only knew how to mislead people.         "What the state achieved from investment summit, defence expo, no one is ready to tell. They (BJP) don't look  ack, but do another event. But it will not do them any good in the long run," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/make-vikas-dubey-s-call-records-public-akhilesh-tells-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-860677.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Babri Masjid: Senior BJP leader Kalyan Singh appears before special CBI court||Senior BJP leader Kalyan Singh on Monday appeared before the special CBI court here in connection with the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case. The 88-year-old former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and former Rajasthan Governor arrived at the trial court to record his statement before the CBI special judge. The special CBI court is currently recording the statements of 32 accused under CrPC section 313 (court's power to examine the accused), a stage in the trial that follows the examination of the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-masjid-senior-bjp-leader-kalyan-singh-appears-before-special-cbi-court-860684.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||14-year-old girl found hanging at Noida school, parents allege rape, murder||A 14-year-old girl was found hanging at a boarding school in UP’s Noida, with her family alleging the she was raped, killed and the body cremated without their consent by the institute management, police said on Monday. The incident allegedly took place on July 3 at the school in Sector 115 here and came to light on Sunday after an uproar on social media, demanding justice for the girl's family, police said. No case has been registered as there has been no formal complaint yet at the local Sector 49 police station, even as senior officials assured investigation into the incident if the family approached them with any evidence of foul play. However, the family, based in Mahendragarh district of Haryana, has written to their Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, seeking legal action against senior officials of the Noida school. The Class 10 student’s mother has urged people to support them to get “justice”, citing weak financial condition of the family. “Police got to know about the case from social media. The family has alleged that the girl was murdered and raped. The matter was taken up immediately. Police contacted the school management and gathered information from the spot,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Ranvijay Singh said. “It came to light that the girl killed herself on July 3 and left behind a suicide note. She clearly wrote in it that nobody, including the school, is responsible for her suicide. She also wrote about her family and some problems they faced,” Singh said. He added that police have reached out to the girl’s kin and shared the information with them. If they still have any grievance, they can approach police, he said. “If there is any evidence of foul play, the family can give it to police. The matter will be probed and strict action will be taken against the guilty,” the additional DCP said. The family has claimed that their three children studied in the school. Two girls on the same campus in Sector 115 of Noida, while a boy in another branch run by the school. The children had returned home due to the Covid-induced lockdown and went back to their schools on June 18. On July 3, the girl’s parents got a call from the school, asking them to immediately reach there because it had “something” to do with their eldest child. The girl's mother said when she and her husband reached the school, their phones were forcibly taken away by institute officials and they were shown the body of their daughter hanging from a ceiling fan of a classroom. The mother alleged the school forcibly got them to sign some papers regarding the cremation of the body. “They forcibly cremated the body despite our resistance,” she alleged. She claimed that her daughter's body had turned blue and the clothes were torn and the “salwaar was loose” as the body hung from the ceiling fan. “My daughter has been killed in the school and I suspect something terrible happened there with her. The people there raped her. She was killed and her body hanged from the fan,” the mother claimed in a video. “I urge you all (public), please help us! We do not have enough money for lawyers. Please help us get justice. This might happen with any other child,” she said. “We have been threatened by them that why have we put out an application alleging foul play... My family, two children and we husband and wife, could be harmed now, we need security,” the woman claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-year-old-girl-found-hanging-at-noida-school-parents-allege-rape-murder-860695.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Punjab bans public gatherings, tightens restrictions on marriage functions||The Punjab government issued revised guidelines on Monday, completely disallowing public gatherings and restricting social gatherings to five attendees and marriages and other functions to 30 instead of the current 50. It asked police to register FIRs against those violating the curb on public gatherings. A detailed notification issued by the government said joint teams of police and civil administration should strictly enforce the restrictions on social gatherings (restricted to 5 under Section 144 imposed in all districts) as well as weddings and social functions. The management of marriage halls, hotels and commercial spaces will be held responsible in case the guidelines are violated and they could face suspension of their licences. They will have to certify that adequate arrangements for ventilation of indoor spaces have been made, the notification added. Wearing of masks has been made compulsory in workplaces/offices/closed places. The new guidelines also direct strict enforcement of the health department advisory on air conditioning and ventilation/air circulation. According to the state health department, the novel coronavirus tally had risen to 7,821 and the death toll to 199 by Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-punjab-bans-public-gatherings-tightens-restrictions-on-marriage-functions-860719.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt allows restro-bars, clubs to sell beer stock expiring by July 31 to liquor shops||Delhi government has allowed the restro-bars, hotels and clubs in the city to sell their stock of beer expiring by July 31 to liquor shops, according to an official. This is the third time the government has given relief to the owners of these establishments. Bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants have not been allowed to open since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown was announced. The official said that it is aimed at minimising financial losses of such establishments. The shelf life of beer in Delhi is around six months. In an order issued last week, the excise department said hotels, restro-bars and clubs are allowed to sell the stock of beer expiring by July 31 to liquor shops. Hotels, clubs and restaurants licensees will prepare an inventory of all beer stock with barcode, which is to be transferred at licensed vendors, the excise department said. "The licensee from hotels, clubs and restaurants shall then submit the barcode list of beer stock and consent letter obtained from licensed vend to excise department with the request for allowing transfer of beer stock," it added. The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) has welcomed the government's move. "We welcome the decision of the Delhi government to allow bars to sell beer that is getting old. This is what we had recommended to the government in May. Hospitality sector is under great stress and this may help recover some investment stuck in stock," CIABC director general Vinod Giri said. He said the government should allow the same for liquor also and added that a large amount of investment is sitting idle in liquor stock and in the current situation the hospitality sector needs relief to survive. On June 11, the Delhi government had issued an order allowing such establishments to sell their stock of beer expiring by June 30 to liquor shops in a bid to minimise their losses due to the lockdown. In an order dated June 26, it had allowed them to sell beer stock expiring by July 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-allows-restro-bars-clubs-to-sell-beer-stock-expiring-by-july-31-to-liquor-shops-860755.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Woman beaten to death for dowry in UP's Bulandhshahr: Police||Six people were booked after a woman, who was allegedly beaten for dowry by her in-laws, died at a hospital here, police said on Monday. The victim, identified as Suvi, had got married in August last year and was six months pregnant, they said. According to her brother, Sumeru, she was being harassed for a car in dowry by her husband Chand and his family members. Suvi's parents are residents of Ghaziabad and her husband's house is in Bulandshahr's Kakod town, police said. On Friday, Suvi was allegedly thrashed by her in-laws and later she was admitted to a hospital here as her condition deteriorated, they said. When Suvi's parents reached the hospital, her in-laws allegedly misbehaved with them and on Saturday night she breathed her last, police said. A case has been registered against six people, including Suvi's husband, and the body has been sent for post-mortem, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-beaten-to-death-for-dowry-in-ups-bulandhshahr-police-860792.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||LNJP hospital in Delhi to have plasma bank: Official||The Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital will be the second hospital in the national capital after the ILBS to start a plasma bank, a top official said on Monday. The hospital has hired three expert counsellors who will encourage patients to donate plasma and tell them it is a safe process, according to the official. These counsellors will call up patients who have recovered from coronavirus, and explain them about the therapy, he said. "We already have a database of patients of our hospital and these counsellors will be calling them," the official said. "However, patients who have recovered after treatment from other hospitals can also come and donate plasma to the bank." Sources said there would be a separate entry for those coming to donate plasma. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is expected to inaugurate the plasma bank. The LNJP is the largest Covid-19 facility in Delhi and has already procured a machine to carry out the plasma therapy. Recently, the Delhi government opened the country's first plasma bank at the state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lnjp-hospital-in-delhi-to-have-plasma-bank-official-860798.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: 2.13 lakh stranded Jammu and Kashmir residents brought back from rest of country, abroad||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has so far brought back over 2.13 lakh residents of the Union Territory who were stranded across the country due to restrictions imposed in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, as per official data. They were brought to Jammu and Kashmir on special trains and buses, and all necessary guidelines and standard operating procedures for Covid-19 were followed, officials said. Till now, about 68,191 passengers have arrived at the Jammu and the Udhampur railway stations on 82 special trains from different states and union territories, as per the data. It said about 1,44,970 people, including 823 from abroad, after being brought back have entered Jammu and Kashmir through Lakhanpur. Between July 12 and July 13, about 1,590 people entered through Lakhanpur, as per the data, which also mentioned that 868 passengers reached Jammu on Monday by a special train. Till now, 61 special trains have reached Jammu with a total of 52,495 passengers and 15,696 passengers have reached Udhampur in 21 special trains, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-213-lakh-stranded-jammu-and-kashmir-residents-brought-back-from-rest-of-country-abroad-860816.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||Bulandshahr: Police announce reward for info on shooters who killed a former village head||Police have announced a reward of Rs 50,000 each for information leading to the arrest of three shooters who allegedly killed a former village head in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district last month, officials said on Monday. Sanjay, a former 'pradhan' of Jadaul village in Khanpur area, was killed on June 15, when some assailants in an SUV intercepted his car and fired multiple rounds at him, the officials said. Three of the attackers -- Amit, Jacky and Sonu -- were later identified by police and a reward of Rs 25,000 each was announced for information leading to their arrest. The reward money has now been doubled, they said. The request for doubling the reward was approved by IG, Meerut Zone, on Monday, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bulandshahr-police-announce-reward-for-info-on-shooters-who-killed-a-former-village-head-860835.html
13-07-2020||North and Central||No public Ganesh pandals, mass Eid prayers this year: MP govt||Public Ganesh festivities will not be allowed in Madhya Pradesh this year due to the coronavirus outbreak, the state government said on Monday and also laid down attendance restrictions for functions like marriages and funerals. The decisions were announced by MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra. "No permission will be given for Ganesh pandals this year, and only one or two persons will be allowed to go for immersion of idols. We have asked makers to create small Ganesh idols. Mass prayers for Eid will also not be allowed, nor will tazia processions," he told reporters. He said detailed guidelines will be issued soon by the state home department. Mishra said the state government has decided that at a marriage function only ten persons each from the bride and groom's side will be allowed to attend. Similarly, only 20 persons will be allowed to attend funerals, while other programmes will have a maximum headcount of ten. The state has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-public-ganesh-pandals-mass-eid-prayers-this-year-mp-govt-860843.html
13-07-2020||Opinion||Rituals keep these US athletes grounded; They can help parents, too||Each time my dad, a third-degree black belt in taekwondo, put on his dobok, he would stop and kiss his belt before tying it around his waist. As a kid, I thought it was just a superstition, like tossing a penny into a fountain. But he recently told me kissing the belt was actually to honor it, set an intention and to say, “I will do my best today while wearing this, no matter what comes my way.” For him, the belt kiss wasn’t a superstition because it wasn’t about luck or trying to change an outcome. It was simply his special way of reminding himself in the moment to do his best. It was a ritual. Rituals — or the tasks we perform repeatedly, not for what they accomplish but for what they mean to us — help athletes prepare their minds for the unknowns they’ll face when they perform. As a child psychiatrist, I see those rituals as anchors, not only for athletes but for all of us, to help us remember who we are and how to navigate life. By adopting our own rituals, we can bring calm, meaning and connectedness to our lives and families. “Rituals allow you to create a pathway to connect your mind and body and feel in control during a time where there are a lot of unknowns,” said Caroline Silby, Ph.D., a sports psychology expert for professional athletes, including the US figure skating team. She said once that connection is made, we are “more empowered to respond and make effective choices.”   Kevin Love of the Cleveland Cavaliers said rituals are a support system for the mind. His 90-minute ritual before an NBA game is full of activities that families can try at home, like yoga, stretching and listening to mellow, atmospheric music by the band Hammock. “I named the playlist ‘Airplane Mode’ because it’s a way for me to just shut off,” he said. Families might want to create their own airplane mode ritual on weekend mornings where they play songs they’ve chosen together and do their favorite exercises or yoga poses. Love said that the league’s ritual of playing the national anthem and turning the lights off gives him “a sense of calm” going into the start of the game. His own rituals then allow him to settle in and feel more comfortable in his own skin during the game. Before every free throw, he dribbles the ball three times and waits an extra beat before shooting — a ritual he finds to be “super grounding” and a way to find focus. His halftime routine is another ritual. “I change my jersey, shorts and socks so I feel like it’s a complete refresh,” Love said. “It really helps offset anxiety for me.” Love’s experience is common. A 2016 study examined the effect of rituals on people who were about to sing publicly in front of judges or take a difficult math test with money on the line. The people who performed an assigned ritual beforehand — in this case, drawing a picture, sprinkling salt on it, counting to five and throwing it away — had significantly lower levels of anxiety and performed better. Those findings may explain why so many athletes have developed iconic rituals, like Steph Curry’s sinking a shot from the tunnel before each basketball game, Serena Williams’ bouncing her tennis ball five times before her first serve, or Wayne Gretzky’s putting baby powder on his hockey stick before a faceoff. Those same rituals can help a parent or child feel in control of a stressful moment.   Dan Reagan, a jazz trombonist who plays with singer Marc Anthony and formerly with the Spanish Harlem Orchestra, said his favorite ritual is spiritual chanting, which he sometimes uses midperformance to ease his nerves, heighten focus and give him confidence during challenging pieces. “The thing about rituals is this — you believe that it’s helping, so it helps,” he said. Rituals also help us regulate our emotions. When parents ask me in clinic how to help their kids regulate their emotions, I tell them to squeeze clever rituals into their day, like having kids shake their limbs in a silly dance for a minute before a stressful car ride or a chaotic morning routine. Research suggests that rituals put the brakes on the parts of our brain responsible for emotions. Parents can help kids create their own “airplane mode” where they mindfully listen to music, color or breathe deeply, like Darth Vader in the Star Wars series. In addition to calming nerves and focusing the mind, rituals play a big role in reminding people who they are and giving them back a sense of power over their world, both of which are critical during times of stress and uncertainty.   Bradie Tennell, a 2018 Olympic bronze medalist and U.S. figure skating champion, said her ritual is to lace up her left skate first and always step onto the ice with her left foot first. She said it helps her remember who she is and what she’s there to do. “When you’re stepping onto the ice, you’ve got 20,000 people, judges, cameras, and lights that are so bright. It can be so overwhelming,” Tennell said. “The simple practice of stepping on the ice in the same way each time says, ‘This is normal, this is my territory, and nothing else matters around me except for this moment and what I’m doing here.’” As long as rituals remain nice-to-have and not need-to-have, we can use them proactively as a way to feel in charge of our world before it takes charge of us. Silby uses an exercise with athletes called “Accept, Believe, Challenge” that if turned into a ritual could help families deal with the pandemic just as athletes deal with a tough game. “A child who is upset at not being able to see friends might say, ‘I accept that I can’t see my friends but I believe in my ability to talk to them so I’m going to challenge myself to laugh with them today over the phone.’” Using rituals as “bookends” to the day can be especially grounding and create a sense of identity. Whether it’s by listing gratitudes in the morning or praying or reading before bed, the consistency creates something to look forward to and something kids and parents alike can feel ownership over. Sharing rituals, like eating meals together, can also be powerful in making families feel more connected. In a review of 50 years of literature on the topic, family rituals strengthen relationships between family members, increase a sense of identity and values, and even improve marital cohesion. Anne Fishel, Ph.D., a psychologist at Harvard Medical School and co-founder of The Family Dinner Project, pointed to dinner rituals. “Family dinner rituals tend to be quirky and particular — who sits where at the table, when we eat, what foods are on offer, what kinds of stories get told, what games and silliness happens, what emotions are encouraged to express,” Fishel said. “They remind us who we are as a family.”   Love, who dreams of some day having a family and eating dinner together as a ritual, added, “Rituals have a way of making us feel like we are part of something bigger than ourselves.” Eating dinner together is not the only way to share a ritual. Tennell, the Olympian skater, said that before she skates, her mom always says, “Go skate like you know how,” and her coach says, “Bend and breathe.” “They’re like my mantras that ground me,” Tennell said. “When everything goes silent I tell myself ‘they’re right, I got this,’ and then I hit my starting pose.” Families can come up with their own mantras, with kids driving the process. “A mantra like, ‘Go be a kid today’ really says, ‘I love you and I’m keeping you protected,’” Silby said.   Whether it’s having Mexican food with your spouse on Fridays, a weekly sibling FaceTime chat or a secret handshake with your toddler before brushing his teeth, creating rituals can help you find meaning in the small moments and make you more resilient through the times of stress. As Love put it, “I think you get the best out of yourself by having things like this.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rituals-keep-these-us-athletes-grounded-they-can-help-parents-too-860547.html
13-07-2020||Opinion||China is winning the $1-trillion 5G war||By Anjani Trivedi  China is building tens of thousands of 5G base stations every week. Whether it wins technological dominance or not, domestic supply chains may be revived and allow the country to maintain – and advance — its position as the factory floor of the world, even as Covid-19 forces a rethink in how globalization is done.  By the end of this year, China will have more than half a million of these towers on its way to a goal of 5 million, a fast climb from around 200,000 already in use, enabling faster communication for hundreds of millions of smartphone users. By comparison, South Korea has a nearly 10% penetration rate for 5G usage, the highest globally. The much-smaller country had 115,000 such stations operating as of April. The towers are part of a raft of projects that the State Council announced last week to boost industrial innovation under the “New Infrastructure” campaign aimed at furthering “the deep integration of the Internet of Things” and the real economy. With an aim of spending $1.4 trillion by 2025, the aggressive buildup toward a more automated industrial landscape will give China a renewed advantage where it already dominates: manufacturing.  The coronavirus shut down factories and industrial sectors, triggering a rethink of supply chains – away from China. What analysts are calling “peak” globalization and the rise of factory automation could shift production to higher-cost countries in North America and Southeast Asia. It will take a while, but the global dependence on China will come down, the thinking goes. Still, with trade ravaged by Covid-19, other countries and telecom operators will struggle to match China’s spending. For China, there’s an opportunity to clear the way to forcefully implement its industrial policy agenda, without interference from criticism over subsidies and unfair competition. The so-called Central Comprehensively Deepening Reforms Commission, headed by President Xi Jinping, has approved a three-year plan to give state-owned enterprises yet more sway in the economy. Beijing’s ambitious programs are still in the construction phase. Macro base stations are the nuts and bolts of building out 5G networks, and will exceed their 4G predecessors by almost 1.5 times. Capital expenditure could peak at $30 billion this year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts, up from $5 billion last year. Beijing wants more local governments and companies to get involved. Each station costs around 500,000 yuan ($71,361) and has a long value chain that includes electrical components, semiconductors, antenna units and circuit boards. The vast number of companies spawned by the project are all contributing to China’s push to get ahead.  For the industrial complex, the onset of 5G will enable greater connectivity between machines and much more data transfer and collection. Fifth-generation technology is expected to have a big impact through increasingly efficient and automated factory equipment, and tracking the movement of inventory and progress of production lines and assets. Manufacturing is expected to account for almost 40% of 5G-enabled industry output, according to  Bernstein Research analysts. From sensors and data clouds, to chips and collaborative robots and computer-controlled machinery, a whole universe of little-known Chinese companies is coming to the fore. Memory chip maker Gigadevice Semiconductor (Beijing) Inc. has ridden the trend, as has Yonyou Network Technology Co., China’s version of Salesforce.com Inc. For some of these companies, government subsidies are a significant part of earnings, as my colleague Shuli Ren has noted. Stock prices have surged in recent months for firms like Shennan Circuits Co., which makes printed circuit boards, and Maxscend Microelectronics Co., a manufacturer of radio frequency chips. Some are seeing their market capitalization values balloon by billions of dollars as Beijing has upped the ante on new infrastructure.   To be sure, it isn’t hard to imagine a hinterland speckled with ghost towers and base stations in coming years as China's propensity to overbuild beyond any reasonable capacity kicks in. The past shows that questions of quality will arise when too many sub-par manufacturers crop up, incentivized by the state’s largesse. Nonetheless, this is the technology of the not-so-distant future, and building up the basic infrastructure isn’t misguided.   As Covid-19 absorbs the world’s attention, Beijing’s steady focus on implementing this industrial policy may make China the manufacturer of parts that most countries will need – soon. In other words, it will yet again become the factory floor, mastering the production of all things 5G.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-is-winning-the-1-trillion-5g-war-860576.html
13-07-2020||Opinion||India needs prudent Opposition response to Modi’s China policy||From when Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited leaders of SAARC nations to his inaugural in May 2014, each of his foreign policy initiatives were accompanied by a mirroring domestic narrative aimed at enhancing personal stature and bolstering political constituency. A running theme of the prime minister's publicists has been that Modi secured greater 'respect', so subjective a term, for the Indian passport – suggesting transformation of 'pariah' to 'most favoured individuals'. Since September 2016 with the post-Uri terrorist strike, the prime minister also established that he indeed brooked no assault on Indian territory and was very much the personification of his muscular nationalist image, projected by spin doctors. The “ghar mein ghus kar marenge” (will hit them after entering their territory) line Modi uttered with great effect during the post-Balakot poll campaign played a major factor in BJP's win in the 2019 parliamentary polls. Difficult image to live up to The sales pitch, however, haunted the party and government throughout the eyeball to eyeball situation, followed by the fierce hand-to-hand combat, and the current phase of 'mutual disengagement' with China. Uncharacteristically, Modi opted for the discretionary route in wriggling out, for the time being at least, from a military conflict with China. Additionally, the prime minister blinked first, although it was made out that it was Modi's 'roar' on July 3 from the secure XIV Corps headquarters at Nimu outside Leh that messaged China to alter possible plans of further escalation and instead talk a phased mutual withdrawal. The official PR machinery has however been, at the least, half truthful while detailing the developments. DH in a recent editorial pointed out, “There is little reason for India to draw satisfaction from events." Additionally it argued that China "has gained territory overall in the 'mutual disengagement process'... By agreeing to this farcical pull-out (of/by Indian troops), the Narendra Modi government seems unable to reverse the Chinese land-grab in Ladakh." The inability of the prime minister being able to live up to the self-created image of a vengeance-seeking leader has been painfully evident from the time the state of affairs with China in Ladakh became public knowledge in early June. The starkest evidence of this was Modi's statement of bravado, at the all party meeting with the startling "no intrusion" claim. Faced with criticism, the PMO put out a clarification that made clear little and only obfuscated matters further and the observations regarding "Chinese presence on our side of the LAC pertained to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces," made the PM’s position more vulnerable to criticism. The important question was what DH had flagged, that if Indian troops were on 'our' side of the LAC, "why are we pulling back". It has become self-evident that the Indian government's 'perception' of the LAC has altered over the course of recent weeks. Acceptance that the Indian bravado, displayed to the neighbour on the western frontier, was not put on display, at least for the moment, delivers a body blow to the 'redeemer' of India's pride. Defence and diplomacy no longer sacrosanct The moot point however is – in the context of India having, for all practical purposes, ceded territory to China – can any of the opposition parties capitalise on this and mount a sustained campaign on this issue? Defence is a holy cow and a tradition existed for long of political parties speaking in one voice with the intention of projecting national consensus and unity. Although this practice has come apart in recent decades as politics became more competitive and defence and diplomacy stopped being sacrosanct matters, the situation has worsened since 2014. It must be factored that unity and consensual politics on matters of national security were forged to a great extent, at the initiative of the government of the day. There is a long tradition of taking principal opposition parties on board, either formally or informally, depending on the seriousness and sensitivity of the situation.  All party meetings were neither used as occasion to address the nation, nor events where the prime minister held back information.  Be discreet in criticism But, because this government, and also in its previous tenure, speaks in the first person singular, criticism of the regime has become unavoidable even while the situation is unfolding. However, the Opposition this time requires to match Modi's discretion with circumspection when it comes to responding to the government’s steps. Either while highlighting shortcomings in government response, or when overtly criticising the prime minister, Opposition leaders must be cautious in their responses. In the aftermath of so-called surgical strikes and after the air strikes in Balakot on facilities of non-state players operating from Pakistani territory, the Opposition parties were depicted as anti-national forces and being hand in glove with forces inimical to India. On both occasions it was possible because Opposition parties raised an element of doubt on claims of 'victory' by the government. The manner in which reservations were voiced, made it appear that Opposition leaders almost wished that India's had not succeeded in the retributive strikes. It is true that the vocabulary of politics has become coarse when compared to the past, but it would be prudent to be critical, yet couch it in political jargon and niceties. The situation with China and the awareness among people, except Modi's diehard loyalists, that the prime minister has not come clean, makes it imperative for opposition parties to refrain from sledgehammer tactics. The contrast in former prime minister Manmohan Singh's statement when he reminded Modi of his "solemn duty" and that the prime minister could not permit Beijing to "use his words as a vindication of their position" and that of others in Opposition ranks must be noted.  Rahul Gandhi may have secured more cheers for utterances like "Surender Modi" but such a line of criticism remains politically counterproductive. Nationalism is a sensitive and a politically over-charged subject in India. Criticism of the government cannot morph into personalised attacks on Modi because till the situation with China continues unfolding, he represents India and undermining the office of the premier, shall weaken India's position. Even within the media, there are opinions, harsh and nuanced. Statements and speeches of political parties need not sound like newspaper editorials or op-ed pieces being read out. But there is no harm in pulling out a Brutus and keeping mentioning the salience of the prime minister's office and his authority. Singh after all never questioned the entitlement of Modi to use words and take decisions, but merely reminded him of the power he wields and responsibility he carries. Impatience is not a virtue of astute political players and coupled with the failure in managing the Covid-19 pandemic, Opposition parties shall not be short of opportunities. But for that they must consistently, but gently, expose the failure of Modi's China policy. A prerequisite for this however, is to set their own houses in order and get their priorities right. How this can be done and who requires to make the most effort, remains a different matter.   (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-needs-prudent-opposition-response-to-modi-s-china-policy-860616.html
13-07-2020||Panorama||Covid-19 has hit poor children and their education very hard||We are collectively witnessing a crisis that has turned the world upside down. The Covid-19 pandemic has infected nearly 12 million people worldwide and taken the lives of around 5,50,000. As I finish writing this article, that number may be inaccurate.  We are in the midst of a global health crisis unlike any of our generation has seen. It is catalysing what many economists describe as the greatest economic downturn since the great depression of the 1920s. And, according to the World Health Organization, it is expected to ‘stalk the human race for a very long time.’  To the naked eye, the virus has been indiscriminate. It has affected the young and old. Wealthy and impoverished. Urban and rural. It is even impacted the world’s richest countries first. And hit them hard. For every human being, it has brought life to a halt. A darker reality, however, has simultaneously emerged. It is one that has always lurked in the background: it is the poorest citizens of India, the ones who already face the brunt of India’s massive inequalities, that are going to suffer the most from this pandemic’s lasting effects.  Those citizens are indeed the migrant workers whose plight has brought us harrowing stories. But they are also the daily-wage earners, shopkeepers, taxi drivers, waiters, cooks, carpenters, and more.  These families comprise 85% of India’s economy. Many of them are out of business or have lost their jobs; and they have no social safety net.  India has the world’s fastest-growing population. As much as 320 million citizens are below the age of 18 years. Yet, two decades of studies have inundated us with data pointing in an unsettling direction: less than 25% of the country’s students graduate from 10th standard; less than 10% make it to college.  For India’s most privileged students – the top 10% - will experience a temporary blimp. High-income schools across the country have already mobilised networks and resources to respond with agility and care. Virtual classes began months ago. Parents are tutoring children - and paying for private classes - at home.  For India’s most impoverished children – the vast majority of the country’s youth – the four walls of a classroom are their only pathway to a better life. It is also their safe heaven. For some, it is a space to seek reprieve from the chaos and abuse of life at home. The current crisis deeply threatens that safe heaven. It is also cutting off access to nutrition and basic supplies.  School closures are further taking one of society’s greatest equalisers - the promise of an excellent education - and rendering it moot. India’s children are losing valuable learning time which, for them, is needed to succeed. Given their lack of network connectivity and literate family members, school is their only access to effective instruction.  Some experts are predicting that India’s children will face the brunt of this lost time for years to come. They will spend the majority of their time back playing ‘catch-up’. For children who are already entering school years behind their high-income peers, ‘catch-up’ is a game that can be brutal. To get ahead of this, we will need to get creative. As a country, we will have to bend the rules that have long been governed by bureaucracy. We will need to invest. As we divert our attention to the much-needed global health response, it is imperative that we avoid worsening another crisis that has been unfolding for decades.  There are a few ideas, circulating around the world, that we should be considering too:  Embrace Blended Learning: Policymakers and educators have been trying, for years, to prototype and scale technology in the classroom. While technology will never be able to replace teachers, it can undoubtedly augment in-person instruction.  As schools remain shut, educators must quickly embrace basic technology. Local governments should simultaneously start investing in hardware - like tablets and phones - for classrooms. They may be our new textbooks. At Teach For India, our Fellows are prototyping Google Classroom and other applications to facilitate virtual instruction. We have to ensure that learning doesn’t stop.  Tough decisions Extend the School Day and Even the Year: When we return, educators will be forced to make some tough decisions. How should they prioritise content? Do they pass kids who are already far behind?  To make those choices, our schools and governments should strongly consider extending both the day and the year. We should explore summer remediation camps. Global research heavily supports extended learning time as a critical enabler for students from low-income communities. Invest in People and Leadership: We are learning, hourly, just how valuable leadership is in these times. All of the solutions above, in fact, demand excellent teachers at the forefront. At Teach For India, several of our Fellows are leading and coordinating relief efforts.  They are establishing hotlines – and holding space – for children and families to process trauma. They are migrating online rapidly. We need, now more than ever, excellent teachers and leaders working with children. We need people who can innovate. As a country, it is imperative that we invest in leadership. Our children need and deserve our best.  This pandemic has put the world into a frenzy. It has made us panic. And it has made us rethink our priorities. Much of that rethinking and panic has been justified. We are witnessing a crisis rooted in proportions not seen in over a generation.  As we respond, though, let us remember that decades of insufficient investments are exacerbating this crisis for today’s adults. Let us not forget that the children of India are our future. We cannot afford to make the same mistakes.  (The writer is Chief of City Operations, Teach For India, a not-for-profit organisation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-has-hit-poor-children-and-their-education-very-hard-860464.html
13-07-2020||Panorama||How to reopen schools: What science can teach us||Data from around the world clearly shows that children are far less likely to become seriously ill from the coronavirus than adults. But there are big unanswered questions, including how often children become infected and what role they play in transmitting the virus. Some research suggests younger children are less likely to infect other people than teenagers are, which would make opening elementary schools less risky than high schools, but the evidence is not conclusive. The experience abroad has shown that measures such as physical distancing and wearing masks in schools can make a difference. Another important variable is how widespread the virus is in the community overall, because that will affect how many people potentially bring it into a school. For most districts, the solution won’t be an all-or-nothing approach. Many systems, including the nation’s largest, New York City, are devising hybrids that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days online. “You have to do a lot more than just waving your hands and say make it so,” said Dr. Joshua Sharfstein, a professor of the practice at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. “First you have to control the community spread and then you have to open schools thoughtfully.” The Transmission Puzzle Though children are at much lower risk of getting seriously ill from the coronavirus than adults, the risk is not zero. A small number of children have died and others needed intensive care because they suffered a respiratory failure or an inflammatory syndrome that caused heart or circulatory problems. The larger concern with reopening schools is the potential for children to become infected, many with no symptoms, and then spread the virus to others, including family members, teachers and other school employees. Most evidence to date suggests that even if children under age 12 are infected at the same rates as the adults around them, they are less likely to spread it. The American Academy of Pediatrics has cited some of this data to recommend that schools reopen with proper safety precautions. But the bulk of the evidence was collected in countries that were already in lockdown or had begun to implement other preventive measures. And few countries have systematically tested children for the virus or for antibodies that would indicate whether they had been exposed to the virus. Infectious disease specialists have been modeling schools’ impact on community spread beginning as far back as February. In March, most modelers agreed that closing schools would slow the progression of infections. But wider measures, like social distancing, proved to have a far greater containing effect, overshadowing the results of school closings, according to recent analyses. So far, countries that reopened schools after reducing infection levels — and imposed requirements like physical distancing and limits on class sizes — have not seen a surge in coronavirus cases. Norway and Denmark are good examples. Both reopened their schools in April, a month or so after they were closed, but they initially opened them only for younger children, keeping high schools shut until later. They strengthened sanitizing procedures, and have kept class size limited, children in small groups at recess and space between desks. Neither country has seen a significant increase in cases. There have not yet been rigorous scientific studies on the potential for school-based spread, but a smattering of case reports, most of them not yet peer-reviewed, bolster the notion that it is not inevitably a high risk. Case studies in some countries suggest differences in virus transmission in younger children compared with older children. In one community in northern France, Crépy-en-Valois, two high school teachers became ill with COVID-19 in early February, before schools closed. Scientists from the Institut Pasteur later tested the school’s students and staff for coronavirus antibodies. They found antibodies in 38% of the students, 43% of the teachers, and 59% of other school staff, said Dr. Arnaud Fontanet, an epidemiologist at the institute who led the study and is a member of a committee advising the French government. “Clearly you know that the virus circulated in the high school,” Fontanet said. Later, the team tested students and staff from six elementary schools in the community. The closure of schools in mid-February provided an opportunity to see if younger children had become infected when schools were in session, the point when the virus struck high school students. Researchers found antibodies in only 9% of elementary students, 7% of teachers and 4% of other staff. They identified three students in three different elementary schools who had attended classes with acute coronavirus symptoms before the schools closed. None appeared to have infected other children, teachers or staff, Fontanet said. Two of those symptomatic students had siblings in the high school and the third had a sister who worked in the high school, he said. Testing for infections in schools is essential, public health experts said. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends testing of students or teachers based only on symptoms or a history of exposure. But that will not catch everyone who is infected. “We know that asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic spread is real, and we know that kids are less likely to show symptoms if they’re infected than adults,” said Dr. Megan Ranney, an emergency medicine doctor and expert in adolescent health at Brown University. Schools should randomly test students and teachers, she said, but that may be impossible given the lack of funding and limited testing even in hospitals. The CDC has outlined steps schools can take to minimize the risks for students, including maintaining a distance of 6 feet, washing hands and wearing masks. “The guidelines are already exceptionally weak,” said Carl Bergstrom, an infectious diseases expert at the University of Washington in Seattle. He and others said they feared that the recommendations would get watered down even more in response to political pressure. Dr. Kathryn Edwards, an infectious disease specialist and professor of pediatrics at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, is advising Nashville, Tennessee, schools on reopening approaches. She said the district is still evaluating how far apart desks should be. “Some people say you only need 3 feet and others say you need 6 feet, and others wonder with the aerosol issue, do we need more distance?” Edwards said she was disappointed by Nashville’s decision, announced Thursday, to conduct classes online for the first month of school, at least until Labour Day. Keeping schools closed for a prolonged stretch has worrisome implications for social and academic development, child development experts say. It also became evident this spring that denying children a real school day deepened racial and economic inequalities. “There is really damage to kids if they don’t go to school,” Edwards said. “I think we have got to think of the kids and getting them back to school safely.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-to-reopen-schools-what-science-can-teach-us-860465.html
13-07-2020||Panorama||Off the record - 12 July||Unsafe travel The government is looking at options to increase flight operations in the country during the Covid-19 unlock period. As domestic operations have started, there were plans to keep middle seats vacant but this was not implemented as airlines unequivocally told the Ministry of Civil Aviation that they would not be able to operate flights at such a loss. Now, senior DMK MP Tiruchi Siva has raised the red flag. He appreciates the efforts taken at airports to screen passengers but is surprised that there was no physical distancing inside planes. He says all efforts taken at the airport will become futile because of this, as there are ample chances for the spread of the virus in congested and closed air-conditioned space. After all, Siva says, passengers will also consider their lives more precious than a few hundred rupees for safe travel! Shemin Joy, New Delhi In the archives Congress is picking a leaf from Narendra Modi's playbook as it takes an aggressive stand in incursions by Chinese troops in Ladakh. As BJP tried to paint the Congress 'anti-national' for its comment on the mutual withdrawal of troops by China and India from near the LAC in Galwan Valley, Congress dug out Modi's comments of 2013 when troops were moved back from the LAC as a de-escalation measure to ease the stand-off in the Depsang Plains. 'China withdraws its forces, but I wonder why Indian forces are withdrawing from Indian territory? Why did we retreat,' Modi had asked in May 2013, as he was gearing up to take on the UPA government.  Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi  Gold digger? The involvement of Swapna Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate in Kerala, in a gold smuggling is a source of anxiety to many politicians, IAS and IPS officers in Kerala. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan's principal secretary M Sivasankar was the first to get the boot when it was alleged that Swapna maintained good connections with many influential persons in the government. Video footage of Swapna interacting with politicians and IPS officials came out recently. Kerala Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan had to already clarify why he turned up for the inauguration of a shop owned by another accused in the smuggling case. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram  Scriptwriters  The script for dreaded criminal Vikas Dube’s suspected-staged encounter had become apparent to the MP police when UP Special Task Force (STF) opted to take him to Kanpur by a four-wheeler instead of a chartered plane. Ujjain police “arrested’ him under highly dubious circumstances after he was identified by a security guard. Soon after, the UP STF was intimated about the nabbing. A police team flew from Lucknow to Indore by a chartered plane to take Vikas Dube back to Kanpur. However, the UP police suddenly decided to transport Vikas by a four-wheeler instead. The police team did not even wait for transit remand. The change in plan was suspicious for the MP police. It took barely hours for their suspicion to come true when the STF team shot down Vikas Dube near Kanpur. Rakesh Dixit, Bhopal  A milestone   Subramanyam Jaishankar has been very busy these days overseeing India’s diplomatic response to China’s aggression along the disputed boundary between the two nations. Yet when he got off his car at the Raisina Hill on July 8, the External Affairs Minister did remember that it was on this day in 1977 he had first entered the South Block – as a young diplomat, who had just joined the Indian Foreign Service. “43 years today since I first entered South Block. Time flies, world changes, bonds are stronger. Journey continues,” Jaishankar posted on Twitter, along with a picture of him on the stairs of the South Block. His counterparts from Australia and Canada were among the people who congratulated him for the “impressive” innings – from a career diplomat, who retired as Foreign Secretary of India in 2018, to an MP and External Affairs Minister. Anirban Bhaumik, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-12-july-860467.html
13-07-2020||Right in the Middle||The great road show||When I was young, I was thrilled by circus shows where daredevil stunts were performed by men and women who would ride motorbikes on a globe.  Nowadays, such stunts are witnessed on our city roads, performed by the youth on their two-wheelers. There are many brave hearts who can zoom through the crowded traffic by zigzagging their way without losing balance while riding. These riders can excel in manoeuvering their way more craftily than a stunt man. Our roads are made to order for such dashing acts.  Even our scientists who spent all their life in studying the crates on the moon would be baffled by these craters and humps on our roads. Our two-wheeler riders who successfully beat these obstacles should be crowned with gallantry awards of the highest order.  On many roads, there is hardly any difference a road and a footpath. Here the riders in order to beat traffic congestion at junctions ride on the footpaths itself. If a pedestrian questions their trespassing he will get a scornful look by these riders which is slightly offset with their helmets on. Otherwise, the sharpness of their stare would have destroyed the man in front of them.  Sometimes the luggage carried on two-wheelers will be more than what a mini tempo can accommodate. Hamara Bajaj scooter is the best example which acted as a carrier of both human beings and their luggage for many decades. Sometime back, I saw a two-wheeler approaching fully loaded with plastic toys, balls and balloons. Even my sharp vision could not make the presence of the rider. He stopped in front of a shop, coolly unloaded the bulk material and zoomed away.  Some riders will keep talking on the mobile by clutching it between their ear and shoulder. They must see objects in front of them sideways. Some others will fix the mobile inside their helmets. More sophisticated ones use hands-free earphones. Some others are service-oriented, the pillion rider will hold the mobile for the rider. The great road show will not come to an end without its latest invention. Young riders, helped by their pillions, ride their bikes on the back wheel. These drag racers can outmatch many characters from Hollywood sci-fi films or even our own super star’s Endiran –The Robot. While they are doing their hair-raising acts on the roads they are raising the heartbeats of the chicken-hearted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-great-road-show-860466.html
13-07-2020||Second Edit||Do more to protect our infants||There is cause for some cheer in the Sample Registration System (SRS) data, released by the Census Commissioner of India, on the infant mortality rate (IMR) in the country. The report shows that the IMR has declined to 32 per 1,000 births in 2018 from 40 per 1,000 in 2013. The annual average decline is about 1.6 points. This is because of the improvement in child and maternal health, an uplift in living conditions for many families, extension programmes conducted by governments and many other organisations, and greater social awareness. But there is cause for concern too in the report. There are gaps in performance between rural and urban areas and between states. While one in 31 children dies within the first year of their life at the national level, the rate is one in every 28 infants in the rural areas and one in 43 infants in the urban areas. The report reveals that the sex ratio at birth has gone up to 899 girls per 1,000 boys in 2016-18, a slight increase from 896 in 2015-17. But the mortality rate is higher for female children than for male children.  The IMR is worst in Madhya Pradesh where 48 babies died per 1,000 against seven in Kerala which stands first. In the case of under-five mortality rate, MP’s performance declined from 55 per 1000 in 2017 to 56 in 2018. Neo-natal deaths increased in the state from 33 for every 1,000 babies younger than 29 days in 2017 to 35 per 1,000 babies in 2018. One baby in a thousand means tens of thousands in a state and millions in the country. The report’s message is that we should do much more to protect and save our infants. A deterioration of the rate, as in Madhya Pradesh, should be a matter of serious concern. The gap between rural and urban areas needs to be bridged. The report shows a sharper decline in rural areas than in the urban areas in the last five years, and this is a welcome trend.  The situation is likely to worsen this year because of Covid-19 and the lockdown. Infants, children and women will be among those who will be worst hit by the pandemic. Unicef has estimated that about 0.8 million children aged five or below could die over the next 12 months in the world because of lack of access to healthcare services like immunisation. Most of them are likely to be in India, and we should try to prevent them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/do-more-to-protect-our-infants-860460.html
13-07-2020||South||TRS workers hurl eggs at BJP MP's vehicle in Warangal; held||BJP leader and Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Aravind on Sunday alleged some TRS activists pelted his vehicle with eggs and tried to block it in Warangal district of Telangana. According to a senior police official, around 10 TRS workers pelted the MP's vehicle with eggs while he was moving away from his party office. "Six TRS workers have been taken into custody in this connection, but the MP was not physically attacked," the police official told PTI over phone from Warangal. The motive behind the eggs-hurling was that Aravind had made certain allegations against local TRS MLAs of being land-grabbers, the police said. Aravind tweeted, Anti-Hindu forces in the TRS attacked me in Warangal, Telangana, where I visited to address a press conference on Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Also, they chased my vehicle on the highway to Hyderabad." In another tweet, he alleged, "Its a shame on Chief Minister Chandrashekhar Rao, Home Minister Mahmood Ali and DGP M Mahendar Reddy for bringing down the order of the state to chaos, where a peoples representative is attacked and chased in the broad daylight." BJP state chief spokesperson KKrishnaSaagarRao,in a statement,saidthe Warangal police have failed to avert such an incident." State BJP core committee member Ponguleti Sudhakar Reddy, condemning the incident, said there is no place in democracy for these types of attacks. He said the TRS government, out of frustration, is resorting to these types of violent, provocative incidents since it has failed in tackling coronavirus despite the support from the Central government and in curbing private hospitals from charging COVID-19 patients excessively," Reddy said. BJP state unit president and Karimnagar MPBandiSanjay Kumar and other party leaders also condemned the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-workers-hurl-eggs-at-bjp-mps-vehicle-in-warangal-held-860476.html
13-07-2020||South||Padmanabhaswamy Temple verdict a victory of all devotees, says Travancore royal family||The erstwhile Travancore royal family has said that the Supreme Court verdict is not the victory of the family, but all the devotees. The Supreme Court on Monday upheld the rights of the Travancore Royal family as shebait in one of the country's richest temples, Shree Padmanabhaswamy in Thiruvananthapuram. Aswathy Thirunal Gowri Lakshmi Bhai, a senior-most member of the family, said in a statement that the Supreme Court verdict should not be interpreted as a victory of the royal family. It is a blessing of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy to all devotees. "We sincerely thank all those who patiently waited for the SC verdict for years," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/padmanabhaswamy-temple-verdict-a-victory-of-all-devotees-says-travancore-royal-family-860633.html
13-07-2020||South||Kerala's first plasma bank set up at Manjeri||Kerala's first Plasma Bank has been set up at the Government Medical College Hospital at nearby Manjeri, where two critically-ill Covid-19 patients have recovered after undergoing plasma therapy. Two more people, who undertook the therapy, are now out of danger and would be discharged soon. "The bank as of today has a storage of 25 plasma donated by volunteers and 200 are in the list who would donate as and when required," said Dr Shinaz Babu, Covid-19 District Coordinator, Malappuram. It was recently that Nilambur native Ajith Kumar, an officer with the Delhi police, who had tested positive for the virus, was administered plasma therapy after he developed pneumonia and septicemia. Thanks to Shahul Hameed and Abdul Latheef, who donated the plasma, Ajith Kumar recovered and was discharged on Saturday last.  He had reached the state on June 12 and was admitted to the medical college five days later. Earlier, another critical Covid-19 patient had also recovered after he was administered plasma therapy. However, despite trying their best, the doctors could not save the life of Hamsakoya, a former footballer, who had returned with his family from Mumbai, even after administering plasma therapy and he passed away due to the virus early in June. "A quantity of 200 ml of plasma is collected from people, in the age bracket of 18 to 50, weighing more than 55 kg and had been tested double negative for the virus. Their plasma could be extracted after 14 days of their final recovery and within 120 days of testing negative for a second time. With scientific storage, the plasma could be used for one year," Dr Shainaz added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-first-plasma-bank-set-up-at-manjeri-860680.html
13-07-2020||South||Telangana: As driver refuses, district surveillance officer steers tractor carrying Covid-19 victim's body for cremation||In a compassionate gesture also meant to drive away unwarranted fears surrounding coronavirus, a district Covid-19 surveillance officer in Telangana steered a tractor carrying the dead body of a Covid-19 victim to the cremation ground. The incident occurred on Sunday at the government hospital in Peddapalli in northern Telangana, as the municipality driver refused the task over fear of contracting the virus.   “While the driver left the tractor provided by the civic body, the sanitary personnel did not even show up. Except for three lady doctors and one nurse, none other hospital staff helped. Such was the fear. So, I provided PPE kits to the victim's family members, apprised them of the precautions and drove the tractor with them and the body for the last rites,” Dr Pendyala Sriram, Peddapalli district surveillance officer, told DH. “I did it as a humanitarian gesture. Besides, with this act, I wanted to drive away the unwarranted fears surrounding the Covid-19 transmission,” Dr Pendyala, who is also the superintendent of a civil hospital in the district, said. The demise of the 45-year-old diabetic male with comorbidities is the first Covid-19 death that occured in the district. “It had been over four hours since his death and as the hospital lacks mortuary facilities, the body had to be moved out for cremation immediately. So, as the driver fled, I got into a PPE kit and took the wheel,” Dr Pendyala, who farms on weekends, holidays and is familiar with tractors, said. The doctor’s actions of driving the body for 2 km and monitoring the final rites as per the Covid-19 protocol have earned him praise from many.  All the seven earlier deaths of Covid-19 patients from Peddapalli took place in Hyderabad, six of them at the state-run Centre of Excellence for Covid-19 Care Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad. Lately, as per the Telangana government orders, district hospitals have also been treating Covid-19 patients. When questioned on the tractor’s use, Peddapalli additional collector V Laxminarayana said that there was no allocation of a mortuary van for the district (formed in 2016), and the regular 108 ambulances were being used for patients’ transportation. “The same ambulances have to be used for the Covid-19 dead bodies but then there could be public reluctance to utilize the vehicle. A proper vehicle should have been arranged,” Laxminarayana told DH. An earlier instance of tractor use for Covid-19 victim’s body transport in Srikakulam district of neighboring Andhra Pradesh drew flak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-as-driver-refuses-district-surveillance-officer-steers-tractor-carrying-covid-19-victims-body-for-cremation-860686.html
13-07-2020||South||Puducherry reports 50 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally now at 1,468||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters here that the 50 cases were identified at the end of testing of 384 samples showing 13 percent positivity rate while the fatality rate was 1.2 percent. He said that while five patients of the new cases were below 18 years, 37 were between 18 and 60 years. The remaining eight patients were above sixty years. The Minister said the total active cases stood at 665, while the number of those recovered and discharged so far was 785 and fatalities were 18. No fatality occurred during the last two days. Forty-nine of the fifty new cases were admitted to hospitals in Puducherry (33 in a government hospital and 16 in centrally-administered JIPMER) while the remaining one was admitted to the government general hospital in Karaikal, Rao said. Of the 26,208 samples tested so far, 24,461 samples turned out to be negative and results of the examination of the remaining samples were awaited, he added. Also, the minister said 44 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-50-new-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-now-at-1468-860697.html
13-07-2020||South||Kerala nun rape case: Warrant issued against Franco Mulakkal||A sessions court in Kottayam district in Kerala issued a warrant against former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal who was accused of raping a nun at a convent. Considering the case on Monday, the court cancelled the bail given to Franco as he regularly failed to appear before court. Cases will be also registered against two persons who stood as sureties for granting bail to Franco. The prosecution maintained that Franco's contentions that he was under observation for Covid-19 as his lawyer was tested positive for the virus and that the place where he stayed was a containment zone were wrong. The Kerala High Court recently rejected a petition of Franco seeking discharge from the case. A nun of a convent at Kuravilangad in Kottayam district alleged that Franco sexually assaulted her 13 times between 2014 and 2016. The police filed charge-sheet against him for various offences, including rape. The sessions could will be considering the case again on August 13||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-nun-rape-case-warrant-issued-against-franco-mulakkal-860702.html
13-07-2020||South||Opened fire in self-defence, says DMK MLA||A DMK MLA in Tamil Nadu has said during questioning that he "opened fire in self-defence" during a clash over a land dispute with a realtor, police said on Monday. Following the firing incident near suburban Tiruporur, which allegedly caused injury to a bystander, the MLA was arrested and remanded to 14 days judicial custody on Sunday. During questioning, the 46-year old MLA, L Idhayavarman, representing Tiruporur constituency said, "he opened fire in self-defence since there were about 50 people in the opposite group," a police official in nearby Chengelpet district told P T I. In total, 12 men including the legislator and property developer G Kumar have been arrested and remanded to judicial custody. To a question, the official said, "more people are being questioned in connection with the incident." On Saturday, when Kumar allegedly tried to level land to provide access to his parcel of land, the legislator's group had opposed it. They had objected since the "land levelled" was "public" in nature pending a civil dispute. Eventually, arguments led to a clash causing some injuries to people from both groups and a bystander, identified later as G Srinivasan. Police had said three cases were registered under various sections of the IPC and the Arms Act. One was based on a complaint by R Lakshmipathi, father of the MLA against Kumar and another following a plaint by the realtor against Idhayavarman and 12 others. One more case was filed based on a plea by Srinivasan, who allegedly sustained an injury when the legislator opened fire. Senior AIADMK leader and Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar, reacting to the MLA's arrest had alleged that the incident showed that the DMK has gone towards gun culture. Also, the Minister had alleged that unruly behaviour has become the practice of DMK men and that the party "is synonymous with a culture of violence."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/opened-fire-in-self-defence-says-dmk-mla-860713.html
13-07-2020||South||NIA gets 8-day custody of 2 key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case||Two key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case were sent to NIA custody for eight days by a special court here on Monday. Considering an application by the investigating agency, the court granted the custody of Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, who were arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday. The two had been remanded to judicial custody on Sunday when they were brought here and produced before the court by the National Investigation Agency, probing the case related to attempt to smuggle over 30 kg gold using diplomatic channels through the Thiruvananthapuram airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-gets-8-day-custody-of-2-key-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-860730.html
13-07-2020||South||B-chamber of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple may remain unopened as royal family's rights upheld||While the Supreme Court order on the centuries old Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Thiruvananthapuram has upheld the rights of the erstwhile Travancore royal family, the curious question that remains is whether the 'B' chamber of the temple, which is believed to have priceless treasure, will remain shut for ever. One of the most curious factor of the over a decade long legal battle over the temple was over the B-chamber. Of the six chambers of the temple labeled A to F, all other five chambers were opened and made an inventory by the SC monitored committee. The value of the treasures was believed to be around Rs.1.5 lakh crore. But the royal family was strongly objecting opening of the chamber B close to the sanctum sanctorum citing mystical reasons. They also maintained that 'devaprasnam' rituals conducted a few years back had also mentioned that B-chamber should not be opened. They believe that opening of chamber B will lead to suffering and destruction. It was believed to have priceless treasure and guarded by serpents. The strong objections raised by the royal family against opening B chamber became more curious as the SC appointed committee headed by former Comptroller and Auditor General Vinod Rai reported that the B-chamber was opened at least seven times in 1990 and 2002 and gold and silver vessel and ingots taken. It also said that 263 kilograms of gold and 769 gold pots were missing. SC appointed amicus curiae also pointed out improper accounting of temple's valuables. With the SC upholding the rights of the royal family over the temple administrations, the chamber B might remain closed itself. But the royal family denied the allegations. Meanwhile, the SC verdict could be considered as yet another embarrassment for the ruling left-front government over a temple row as the governments stand at the court was the erstwhile royal family have no special rights over the temple. The left-front government that faced embarrassments over the Sabarimala women entry row has now wasted no time on announcing that the government would implement the SC order. But the Congress and the BJP already launched attack against the left-front over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/b-chamber-of-sree-padmanabhaswamy-temple-may-remain-unopened-as-royal-familys-rights-upheld-860736.html
13-07-2020||South||Couple ‘discover’ demonetised currency in Tamil Nadu's Erode district; Collector comes to rescue||Having spent all the money that they had to make ends meet during the lockdown, a couple in Tamil Nadu’s Erode district discovered Rs 24,000 in cash which they had saved over the years from a locker at their home a few days back.   But the abundant joy brought in by the “discovery of the money” was short-lived as the cash they had in possession were demonetised currencies. K Somu (58), who lost vision in both eyes a year ago, and his wife Palaniyammal, who has disability complaints, got the shock of their life when officials at a bank told them on Friday that the money they had was no longer legal tender. But on Monday, the couple sported a smile after quite a long time, following Erode District Collector C Kathiravan’s intervention. As their plight was highlighted by the local media, Kathiravan invited the couple to his office on Monday and handed over a cheque of Rs 25,000 to Somu and Palaniyammal to meet their expenses. “It is just an assistance to the couple in my individual capacity as they have no other source of income. Both have health issues and the lockdown has crippled them. So, I decided to help them,” Kathiravan told DH. Somu, who was selling incense sticks until he lost his vision a year ago, and Palaniyammal have been living in penury for long. The couple have been living on a meagre Rs 1,000 that is being offered to them by a philanthropist every month. And demonetisation made life tough. “Since we spent all money we had, we decided to search our house hoping to find some cash. When we opened a locker, we found currency notes in bulk and felt very happy. Little did we know then, what we thought was a treasure were just pieces of papers as they were no longer legal tender. The bank officials sent us back,” Palaniyammal told DH. She said the money, Rs 24,000, is part of the money that Somu had been giving to his mother, who also lives with them, every week. The couple, who do not have any children, said since they did not have access to television and newspapers, they never read about demonetisation. “We are thankful to the District Collector and other officials who made efforts to bring back the smile on our faces. We hope the money will be useful for us to make ends meet as none of us have a job,” Palaniyammal said. This is not the first time such an incident is being reported from Tamil Nadu. In November last year, two septuagenarian sisters in Tiruppur district came to know that Rs 46,000 that they painstakingly saved for over a decade by raising goats were demonetised three years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/couple-discover-demonetised-currency-in-tamil-nadus-erode-district-collector-comes-to-rescue-860779.html
13-07-2020||South||Gold smuggling aimed at terror funding, UAE consulate documents were faked: NIA||The gold smuggling case in Kerala is assuming serious dimensions with the NIA maintaining that the purpose of the smuggling was to fund terrorism and that the gang faked documents of UAE consulate. It was in an application filed before the NIA court in Kochi on Monday seeking  the custody of the former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapruam, Swapna Suresh, and co-accused Sandeep Nair that the NIA made the revelations. The accused were handed over to NIA custody for interrogation for one week. According to sources, the NIA stated before the court that the accused had faked seals with emblems of UAE embassy for smuggling gold through diplomatic channel.The consulate officials seems to be unaware of the smuggling through diplomatic channels. The NIA also sought a warrant to arrest the third-accused in the case Faizal Fareed who was suspected to be in UAE. Steps would be initiated for his extradition. Meanwhile, Malappuram native K T Rameez held by Customs on Sunday was found to be held for gold smuggling to Kerala earlier and was also on bail. He was suspected to be the mastermind of gold smuggling using diplomatic channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-aimed-at-terror-funding-uae-consulate-documents-were-faked-nia-860780.html
13-07-2020||South||CCRS to soon begin research on Siddha as standalone treatment for Covid-19 patients||The Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS) here will soon commence a study on Siddha as a 'standalone' treatment to cure Covid-19 patients. CCRS is the apex body pertaining to research in Siddha system of medicine. At present Siddha treatment is being provided as 'add-on' therapy to the allopathy treatment at Stanley government medical college hospital and other state-run institutions in the metro and various districts in Tamil Nadu. In the absence of a drug of choice to treat Covid-19 patients, the state government saw a glimmer of hope in Siddha treatment as add-on therapy. Subsequently, it established an exclusive Siddha Covid Care Centre at Dr Ambedkar Government Arts College in Vyasarpadi and Jawahar College in the city for treating mild and moderate symptomatic patients. "We will focus upon Siddha as standalone treatment in the management of Coronavirus positive patients by providing Kabasura kudineer, Brahmananda Bairavam tablets, Adathodai Manapagu and a combination of two more medicines," Dr K Kanakavalli, Director General, CCRS, told PTI. The Brahmananda Bairavam, a Siddha medicine in tablet form, is a classical herbo-mineral used in treatment of fevers, while Adathodai Manapagu is used for treating cough, various types fevers and stomach disorders. "We have already obtained the requisite permission from the authorities concerned and even the Ayush ministry for the study," Kanakavalli said, adding the research will start once the required funds are received from the government. Some of the drugs are already being tried at the Siddha CCC and district hospitals where the coronavirus patients are undergoing treatment. A comprehensive report on Siddha being used as add-on therapy at Stanley GH will be finalised by this month-end. Recently, Siddha doctors and officials involved in the treatment held a discussion with the authorities at Stanley GH and reviewed the progress. "We are awaiting a few reports, including the immunoglobulin study of Kabasura concoction (an immunity boosting herbal concoction) on the Coronavirus patients to finalise the report," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ccrs-to-soon-begin-research-on-siddha-as-standalone-treatment-for-covid-19-patients-860784.html
13-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh reports 37 Covid-19 deaths, nearly 2,000 cases||A record 37 Covid-19 deaths were reported in Andhra Pradesh on Monday, the highest single-day tally so far, taking the toll to 365 as the overall infection count jumped up to 31,103 with the addition of a new record high of 1,935 positive cases. A total of 19,247 samples were tested and about 10 per cent of them turned positive for coronavirus, a government bulletin said, giving details for the last 24 hours ended at 10 AM. In all, an aggregate of 11,73,096 samples had been tested in the state of which 31,103 turned positive, with a positivity rate of 2.65 per cent. Six Covid-19 deaths were reported in Anantapuramu district, the highest in a day in a district so far. Kurnool, East Godavari and West Godavari districts reported four deaths each followed by Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Prakasam with three each. Kadapa and SPS Nellore districts had two deaths each while the north-coastal Andhra districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam had one Covid-19 fatality each. Actually, some of these deaths happened two-three days ago but were not announced, pending approval from the Doctors Committee. The committee approved the toll on Monday and accordingly, the deaths were listed in today's bulletin, a senior health official said. In the last 24 hours, 1,030 coronavirus patients had recovered and been discharged from hospitals across the state, raising the overall discharges so far to 16,464.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-reports-37-covid-19-deaths-nearly-2000-cases-860788.html
13-07-2020||South||Kerala Covid-19 tally croses 8,000 mark with 449 fresh cases, death toll touches 33||Kerala continued to witness a big surge in daily Covid-19 infections with 449 cases being reported on Monday, pushing the count to 8,322, while the death toll has reached 33 with two more fatalities. As many as 77 jawans of the Indo Tibetan Border Force and five health workers are among the infected, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here. A 74-year-old man from Kollam and a 64-year-old woman from Kannur died of the disease, he said. At least 144 people have been infected through contact while the source of the 18 of those who tested positive is not yet known. At least 162 people have recovered. The fresh cases include 140 people from abroad and 64 from other states. Alappuzha recorded the highest number of cases today with 119 infections, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 63, Malappuram and Pathanamthitta 47 and Kannur 44. Other districts: Kollam 33, Palakkad 19, Kozhikode 16, Ernakulam 15, Wayanad 14, Kottayam 10, Thrissur and Kasaragod nine and Idukki four. In the last 24 hours, 12,230 samples were tested. At least 1,80,594 people are under observation, 4376 in hospitals, including 713 admitted today, the highest so far on a single day. So far, 2,44,388 samples have been sent for testing, and results of 5407 samples are awaited. The total hotspots as of today is 233.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-covid-19-tally-croses-8000-mark-with-449-fresh-cases-death-toll-touches-33-860789.html
13-07-2020||South||Madras HC dismisses plea seeking Rs 15,000 as lockdown aid for drivers||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed a PIL from Tamil Nadu Independent Rental Vehicle Owners and Drivers Association, apart from other prayers seeking a direction to Union and State Governments to provide financial assistance of Rs 15,000 to each of the transport workers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Citing similar pleas which were dismissed by a co-ordinate bench of the High Court and earlier orders, a division bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice Krishnan Ramasamy said it was observed by the co-ordinate bench that provision of financial aid falls within the domain of policy decision of the government. It was also observed that this Court cannot issue any positive direction by directing the official respondents to pay the necessary amount to each of the aggrieved persons and that it also requires enumeration. "....taking into account the said judgments and the dictum laid down in the same, the present writ petition is dismissed", the division bench said. The bench also referred to observation made by the earlier bench that it is for the official respondents to take a decision on the prevailing facts and circumstances, as expeditiously as possible. The petitioner-association submitted that due to Covid-19, taxi and rental vehicle operation had totally stopped. It was submitted that the taxi operators are basically driver-cum-owner of their vehicles and self-employed and in the normal situation, they support the Government by paying periodical road taxes and necessary permit fees. Among others, the association sought a direction to provide financial assistance of Rs 15,000 to each of the transport workers in view of the coronavirus situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-rs-15000-as-lockdown-aid-for-drivers-860810.html
13-07-2020||South||Largest electronic interlocking at Gooty yard in SCR to enable operation of more trains||The South Central Railway on Monday said it has commissioned the largest state-of-the-art Electronic Interlocking (EI) system at Gooty yard that will enable operation of more passenger and freight trains in key routes and hassle-free handling of them. This was the largest EI signalling system, with most advanced and modern features, in SCR that has 343 routes, an official release said. Gooty is a major railway junction in the Guntakal Division of SCR that handles trains from four important routes of Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The most distinguishing feature of this installation is that there will not be any un-signalled or manual movement of trains, leading to safer train operations. Also, Gooty will now have 11 lines with direction reception and dispatch facility, up from only four so far, the release added. With the regular increase of traffic over time, the sections around the station yard have become highly saturated. "The completion of this advanced and modern Electronic Interlocking signalling system and yard remodelling will ease the congestion on this important junction and facilitate running of more number of passenger and freight trains, South Central Railway General Manager Gajanan Mallya said. It would help railways in smooth handling of trains, while benefiting the rail customers in speedy transportation of their consignments, he added. The EI project was jointly executed by the Guntakal Division and Rail Vikas Nigam Limited and completed ahead of schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/largest-electronic-interlocking-at-gooty-yard-in-scr-to-enable-operation-of-more-trains-860824.html
13-07-2020||State||Implement strict 15-day lockdown in entire state: Karnataka opposition parties urge govt||As Bengaluru prepares for a seven-day lockdown from Tuesday following the spike in COVID- 19 cases, opposition parties in Karnataka have urged the government to enforce the measure in the entire state. JD(S) patriarch H D Deve Gowda and Congress working president Eshwar Khandre have demanded that the entire state be placed under lockdown. Welcoming the government's decision to implement the lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural, Gowda said, "I urge the government through the media to enforce lockdown in the entire state." The former Prime Minister in a statement appealed to people of the state and the entire country to wear masks while venturing out, maintain social distancing, clean hands with sanitizer regularly, and to come out only if there is necessary work. Stating that allegations of misappropriation have been made by several leaders against the government in implementing measures and packages to control spread of the virus and its impact, Gowda said, "whatever it is let's discuss about it in the next legislature session, at present health of the people is important and let's focus on it." The government should work in this direction, we are all with the government, let's not play with the health of the people, he said, adding that "I appeal that at least from here on work actively." With a spike in Covid-19 cases, the Karnataka government on Saturday announced complete lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural from July 14 to 22. The lockdown is from 8 pm on July 14 to 5 am on July 22. Congress leader Khandre, meanwhile reminded Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa that COVID cases and related fatalities were not only increasing in Bengaluru but also in the border districts of the state. The situation was getting out of hand in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Ballari districts, he alleged. "So implement strict lockdown once again in the state at least for fifteen days." "Bring the situation under control. I appeal to the government that in this lockdown period at least to correct its past shortcomings and take all measures to face the pandemic efficiently in the future," he tweeted. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will be chairing video conference with Deputy Commissioners, Zilla Panchayat CEOs and Superintendents of Police of various districts regarding the COVID situation and the rains. As of July 12 evening, cumulatively 38,843 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 684 deaths and 15,409 discharges. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 18,387 infections. Of the 2,627 fresh cases reported in the state on Sunday, a whopping 1,525 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/implement-strict-15-day-lockdown-in-entire-state-karnataka-opposition-parties-urge-govt-860582.html
13-07-2020||State||Karnataka cancels I PUC supplementary exams, promotes all students to next class||The state government on Monday announced the cancellation of I PUC (10+1) supplementary examinations across the state. Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar announced that the government took the decision in the wake of rising cases of Covid-19 and re-introduction of the lockdown. According to sources in the education department, as many as 60,000 students were supposed to appear for the examination. Previously, the state government had decided to hold these exams at the college level in every district and publish the results by 30 July. However, the government has withdrawn even that arrangement and completely cancelled the exams. According to the minister, all the students who failed in the I PUC examination, shall also be promoted to II PUC. "The students who have attended all the subjects but unable to pass the exams will also be promoted to the next class," Suresh Kumar said. However, those who missed out on the exams due to health reasons or failed in the examinations will be given a small test at the time of commencing classes for II PUC to assess their learning ability at the college level, according to the minister. "Only those students who missed out on the examination due to shortage of attendance will not be promoted to the next class," Suresh Kumar clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cancels-i-puc-supplementary-exams-promotes-all-students-to-next-class-860692.html
13-07-2020||State||I PU supplementary exam cancelled||The supplementary examinations scheduled for I year PU students from July 16 have been cancelled. The department of Pre University Education has announced the cancellation of the exams, following the spike in Covid-19 cases across the state and considering the safety of students. As explained by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, the students will be promoted to II PU. However, the students who were absent for exams due to health issues will be allowed to write the exams once the colleges reopen. "The students who have appeared for exams and are unable to clear them will be promoted to II PU, but those who were absent for exams will be given an opportunity to write them later," said Kumar. Recentlym the department had issued a circular, directing colleges to conduct supplementary examinations at the college level. Several students and academicians raised objections to this and also demanded that the government cancel the exams, keeping students' health in mind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/i-pu-supplementary-exam-cancelled-860819.html
13-07-2020||State||Deve Gowda wants govt to extend lockdown across state||Former prime minister and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda, on Monday, urged the state government to extend the lockdown across the state.  In an official statement, Gowda said he welcomed the government's move, announcing lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts. "I am demanding a similar lockdown across the state. I am appealing to people of the state as well as the nation to go out of their houses only if there is any important work. Our health is our wealth. So if you need to go out of the house, please wear a mask, maintain social distancing, wash hands or use sanitiser," he said.  Commenting on the alleged irregularities in the procurement of PPE kits and other equipment, he said these issues could be discussed later, while the focus at present is public health.  His son and JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy has also been demanding a statewide lockdown. On Monday, he said it was not enough to announce the lockdown and that the government had to ensure food kits and medical kits (as per WHO recommendation) to every family. As for the decision on the lockdown itself, the chief minister had to take a call immediately, without leaving it to the discretion of the DCs, Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/deve-gowda-wants-govt-to-extend-lockdown-across-state-860820.html
13-07-2020||State||II PUC results today||The results of the second-year Pre-university exams will be announced at around 11.30 am on Tuesday.  The examinations concluded on June 18, with the completion of English language paper, which was postponed during March, due to the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. This year, more than 6.5 lakh students appeared for the exams and results will be sent to the registered mobile phone numbers of students directly on Tuesday morning. Students can also access the results on the website of the Department of Pre-university Education after 12 noon. Students can log on to www.karresults.nic.in for the results. "We have taken the decision to announce results on Tuesday after discussing the same with department officials," said S Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister. The examinations for II PU were conducted between March 4 and March 21. The English paper, scheduled to be held on March 23, was postponed and conducted on June 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ii-puc-results-today-860821.html
13-07-2020||State||HC questions non-functioning of disaster mgmt authorities||The Karnataka High Court on Monday asked the state government to issue directions to the District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA) to adhere to the provisions of the Disaster Management Act (DMA). After going through the submission made by the state government, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M Nagaprasanna observed that most of the DDMAs in the state were non-functional. Based on the written submission by the state government, the bench said except the districts such as Bagalkot, Belagavi, Dharwad, Mysuru, Vijayapura and Yadgir, the rest are virtually non-functional as review meetings are not held. It quoted from the report that DDMA of Kalaburagi held one meeting, that also on March 15, 2020. The authority in the virus-hit Dakshina Kannada has met only twice in the month of May. The Additional Advocate General informed the court that being the chairperson of the committee, deputy commissioner of the district passes orders and subsequently gets post facto ratification. He said the Principal Secretary (Revenue Department) has written to the DCs on July 6, directing DDMAs to implement the directions. "The DDMAs have important powers under the Disaster Management Act. District authorities may vest powers with the chairperson. Even for ratification, meetings will have to be held. Our attention is invited to the letter by the Principal Secretary of the Revenue Department. However, there is no specific direction issued to hold the meetings to ensure exercise of powers vested in it and also to perform duties and functions required to be discharged by district authorities. Such a direction will have to be issued, especially to those which are non-functional,’’ the bench directed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-questions-non-functioning-of-disaster-mgmt-authorities-860822.html
13-07-2020||State||Chitradurga govt hospital enables video interaction with Covid patients in hospital||The district administration has provided the facility of video interaction with Covid-19 patients under treatment at designated hospital. This has come as a great relief for the family members of the patients. A software on the lines of Zoom app has been used for this purpose. A device is installed in the ICU of the hospital and connectivity is provided to the mobile phone of Deputy Commissioner R Vinoth Priya and a doctor of the district hospital. The camera focuses on the patient and the ward. However, the patient cannot see the family members, but can only hear them.  "We have harnessed technology to come with a transparent system. It also helps in infusing confidence in the family members of the patients. There is some problem due to network issues and technical glitches. A separate room will be arranged for facilitating interaction with the patient," the deputy commissioner said. Most of the people have no idea about the treatment given to Covid-19 patients. They usually speak to patients over phone or make a video call. But all the patients do not have smart phone and the system introduced by the administration will benefit such patients. "It is quite natural that the family members will be worried particularly when children, aged persons and women are under treatment. They cannot be pacified despite reassurance by the doctors. Video interaction will ease their anxiety," said District Surgeon Dr Basavaraj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chitradurga-govt-hospital-enables-video-interaction-with-covid-patients-in-hospital-860823.html
13-07-2020||State||No plan to extend lockdown in Bengaluru beyond July 22: CM||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday made it clear that the government had no plans to extend the lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts beyond July 22. Lockdown will come into force in the two districts starting 8 pm on July 14.  "There is no proposal before the government to extend the lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts. The chief minister requests citizens not to panic and cooperate with the government without paying heed to rumours," the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said.  "The lockdown is being imposed to control the rising number of Covid-19 cases in these districts. The CM has instructed officials to make all arrangements in a week’s time and make ready whatever is necessary," the CMO said.  The clarification came after Yediyurappa chaired a meeting of the Covid-19 task force and amid reports that people were leaving the city in large numbers.  Yediyurappa also held a video conference with officials from all districts to review the Covid-19 situation, rainfall and irrigation measures.  During his video conference, Yediyurappa noted that the number of cases was on the rise in Bengaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Ballari, Udupi and Kalaburagi. He further noted that Covid-19 fatalities were going up in Bidar, Dharwad, Gadag and Mysuru. He asked authorities to bring this under control. "Bidar is among five districts nationally when it comes to deaths. This has to be controlled," Yediyurappa said, seeking a report by experts on this.  Yediyurappa told authorities to prioritise rapid antigen tests. "One lakh test kits have been procured. Use them wisely in emergency cases," the CM said. He ordered that those aged above 60 years, those with serious illnesses and showing symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) have to be identified and subjected to Covid-19 tests.  Officials were directed to constitute booth-level committees with the help of elected representatives and volunteers to monitor quarantining, contact tracing and house-to-house survey.  While asking officials to take "stringent action" against private hospitals that do not cooperate to treat patients, the CM also said that targets should be fixed for labs to conduct Covid-19 tests. Lockdown elsewhere Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad districts have decided to impose a lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19. Starting July 15, Dakshina Kannada will be under a lockdown for a week whereas it will be a 9-day lockdown in Dharwad. The Shivamogga district administration has decided to impose a lockdown from 3 pm till 5 am every day. Lockdown has been imposed from July 14 to 20 in Kalaburagi city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-plan-to-extend-lockdown-in-bengaluru-beyond-july-22-cm-860826.html
13-07-2020||State||Govt mired in confusion, says Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Monday slammed the BJP government for the 'confusion' surrounding the way the Covid-19 pandemic is being handled.  "There are several confusions within the government. They aren't in a position to trust anyone," Shivakumar told reporters. "First, it was the Health minister (B Srirmaulu), then the Medical Education minister (K Sudhakar) and later the Education minister (S Suresh Kumar). Now, they have appointed ministers to handle Bengaluru. One political secretary is also doing the work of a minister. Even officials they can't trust," he said. "With all this confusion and failure, the government is not able to instil confidence among people. That's why people are leaving the city."  On the Rajasthan political crisis, Shivakumar expressed confidence that Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot would not leave the Congress. "He's a Congressman. His father and he have toiled (for the party). There may be minor differences within the party. Our national leaders will resolve them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-mired-in-confusion-says-shivakumar-860827.html
13-07-2020||State||Karnataka reports 2,738 fresh Covid-19 cases, 73 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 2,738 new cases, of which Bengaluru accounted for 1,315 new cases. With 73 deaths reported, the death toll has climbed to 757. Addressing reporters here, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar argued that 75% of the state's Covid-19 deaths are due to non-Covid reasons. He made this assertion even as the death audit committee is yet to complete an audit of all cases. "A lot of people are surprised that the state's deaths have mounted to 757. I can assure everyone that only 25% of these deaths have been caused due to Covid, the rest 75% have died due to non-Covid reasons. The death audit committee report should clear that up in the next two or three days. If a patient is already suffering from life-threatening conditions like cancer, he or she will succumb to Covid faster," Sudhakar said.  It may be recalled that the Central team that visited the state for inspection had asked the state to bring down the mortality rate below one per cent. Sudhakar said the case fatality rate in the state is currently at 1.82% while it is 1.63% in Bengaluru. 839 people were discharged from the state on Monday alone taking the total number of recoveries to 16,248. 283 were discharged from Bengaluru alone. The state capital now has 15,052 active cases.  The total number of active cases in the state is 24,572. So far, there have been 41,581 cases in the state and currently, there are 545 patients admitted in the ICU. In the past 24 hours, 17,074 samples have been tested. The minister also said that there are also more than 3,000-odd beds vacant, including 2,218 general beds and 916 high dependency unit beds. However, there are reports every day of patients not finding hospital beds. The CM has also ordered BBMP Commissioner to add an additional 200 ambulances to the existing fleet, Sudhakar said.  Wait at home till Covid-19 results come: Govt The government on Monday also asked all people who have given their swabs for a Covid-19 test to observe home quarantine/isolation until the results come. "Any irresponsible behaviour by the person like going indoors, socialising, going to work, etc, will result in the spread of infection in the community and consequently such acts shall invite stringent legal action under the Epidemic Diseases Act," a government circular issued on Monday said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-2738-fresh-covid-19-cases-73-deaths-860855.html
13-07-2020||State||RGUHS insists nursing graduates to serve in B'luru||Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) has told nursing graduates to stay put in Bengaluru to join hands in the fight against Covid-19. The varsity, in a circular, asked all nursing colleges in the state to send a list of staff, postgraduates, interns, students. The medical education department had issued a circular asking those who have completed nursing course to join Covid duty. The risk allowance (remuneration) and insurance details for Covid health care workers have been sent to the colleges. Colleges failing to comply with may not get affiliation for 2020-21. The colleges said a majority of students were from outside Karnataka and it would be difficult to call them back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rguhs-insists-nursing-graduates-to-serve-in-bluru-860857.html
13-07-2020||State||Services at several hospitals, govt offices hit as staff test positive||Work at several hospitals, police stations, government offices and a nationalised bank branch was paralysed after the staff at these establishments tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours. Fear of contracting the virus has gripped the employees of several government offices and agencies in Shahapur taluk, Yadgir district, after their colleagues tested positive for the disease. According to the sources in Shahpur taluk administration, as many as 12 employees of Bhimarayanagudi notified area committee have contracted the Covid-19, 13 cops and staff of Bhimarayanagudi police station, 16 staff of Shahapur police station and 12 staff of Shahapur government hospital also have tested positive in the last few days. The affected hospitals and government agencies are managing with skeletal staff and only emergency cases/work are being taken up. All infected government staff were admitted to Yadgir and Bhimarayanagudi hospitals. Two frontline warriors at the Chitradurga Covid hospital - a staff nurse and a lab technician - tested positive for the Covid-19 on Monday.  In Channapatna, Ramanagar district, a private doctor of a nursing home in Kuvempunagar contracted the virus. The doctor had quarantined himself after he developed symptoms a few days back. The tahsildar’s office in Navalgund in Dharwad district was sealed for two days starting Monday, after a woman staffer tested positive forCovid-19. The Cesc office in Saraguru in Mysuru district was closed temporarily after an engineer contracted the virus. The employees of Syndicate Bank Mudigere branch have been told to go on home quarantine after their colleague contracted Covid-19 on Monday. The infected staffer used to travel from Chikkamagaluru to Mudigere daily. Contact tracing is underway The LIC office in Hiriyur, Chitradurga, was shut for a day on Monday after a development officer tested positive for Covid-19. The Kuknoor police station in Koppal district was sealed on Monday after three constables there tested positive for coronavirus. The cops had worked in containment zones for the past one month. The office of the assistant superintendent of police (ASP) in Kundapur, Dakshina Kannada, was temporarily shifted to the office of circle inspector on Monday after a staff contracted the virus. All employees of the ASP office have been sent for home quarantine. Mysuru sees single-day high of 151 cases Meanwhile, Mysuru saw a record single-day tally of 151 cases in the last 24 hours. The district is 34 short of reaching four-figure mark. Covid-19 infections continued to swell in the virus hotspots - Bengaluru Urban (1315 fresh cases), Yadgir (162), Dakshina Kannada (131) and Ballari (106). Twenty districts recorded infections in two digits with five of them reporting 50-plus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/services-at-several-hospitals-govt-offices-hit-as-staff-test-positive-860859.html
13-07-2020||State||Govt notifies ordinance on Land Reforms Act||Amidst widespread opposition from farmers, activists and political leaders alike, the government on Monday promulgated an ordinance to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, following Governor Vajubhai R Vala's assent. The ordinance liberalises agricultural land ownership in Karnataka. It repeals Sections 79 (A), (B) and (C) from the original Act, thereby making way for non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural land. However, this comes with several conditions, as per the ordinance. While originally the government had proposed repealing of Section 80, which prohibited transfer of land to non-agriculturists, the ordinance has retained this section with an amendment. The ordinance specifies that Class-A irrigated land (irrigated with water from a dam) can be used only for agricultural purpose. The ordinance has also inserted a new Section 80 (A) which states that none of the relaxations allowed under the Act apply to lands given under the Karnataka SC and ST (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands), Act, 1978.  The ordinance states that mortgage of agricultural land will be permitted only to government institutions, companies, cooperative societies, as defined under the original Act. According to officials in the Revenue Department, with the promulgation of this ordinance several pending cases would get a closure. According to officials, as many as 12,231 cases concerning the repealed sections are pending in courts. This will not, however, apply to cases already resolved, officials clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-notifies-ordinance-on-land-reforms-act-860866.html
13-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dakshina Kannada reports biggest single-day spike of 196 Covid-19 cases||Dakshina Kannada’s Covid-19 count surged to 2,230 on Sunday as 196 more people including Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner, journalists tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district. This is the biggest spike in a single day since the first positive case was confirmed in the district on March 22 when a Dubai bound youth from Bhatkal was tested positive. DK Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said 20 among the total Covid 19 positive cases were the primary contacts of already infected patients. 91 persons with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 16 persons with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) had tested positive. While 10 persons with international travel history, two samples that were collected prior to delivery had tested positive. The contact tracing of 57 persons are underway, the DC added. 94 infected persons had recovered and discharged from various hospitals. A total of 876 patients had already recovered in the district. 1308 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. The DC said that 24,741 samples had been tested for covid-19 so far in the district. Of the positive cases, four persons in Puttur and Kadaba had tested positive, which includes a staff nurse of a private hospital in Mangaluru. Three of the four tested positive are undergoing treatment at the government hospitals in Puttur. In Mulki hobli, seven persons including a two and a half-year-old child too had tested positive. Four members of a family residing in the residential complex at Mennabettu had tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dakshina-kannada-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-196-covid-19-cases-860538.html
13-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||ASHA workers protest for 4th day, demand minimum wage of Rs 12,000||Accredited Social Health Activists' (ASHA) protest entered day 4 across the state on Monday for a minimum monthly wage of Rs. 12,000. The ASHAs working with BBMP demonstrated in front of the Deputy Commissioner's office in Bengaluru. As proof that they had not received salary for the month of June yet, they held up their passbooks. Working on a paltry sum of Rs. 4,000 per month, the workers explained their woes. Among them are widows, wives of daily wage workers, tailors, and autodrivers. ASHAs have been the backbone of the state's Covid-19 fight with 1.68 crore households being surveyed by them to identify high-risk individuals, senior citizens, those with co-morbidities, ILI cases and pregnant and lactating women. The house-to-house survey was even lauded by the Centre as one-of-its-kind in the country.     Despite their backbreaking grunt work, the salaries have been erratic, they say. 39-year-old Reshma Fathima, an ASHA from West Zone's Kamalanagar said, "I have only received Rs. 4,000 for the month of May from the state government. Out of the Rs. 2,000 incentive that I am supposed to receive from the Centre, I have received Rs. 500 only. Many of us are single parents. How do we run a household with children with this money?" Fathima says ever since the first case of Covid-19 in the state in March, they have not had a minute's respite from work. They have no weekly offs and right from the crack of dawn, people start calling them asking about immunisation, where to take women for delivery etc. "We can't even sit down for lunch." "We constantly get calls from nurses saying there's a Covid positive case, get the survey of building done or get the quarantined people hand-stamped etc," she said. Fathima has been an ASHA worker for six years now. 42-year-old Nagalakshmi, an ASHA with six years experience, working in the city's infamous Padarayanapura, one of the most badly hit areas by Covid-19 said, "We have only been getting masks and sanitisers. Four people in a team share two sanitisers. Previously, we used to get N95 masks which we used one each for 10 days, then we started using home-made cloth masks that we wash on our own with hot water. They gave us triple layer masks, which we need to change twice or thrice a day considering the amount of work we do. We aren't given gloves home, we have to visit our respective PHCs every day to get a pair of gloves." Despite their strike, she says, the workers have been getting calls from the public. "Families call us asking where to take their women for deliveries and routine injections. Apart from this, we used to go house-to-house explaining Covid-19 preventive measures. We worked 12 hours every day in the past three months," she said. D Nagalakshmi, secretary of Karnataka State Samyukta ASHA Workers' Association, said, "ASHAs have appealed to the village, taluk, district and town panchayat officials in 30 districts of the state." Hanumesh G, Bangalore District Secretary, AIUTUC (All India United Trade Union Centre), said that since the DC GN Shivamurthy was in a video conference call with the CM, he did not meet the ASHAs but they have submitted a memorandum to his office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/asha-workers-protest-for-4th-day-demand-minimum-wage-of-rs-12000-860674.html
13-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government notifies ordinance on Land Reforms Act||Amidst widespread opposition from farmers, activists and political leaders alike, the state government on Monday promulgated an ordinance to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act following Governor Vajubhai R Vala's assent. The ordinance liberalises agricultural land ownership in Karnataka. The ordinance has repealed Sections 79 (A), (B) and (C) from the original Act, thereby making way for non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural land.  However, this comes with several conditions, as per the ordinance. While originally the government had proposed repealing of Section 80, which prohibited transfer of land to non-agriculturists, the ordinance has retained this section with an amendment. The ordinance specifies that Class-A irrigated land (irrigated with water from a dam) can be used only for agricultural purpose. The ordinance has also inserted a new Section 80 (A) which states that none of the relaxations allowed under the Act apply to lands given under the Karnataka SC and ST (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands), Act, 1978.  Amidst apprehensions that amendment of the Act would allow farmers to mortgage land and get into debt, the ordinance states that mortgage of agricultural land will be permitted only to government institutions, companies, cooperative societies, as defined under the provisions of the original Act. According to officials in the Revenue Department, with the promulgation of this ordinance several pending cases would get a closure. According to officials, about 12,231 cases concerning the repealed sections are pending in courts. This will not, however, apply to cases that have already been resolved, officials clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-notifies-ordinance-on-land-reforms-act-860825.html
13-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Booth-level teams to trace primary, secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients in 24 hours: K Sudhakar||Booth level teams will have to trace primary and secondary contacts of a Covid-19 patient in 24 hours henceforth, said Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar here on Monday while addressing a press conference. 7,292 booth level teams consisting of 35,617 people have been formed in the BBMP. The list of the members and their contact numbers was released to the Press on Monday. The teams will be spread across, eight zones: East, West, South, RR Nagar, Yelahanka, Dasarahalli, Bommanahalli, and Mahadevapura across 27 assembly constituencies. The teams across 198 wards will have 7,292 booth level officers and 28,325 additional staff. "House-to-house survey is to be done by booth level teams to enable reverse isolation of the elderly. ILI/SARI cases, and those with comorbidities cases are to be detected. Primary and secondary contacts are to be identified in 24 hours," Sudhakar said. "Pulse oximeters and thermometers are also to be distributed. By tomorrow evening (Tuesday), all electoral booths are to furnish the above requested information to the state government," he added. According to the lists of booth level teams released by the BBMP on Monday, the teams consisted of government employees: teachers and non-teaching staff. For example, the teams in the Yelahanka zone consisted of Rail Wheel Factory, Yelahanka, employees: typists, assistant engineers, accounts assistants, clerks, office superintendents etc. According to the state Covid-19 war room as on July 12, out of 38,843 cases so far reported, 19,789 are still under investigation. This apart from 3,658 ILI cases under investigation and 617 SARI cases under investigation. On being asked if the 24-hour window period to trace all primary and secondary contacts of a Covid patient was unrealistic considering the backlog of cases under investigation Sudhakar said, "Our health staff has worked continuously for four and a half months and they are exhausted. That is why we are entrusting this job to fresh teams."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/booth-level-teams-to-trace-primary-secondary-contacts-of-covid-19-patients-in-24-hours-k-sudhakar-860848.html
13-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Private medical colleges who do not test Covid-19 samples to lose licence; state to write to MCI: Minister||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar warned that those private medical colleges in various districts of the state who are dilly-dallying on setting up Covid-19 testing facilities will lose their license. There are 52 private medical colleges in the state. "There are two categories of medical colleges in the state: One, those who have set up Covid-19 testing facilities and two, those who haven't started testing samples despite setting up labs. The Medical Council of India (MCI) has given us powers to take legal action against them. The CM has instructed us to write to the MCI regarding them," Sudhakar said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) website, there are 83 Covid-19 testing facilities in Karnataka out of which only 39 are private. "In the past four months, we have conducted several meetings with the managements of private medical colleges. Even after MCI's directions, if you do not set up testing facilities, it is legally untenable," he said. Notices issued to two Bengaluru private hospitals Apollo Hospital, Jayanagar, and Vikram Hospital, Cunningham Road, were sent show cause notices by the state health department on Monday and were asked to reply within a day. The allegations were that they weren't treating ILI and SARI cases, and that they hadn't reserved 50% of their beds for Covid-19 treatment. Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer Dr Srinivas GA visited both the hospitals on Monday evening. While Vikram Hospital's executive assistant to the CEO, Kamala Tulsidas, confirmed to DH that they had received the notice but needed time to go through the notice and reply, Dr Govindaiah Yatheesh, Apollo Speciality hospital, Jayanagar unit head told DH that their hospital hadn't denied treatment to any SARI or ILI patients. On the second allegation that the hospital hadn't reserved 50% beds for Covid-19 treatment, Yatheesh said, "We have reserved the entire Jayanagar unit for Covid-19 treatment. Currently, 60 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital. While nine of them have been referred by the government, the other 51 came directly to our hospital with ILI and SARI symptoms. When they tested positive for Covid-19, they continued their treatment here. When these patients get discharged we can accommodate more patients referred by the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/private-medical-colleges-who-do-not-test-covid-19-samples-to-lose-licence-state-to-write-to-mci-minister-860858.html
13-07-2020||West||CPI (M) seeks medical attention for Telugu poet Varavara Rao||The CPI (M) has urged the government to provide necessary attention in a better hospital to the revolutionary Telugu poet Varavara Rao because of his failing health. "The Uddhav Thackeray-government should not fall prey to the Machiavellian machinations of the Centre that it would be the Maharashtra Government who would be put in the dock, in case something unfortunate and untoward happens. We fervently hope good sense will prevail and the Maharashtra government will take firm and proper action in this respect," the CPI (M) Maharashtra State Committee said in a press statement.  The first step must be to expeditiously shift Varavara Rao to a well-equipped hospital in Mumbai, the party said. The statement comes hours after Varavara Rao's family members - wife P Hemalatha, and daughters P Sahaja, P Anala, P Pavana - issued a public statement from Hyderabad, to provide necessary medical attention to him. "The physical condition of octogenarian poet and public intellectual Varavara Rao has become precarious in Taloja Central Prison, Navi Mumbai, where he is languishing for 22 months without a trial under false and fabricated charges in the Bhima Koregaon case, thanks to the political vendetta of the central government," the CPI (M) said.  His health is so deteriorated that he cannot walk or even brush his teeth without assistance. More worryingly, he is hallucinating with the progressive collapse of his mental faculties. With the levels of potassium and sodium further going down, it could damage his brain permanently,  the statement notes. It is evident that the NIA is being misused for political vendetta. It is just to show Maharashtra Chief Minister ‘his place’ that the NIA has been told to take over this case, the Left party said. "We demand that looking at the dangerous spread of the Covid-19, all these public intellectuals put in prisons under fabricated charges be released forthwith," it requested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cpi-m-seeks-medical-attention-for-telugu-poet-varavara-rao-860478.html
13-07-2020||West||Maharashtra minister appeals Centre to shift Telugu poet Varavara Rao to hospital from prison||A senior Maharashtra minister and NCP leader has urged the Centre to shift revolutionary poet Varavara Rao to a hospital. State housing minister Dr Jitendra Awhad tweeted after requests from Varavara Rao's family, various human and civil rights organisation and CPI (M). "We are extremely worried about Varvara Rao's health condition. His possession is under the Home Ministry of Central government and not under Maharashtra government. We appeal to the Central government to urgently shift him to a hospital," Dr Awhad tweeted. He has also tagged state home minister Anil Deshmukh in the tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-appeals-centre-to-shift-telugu-poet-varavara-rao-to-hospital-from-prison-860498.html
13-07-2020||West||Ahmedabad’s ‘multi-prong’ plan to rein in spread||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) claimed that its "multi-prong strategy" has worked in containing the spread of the virus, which was running rampant. A note written by AMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar gives a glimpse into the civic body's fight. According to the note, the civic body used "various strategies from testing symptomatic patients, enhancing treatment capacity by roping in private hospitals and designating them as Covid hospitals" to rein in the spread. Officials also focused on the treatment of "non-Covid patients suffering from diabetes, blood pressure, heart ailment etc. by insisting private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics to open their establishments for providing health services", Kumar's note states. "This has helped in reducing overall comorbidity in the city resulting in reducing the morbidity risk to high-risk groups over 60 years of age," states the note.  Under the Epidemic Act 1897, the local body designated 62 private hospitals with an aggregate capacity of over 3,150 beds for treating patients. This is in addition to 3,000 beds in government-run hospitals which doubled the inventory to over 6,000. As on Friday, the number of active patients in the city was less than 4,000. The other strategy focused on symptomatic patients and those falling in the high-risk group such as elderly, children, patients with comorbidities for their early treatment. The local body preferred treating patients who were in dire need of medical attention than those who were asymptomatic. AMC officials said they deployed 128 Dhanvantri Rath mobile clinics, which conducted over 4.54 lakh OPD consultations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-s-multi-prong-plan-to-rein-in-spread-860530.html
13-07-2020||West||Not joining BJP, says Sachin Pilot as crisis brews in Rajasthan||Rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot has said that he was not joining the BJP even as Congress MLAs closed ranks behind Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. On Sunday, Pilot had claimed support of 30 MLAs out of the 124 backing the Gehlot government, pushing the chief minister on a sticky wicket. However, some swift rearguard action by the Congress appeared to have been paid off with Gehlot camp claiming support of 109 MLAs in the 200-member House. A meeting of the Congress Legislature Party was underway in Jaipur as Gehlot tried to send a message that his government was stable despite Pilot's banner of revolt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/not-joining-bjp-says-sachin-pilot-as-crisis-brews-in-rajasthan-860571.html
13-07-2020||West||Mumbai's Covid-19 cases' doubling rate improves to 50 days||This is a major shot in the arm of Maharashtra government and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) - and comes just a couple of days after the WHO praised the Dharavi model of combating Covid-19. The first Covid-19 positive case in Mumbai was reported on March 11 and the first death on March 17.  As on July 12, the total number of Covid-19 patients stood at 92,720 while deaths at 5,285. The total active patients stood at 22,556. The total number of tests conducted in Mumbai so far is 3,91,222. "After our open testing policy - the only city in India to do so - our testing has gone up from 4,000 to 6,800 tests per day, but our total number of Covid-19 positive cases have come down from 1,400 to 1,200 per day now," according to municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. Of these 1,200 positive cases, the symptomatic cases are less than 200, so the BMC needs only 200 beds daily. Even the BMC's discharge rate now stands at 70 percent, and on Sunday, after allotting beds to all patients, there were still 7,000 Covid-19 beds and 250 ICU vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-covid-19-cases-doubling-rate-improves-to-50-days-860609.html
13-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: 38-year-old policeman dies of Covid-19 in Palghar||A 38-year-old policeman died of Covid-19 in Maharashtra's Palghar district on Monday, a police official said. The deceased, a police naik, was a resident of Murbad taluka in neighbouring Thane district. He was attached to the Valiv police station at Vasai in Palghar. After he tested positive for coronavirus, he was admitted to a hospital where he was undergoing treatment. He was on ventilator support since the last two-three days and died on Monday, Palghar police spokesperson Sachin Navadkar said. District Collector Dr Kailas Shinde in a message condoled the death of the policeman. Navadkar said 135 personnel in the district have so far tested positive for coronavirus and two of them have died. Earlier, a 40-year-old hawaldar died of coronavirus here last month. Till now, 130 police personnel have been discharged after recovery while 30 are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-38-year-old-policeman-dies-of-covid-19-in-palghar-860615.html
13-07-2020||West||Make remdesivir, tocilizumab available at only doctor's prescription: IMA to Maharashtra govt||According to Dr Avinash Bhondwe, the president of IMA-Maharashtra State, sufficient stocks have to be maintained and the red-tapism needs to be cut. In a circular dated July 11, the FDA has restricted the supply of tocilizumab and remdesivir in order to restrict black marketing. "We congratulate the Maharashtra government for taking this initiative to curb the black marketing of these drugs. However, as per this circular, these two injections will directly be supplied to the hospitals for which a doctor's or hospitals prescription as well the Covid-19 positive report of the patient is made essential is needed along with the order placed," he said.There is a dire need of remdesivir and tocilizumab at present and as of today they are not made available even with the doctor's or hospital's prescription.  Around 30 percent of Covid-19 patients have their reports either inconclusive or negative, but they need these injections to save their life. There are around 1 lakh active cases of Covid-19 at present in the state of Maharashtra, out of which around 20,000 need these injections. If 30 percent more patients with negative or inconclusive test reports are added, around 26,000 patients need these injections. Every serious patient needs six injections of remdesivir. It means that Maharashtra at present needs around 1.5 lakh remdesivir injections today itself. If we consider the fact that daily around 7,500 or more new patients are being diagnosed, in which 1,500 patients would require remdesivir, it means a supply of 10,000 vials should be made available on a day-to-day basis. Considering these facts, IMA Maharashtra State has requested the Maharashtra government to make sufficient stock available so as to save the lives of these Covid-19 patients and reduce the mortality rate of the state. "We also appeal Govt. of Maharashtra to supply the hospitals these injections on the Doctor's or Hospitals prescription, a declaration about the patient's admission to the hospital and a certificate of the patient's condition and the need of the injection by the hospitals," the IMA said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/make-remdesivir-tocilizumab-available-at-only-doctors-prescription-ima-to-maharashtra-govt-860645.html
13-07-2020||West||Union Home Minister Amit Shah reviews Covid-19 situation in his constituency Gandhinagar in Gujarat||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday held a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in his Lok Sabha constituency Gandhinagar in Gujarat. The meeting, held via video conference, was attended by Gandhinagar Collector Kuldeep Arya, District Development Officer (DDO) Shalini Duhan and Gandhinagar Municipal Commissioner Ratankanvar Gadhvicharan. After the meeting, Arya said Shah mainly enquired about the latest coronavirus situation. He sought information about its spread and steps taken by the Gandhinagar administration to contain it. "He asked us to contact him if we need any logistic support or injections, testing kits or new health care facilities to combat the pandemic. He also asked us to go for rapid testing of suspected persons identified during surveillance exercise," the collector told PTI. During the meet, Shah also took stock of the ongoing developmental works in his constituency. "The Union minister stressed on timely and effective implementation of various government schemes in his constituency and told us he will review the progress at regular intervals," Arya added. On July 11, Shah announced selection of five villages in his Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency as part of the 'Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana'. During Monday's virtual meeting, Shah asked officials to visit these villages and prepare a plan for their overall development. "Shah stressed that the collector and DDO should visit these villages and prepare a plan about what has been done till now and what more can be done. I and the DDO will be visiting these villages next week," Arya said. The Union minister also asked officials to expedite the implementation of personal benefit schemes in these villages, such as for providing electricity connections and granting widow pension to new beneficiaries, he said. Out of the total 934 coronavirus cases reported in district so far, 590 were from areas falling under the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency, Arya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/union-home-minister-amit-shah-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-his-constituency-gandhinagar-in-gujarat-860651.html
13-07-2020||West||Actor Amit Sadh tests negative for coronavirus||Abhishek, 44, and Sadh were spotted together earlier this month, dubbing for their show "Breathe: Into The Shadows". "Thank you for your prayers and concerns. This is the only time I say happily I am negative. To all people battling this, my prayers and thoughts continue. Love you. Togetherness is the only strength," Sadh, 37, posted on Twitter on Monday. Amitabh's daughter-in-law Aishwarya (46) and granddaughter Aaradhya (8) have also tested positive for the virus. His wife, veteran actor-MP Jaya Bachchan, 71, has tested negative. The 77-year-old screen icon, on Sunday, thanked his admirers for their prayers and concern for him and his family members. "My dearest extended family, your concern, your prayers and your wishes for Abhishek, Aishwarya, Aaradhya and me for a speedy recovery has filled me with unending gratitude. I thank you all," Amitabh, who is currently admitted to Nanavati Hospital along with Abhishek, wrote. With 1,263 new Covid-19 cases being recorded on Sunday, Mumbai's case count has mounted to 92,720, the BMC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/actor-amit-sadh-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-860655.html
13-07-2020||West||Fine for not wearing mask raised to Rs 500 in Ahmedabad||In a bid to curb the spread of coronavirus in Ahmedabad, the city authorities on Monday raised the penalty for not wearing face mask in a public place to Rs 500 from Rs 200 announced earlier. A fine of Rs 10,000 will also be imposed on paan shop owners if their customers are found spitting in the open near their shops, said Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Gupta, who was appointed to oversee works related to the Covid-19 pandemic in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city. In a release issued on Monday, Gupta said it has been decided to increase the penalty for not wearing masks. He said a decision to this effect was taken in a meeting with Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Mukesh Kumar and other senior officers on Monday where they took note of the fact that several people in the city were flouting the mandatory rule of wearing masks in public places. "People are still not following the mandatory rule of wearing masks, and a number of them still come out without wearing masks. It has been decided to increase the fine for not wearing masks from Rs 200 to Rs 500. Moreover, a paan- masala shop owner will be fined Rs 10,000 if his customers are found spitting in the public near his shop," Gupta said. Wearing face masks, not spitting and maintaining social distance in public places are important in the fight against coronavirus, he said. Gupta also informed that 1.72 lakh people were fined in the city so far for not wearing face masks, and 94 units sealed for not following social distancing and other rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fine-for-not-wearing-mask-raised-to-rs-500-in-ahmedabad-860700.html
13-07-2020||West||BJP's Ramdas Athawale invites Sharad Pawar to join NDA||Union minister and RPI(A) chief Ramdas Athawale on Monday invited NCP president Sharad Pawar to join the BJP-led NDA, saying the country and Maharashtra will benefit from the veteran politician's vast experience. Pawar should support the BJP instead of the Shiv Sena, Athawale, whose party is a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), said in a statement here. "The BJP, NCP and RPI(A) should form a grand alliance in Maharashtra," he said, adding that Pawar should work with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The country and Maharashtra will benefit out of Pawar's vast experience and hence, it is extremely necessary for Pawar to consider joining the NDA. I invite him to join the NDA," the Union social justice minister said. The "grand alliance of the BJP, NCP and RPI(A)" would be a formidable one, Athawale claimed. Pawar played a key role in stitching the alliance of the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress to form government in Maharashtra last year after the Uddhav Thackeray-led party fell out with the BJP over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. In an interview published in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Monday, Pawar said his offer of outside support to the BJP in 2014 to form government in Maharashtra was a "political ploy" aimed to keep the Shiv Sena away from its then ally. The Maratha strongman admitted he took steps to "widen the distance between the BJP and Shiv Sena". He also said after the last year's Assembly polls, BJP leaders approached him to support the Devendra Fadnavis government in the state, but he told Prime Minister Modi that the NCP will not go with the BJP and if possible, it will form a government with the Shiv Sena or sit in the opposition. "The BJP doesn't believe that non-BJP parties have the right to function in a democratic setup," Pawar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjps-ramdas-athawale-invites-sharad-pawar-to-join-nda-860723.html
13-07-2020||West||Veteran RSS volunteer Narendra Chitale passes away||RSS veteran Narendra alias Balasaheb Chitale died of old age on Monday in Thane district of Maharashtra, his family members said. He was 98. Chitale had worked as a volunteer for the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and the Jan Sangh, the forerunner of the BJP. He had worked as the chief of Thane division of the VHP during the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. He had staged a satyagraha protest in Thane against the ban on the Sangh in 1948. Originally from Akola in east Maharashtra, Chitale settled in Thane in 1941.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/veteran-rss-volunteer-narendra-chitale-passes-away-860762.html
13-07-2020||West||Demand for Varavara Rao's release grows||The demand is growing up for shifting of revolutionary Telegu poet Varavara Rao from jail to hospital and immediate release in the wake of his deteriorating health. The CPI(M), Congress and NCP, several NGOs and fronts,  intellectuals have urged the government to provide necessary medical attention. "The Uddhav Thackeray-government should not fall prey to the Machiavellian machinations of the Centre that it would be the Maharashtra Government who would be put in the dock, in case something unfortunate and untoward happens. We fervently hope good sense will prevail and the Maharashtra government will take firm and proper action in this respect," the CPI(M) Maharashtra State Committee said in a press statement. The statements comes hours after Varavara Rao's family members - wife P Hemalatha, and daughters P Sahaja, P Anala, P Pavana - issued a public statement from Hyderabad, to provide necessary medical attention to him. "The physical condition of octogenarian poet and public intellectual Varavara Rao has become precarious in Taloja Central Prison, Navi Mumbai, where he is languishing for 22 months without a trial under false and fabricated charges in the Bhima Koregaon case, thanks to the political vendetta of the central government," the CPI(M) said. Congress leader and MP Dr Shashi Tharoor tweeted: "An 80 year old needs to be hospitalized immediately as his health is declining. I appeal to the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh to act out of compassion and humanity. Politics and everything else can come later." Senior Maharashtra minister and NCP leader has urged the Centre to shift revolutionary poet Varavara Rao to hospital. State housing minister Dr Jitendra Awhad tweeted: "We are extremely worried about Varvara Rao's health condition . His possesssion is under Home Ministry of Central government and not under Maharashtra government. We appeal to the Central government to urgently shift him to a hospital." He has also tagged state home minister Anil Deshmukh in the tweet. "His health is so deteriorated that he cannot walk or even brush his teeth without assistance. More worryingly, he is hallucinating with the progressive collapse of his mental faculties. With the levels of potassium and sodium further going down it could damage his brain permanently," the CPI(M) statement notes. "With the news that the Covid-19 has spread to various prisons Varavara Rao, who is extremely vulnerable to catch this epidemic, can face a life threatening situation," it said. It is evident that the NIA is being misused for political vendetta. It is just to show Maharashtra Chief Minister ‘his place’ that the NIA has been told to take over this case, the Left party said. "We demand that looking at the dangerous spread of the Covid-19, all these public intellectuals put in prisons under fabricated charges be released forthwith. The Uddhav Thackeray government should not fall prey to the Machiavellian machinations of the Centre that it would be the Maharashtra Government who would be put in the dock, in case something unfortunate and untoward happens. We fervently hope good sense will prevail and the Maharashtra Government will take firm and proper action in this respect. The first step must be to expeditiously shift Varavara Rao to a well equipped hospital in Mumbai," it requested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/demand-for-varavara-raos-release-grows-860763.html
13-07-2020||West||Man held for sexual harassment for Youtube rant against woman||A 28-year-old man was arrested on Monday for allegedly uploading an abusive, threatening video on social media against a woman stand-up comedian, police said. Imtiyaz Sheikh, who uses the profile 'Umesh Dada' on Youtube, was held from Nalasopara in Palghar district after Mumbai police's Cyber Branch took suo motu cognizance of the upload, an official said. He has been arrested under sections 354A (sexual harassment), 294 (obscene acts or words in public) of IPC and provisions of the Information Technology Act, the official informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-sexual-harassment-for-youtube-rant-against-woman-860802.html
13-07-2020||West||Goa private hospitals have to reserve 20% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients: CM Pramod Sawant||In a major decision related to management of Covid-19 positive patients, the Goa government on Monday, made it mandatory for all private hospitals to reserve 20 per cent of their ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, along with Health Ministry officials, amid rising cases and fatalities due to the viral pandemic. “It has been decided to make it mandatory for private hospitals to reserve 20 percent of beds in their intensive care units exclusively for Covid-19 management,” Sawant said after a meeting attended by Chief Secretary Parimal Rai, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane and Health Secretary Nila Mohanan. On Monday, Goa’s tally of active Covid-19 cases neared 1,000 even as three more deaths were also reported, taking the total death count to 17. According to Health Ministry statistics, most of the persons who had died due to a Covid-19 infection had co-morbid conditions. On Monday, Dr. Edwin Gomes, who as the head of the state’s only designated Covid-19 hospital, had emerged as the face of the Goa government’s Covid-19 management outreach also tested positive for the viral disease. Both Chief Minister Pramod Sawant as well as Governor Satya Pal Malik have wished Gomes a speedy recovery. Ten days back, 58-year-old Gomes had returned home after an unbroken three-month long stint at the Covid hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-private-hospitals-have-to-reserve-20-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients-cm-pramod-sawant-860815.html
13-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Maha adds 6,497 new cases; 193 deaths, 4,182 discharged||Maharashtra recorded 6,497 new cases of Covid-19, taking its tally to 2,60,924 on Monday, while 193 more patients succumbed to the infection, the state health department said. With 193 fresh deaths, the toll rose to 10,482, said a statement from the health department here. Also, 4,182 people were discharged from hospitals in the state, pushing up the number of recoveries to 1,44,507, the statement said. At present, there are 1,05,935 active coronavirus cases in the state, it added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maha-adds-6497-new-cases-193-deaths-4182-discharged-860818.html
