14-07-2020||First Edit||Lockdown will hurt more than it helps||The seven-day lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts announced by the government will serve little purpose and is only an attempt to divert attention from its failure to put systems and capacities in place to combat the spread of coronavirus that was inevitable with the lifting of the earlier long lockdown. The administration failed to prepare the city’s health infrastructure to take the rising load of Covid-19 cases. It should have utilised the earlier lockdown period to do so. Now that the cases are spiralling out of control, it is running hither and thither, taking ad-hoc and ill-advised actions to save its face, despite the detrimental consequences such decisions will have. According to the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), at least 20% of businesses have already shutdown permanently and this lockdown will further impact the economy which had slowly begun sprouting shoots of revival. The need for a lockdown once again would not have arisen had the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) discharged its responsibility diligently. Though its Covid-19 strategy and action should have been fine-tuned by now, there is still undue delay in releasing test results, shifting Covid-positive patients to the hospital and quarantining primary contacts of the infected. Contact tracing, which is vital to preventing the spread of the virus, has been given a silent burial. The number of tests being conducted among vulnerable groups also leaves much to be desired. While there is an acute scarcity of ICU beds, an effective mechanism has not been put in place to regulate private hospitals which are fleecing patients by charging them exorbitantly. Unless these loose ends are first tied, cases will continue to increase and lockdowns every now and then will not help. A bigger danger of this lockdown is the large exodus of people from Bengaluru back to their hometowns, increasing the threat of the virus being carried to hitherto untouched rural areas. Most decisions pertaining to Covid-19 have lacked foresight, often forcing a U-turn, and this time, too, the government is believed to be swayed by pressure from certain regional TV channels, rather than acting on objective evidence. Kneejerk reactions like lockdowns, far from salvaging the situation, will only aggravate the suffering of the poor and the homeless. It is about four months now since the first Covid-19 case was recorded in the state, but the government is yet to release a comprehensive strategy document detailing the way forward, whether with regard to containing the virus or reviving the economy. Without a proper roadmap, the state risks losing its initial gains and heading towards a catastrophe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/lockdown-will-hurt-more-than-it-helps-860878.html
14-07-2020||First Edit||Suspect motives, timing, panel||The setting up of a five-member committee by the Union Home Ministry to make recommendations for changes in the country’s criminal laws has given rise to many apprehensions. This is not because there is no need for changes in these laws but because of the timing, circumstances and manner of setting up the committee and the suspected intentions behind it. There is no doubt that the laws need an overhaul. The Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and the Indian Evidence Act are colonial-era legacies and carry the worldview of the 19th century, when they were first enacted. Many changes have been made in them through amendments and court orders but they still do not fully express or embody the democratic ideals and values of the Constitution such as individual freedom and equality and a modern rights-based and progressive outlook on crime and punishment. A comprehensive overhaul of criminal laws calls for detailed discussions and wide consultations, but the committee may not be in a position to hold them. It was constituted in May and started its work last week, and has to finish it in three months. This is too short a time to undertake such an exercise and do justice to it. The wisdom and motive in setting up such a committee when the country is in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic have been questioned. It is pointed out that the committee will not be able to directly interact with retired judges, jurists, lawyers and others to elicit their views and proposals and will only have online consultations. It is also held that this may not be the right time to push through important changes in law. The committee’s composition has been criticised as it is an all-male committee based in Delhi and the north.  A number of eminent persons, including lawyers, academics and activists have expressed concern over the mandate and working of the committee. They have demanded transparency in the aims and working of the committee as its terms of reference have not been publicised. It is also noted that the Law Commission, which should have an important role in such a task, has been kept out of the exercise. The committee’s mandate “to recommend reforms in the criminal laws of the country in a principled, effective, and efficient manner which ensures the safety and security of the individual, the community and the nation’’ has given rise to suspicions that the aim is to align criminal laws with the hardline views of the government on defining and dealing with crime. Such crucial changes should not be brought about in haste.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/suspect-motives-timing-panel-861287.html
14-07-2020||In Perspective||From crisis to competitive: Transforming Karnataka’s MSMEs||Approximately four million MSMEs are the growth engine of Karnataka’s economy, employing seven million people, or approximately 48% of its non-farm workforce. MSMEs in Karnataka are essential to the distribution and supply chains across major job-creating industries such as textiles, automobiles, and more. The Covid-19 pandemic has severely affected this sector. Surveys suggest that up to 30% of MSME jobs could be lost in Karnataka because of the crisis. Even pre-Covid-19, the sector was plagued by low competitiveness, and most small firms were stuck in a vicious cycle of informality and low productivity. As a result, most remain stunted, with the average MSME employing less than two people. On the other hand, firms that start formal are two to three times more productive and have a better chance of growing. The difficulty is that the cost of formality and compliance are onerous. For instance, a typical MSME factory in Karnataka has to file 144 returns and intimations, maintain 62 registers, and make 103 payments each year. Labour regulations account for over 50% of these. With these pre-existing problems and a slowing economy, the impact of Covid-19 is an existential threat, particularly to smaller, informal firms. However, this crisis is also an opportunity to address known issues; with the right support, MSMEs can not only survive but be more resilient and competitive from the crisis. By its very nature, this sector requires the attention of public policy and the organised large private sector. Strong public-private leadership to drive and de-bottleneck implementation of well thought-out and pragmatic recommendations are critical. Since MSMEs are regulated both by the Union government and state government, both need to act in tandem for optimal outcomes. Keeping this in mind, the Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME), a ‘not for profit’ platform, convened a task force of policymakers, captains of industry, and researchers to recommend measures for transformation. Their report, “Improving Economic Dynamism and Accelerating MSME Growth”, has succinct recommendations ranging from short-term fiscal relief to medium-term structural reforms for policymakers and industry leaders. The short-term or “survive” measures focus on financial and regulatory support to keep businesses afloat, restart operations, and retain jobs. The Government of India recently announced a package to help MSMEs maintain liquidity and access credit. The task force’s recommendations focus on the strong execution of announced packages through state governments and local industry bodies, including a clear explanation of scheme details to MSMEs and banks. On this, GAME, the UNDP and four local industry associations are piloting an ‘MSME support helpline’ to help enterprises, in local language and with local examples to understand the implications of the new MSME definitions, eligibility and relevance of government schemes, and help them access these. Beyond this, recommendations include monitoring and ensuring that funds are disbursed to small and micro businesses (and not just larger players within MSMEs), setting up funds directed at new-to-credit MSMEs, the inclusion of MSMEs in supply chain financing and bill invoicing (TReDS) initiatives, and mandating quick disbursement of payables from government and private sector players. The medium-term reforms focus on ease of doing business to ‘revive’ MSMEs. India is ranked 63rd globally on ease of doing business, owing to high burdens and costs of compliance and complex processes, deterring formalisation. Simplifying six key processes for starting and running businesses, rationalising compliance requirements (from about 58,000 compliances across state, central and sectoral requirements) and digitising processes by streamlining and removing redundancies across registering property, construction permits, etc., constitute the main recommendations. Criminal liability of compliances is a significant deterrent to formalisation, with nearly 9,000 compliances having penal consequences. Specific measures to decriminalise and evaluate the ease of doing business at a state level, along with objective and measurable criteria and publishing annual scorecards, are an essential part of the medium-term list of actions. To address grievances and unlock information, we suggest strengthening MSME support networks and industry associations (by rationalising a set of about 3,500 industry bodies) led by local NGOs. Beyond the short and medium terms, for MSMEs to ‘thrive’, create mass-prosperity, seize the shifts in global supply chains, and become “atmanirbhar”, India must create a massive entrepreneurial movement with millions of enterprises, across the country, aggressively pursuing local and global opportunities. This transformation requires local ecosystems in 300+ cities with a careful combination of Seed (education levels, the degree to which young people have ambition, agency, entrepreneurial mindset), Soil (infrastructure, connectivity, access to markets, access to credit/capital) and Climate (ease of doing business, local culture). Early signs of such a model is visible with ‘Sarthak’, a digital ecosystem deployed by the state government that combines seed (e.g., mentorship and education), soil (e.g., access to finance and markets), and climate (e.g., stories of success and inspiration, MSME awards, etc.), available to all MSMEs across the state. (Krishnan is a former Secretary to the Government of India, and Chair of the GAME Taskforce on MSMEs; Venkatesan is a former Chairman of Microsoft India and Bank of Baroda and founder of GAME)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/from-crisis-to-competitive-transforming-karnataka-s-msmes-860880.html
14-07-2020||In Perspective||The fate of the left-out: A case study of Beed||On June 20, the Prime Minister launched the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan (PM-GKRA) to provide a livelihood opportunity to returning migrants during the Covid-19 lockdown. Somewhat similar to the existing Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), it provides 125 days of employment in various public works like laying pipelines, building roads, community toilets, anganwadis, housing for the rural poor and other such rural infrastructure. These already ongoing government works will now recruit the returnee migrant worker ‘according to his skill’ so that he can work ‘while staying in his own village, while staying with his family’. The scheme is to be launched in 116 districts (those which have over 25,000 returnee workers) across Bihar (32), Rajasthan (22), Madhya Pradesh (24), Uttar Pradesh (31), Jharkhand (3) and Odisha (4). According to the PMO, these districts cover 66% of such workers. It is unclear whether the scheme would be introduced in other districts of these states, and in the remaining 23 states at all. While the vision to achieve employment and rural development is seemingly well-intentioned, the authors wonder about the fate of returnee workers in rural districts that have been left out. We studied Beed, located in the ‘high-performing’ state of Maharashtra. Beed, like other Marathwada districts, is characterised by a severe drought that strikes once every few years, making agriculture unfeasible, especially for those who do not own large farmlands. It has also seen 96 reported farmer suicides since the beginning of the lockdown. Almost a third of the population migrates to the ‘sugar belt’ districts in Maharashtra during the sugarcane harvest period to work as cane-cutters. A middleman ‘mukkadam’ hires one couple as one unit, paying them Rs 250 per tonne on average. In one season, the couple is expected to cut 300-400 tonnes of sugarcane, earning around Rs 80,000 for six months of daily labour. This seasonal employment, from October to March, is often the only annual income for these cane-cutters. Many women also undergo hysterectomies to avoid a menstrual cycle from setting them back during these six months, as the contractor cuts their pay if they take a break during work. This exploitation has been a reality in Beed for a while now. The pandemic has only made things worse. Beed has seen the return of over 2.5 lakh migrant workers in the last few months, the highest in Maharashtra and significantly higher than the criteria set for the GKRA. Seasonal employment had already ended in March, with the start of the lockdown. Additionally, those migrants who left for cities like Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad have also returned. Both clusters now face a crippling lack of employment opportunities in their home district. Consequently, the demand for MGNREGS works in Maharashtra witnessed a 75% spike in demand within the span of a month from April to May. This rise in demand can have a dual effect. First, on the rural agrarian labourers, including the cane-cutters, for whom MGNREGS was launched in the first place. During summer, agricultural jobs dry up and MGNREGS becomes essential for them. If the rise in demand is not met with an adequate rise in MGNREGS opportunities, they might lose out to the younger and physically stronger workers that have returned from the city. The second effect is on these city-returned migrants, who are semi-skilled or skilled workers, and for whom the MGNREGS jobs are inferior in both skillset and pay grade. Therefore, shifting the burden of the increased demand for employment onto MGNREGS could cost both clusters of migrants. This is why the GKRA is more likely to be a better fit for them, as it aspires to match skills to jobs. An excess in demand for employment and an incredibly low supply of work makes one wonder why a district like Beed was left out of the scheme. Although the six states selected for the launch of GKRA are ‘Empowered Action Group’ states that have traditionally been low-performing, if the qualifying criteria were simply the quantum of returnee migrants, a district like Beed deserves equal attention. Considering Maharshtra’s Covid-19 statistics, it is safe to assume that many migrant workers will stay put in their home districts for the coming months. But, would including Beed and other such districts under the PM-GKRA solve the problem? Some questions remain unanswered. The wage paid to these workers is unclear. Will it be the minimum wage, Rs 202 (recently raised by Rs 20), as under MGNREGS, or will it be higher, considering the workers earned Rs 500-600 a day in the city? Secondly, if they wait for success in 116 districts and then launch the scheme in others, that would be after 125 days (four months), or seven months into the pandemic — a long wait for people who are in dire need of an income. Finally, the fact that the scheme is being implemented through Common Service Centres (CSCs), which have visible levels of implementation obstacles and lack of accountability, makes the problem more complex. Hence, while launching a scheme close to the MGNREGS formula might seem like some relief for returning migrants, in reality, Beed’s case highlights that the scheme is poorly thought-out, with little consideration of the fact that there are areas apart from the included ‘aspirational districts’ which witness a high number of unemployed returnees. We suggest that the inclusion/exclusion criteria be set solely on the basis of existing employment opportunities and the number of returnees, and each district be evaluated independently so that districts like Beed do not lose out on benefits under the garb of being in ‘high-performing’ states. (The writers are post-graduate students at the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-fate-of-the-left-out-a-case-study-of-beed-861288.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Udupi man violates home quarantine 163 times||Sahab Singh had arrived at his rented house at Koteshwara from Mumbai on June 29. He was asked to remain quarantined at home till July 13. However, he was found loitering and visiting hotels in Udupi. Officials tracked his movement through mobile GPS trackers. He breached the quarantine period 163 times. Following the violation, Flying Squad officer N G Bhat had filed a complaint against Singh in Kundapura Police Station. A case has been booked under IPC Sections 269, and 270.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-man-violates-home-quarantine-163-times-860985.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||NITK startup manufactures nanoparticle-coated faceshields||A new startup company —Apaha Tech Solutions LLP— incubated at NITK Science and Technology Entrepreneur's Park (STEP), started production of Reusable Transparent Faceshields which are coated with silver nanoparticles for extra safety. This modified product is in continuation with the face shields which were developed by NITK during April 2020. According to Dr Arun M Isloor, a professor in the Department of Chemistry at  NITK and partner of this startup company, this is the first such reported commercial product, where silver nanoparticles are coated on the bands of a faceshield to give antimicrobial property. This modified faceshield also has a strip of spongy layer to give cushioning effect thereby being highly comfortable even after wearing it for three to four hours. These shields can be reused by wiping both surfaces with soap solution using a cotton swab. According to Dr Isloor, his intention to commercialise this product is not to fulfill the demands of the public at an affordable price. “Moreover I want to show our students and youngsters that entrepreneurship is possible under any circumstances and India too can produce any products at an affordable price under Make in India. A portion of money collected from sales will be given to NITK as royalty, another part of the fund would be donated to the Indian Army Fund and a part to the manpower involved in its manufacturing.” This startup was started by the faculty of NITK as per the central government's Startup policy. Its main objective is water purification by innovative technologies. To join the battle against Covid-19, it is now also producing faceshields. These faceshields are made of 100 micron thick transparent polyester sheet, which covers about 180 degrees of frontal portion of the head, covering mouth, eyes and nose, thereby giving protection against any droplets from an infected person. The band is made of styrofoam, which is more comfortable than elastic. The Startup has already received orders from Kerala, Ballari, Bengaluru, and other places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nitk-startup-manufactures-nanoparticle-coated-faceshields-860988.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka II PUC exam results declared: Overall pass percentage improves to 61.80%||The results of the second year Pre University course in Karnataka have been announced and the overall pass percentage is 61.80%.  There is an increase in pass percentage this year compared to the previous year as the overall pass percentage during 2019 was 61.73%. This year, a total of 5,56,267 students appeared for the exams of which 3,84,947 have cleared the exams. Udupi district managed to retain its place and has emerged as the top district with an overall pass percentage of 90.71%. Followed by Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu. According to the streamwise results, science students topped the list with an overall pass percentage of 76.2%, commerce students with 65.52%. The overall pass percentage of arts stream dipped 8 percentage points to 41.27%. Continuing the recent trend, girls fared better this year too compared to boys with an overall pass percentage of 68.73% as against 54.77% secured by boys.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-ii-puc-exam-results-declared-overall-pass-percentage-improves-to-6180-860991.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada to begin antigen tests||Health department sources said they were hoping that the rapid antigen tests would help in increasing the number of tests and bring down the load of testing on labs, as antigen kits allow faster diagnosis. It takes a minimum of eight hours to get the results via real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. Antigen tests can provide results within 30 minutes as compared to RT-PCR tests. The antigen test will be conducted for emergency cases like delivery, surgery, persons with severe symptoms of Covid-19, multiple-organ failure and for those whose condition is critical. "If a symptomatic patient tests negative for Covid-19, then his throat swab sample would be sent for lab testing," the district health officer (DHO) said. DHO (in charge) Dr Rathnakar also said "Training is being imparted on the use of the kits. It will be used for emergency cases on priority basis."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-to-begin-antigen-tests-860995.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dharwad lockdown leaves industrialists, labourers confused, anxious||They say they are not against the 10-day lockdown (from July 15) to check Covid-19 spread, but they are also worried about the negative impact it may bring. Industrialists fear the businesses may go down again after seeing a slight pickup in the recent days, while the working class is worried about day-to-day life without proper earnings. It is being feared that industrial areas in city limits may not be allowed to function during this lockdown. "Nearly 30% industries have not yet reopened even after the lockdown relaxations. Labour shortage and problem of raw materials still plague them. Another lockdown will be a bigger blow unless industries are allowed to function with at least 50% workforce," says North Karnataka Small-Scale Industries Association (NKSSIA) president N S Biradar. According to Ramesh Patil, who runs the Patil Electrical Works Private Limited, another lockdown would hit businesses really hard, especially those in City limits which are on a slight uptick. "We have to support the lockdown, but it would bring damages also. We do not know what to do. More relaxations should have been given for the business sector," he said. For Karnataka Chamber of Commerce & Industry (KCCI) vice-president Vinay Javalli, the responsibility of arranging transport for workers during the lockdown would be a burden for small-scale industrialists. "We have sympathy for workers, but what to do without revenue? Industrialists are confused, and are more worried about the transportation of workers who come from city areas," he added. Some businessmen are already closing their shops or plants at 5:00 pm and many people were demanding another lockdown to check the virus spread. 'Unprepared again' For trade unionists who lead labourers, this lockdown is also decided only keeping the health in view, and not its impact on the day-to-day life of common man. It is announced without proper preparations to lead a decent life for the working class, who already have no money or job, they said.   "Let them do it if it is inevitable, but where were the preparations to help poor people who are already in a pathetic condition. When shops are closed, and reaching industries at distant places is difficult, what the working class should do without a satisfactory financial package," asked Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) leader Mahesh Pattar. All-India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) leader Gangadhar Badiger expresses support for the lockdown, but at the same time, he demands that food grains and other materials required for daily life should reach even the last person in the society. "Labourers working inside the City may face more difficulties. Government should also ensure that proper transportation facility is arranged for unorganised sector workers coming from surrounding areas and those going to factories at distant places," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dharwad-lockdown-leaves-industrialists-labourers-confused-anxious-861017.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||II PU results: Dakshina Kannada retains second position||Dakshina Kannada district with a total pass percentage of 90.71 in second year Pre University examination results has retained the second position, among the districts. In the previous academic year, DK had stood second in the list with 90.91 per cent. In the year 2017-18, DK had secured 91.41 pass percentage. The district had secured second position in 2016-17 by registering 89.92 per cent. The pass percentage in the district are as follows: 2015-16 - 90.48 per cent; 2014-15— 93.09 per cent; 2013-14 — 86.04 per cent and 2012-13—85.88 per cent. As many as 34,287 students in Dakshina Kannada had appeared for the exam, of which 30,835 are freshers, 1,262 are repeaters and 2,190 students wrote the exam privately. Out of 17,189 girl students, 15,561 have passed, thus recording 90.53 per cent passed while out of 17,098 boys, 13,933 have passed, thus registering 81.49 per cent passed. A total of 6,121 students had written the exam in Kannada medium, of which 4,093 have passed. Out of 2,081 SC students, 1,606 have passed, while 991 ST students out of 1,191 have passed the exam. In the Arts stream, 4,515 students had appeared for the exam, of which 2,931 have passed (64.92 per cent). In the Commerce stream, 16,202 had appeared for the exam, and 13,849 passed with 85.48 pass percentage. In the science stream, 13,570 students had appeared and 12,714 passed, thus registering 93.69 pass percentage. A total of 22,325 students had appeared for the exam in urban areas, of which 19,942 have passed. On the other hand, of 11,962 students who appeared in rural areas, 9,552 have passed. Apoorva M, student of Vikas PU College in Mangaluru is the fourth topper in the State in commerce stream. Hard work and consistency in studies helped me to excel in II PU commerce stream. Thrilled over the results, she told DH that she was happy and excited. “I used to study thoroughly during my holidays. We also had enough time to prepare well for the exam,” she added. She wants to enrol for BCom and take up a course in CA. “I want to be a financial advisor,” she added. She has scored 594 marks and her subjects were Mathematics, Accountancy, Business Studies, Statistics, Hindi and English. She is the daughter of Mohan Poojary and Prathima Mohan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ii-pu-results-dakshina-kannada-retains-second-position-861046.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||One more Covid-19 fatality in Chikkamagaluru||Chikkamagaluru recorded one more Covid-19 fatality, after a 56-year-old man from Gaurikaluve succumbed to the virus, at the designated Covid hospital in the district on Monday late night. With this, the total deaths in the district have risen to six. The man who passed away was suffering from asthma and diabetes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-more-covid-19-fatality-in-chikkamagaluru-861052.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Illegal construction near Kabini backwaters||A huge building that resembles a resort is under construction, near the backwaters of River Kabini, near Nagarahole National Park, H D Kote taluk, Mysuru district. The building is said to be constructed by an industrialist, at Karapura village, coming under Belathuru gram panchayat limits. Labourers from Bihar are being used for the construction work. The locals have alleged that the person had sought permission for constructing a house, but allegedly constructing a resort, complete with a swimming pool. Two structures are being constructed -- a five-bedroom and a three-bedroom accommodation. Besides, a canal has also been dug from the house illegally. The nearby bushes too have been destroyed by being set on fire, they alleged. Acting on the complaint, the officials inspected the spot and found the violation. Belathuru gram panchayat president Raju and Development Officer Swamy have issued notice for the illegal construction, seeking explanation within three days to one Narasimhamurthy, on July 1. Deputy Conservator of Forest, Nagarahole National Park, Mahesh Kumar said, "the Forest department too would issue a notice for illegal construction. We checking for the right owner of the building and the land."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/illegal-construction-near-kabini-backwaters-861058.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||K S Eshwarappa in home quarantine as worker at his home tests Covid-19 positive||District in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa has gone into self-quarantine after a worker in his home was tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar who was in constant touch with the minister, is working from home without visiting the office. The worker in the minister's home was tested positive on July 13. The throat swabs of 21 persons including family members of the minister and deputy commissioner had been set to laboratory and they were tested negative. Reacting to it, the minister said he was working on the premises of the house and he had not stepped into the house."However, we have gone into home quarantine voluntarily." Business establishments will remain shut from 3:00 pm in the district from July 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/k-s-eshwarappa-in-home-quarantine-as-worker-at-his-home-tests-covid-19-positive-861064.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu reports 12 new Covid-19 cases; tally nears 200-mark||Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said that seven containment zones have been notified in the district. The total number of containment zones in the district is 83 and one of the containment zones at Hundi has been denotified. There are 124 active cases in the district.  The infected are a 32-year-old man serving in police department with a travel history to Bagalkot and residing at ITI Junction in Madikeri; a 37-year-old man from HC Pura in Gonikoppa, who was the primary contact of a Covid-19 patient; a 57-year-old man with a travel history from Kannur and a native of Karadigodu in Siddapura; a 58-year-old health worker from Madappa colony in Nellihudikeri; a 15-year-old boy suffering from the symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and a resident of Chennakal in Koppa of Periyapatna taluk.  Others include a 22-year-old woman suffering from ILI from Dandinpet in Kushalnagar; a 48-year-old male health worker from Dandinpet; an 18-year-old man with travel history from Ukrain and a native of Kadlur; a 25-year-old man with travel history from Bengaluru and native of Thorenooru; a 25-year-old man with a travel history from Bengaluru and the native of Thorenooru; a 38-year-old man with a travel history from Bengaluru and native of Thothri and a 54-year-old man with a travel history from Mangaluru and a native of Putaninagara in Madikeri. The seven more containment zones notified in the district are ITI Junction in Madikeri, Karadigodu in Siddapura, Madappa Colony, near Kusuma store in Dandinpet, near Rotary hall in Dandinpet, Kadlur and Thothri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-reports-12-new-covid-19-cases-tally-nears-200-mark-861067.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Endosulfan victim defies odds to clear PU examinations||There was a joyous moment in the house of Bhaskar Gowda and Revathi, when their son Manoj Kumar, an endosulfan victim cleared his II PU examinations, on Tuesday. He has passed with first class by scoring 74 in Kannada, 68 in English, 42 in History, 50 in Economics, 50 in Sociology and 76 in Political Science. Manoj, suffering from disability, wrote the examinations with the help of his scribe Nishmitha. Incidentally, Manoj, who has undergone six surgeries to remove growth in his nose, faced the examinations like any other students. He is a student of Seva Bharathi’s Vidya Chethana School in Ramakunja. He said “I am happy that I could clear my exam with first class.” Manoj is keen on securing a job in the government in order to look after his elderly parents and is planning to submit his applications to the local gram panchayat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/endosulfan-victim-defies-odds-to-clear-pu-examinations-861134.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||II PUC students end life after failing to get pass marks||In separate incidents, two II PUC students ended their lives after they failed to get passing grades in some subjects. In Harihar, a student ended his life by by hanging himself from a tree near Pakeeraswamy mutt in the town after he failed to get pass marks in Physics subject.  According to police, the deceased has been identified as Jayaram (18), son of Kotresh and Geetha. His father is autorickshaw driver. He was student of MKET pre-university college in the town. He took the extreme step after he learnt that he failed in Physics subject. Town police have registered a case. Meanwhile, in Shivamogga, a student hung herself from ceiling fan in her home at Chikkamarasa village after she failed in three subjects.  The deceased has been identified as Chitra (18), student of government independent pre-university college, Kumsi. The results of second PU examinations were announced on July 14. She took the extreme step after she learnt that she failed in history, english and political science. Kumsi police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ii-puc-students-end-life-after-failing-to-get-pass-marks-861210.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||II PU results: Hassan slips to 11th place from 6th slot||Hassan district secured 70.18% in PU results and slipped to the 11th slot. It was in the 6th position last year with 75.19%. While boys secured 59.07%, girls gained an upper hand with 69.53%. T D Hamsa of Master PU College in the city and Brigade PU College student Medini secured 592 marks in Science and have shared the district topper's slot. Out of 14,766 students who appeared for the exam, 10,363 (70.18%) have passed. In Science stream, 4,762 students appeared for the exam and 4,137 students (86.88%) have passed. In Commerce stream, out of 6,007, 4,340 students have passed (72.25%). Arts stream secured 47.19%, with 1,886 students passing out of 3,997 students, according to DDPU Jayanna. Nita of Master PU College has topped the Science stream, securing 591 marks, and has also secured second place in the district. S G Anusha of Central Commerce PU College has secured 98.33% and has topped the first place in Commerce stream. Druthi Bhat of St Philomena's College has topped the Arts stream, scoring 575 marks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ii-pu-results-hassan-slips-to-11th-place-from-6th-slot-861240.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Separate hospital for Covid warriors||Arrangements have been made separately at Vikram Hospital for Covid warriors, with infection in Mysuru. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that while on Covid duty, police personnel, healthcare professionals and D group employees have been infected as they have come in contact with Covid positive patients. “The district administration has made arrangements at a private hospital, separately, to treat Covid warriors. The management of Vikram Hospital, with 95 beds, has handed over the facility to the district administration. The hospital has almost all facilities for the treatment,” he said. Besides, doctors and nurses from MAHAN — Mysuru Association of Hospitals, Nursing Homes, Diagnostic Centres and Clinics — have offered to serve infected Covid warriors, free of cost. The Covid warriors need special attention, as they have to care for Covid patients. Thus, this arrangement is made, the DC said. “Vikram Hospital has been readied, with cleaning and minor repairs. It will be ready within a couple of days. Food and other arrangements will be made by the district administration,” he said. Mysuru City Corporation has also readied a separate Covid Care Centre for its employees. Officials said, a guesthouse has been arranged, in association with private hospitals, to take care of MCC staff and civic workers, under isolation. Besides, the MCC is in talks with private hospitals to treat Covid positive patients, without symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/separate-hospital-for-covid-warriors-861241.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya secures 63.82%; retains 21st place||Mandya district retained the 21st slot, securing 63.82% in PU results. Last year, it was 63.08%. Out of 12,602 students appeared for the exam, 8,042 students have passed. In Arts stream, 3,379 students appeared and only 1,314 have passed (38.89%). In Commerce, 4,979 students appeared and 3,431 have passed (68.91%) and in Science stream, out of 4,244 students, 3,297 students have passed (77.69%). Girls outshined boys in Mandya district also. Out of 8,296 girls, 5,274 have passed, with 63.57%. Out of 6,900 boys, only 3,449 have passed with 49.99%. DDPU Guruswamy said, "If the students of Arts stream had worked hard, the district would have been in a better position. Most of the Arts students have failed. The parents should ensure that their children concentrate on studies. The department too will take suitable measures."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-secures-6382-retains-21st-place-861242.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||II PU results: Mysuru region retains same position||Except for Hassan, which slipped to the 11th position, from sixth position in 2019, all districts in Mysuru region have remained in the same positions, with some differences in the overall pass percentage in the PUC results announced on Tuesday. However, among toppers in Commerce combination, a Mysuru girl, J N Brunda of BGS College, Kuvempu Nagar, stands second in the state, with 596 marks, out of a total of 600 marks. In the Science stream, M S Yashas of Gopalaswamy PU College has emerged as state third and Mysuru district topper, with 594 marks. Spandana of Marimallappa’s College, which was once famous for producing many toppers, has scored 582 marks in Arts. While Mysuru has managed to retain the 15th place, with a pass percentage of 67.98%, Chamarajanagar has retained the 12th position with 69.29% and Mandya is stable on its 21st position, with 63.82%. Last year, their overall pass percentage was 68.55%, 72.67% and 63.08% respectively. While the pass percentage of Hassan was 75.19% in 2019, it has dipped to 70.18% this year. However, Hassan has maintained its lead in the region, emerging as the topper at the 11th position. In Hassan, when the results were good in 2019, there was a political tussle, in claiming credit. While members of JD(S), lead by then minister and now MLA H D Revanna, claimed that the results were better due to the efforts of Bhavani Revanna, who is president of Zilla Panchayat Standing Committee on Education, the detractors claimed credit for the officials, including Deputy Commissioner and ZP Chief Executive Officer. Mysuru district, which was in the 14th place in 2017, had slipped drastically to the 17th place in 2018, with 66.77% results. J N Brunda, student of BGS College in Mysuru, second topper in Commerce, with 596 marks, is the daughter of J M Nagesh and Kamala, both farmers at Jagadapura of Channapatna taluk in Ramanagara district. She was in the hostel of BGS College, in Mysuru, for her pre-university education. Speaking to DH, over phone from her home in Jagadapura, she said, she wants to do a course in Chartered Accountancy. “My lecturers inspired me, encouraged and guided me to study in a systematic way, as I come from a rural background. Only in English, I have scored less as the exam was held amidst the Covid anxiety,” she said. M S Yashas of Gopalaswamy PU College, who has emerged as state third topper in Science stream, with 594 marks out of a total of 600, was a SSLC topper with 625 out of 625 marks in 2018. His father Shivamallappa is an office superintendent at JSS Medical College and mother is Chandrakala. Speaking to DH, he said, he is happy with the results, as his concentration was on NEET and he started studying for the PUC exams only in January. “I plan to appear for NEET and do medicine. There was no special method for my studies, but I used to study for four to five hours a day. Besides studies, I used to listen to music and play badminton,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ii-pu-results-mysuru-region-retains-same-position-861243.html
14-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP government looting public money, says D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday targeted the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government over corruption allegations in renting of beds for Covid-19 patients. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was forced to interfere after he found that BBMP officials had not taken his approval for renting bed sets at Covid Care Centres, for which the government had to pay Rs 800 per day. Yediyurappa has asked officials to purchase them instead. “They wanted to make money out of beds and pillows, too. Imagine the loot of public money that must have taken place in the procurement of medical equipment. Will this corruption be possible without the consent of your ministers and officials?” Shivakumar asked Yediyurappa at a news conference, adding that the Congress would “expose the government in stages.” According to sources, Yediyurappa lambasted officials on Monday for “keeping him in the dark” on the decision to rent bed sets despite being the Bengaluru Development Minister. Shivakumar also accused the government of creating a “fearful” atmosphere for private hospitals and doctors. “Instead of threatening them, you should take them into confidence,” he said. The Congress leader said he would visit the Victoria Hospital to “expose” the way patients are being treated there. “They are being given food like dogs. There’s no one to look after them,” he said. “And no one - CM, ministers, deputy commissioners - have visited Covid hospitals. You should go there first and enquire about patients. That will instill confidence in them and the doctors working there,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-government-looting-public-money-says-d-k-shivakumar-861217.html
14-07-2020||Main Article||Crouching Modi, hidden Xi ||As the two-month-long tense and violent stand-off on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China seems to be easing through diplomatic means and as several TV channels gloat over the fact that the Chinese have withdrawn 1.5 km from their earlier position, many questions remain unanswered. Neither the Defence Ministry nor Army Headquarters has informed the country how many kilometres the Chinese had ‘intruded’ into? Perhaps this has become difficult for the Army to state, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the nation with a sense of finality that “no incursion had taken place, nor is there any incursion today, nor has any of our posts been captured”. That makes China’s present withdrawal by 1.5 km even more intriguing!  News channels are now showing that on June 28, Chinese soldiers had occupied and built structures on our side of the LAC but on July 6, those structures and all those trucks had been removed. So, the TV channels, even those peddling the government line, are telling us, “Don’t believe what the PM said, but believe us now!” This is indeed a sorry state of affairs. It’s high time the NSA, Defence Ministry and External Affairs Ministry officials held a joint press conference and told the nation the truth, instead of letting the BJP IT Cell do the job.  When Chinese soldiers killed 20 of our soldiers on June 15, the major occupation of the ruling party and its loyal media channels was to blame the Nehru-Gandhi (Sonia Gandhi) family. Nehru, as usual, was blamed for the fate that has befallen this government for ‘appeasing China’ or for ‘surrendering territory to China’ 60 years ago, while Sonia Gandhi was blamed for diverting funds from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF). Now, an investigation has been ordered into the accounts of RGF and the Indira Gandhi Foundation. This bizarre pre-occupation of the ruling party in demonising Nehru at regular intervals or in talking about corruption of the Congress party seasonally indicates that a huge cover-up is underway. And it’s even more bizarre how the media networks get sucked into this comfort zone of irrelevance. Neither the government nor the Army, nor the media want to tell the nation anything about our biggest skirmish with China since the 1967 clashes at Nathu La and Cho La.  Nobody questions as to whether there was an intelligence failure or when exactly did the Military Intelligence directorate come to know about the massive build-up by the Chinese PLA on their side of the LAC? Was there an incursion by Chinese soldiers on our side, or did we go on to their side? Since when are Indian troops being prevented from patrolling on Finger 4 to Finger 8, north of the Pangong Lake? What is the effect of this territorial loss on Pangong lake? Have we issued an emphatic rebuttal to China’s claim that the entire Galwan Valley belongs to it? Is the withdrawal taking place in all sectors? Is the status quo ante being restored?  The other important question is, why did the Chinese do what they did? Particularly to Prime Minister Modi, who had built up such an excellent rapport with President Xi Jinping in their 18 meetings. Modi should have been able to size up Xi fairly well in all those meetings. What and where did things go wrong? Is this all simply a result of India angering China by building roads and bridges along the LAC?   Modi, Nehru and China Modi was doing what Nehru did 60 years ago, and China has done to him exactly what it did to Nehru. What Nehru did in 1960-61 was to order our Army to set up checkposts on forward areas of the McMahon Line from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh. These posts were set up to show the flag and tell the Chinese soldiers, “here begins Indian territory”. Because of the poor state of our manpower and military power, these posts were thinly spread and poorly armed; nevertheless, they were told to hold the posts as Nehru believed that the Chinese would not attack us for standing on our side of the border.  Now, India is building a proper infrastructure of support for our forward posts. Since 1962, India has built up both manpower and military power that is vastly superior to what it was then. We have positioned the XIV Corps at Nimu in Ladakh, which can provide enormous air and land power to our forward posts. And Modi, too, thought that the Chinese wouldn’t attack us for building roads on our side of the border. Plus, he had the advantage of knowing President Xi very well on a personal level.  Why did China pick up a fight now? One plausible explanation is the creation of Ladakh as a separate Union Territory last August and Home Minister Amit Shah’s declaration that “We will take back both PoK from Pakistan and Aksai Chin from China”. The government then issued a new political map of India in November 2019 showing the new Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh with Aksai Chin as part of the latter. China issued a strong demarche against this new map but Foreign Minister S Jaishankar told Beijing that it was an “internal administrative arrangement and did not alter our international boundaries”. Interestingly, Nepal, too, had protested against this map claiming that it included several territories belonging to it.  Later, as Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long road connecting to the China border at Lipulekh pass, Nepal protested again and initiated action to amend its Constitution to claim territories within Kalapani district and issued a new map showing Lipulekh as its territory.  A new round of cartographic aggression has begun in the region. And in both cases, the bigger neighbour is imposing itself on the smaller one. China seems to have come prepared for the long haul and will bide its time. Modi must realise that summit meetings and personal charm have a limited role in changing either history or geography.  (The writer, a former Cabinet Secretariat official, is presently a Visiting Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/crouching-modi-hidden-xi-860879.html
14-07-2020||Main Article||Count every child, & teach her||Each year in the summer we get a series of examination results from the different Boards of the states that conduct them. The announcements are usually made with some fanfare in a press meet, since the governments declaring the results know that lots of people are paying attention. Announcement days are important events in the life of an Education Department. For the last couple of years, I’ve been paying attention to these press meets and releases. They are a good way to quickly get a sense of how well each state is doing in educating its young citizens. Unfortunately, they’re also quite depressing, because it’s quickly apparent that India is not even giving half of its children a proper school-level education. You’ll not see this admission, however, in the announcements. The typical annual announcement by an Education Department will reveal that about 60-75% of the students who took a particular examination passed it. Take the example of Karnataka’s PUC results. I watched the press meet live on Facebook. About 6.85 lakh students took the exam, and roughly 62% of them passed. Sixty-two. That will give the impression that nearly two-thirds of the children are able to clear school and possibly ready for college or productive work. But the truth is far from that. To understand why, you have to first look at another set of numbers, from the Census of India, and then come back to the Education Department. How many children of school-leaving age (say, 17-year-olds) are there in Karnataka? Given the state’s population and average life expectancy over the years in India, this is reasonably easy to guess. My guess is, at least 11.5 lakh children, possibly as high as 13 lakh. Now, go back to the Education Department’s numbers. The obvious question to ask is, if there are 11.5 lakh children in the state of school-leaving age, why are only 6.85 lakh of them taking the PUC exam? And if only 4.25 lakh of those appearing for the exam are clearing it, is it more accurate to say that the true pass percentage is 40%, and not 62% as reported by the Department? I also observed the rush to publish ‘breaking news’ immediately after the press meet, with some online content appearing even while the meet was still going on. But this is often nothing more than reproduction of the press releases of the government, without checking the facts, or asking if there’s more to a story than what we find in its press release. This is not new, and Karnataka is not alone in doing this. This way of stating results -- without counting those who don’t reach a certain grade level at all -- is common across the country. It gives the wrong impression that we are doing reasonably well (60%+ in most cases), when in fact things are quite bad,with fewer than half our children receiving a fair start in life through education. Why do governments do this? The bland answer could be that the Education Department is only reporting the results of the exam, and in the strictest sense, its numbers are not incorrect. Perhaps. But it should also be noted that the government’s responsibility is to educate all children, and therefore the correct way to measure its performance is by looking at all children, not merely the ones in schools. The difference is not small either, as we see in this case. The number of children who do not reach PUC at all is more than the number who passed this year! Going by those numbers, we should be paying as much attention to 17-year-olds who are not in PUC as we do to all those who are. And yet, there isn’t even a budgetary allocation for their welfare. It’s almost as if we have only a Department of Schools, and not a Department of Education. The distinction makes all the difference to the lives of millions of young children. Clearly, we need a degree of honesty in recognising the problem. But we can’t ignore the politics either. If a minister or the Education Secretary of a state were to announce at a press meet year after year that not even half the children in the state are getting educated, you can imagine what kind of publicity they’d receive for that. But we have to summon the courage to move past that. Close your eyes and picture a young child. One of our children. And think of her future, and what we’re doing to it by accepting that she has a higher than 50% chance of not getting a proper education. By what measure of our own worth can we find that forgivable? This is not a castigation of incumbents. Ministers today have inherited this problem, I realise. But there is one thing they can do -- they can try not to pass it on any further. And there’s a little impetus handy as well. The Covid-19 moment has called a lot of established practices into question and forced people to rethink a lot of things. Education is at the top of that list, with more and more parents asking if we’ve completely lost the plot, bundling day-care and exams into a pale imitation of learning. We must use the crisis to search for a better way, not only for those in schools, but for the equally large number that are not. Fortunately, we are also seeing an explosion of interest in re-imagining schools and also a visible push to create alternatives to schools. This is a chance to end the exclusion that so many children have faced from conventional paths to learning. All of us owe that to the child we see in our mind’s eye. (The writer is an entrepreneur, activist and public thinker)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/count-every-child-teach-her-861289.html
14-07-2020||National||PM reviews progress of Rs 20 lakh cr stimulus package||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took stock of the financial sector which has been hit hard by the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. He also reviewed the progress of a host of measures announced under the Rs 20-lakh crore Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package to stimulate the economy and help the MSME sector and poor sections of society. According to sources, the Prime Minister has been taking review meetings on various aspects of the economy. As part of this exercise, sources said, he had a meeting on the financial sector of the economy which is an important pillar in reviving growth and demand. All the secretaries, including the Finance Secretary, were part of the meeting and more such meetings will take place during the week, sources said. Banks and other financial institutions are implementing the bulk of the measures announced under the Rs 20-lakh crore package. To deal with the Covid crisis, the government announced one of the world's biggest stimulus packages with a focus on the survival of the business and setting a roadmap for the revival of the economy. The five-part stimulus package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman beginning May 13 comprised Rs 5.94 lakh crore in the first tranche that provided credit line to small businesses and support to shadow banks and electricity distribution companies. The second tranche included free foodgrain to stranded migrant workers for two months and credit to farmers, totalling Rs 3.10 lakh crore. Spending on agri infrastructure and other measures for agriculture and allied sectors in the third tranche totalled to Rs 1.5 lakh crore. The fourth and fifth tranches that dealt mostly with structural reforms including relaxation of foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in defence, privatisation of six more airports, and fully opening up coal mining to the private sector. As a result of all these measures, green shoots are visible in the economy which is expected to contract by 4.5 per cent during the current fiscal. Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that the economy is showing "green shoots" as the country emerges from the coronavirus lockdown and underscored the importance of being focussed on both life and livelihood.  While addressing chief ministers and Lt Governors of 21 states and union territories, Modi had said the danger of the virus is not over yet, and there was a need to remain vigilant while opening up the economy. Although a pickup in economic activity has been seen, full recovery remains a major challenge as industries are functioning with lower capacities. Fresh lockdown measures announced by some states due to spurt in Covid cases have thrown up new challenges. The government has already rationalised its expenditure for the first two-quarters of this fiscal, compressing all non-essential expenditures of ministries and asking departments and ministries not to initiate any new scheme in the current financial year stating that there is a need to use resources prudently in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. The revenue collections have also been lower, with GST collections for the April-June quarter declining by 41 per cent compared to the previous year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-reviews-progress-of-rs-20-lakh-cr-stimulus-package-860896.html
14-07-2020||National||Real-time data key to fighting Covid-19: Kant||Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Monday said real-time data would be key in fighting coronavirus, as it helps in contact tracing which is essential for preventing further spread of the disease. Speaking at India Policy Forum 2020, organised by NCAER, Kant said government should actively put data in public domain as debate and discussions would help in taking right policy decisions. "Data on a real-time basis is very critical. We have been working for last year-and-half and our experience is that real-time data is really the key. "In corona times this becomes even more important...My belief is that it will be very difficult to handle Covid-19 without huge amounts of increased testing and without contact tracing," he said. The Aarogya Setu app developed in Niti Aayog with participation of private sector is being used to detect Covid-19 hotspots and device strategy across the country, he added. He said the app was conceptualised and developed with private sector, but the basic intention throughout was use of data science and contact tracing in a big way. He said a lot of data is also being used in managing reopening of the economy. Stressing that data would also be critical in the post-pandemic world, Kant said various public-private partnership (PPP) data initiatives are being undertaken. He also informed that Niti Aayog is working on a National Data and Analytics Platform which will democratise data across the government.  Stating that the government should actively put out data before the public and academics, Kant said "that is the only way we will be able to make right policy decisions". Later, delivering the second T N Srinivasan Memorial Lecture, Pronab Sen, Program Director, International Growth Centre (IGC) India, suggested that the government should take decisions with speed to deal with the crisis of unprecedented nature as "wait and watch could be a bad strategy." At the moment, the government could rely on models based on available data and approximations, he said, adding that "corrections can be done later." Given the magnitude of the current crisis, he said, it would not be possible to estimate consumption and investment patterns in the days to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/real-time-data-key-to-fighting-covid-19-kant-860904.html
14-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 14||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 9 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 9,33,073 as of July 14 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 24,136   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 5,34,621 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-14-860908.html
14-07-2020||National||DH toon: Congress’s young leaders are seeking greener pastures, is leadership to blame?||Months after Congress lost Madhya Pradesh, a political thriller is being played out in Rajasthan where Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot are fighting a battle for political supremacy. Tension has been brewing in the Rajasthan Congress since Gehlot assumed the chair of Chief Minister with the central leadership giving the handle of power to the veteran leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-congress-s-young-leaders-are-seeking-greener-pastures-is-leadership-to-blame-860911.html
14-07-2020||National||Kendriya Vidyalayas record 98.62 pass percentage in CBSE Class 12 results||The Kendriya Vidyalayas had a pass percentage of 98.62 in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 results announced on Monday, which is their best performance till now, according to a statement. They have stood second among different categories of schools affiliated to the CBSE and have slightly increased their pass percentage from last year's figure of 98.54 percent, the statement issued by the Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) Sangathan said. Alisha P Shaji, a commerce student of KV Kadavanthara, Cochin, Kerala, and Abhijith T R, a science student of KV Kanjikode, Kerala, has secured 99.8 percent by scoring 499 out of 500 marks. As many as 68,099 students from Kendriya Vidyalayas took the exams and 67,161 students have passed. The total number of boys who passed the exam are 34,646 while the number of girls who passed the exam stood at 32,515. There are 1,011 Kendriya Vidyalayas and 620 schools have had 100 percent result, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kendriya-vidyalayas-record-9862-pass-percentage-in-cbse-class-12-results-860914.html
14-07-2020||National||Pakistan passes resolution condemning alleged human rights violation in Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistan's National Assembly on Monday unanimously passed a resolution against the alleged human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir. The resolution, moved by Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Ali Muhammad Khan, also expressed the resolve to extend diplomatic and political support to the Kashmiris. India has told Pakistan that the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and shall continue to be an integral part of India. Issues related to Jammu and Kashmir are internal matter to India. The House called upon the United Nations and the international community to play their role in resolving the Kashmir issue. Prime Minister Imran Khan also took to Twitter to express his solidarity with the people of Kashmir. Separately, the Foreign Office in a statement said Pakistan would continue to support the Kashmiri people. Pakistan has been unsuccessfully trying to drum up international support against India for withdrawing Jammu and Kashmir's special status on August 5 last year and bifurcating it into two union territories. India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-passes-resolution-condemning-alleged-human-rights-violation-in-jammu-and-kashmir-860915.html
14-07-2020||National||Coronavirus: Police levy fines as people flout mask regulations||Indian police are having a field day handing out fines to people who do not wear a mask during the coronavirus pandemic. Many people just cannot get used to the accessory, which has come to symbolise the new normal, having been made compulsory in most big cities. New Delhi shared-ride driver Munish Tiwari said he had received two tickets for Rs 500 fines since taxis got back on the road a month ago, which had wiped out a day's earnings. "It is just not comfortable and I cannot breathe when I have to wear it," he said. "I have to wear it when there are passengers, but as soon as the door closes and they are gone, normally I take it off. I am easy prey for the police." Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently chided the country's 1.3 billion people for being "careless" about social distancing. Offenders in cities across India tell similar stories to Tiwari's. India has almost 880,000 virus cases and more than 23,000 dead, and experts say the peak is still weeks away. But both rich and poor say they feel awkward or uncomfortable covering up their face. Masks hanging from people's ears -- or not covering their nose -- are a familiar sight on the streets. Many wear no mask at all. Delhi police say they have issued more than 42,000 fines since March -- 792 on Sunday alone -- to people not wearing masks or flouting other social distancing rules. Police across India have reaped hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines, which range from Rs 200 in Bangalore to Rs 1,000 in Mumbai. Bangalore police chief Hemant Nimbalkar announced on Twitter last week that his force had collected mask fines worth approximately Rs 1 crore in one month. "We are not at all proud of this feat," he said, appealing for greater respect for social distancing as cases surge in the southern city. In Firozabad, in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, offenders escape a fine but have to attend a four-hour class on social distancing and write 500 times "A mask has to be worn". But the message is still hard to get across. Harish Kumar, an artist who sells religious souvenirs outside a Hyderabad temple, said that being overweight already made breathing difficult for him and wearing a mask exacerbated that. "When I am in my shop I take off the mask and when I go out I wear it," he said. On one Hyderabad street, AFP came across teacher Sunitha Michael with her mask clenched between her teeth. Her excuse was that she had just finished a phone conversation. "Quite frankly, I hate having to wear a mask as it is exhausting, but I have to comply with the guidelines," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-police-levy-fines-as-people-flout-mask-regulations-860994.html
14-07-2020||National||CBSE 10th Result 2020 to be declared on July 15||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will declare the class 10 results on July 15, it announced on Tuesday. The board had on Monday announced the results for class 12. However, there was no prior intimation about the result declaration. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' also took to Twitter to share the update and wish luck to the students. "My dear Children, Parents, and Teachers, the results of class X CBSE board examinations will be announced tomorrow. I wish all the students best of luck," he said. The board will announce the results through an alternative assessment scheme after it cancelled remaining exams in wake of COVID-19 pandemic. While class 12 exams were rescheduled to be held in July in all parts of the country, class 10 exams were rescheduled only in North East Delhi which was affected by riots in March. However, later all exams were cancelled following spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-10th-result-2020-to-be-declared-on-july-15-860997.html
14-07-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi predicts India's coronavirus tally will cross 10 lakh-mark this week||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the total number of coronavirus cases in the country will cross the 10 lakh-mark this week. "This week, the figure of 10,00,000 will be crossed in our country," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi also tagged a news report quoting the WHO chief who had said that if concrete steps were not taken, the coronavirus situation in the world would turn from bad to worse. The World Health Organisation (WHO) chief on Monday slammed some government leaders for eroding public trust by sending mixed messages on coronavirus and warned that their failure to stop their countries' spiraling outbreaks meant there would be no return to normal for the foreseeable future. With 28,498 fresh cases recorded in a day, India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past nine lakh on Tuesday, just three days after it crossed the eight lakh-mark, according to the Union health ministry data. The total coronavirus caseload in the country surged to 9,06,752 and the death toll mounted to 23,727 with 553 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am on Tuesday showed. Gandhi had on Monday questioned the Centre’s claims on battling Covid-19, asking if India was at a "good position" in the battle against the virus. He has been critical of the government's handling of the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-predicts-indias-coronavirus-tally-will-cross-10-lakh-mark-this-week-860999.html
14-07-2020||National||Modi’s fuel price hikes putting the brakes on India’s economic recovery||By Debjit Chakraborty and Saket Sundria Dilip Lamba, who owns a transport company in Jodhpur in western India, has had more than three-quarters of his fleet of 50 trucks idling for months. Dharampal Nambardar, a farmer who grows wheat and mustard seed in Haryana state, is worried he might not make any profit this year. The main source of their anxiety is not Covid-19, however, but rather a surge in fuel prices. The central government has hiked import and excise taxes twice this year even as it imposed the world’s biggest coronavirus lockdown. Retail prices for diesel -- the lifeblood of India’s economy -- in the capital New Delhi have jumped 30% since the end of April, while gasoline has risen 16%. “Diesel makes up almost 70% of our operating costs,” said Lamba, whose company carries everything from cotton to cement to leather goods all over India. “Higher diesel prices means higher freight charges. But customers aren’t ready for it and we can’t absorb the costs.” New Delhi raised levies on diesel and gasoline in March and then again in early May as the coronavirus battered the economy. There’s been a staggering fivefold increase in taxes on diesel since 2014 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power, while those on gasoline have more than doubled. Taxes on the two fuels now account for almost two-third’s of what Indians pay at the pump, making retail prices among the highest in Asia and almost double that in neighboring Pakistan. The recovery in global crude prices, meanwhile, has boosted Indian fuel costs even further in the last few months. The high prices are adding another headwind to an economy facing the biggest contraction in four decades. Diesel powers India’s trucking fleet, which carries two-third of the country’s freight, and is also essential for construction and agriculture. Gasoline, meanwhile, fills the tanks of millions of motorbikes ridden by lower-income Indians. “While pump prices across the world have mostly followed the drop in oil prices since last year, India is an exception,” said Senthil Kumaran, a senior oil analyst at industry consultant FGE. “It’s unusual to see such a steep increase in the taxes on diesel, as the fuel is deemed to be a driver of economic growth, especially in rural areas.” There appears to be little chance that Prime Minister Modi will take steps to curb the rising diesel and gasoline prices even as global crude prices recover. This year’s fuel levy increases are expected to generate about $30 billion a year in revenue for the government, according to Bloomberg Intelligence, at a time when coffers are being squeezed by less income and sales tax and higher spending on welfare programs. “The tax hike in early May is turning into a wider cost-push supply shock, reinforced by a rebound in global crude oil prices,” Abhishek Gupta, India economist at Bloomberg Economics, said in a note. That’s likely to push up inflation over the next few months, he said. With industrial production still fragile as Covid-19 continues to spread in India, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s prediction last month that fuel demand will be back to pre-virus levels by September is looking tough to achieve. There’s already evidence that the high prices are curbing demand. Provisional fuel sales in June show that while India’s overall consumption of petroleum products was 8% lower than a year earlier, diesel and gasoline consumption were down 15% and 14%, respectively. “The cost of operations has increased exorbitantly and small truck operators are unable to pass it on to the consumers because demand is low,” said Kultaran Singh Atwal, chairman of the All India Motor Transport Congress, the largest such grouping in the country. Almost half of India’s truck fleet is still idle, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-s-fuel-price-hikes-putting-the-brakes-on-india-s-economic-recovery-861007.html
14-07-2020||National||NGT wants government to notify ban on RO purifiers by year-end||The National Green Tribunal Tuesday directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to issue by the year-end a notification banning RO purifiers where total dissolved solids (TDS) in water are below 500 milligrams per litre. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel granted more time to MoEF after it informed the tribunal that the exercise could not be completed due to coronavirus pandemic. "Even after one year, further extension of time has been sought by MoEF on the ground of lock-down. Let necessary action be now completed positively by December 31, 2020," the bench said. The NGT had earlier said the delay in compliance with its order is causing harm to public health and environment and it be complied with expeditiously. The Ministry had in January sought four months for executing the NGT order. The MoEF in its plea had said that for effective compliance of the order four months are required -- two for wide circulation of draft notification for inviting comments, and two for incorporation of comments, finalisation of notification and obtaining approval from Ministry of Law and Justice. The matter is listed for next hearing on January 25. The NGT had on the last date of hearing slammed the ministry for the delay in issuing the notification and warned the officer concerned of stopping his salary. The tribunal had earlier said its order was based on a report of an expert committee, which also comprised a representative of the MoEF, and is enforceable without permission of any other authority with penal consequences. In a bid to regulate the use of RO purifiers, the NGT had directed the government to prohibit them where TDS is below 500 mg per litre and to sensitise the public about the ill-effects of demineralised water. The tribunal has also asked the government to make it mandatory to recover more than 60 percent water wherever RO is permitted across the country. TDS is made up of inorganic salts as well as small amounts of organic matter. As per a WHO study, TDS levels below 300 mg per litre are considered to be excellent, while 900 mg per litre is said to be poor and above 1200 mg is unacceptable. Reverse Osmosis (RO) is a water treatment process that removes contaminants from water by using pressure to force molecules through a semipermeable membrane. The order had come after perusing an expert committee report which said that if TDS is less than 500 milligrams per litre, a RO system will not be useful but will result in removing important minerals as well as cause undue wastage of water. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by NGO Friends seeking conservation of potable water by preventing its wastage on account of unnecessary use of RO systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-wants-government-to-notify-ban-on-ro-purifiers-by-year-end-861010.html
14-07-2020||National||Rajasthan BJP leaders discuss Congress crisis, meeting underway in Jaipur||Amid the ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan, opposition BJP leaders on Tuesday met here to discuss the current situation in the state. A meeting has started at the BJP state office here in which party national joint general secretary V Satish, BJP state president Satish Poonia, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore are present. "The leaders are discussing the current political situation in the state," the party sources said. The ruling Congress is facing a crisis after rebellion by Sachin Pilot and dissident MLAs. Pilot was sacked as Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister and as President of the state unit of the party. Pilot has been upset since he was denied the Rajasthan chief minister's post after the December 2018 assembly elections. Pilot and his supporters claimed to have the backing of 30 Congress MLAs and some independents. The Ashok Gehlot camp has claimed that 109 MLAs, both of the Congress and others, are in support of the government. In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-bjp-leaders-discuss-congress-crisis-meeting-underway-in-jaipur-861041.html
14-07-2020||National||Prisoners stitch 7,000 masks to battle coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir||Superintendent of district Jail Kathua, Mushtaq Ahmed Malla said under the ‘PARWAH’ initiative, authorities have undertaken several welfare measures to imbibe the spirit of care and belonging among the inmates as well as the jail staff. “Initially, the team used to make 30-40 masks per day, but now they are preparing 400 masks per day. The cost of each reusable mask is Rs 15 which is quite less than the available variants in the market,” he said and added that 7,000 masks have been supplied to the district administration. The jail authorities are also planning to put up a sale point outside the prison to upscale sales. “The move will not only encourage inmates, but would also provide more wage earning opportunities for them,” he added. Malla informed that lack of resources including an insufficient number of sewing machines and raw material for making masks, did not stop the staff and inmates from their resolve to contribute their bit in times of crisis. “The jail staff arranged sewing machines from their homes which shows their spirit and enthusiasm for the cause,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prisoners-stitch-7000-masks-to-battle-coronavirus-in-jammu-and-kashmir-861043.html
14-07-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Delhi HC, district courts' functioning restricted till July 31||Earlier, the high court had restricted its functioning and that of the district courts till July 15. The Administrative and General Supervision Committee of the high court, headed by Chief Justice D N Patel, decided that the restriction would be in place till July 31, the Registrar General's (RG) office said. It also said that presently, on account of suspended functioning of the court, urgent matters of all kinds, as well as regular and final category matters, are being taken up through video conferencing by all benches of the high court with judges hearing matters from their respective residences only. There are presently seven division benches and 18 single-judge benches in the high court.   The RG's office also said that after the inauguration of the online e-filing system in the high court on June 13, 10,480 lawyers and litigants in persons got themselves registered for e-filing. It also said that the litigants and lawyers can also keep track of matters being heard via video conferencing on a particular day through the online display board and a provision has been put in place to enable public viewing of hearings. Besides that, around 9,000 matters have been taken up by the high court through video conferencing from the beginning of the lockdown till July 10 and 1,824 main cases and 7,692 miscellaneous applications have been disposed of during this period. The high court also held over 230 administrative meetings via video conferencing during this period. Regarding the functioning of the subordinate courts, the RG's office said directions have been issued to all judicial officers in the Delhi District Courts to take up urgent matters and final arguments cases of their respective courts through video conferencing.  In district courts, 48,720 matters have been taken up through video conferencing from March 24 to July 10, it said and added that besides pronouncement of judgments in around 1,600 cases, more than 21,000 miscellaneous applications have been disposed of by subordinate courts. The RG's office also said that the Administrative and General Supervision Committee of the high court has now permitted the physical filing of non-urgent/ordinary matters with the stipulation that such matters be taken up for hearing after normal functioning resumes. Earlier, the High Court had on March 25 restricted its function as well as that of the district courts till April 14. It was subsequently extended to May 3, May 17, May 23, May 31, June 14 and July 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-hc-district-courts-functioning-restricted-till-july-31-861044.html
14-07-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Prepare database of children who left local areas, HRD Ministry asks states, UTs||The HRD Ministry on Tuesday issued guidelines to states and union territories regarding education of migrant workers' children who have returned home during the Covid-19 pandemic, asking them to ensure that their names are not struck off the school rolls. The states have been asked to prepare a database of children who have left the local area for their homes in other states or other parts of the same state. Such children should be noted in the database as "migrated" or "temporarily unavailable", the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) said. "Such a database may be prepared by each school by personally contacting parents or guardians of all children studying in their school, through phone, WhatsApp, neighbours or peer groups. Their tentative place of stay during this period may also be noted. Such children, who have left, may be shown separately in enrolment as temporarily unavailable or migrated. "While all care must be taken to ensure that their names are not struck off the rolls (as the possibility of their return anytime is always there), their numbers may be reported class-wise to the Directorate of Education to compensate for any input costs to be incurred by the school such as mid-day meals, distribution of textbooks and uniforms if not already completed," the HRD Ministry said in its guidelines. The ministry has suggested the state government may direct all schools to give admission to any child who has recently returned to village without asking for any other documents, except for some identity proof. "They should not ask for transfer certificates or proof of class attended earlier. The information provided by the child's parents may be assumed to be correct and taken as such for giving admission to the child in the relevant class in his or her neighbourhood government or government-aided school," the guidelines said. The lockdown announced on March 24 to contain the spread of coronavirus threw economic activities out of gear, rendering many homeless and penniless and leading to an exodus of migrants to their home states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-prepare-database-of-children-who-left-local-areas-hrd-ministry-asks-states-uts-861068.html
14-07-2020||National||India's tech hub, other towns back in lockdown as coronavirus infections surge||India's high-tech hub of Bengaluru will go back into a coronavirus lockdown for a week on Tuesday after a surge of infections, threatening to derail government efforts to revive a stuttering economy. Places of worship, public transport, government offices and most shops will shut down again from the evening, and people will be confined to their homes, only allowed out for essential needs. Schools, colleges and restaurants will stay shut, authorities said. Bengaluru, home to some of the world's biggest IT companies, such as Infosys, had only about 1,000 novel coronavirus cases in mid-June and was seen to have done better than other parts of the India in terms of testing and contact tracing. But the number has grown to nearly 20,000 as of Monday, which health experts blamed on the lifting of restrictions in June, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government, worried about the economy, ended a nationwide lockdown that had thrown millions out of work. Bengaluru began seeing a surge in infections from late June as both testing and people's movements picked up, Hephsiba Korlapati, a senior official in the city's Covid-19 response team, told Reuters. In all, India has 906,752 cases of the novel coronavirus with 28,498 new infections reported on Tuesday, according to data from the federal health ministry, the third highest total in the world behind Brazil and the United States. While cases in the main cities of Mumbai and Delhi account for most of the tally, infections are picking up in smaller cities, forcing authorities to re-impose curbs. The western city of Pune, which is also an industrial and tech hub, began a 10-day shutdown on Monday while cities as far flung as Shillong in the remote northeast to Srinagar, the main city of Kashmir in the north, imposed new curbs on movements to contain the virus. The curbs raised questions about prospects for India's growth, Japan's biggest brokerage and investment bank, Nomura, said in a note. "We also find growing evidence that after the initial normalisation in activity, mobility trends have started to plateau and fall lately," Nomura said. "This implies that growth could remain below pre-pandemic peaks for a prolonged period of time," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-tech-hub-other-towns-back-in-lockdown-as-coronavirus-infections-surge-861074.html
14-07-2020||National||SC seeks status report on plea alleging financial assistance for pregnant, lactating women stopped during lockdown||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Union government to file a status report on a plea contending Rs 6,000 sanctioned for pregnant and lactating women under Janani Suraksha Yojna had stopped during the period of lockdown. Janani Suraksha Yojana (JSY) is a safe motherhood National Rural Health Mission that provides financial assistance for delivery and postnatal care. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna issued notice to the Centre on a plea made by the Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL). Senior Advocate Colin Gonsalves submitted that the issue was important due to child and women mortality rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-status-report-on-plea-alleging-financial-assistance-for-pregnant-lactating-women-stopped-during-lockdown-861076.html
14-07-2020||National||Parliamentary panels on Home, Labour to discuss Covid-19 related issues on Wednesday||With Parliamentary Standing Committees starting deliberations from the first week of July, the Covid-19 situation is coming up for discussion before more and more multi-party panels with the one on Home Affairs taking up the pandemic for discussion on Wednesday. However, a meeting of Standing Committee of Labour, scheduled for Wednesday to discuss Covid-19 related matters, was deferred to July 20 after its Chairman Bhartruhari Mahtab went into self quarantine after a Parliament Secretariat staff tested positive for Covid-19. Mahtab had attended a meeting of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on July 10 in which the Parliament staff attended, prompting the BJD leader to go into self quarantine and deferring the scheduled deliberations. The Standing Committee on Home Affairs headed by Congress Deputy Leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma will get a briefing from Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on the 'Management of Covid-19 pandemic and coordination with State Governments, phased unlocking, resumption of economic activities, inter-state movement of people and goods and state of preparedness'. The panel on Labour will hear the top officials of the Ministry of Labour and Employment on the changes made in labour laws by several state governments during the Covid-19 lockdown, which had attracted criticism from various sections. The committee will also seek clarifications from the officials about the impact the pandemic had on migrant labourers. The Home panel’s meeting comes five days after the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology headed by senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh met to discuss the "preparedness to deal with Covid-19 and other pandemics in future". Top government officials told the panel that a vaccine for the virus infection would take at least a year to be available for treatment. On August 4, the Standing Committee on Health headed by senior Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav would be meeting for a briefing from the Health Secretary on the status of 'Outbreak of pandemic Covid-19 and related Contingent and Mitigation Plan'. However, the attempt by Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairperson Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary to take up discussions on Covid-19 and utilisation of PM-CARES funds did not succeed as BJP MPs stone-walled the suggestion citing rules. The Parliamentary panels have not been since the lockdown on March 25. An earlier meeting of the Home panel scheduled on June 3 to discuss Covid-19 and lockdown was postponed after several MPs expressed their inability to attend the meeting due to quarantine measures taken by respective states. The demand for conducting the panel meeting through online had been raised but the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha Secretariat have made it clear that for such changes, the Parliament has to first adopt a resolution. Concerns about confidentiality of the proceedings were also raised. Panel heads like Sharma, Ramesh, Mahtab and Shashi Tharoor (Information and Technology) had also repeatedly demanded for allowing meetings through video conference. Senior DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran has written to Sharma that it would be difficult for him to attend the meeting if the quarantine restrictions are applicable to him on his return to Tamil Nadu. He had demanded a virtual meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panels-on-home-labour-to-discuss-covid-19-related-issues-on-wednesday-861083.html
14-07-2020||National||Bois Locker Room: HC gives last chance to Centre to reply on plea for removal of such groups||The Delhi High Court Tuesday granted last opportunity to the Centre for replying to a plea seeking directions to it to ensure that social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram remove groups such as 'Bois Locker Room', "for the safety and security of children". A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon directed that replies be filed by the ministries of home affairs, IT and finance within four weeks. While Facebook has already filed its reply, the court also asked Google and Twitter to file their responses within four weeks and listed the matter for September 16. “The respondents are directed to file their counter affidavits in four weeks positively. If they fail to file it in four weeks, no further opportunity will be granted to file the replies,” the bench said. The order came on the application moved by former RSS ideologue K N Govindacharya "highlighting the unlawful nature of illegal groups" like 'Bois Locker Room'. The court had earlier in May asked the Centre and social media platforms to respond to the application. When Advocate Virag Gupta, appearing for Govindacharya, submitted that the application be heard today itself, the court said it was of the view that the main petition itself should be heard and no purpose would be served in hearing the petition and application separately. "Due to the negativity, fake news and illegal content many young lives are destroyed. Such groups are criminal in nature and do not deserve any protection of free or creative speech," Gupta had earlier argued. The plea, filed through advocate Gaurav Pathak, further contended that "the incident of 'bois locker room' on Instagram shows one of the vilest forms of social media". Govindacharya, in his plea, has further claimed that most of such groups are focused on pornography, nudity, graphic violent content, rave parties and other topics which are illegal and against community standards. The application has also contended that most of the content on such groups are also in violation of terms of agreements of social media companies like Instagram, Facebook, Snapchat and TikTok. However, they take no steps to remove such groups, it further claimed. It further said that during the Covid-19 lockdown, the world moved online and invariably, with increased access to the internet, more and more minors have joined social media, and this includes children who are less than 13 years of age. "It is most humbly submitted that it is our collective responsibility to ensure a safe cyberspace for our children," the application has said. The application was filed in Govindacharya's main petition seeking removal of fake news and hate speech being circulated on social media and online platforms like Facebook, Twitter and Google. The petition has alleged that social media platforms “have become a haven for hate speech” and in the absence of details of designated officers, there is “no clear mechanism to enforce justice”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bois-locker-room-hc-gives-last-chance-to-centre-to-reply-on-plea-for-removal-of-such-groups-861094.html
14-07-2020||National||SC refuses parole for self-styled Godman Rampal, serving life term in murder cases||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to grant parole to self-styled Godman Rampal from Haryana, who is undergoing life imprisonment in murder cases. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna dismissed the plea of Rampal seeking parole to attend the wedding of his granddaughter, scheduled for Wednesday. On October 17, 2018, engineer-turned self-styled godman Rampal and his 13 followers were sentenced to life imprisonment in a second case of murder registered at Barwala police station in the Hisar district of Haryana on November 19, 2014. Rampal and his followers were convicted under charges of murder, wrongful confinement of people and criminal conspiracy. A woman was found dead at Rampal's Ashram in Hisar district on November 19, 2014. Rampal was arrested the same day for murder and other charges were slapped on him. He was also sentenced for life in another case of murder on October 16, 2018, involving the death of four women and a child at the Hisar ashram on November 18, 2014. On October 11, 2018. Rampal and some of his followers had been convicted in two separate cases of murder and other offences, including wrongful confinement of his victims at his Ashram in Hisar. He and his followers since their arrest in November, 2014, were convicted after nearly a four-year trial by the lower court in Haryana in 2018. The two murder cases against Rampal and his followers were filed at Barwala police station on November 19, 2014. Besides the murder charges, the Barwala police had also invoked the offence of wrongful confinement, among others, in the two FIRs. In November 2014, as the police arrested Rampal, holed up inside his ashram, his followers and devotees, numbering more than 15,000, surrounded the sprawling 12-acre hermitage to prevent the godman's arrest. Six persons — five women and an infant — were killed in the ensuing violence. Before becoming a self-styled godman, Rampal worked as a junior engineer in a Haryana government department for 15 years before quitting in May 1995. He later set up an Ashram in Barwala area in Hisar district and another one in Rohtak district and gradually gained popularity as a spiritual leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-parole-for-self-styled-godman-rampal-serving-life-term-in-murder-cases-861095.html
14-07-2020||National||Covid-19: MoS PMO, two other BJP leaders go into self quarantine||Minister of State for PMO Dr Jitendra Singh and senior BJP leader Ram Madhav on Wednesday went into self quarantine after Jammu and Kashmir BJP president tested positive for Covid-19 while BJP MP Rajiv Chandrasekhar also took the step after a Parliament staff contracted the virus infection. Singh and Raina had travelled together from Srinagar to Bandipora on July 12. "Have gone into self quarantine with immediate effect from 4 PM today after receiving the news about Corona positive test of Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina, who had accompanied us from Srinagar to Bandipora on July 12," Singh tweeted. Madhav tweeted, "I am quarantining myself for a few days since my colleague and BJP J&K President Ravinder Raina tested positive ve for Corona today and was with him 48 hours ago in Srinagar. I tested negative for Corona four times during travel in last two weeks. Yet taking precautions to ensure safety of me and others." Chandrasekhar, an MP from Karnataka, had attended a meeting of Public Accounts Committee headed by Congress' Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on July 10. "Ok. So I came to Delhi. Attended Parliamentary Committee meeting on July 10. Turns out one staff of Committee Secretariat has tested Covid positive today. So I am headed to seven days quarantine," he tweeted. Responding to Chandrasekhar's tweet, senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh responded, "sorry to hear about this Rajeev. take care. this means you will not make it for the committee on data security on July 17 that has been called at three days notice? Around 15 MPs, including Chowdhury, BJD's Bhartruhari Mahtab (BJD), Jayant Sinha (BJP), Sukhendu Shekhar Roy (Trinamool Congress) and Bhupender Yadav (BJP) had attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-mos-pmo-two-other-bjp-leaders-go-into-self-quarantine-861101.html
14-07-2020||National||Road Transport Ministry asks states not to insist on registrations, DLs for road building equipment||The Union Road Transport Ministry has asked states to not to insist upon registration or driving licence for road building and rehabilitation equipments and heavy earth moving machinery. The Ministry also clarified that the heavy road making machinery is not a motor vehicle, and is not covered under Motor Vehicle Act. In a letter addressed to the Transport departments of all the states, the Ministry has informed that it has received a number of representations regarding road building and rehabilitation equipment, wherein concern regarding registration of cold recycling machines and soil stabilization machine (road building and rehabilitation equipment) under Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR), 1989 has been raised. The representation regarding Heavy Earth Moving Machineries (HEMM) - wherein concern regarding registration of HEMM equipment and their operation has been raised. HEMM such as Dumpers, Payloaders, Shovels, Drill Master, Bulldozers, Motor Grader and Rock breakers are also categorised as "off the road" operated and maintained within mine boundary under sole management, supervision and control of Mines Manager and never used outside mine boundary, the Ministry said in a statement. The dumpers, payloaders, shovels, soil stablizers drill master, bulldozers, motor grader and rock breakers are not covered under the definition of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and may not be insisted for registration under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, the Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-transport-ministry-asks-states-not-to-insist-on-registrations-dls-for-road-building-equipment-861104.html
14-07-2020||National||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, a movement to save street food||In a multi-country effort to save the many street food vendors affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the South Asian Association for Gastronomy (SAAG) has launched the campaign to #savestreetfood across India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh. SAAG, a think tank drawn from across South Asia, has an annual platform called “The Food For Thought Fest”, which is India’s only international gastronomy platform. SAAG is a collective of hospitality industry professionals, food scholars and policy influencers from South Asian nations who believe in promoting regional unity through culinary diversity. In an effort to save livelihoods, as well as the immense contribution to local culture and flavour contributed by the millions of street food vendors across these countries, SAAG has brought this campaign together to form a charter for the way forward. There are 3 million street food vendors in India alone, and this number grows exponentially across in other countries as well. All of them have been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, lockdowns and the paucity of customers and tourism currently, forcing many to close down their ventures and return to their villages. In a press statement, Maneesh Baheti, Director & Co-Founder SAAG, said: “Our campaign hopes to offer a safe passage for street food vendors though these troubles times, till the government can step in. We have taken feedback from our partner countries, where the situation is similar to India. The need right now is to create an effort that not only gets these vendors back on their feet, but also helps them navigate a post-Covid-19 world where they can do business in a more credible and hygienic manner.” In this need of the hour, #savestreetfood will work on a multi-country effort to help street vendors survive this pandemic, by creating opportunities for financial support. Post the same, the charter ahead will work with the government on offering a certification to every single street food vendor in India. The certification will entail basic training in hygiene and protocols to be followed in the preparation, dispensing and disposal of food. FSSAI already has experience in rolling this out with National Association of Street Vendors of India (NAVSI) but for a deeper penetration , FSSAI needs to tie up with organisations that are focused on training whether from the private sector or NGOs. Once this is done, the word of mouth awareness and success for initial sign-ups will prompt greater participation from all street food vendors, as they come under a more organised body. This has tremendous potential for generating livelihoods and offering semi-skilled people with recourse to earn money from a profession that has a low entry barrier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-pandemic-a-movement-to-save-street-food-861111.html
14-07-2020||National||Railways introduces handsfree amenities, plasma air purification, other features for post Covid-19 travel||To ensure safe travel during post Covid-19 period, the Indian Railways has introduced several features in new coaches, which including foot-operated soap dispensers and toilet flushes, new door handles and handrails coated with anti-microbial copper. The Railway Coach Factory in Kapurthala rolled out first two coaches with new features on Tuesday which also including fixtures coated with titanium dioxide and provision for plasma air equipment in AC ducts to sterilise interiors using ionised air, said railway officials here. "Future Ready Railway: Designed to fight Coronavirus, Railways creates 1st Post Covid Coach' with handsfree amenities, copper-coated handrails & latches, plasma air purification, Titanium di-oxide coating. "For Covid-Free passenger journey!," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. Future Ready Railway: Designed to fight Coronavirus, Railways creates 1st ‘Post COVID Coach’ with: ▪️Handsfree amenities▪️Copper-coated handrails & latches▪️Plasma air purification▪️Titanium di-oxide coating For COVID-Free passenger journey! The other new features including foot-operated fixtures including taps, lavatory doors, flush valves and door latches. Outside the toilet is a wash basin with a foot operated tap forearm. Besides, the compartment doors have handles operated with forearms. The Railways has also installed copper coated handrails and latches as copper degrades the virus which lands on it within a few hours, the booklet said. The nano structured titanium dioxide coating is another special feature. The coating will kill viruses, bacteria, mould, and fungal growth and most importantly enhances indoor air quality, the railways said. The coating which has effective life of 12 months, has been applied on washbasins, lavatory, seats and berths, snack table, glass window, floor, virtually every contact surface.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-introduces-handsfree-amenities-plasma-air-purification-other-features-for-post-covid-19-travel-861118.html
14-07-2020||National||From foot operated flushes to ionised AC air, Railways customises coaches for post-Covid-19 times||From foot-operated soap dispensers and toilet flushes to door handles maneuvered with the forearm and handrails coated with anti-microbial copper, the Railways’ new coaches for post corona travel launched on Tuesday come packed with features to help stave off infection. The first two coaches that rolled out from the Railway Coach Factory in Kapurthala also have fixtures coated with titanium dioxide and the provision for plasma air equipment in AC ducts to sterilise interiors using ionised air, officials said. Giving details of the two coaches, one air-conditioned and other non-air conditioned, they said the use of hands to navigate washrooms and other parts has been brought down to a minimum, making them “almost hands-free”. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal also indicated that the new coaches could be the new normal. Post-COVID Coach 🚋: Indian Railways creates a unique coach, with design improvements, to curb the spread of COVID-19 and ensure a safe passenger journey. "Future Ready Railway: Designed to fight Coronavirus, Railways creates 1st ‘Post Covid Coach’ with handsfree amenities, copper-coated handrails & latches, plasma air purification, Titanium di-oxide coating. "For Covid-Free passenger journey!," he said in a tweet. The features, detailed in a booklet circulated by the Railways, include a host of foot-operated fixtures – including taps, soap dispensers, lavatory doors, flush valves and door latches. Outside the toilet is a washbasin with a foot-operated tap forearm. Besides, the compartment doors have handles operated with the forearm. The Railways has also installed copper-coated handrails and latches as copper degrades the virus which lands on it within a few hours, the booklet said. ¨Copper also has anti-microbial properties. Thus, when the virus lands on it, the ion blasts the pathogen and destroys the DNA and RNA inside it,¨ it said. The coaches will also have the provision of plasma air equipment in the AC duct that will sterilise the coaches using ionised air to make it Covid-19 free. The “nanostructured titanium dioxide” coating is another special feature. ¨This is an eco-friendly water-based coating that kills viruses, bacteria, mould, and fungal growth and most importantly enhances indoor air quality. It is non-toxic and approved by the food testing laboratory of the United States Food & Drug Administration (FDA)… It is considered to be a safe substance, and is harmless for humans,¨ it said. The coating has been applied on washbasins, lavatory, seats and berths, snack table, glass window, floor, virtually every contact surface. The effective life of the coating is 12 months. The Railways is currently running 15 pairs of AC trains on Rajdhani routes and 100 pairs of mail and express trains. A few Shramik Special trains are also running daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-foot-operated-flushes-to-ionised-ac-air-railways-customises-coaches-for-post-covid-19-times-861119.html
14-07-2020||National||No evidence yet of politicians instigating northeast Delhi riots: Police to HC||Investigations into the northeast Delhi riots have not revealed any evidence till now that political leaders instigated or participated in the violence that claimed at least 53 lives, the police told the high court on Monday. The submission to the Delhi High Court has come in response to pleas alleging that BJP leaders Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur, Parvesh Verma and Abhay Verma gave hate speeches, which led to the violence. Another plea had alleged that Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, as well as AAP leaders Manish Sisodia and Amanatullah Khan, and AIMIM MLA Waris Pathan also gave hate speeches. In response to these pleas, the police, in its affidavit, has said: "It is submitted that during the investigations conducted so far in all the aforesaid matters related to north-east Delhi riots, no actionable evidence has yet surfaced indicating any role being played by the persons named in the writ petitions in instigating and/or participating in the riots." The affidavit was placed before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan on Monday, and the court listed the matter for further hearing on July 21. In its affidavit, the police said that it "acted promptly, vigilantly and effectively without any fear or favour as a result of which violence could be contained in a few days and could be confined to a limited area". It said its prima facie investigations revealed that this was not a case of any sporadic or spontaneous violence "but appears to be a part of a well thought of conspiracy to destabilise the harmony in the society". The police said the investigation conducted so far "is pointing towards a wider and a larger conspiracy and concerted attempts of creating disruption of law and order situation in the national capital territory of Delhi through violent means by disrupting communal harmony in the state and to perpetrate chaos in the society.". It said the incidents of violence were not instigated in a spur of the moment or because of any tensions between two communities, "but were carefully engineered and funded by mischievous elements and fringe groups, who in pursuit of their motivated hidden agendas, instilled a false fear and panic in the minds of a section of society and provoked/instigated them to take law and order in their hands". The affidavit said exercising the fundamental right of dissent was and should be respected, but no person could be allowed to commit breach of law, indulge in violence, arson and riotous activity causing danger to life, limb and property of innocent citizens under the garb of exercise of fundamental right of free speech and assembly. It alleged that the petitioners had not come to court with "clean hands" as "they have selectively chosen certain speeches and incidents to further their hidden agenda". The police claimed that the petitions were "motivated" as the petitioners had shown "selective outrage" at some incidents, while ignoring other instances of violence. Apart from seeking action against those who allegedly gave the hate speeches, the pleas have also sought other reliefs, which include setting up of an SIT, FIRs against police officers who were allegedly involved in the violence and disclosure of persons arrested and detained. In its response to these prayers, police said it had already created three special investigation teams (SITs) under the crime branch and there was no evidence till now that its officers were involved in the violence. It added that the families of people arrested and detained in connection with the riots had been informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-evidence-yet-of-politicians-instigating-northeast-delhi-riots-police-to-hc-861120.html
14-07-2020||National||Government extends FY20 returns filing date for composition dealers till August 31||The government has extended the due date for filing annual return by composition dealers for 2019-20 till August 31. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) issued a notification, extending the deadline for filing GSTR-4 annual returns for 2019-20 by composition dealers from July 15 to August 31. GST composition scheme can be opted by any taxpayer whose turnover is less than Rs 1.5 crore. Under the scheme, manufacturers and traders are required to pay GST at 1 percent, while it is 5 percent for restaurants (which do not serve alcohol).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-extends-fy20-returns-filing-date-for-composition-dealers-till-august-31-861122.html
14-07-2020||National||OYO, Unilever join hands to enhance 'Sanitised Stays' initiative||Hospitality firm OYO and global consumer goods major Unilever have partnered to enhance OYO's 'Sanitised Stays' initiative with the help of the latter's home and personal hygiene brands.  "This global partnership will begin in India and then go live across Indonesia, Vietnam, the US, LATAM and Europe," the companies said in a joint statement on Tuesday.   The companies, however, did not share any financial details of the partnership. With higher hygiene standards, minimal-touch services and enhanced credibility topping the list of customer requirements, Unilever's research and development team will work with OYO to co-create standard operating procedures for cleaning, the statement said. OYO properties where these operating procedures are used will display a tag on booking pages to show Unilever products have been used in cleaning services, it added. Through this partnership, select OYO properties will have Unilever hygiene kits for guests and cleaning supplies for staff, including products from brands such as Lifebuoy, Domex, Sunlight and Cif, the statement said.    "We're pleased that by partnering with Unilever and providing their trusted products, we are able to help customers, as well as our staff, stay as safe as possible," OYO Founder & Group CEO Ritesh Agarwal said. The scientific expertise of Unilever and assurance of their brands are second to none and OYO is confident that its guests will have a quality and stress-free experience with 'OYO Sanitised Stays' with Unilever's leading home and personal hygiene products, he added. Hindustan Unilever Chairman and MD Sanjiv Mehta said: "With Hindustan Unilever's long history in India, we are determined to do our part to protect lives and livelihoods and are glad to have found a strong partner in OYO who shares this vision." OYO operates in over 800 cities in 80 countries, including the US, Europe, the UK, India, the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and Japan. Unilever is one of the leading suppliers of Beauty & Personal Care, Home Care, and Foods & Refreshment products globally, with sales in over 190 countries and reaching 2.5 billion consumers a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oyo-unilever-join-hands-to-enhance-sanitised-stays-initiative-861124.html
14-07-2020||National||IIT Delhi's low-cost Covid-19 test kit to launch on July 15||A low-cost Covid-19 test kit developed by Indian Institute of Technology Delhi that uses an alternative testing method will be launched on Wednesday, according to the IIT director here. IIT Delhi, which became the first academic institute to develop a Covid-19 testing method, gave non-exclusive open licence to companies for commercialising the test, but with a price rider. While the institute had kept a price rider of Rs 500 per kit, the company Newtech Medical Devices, which is launching the kit named 'corosure' on Wednesday, has not announced the price yet. Union Human Resource Development (HRD) Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank and Minister of State for HRD Sanjay Dhotre will launch the kit. "This should change the paradigm of Covid-19 testing in the country, both in terms of scale and cost. The product, approved by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) and DCGI (Drug Controller General of India), is being launched tomorrow. "The company Newtech Medical Devices, using IIT Delhi technology, can do two million tests per month at an extremely affordable cost. This is a true example of lab to market," said IIT Delhi Director V Ramgopal Rao.  According to the team at IIT Delhi, the current testing methods available are "probe-based", while the one developed by them is a "probe-free" method, which reduces the testing cost without compromising on accuracy. Using comparative sequence analyses, the IIT Delhi team identified unique regions (short stretches of RNA sequences) in the Covid-19 and SARS COV-2 genome. "These unique regions are not present in other human coronaviruses providing an opportunity to specifically detect Covid-19," Professor Vivekanandan Perumal, lead member of the team, had told PTI. "Primer sets, targeting unique regions in the spike protein of Covid-19, were designed and tested using real-time polymerase chain reaction. The primers designed by the group specifically bind to regions conserved in over 200 fully sequenced Covid-19 genomes. The sensitivity of this in-house assay is comparable to that of commercially available kits," Perumal added. With 28,498 fresh cases recorded in a day, India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past nine lakh on Tuesday, just three days after it crossed the eight-lakh mark, according to the Union health ministry data. The total coronavirus caseload in the country surged to 9,06,752 and the death toll mounted to 23,727 with 553 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am on Tuesday showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-delhis-low-cost-covid-19-test-kit-to-launch-on-july-15-861131.html
14-07-2020||National||TDSAT refuses to stay TRAI order on Vodafone-Idea premium plan||The Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) on Tuesday refused to stay the TRAI order asking Vodafone Idea to put on hold its RedX plan, which offers faster data speed and priority services to premium customers. Vodafone Idea on Monday approached the TDSAT seeking stay on the TRAI order. While issuing the notice to the TRAI, the Tribunal headed by its chairperson Justice Shiva Kirthi Singh posted the matter to July 16  for the next hearing. Earlier, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India had blocked Bharti Airtel’s Platinum and Vodafone Idea’s RedX premium plans which offer faster data speeds and priority services to customers. While asking two companies to withhold the two schemes until further order, the regulator said such a scheme might harm the service quality of mobile users. The regulator, which is studying whether these two offers by the telecom companies violate net neutrality, also asked telecom firms to clarify within one week whether the customers of these two plans would be entitled to higher 4G speeds at the cost of service deterioration to other mobile users. Bharti Airtel on July 6 announced a new scheme in which it will give preference to platinum mobile customers, who pay Rs 499 and above per month for postpaid connection, on its 4G network. The platinum customers will get better 4G speed on the Airtel network compared to other customers, the company said. Vodafone Idea last November introduced its RedX plan, offering up to 50% faster speeds and special services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tdsat-refuses-to-stay-trai-order-on-vodafone-idea-premium-plan-861140.html
14-07-2020||National||Railways floats fresh tender for coronavirus surveillance cameras||The Railways on Tuesday floated a fresh tender for thermal cameras for coronavirus surveillance, removing a provision which might have favoured a Chinese company. RailTel, a Railway PSU, in its new tender for AI-based surveillance cameras, has done away with DeepinMind technology as a requirement. However, the tender retained the specification of the ability of the cameras to accurately measure temperatures emitted by a person to say whether a person has fever or not. Additionally, the PSU also asked vendors to name the origin country of all equipment that they supply. In case country of manufacturing is not mentioned by the bidder, RailTel Reserves the right to reject his offer, the tender document said. Last month, RailTel had floated the tender for AI-based surveillance cameras that measure body temperatures of individuals and even detects whether a person is wearing a mask or not. However, the tender was scrapped two weeks back after vendors complaines that specifications mentioned for the procurement of the equipment may have favoured a Chinese company Hikvision, one of the world's largest video surveillance companies which currently dominates India's CCTV market. They said the technology -- DeepinMind -- which is part of the specification for the cameras and mentioned in the tender document, is a proprietary feature of Hikvision. The new tender has done away with this technology as a requirement, said an official. After a violent face-off between India and China in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh last month, the Indian Railways cancelled signalling contract given to Chinese company in Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) section of Dedicated Freight Corridor. Though the a Chinese-Indian JV has also emerged as one of the bidders for a tender floated for manufacturing 44 Train 18 sets, the national transporter is under pressure to disqualify the company bid as per Make in India initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-floats-fresh-tender-for-coronavirus-surveillance-cameras-861144.html
14-07-2020||National||PTI rejects report that claimed Prasar Bharati wanted seat on Board||The Press Trust of India on Tuesday rejected a report in the Times of India, which implied that public broadcaster Prasar Bharati had sought a seat on the news agency’s Board of Directors. In its report in Tuesday’s editions, the Times of India referred to a letter Prasar Bharati had written to PTI on June 27, in which it said it is reviewing the need to continue its relationship with the news agency. Prasar Bharati, which comprises Doordarshan and All India Radio, is one of the largest subscribers of PTI’s news service. “…at the root of the sudden cold shoulder was an interview with the Chinese ambassador to India, and also PTI’s 16-member Board’s denial, so far, of a seat at the table to India’s public broadcaster Prasar Bharati,” the Times report said. In a statement, a PTI spokesman noted that Prasar Bharati has never asked for a seat on the PTI Board. “In any case it is not eligible for that under PTI’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, which says only shareholders or independent directors with no financial links to PTI can be on the Board. Prasar Bharati does not meet either criteria.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pti-rejects-report-that-claimed-prasar-bharati-wanted-seat-on-board-861147.html
14-07-2020||National||SC indicates panel to probe encounter killings of Vikas Dubey, associates||The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated forming a committee to probe the killings of eight policemen on July 2 in Kanpur and other encounter deaths including that of gangster Vikas Dubey and his gang members by July 10. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna said, "We will do something very similar to the Hyderabad gangrape like forming a committee to probe the encounter". The court's response came as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, sought time to place the steps taken by the state. "Allow us to place our view," he said. "This is something which the court will do very reluctantly," the bench said, giving the state government time till Thursday to file its response to a couple of PILs for a CBI, or court-monitored investigation into the matter. The top court put the matter for consideration on July 20. The court had in December, last had formed an inquiry commission headed by former SC judge, V S Sirpurkar to probe into sensational killings of four suspects of rape and murder of a veterinary doctor. A Mumbai advocate, Ghanshyam Upadhyay filed a plea on the night of July 10, apprehending encounter killing of Dubey, just hours before his death on being taken from Ujjain on his arrest. He also sought independent probe into the entire episode, including encounter killings of Dubey's accomplices by UP Police showing "complete lawlessness". In his separate plea, a Supreme Court advocate, Awasthi also sought probe by the CBI, or the NIA, saying the Rule of law cannot be restored by actions of state machinery as outlaw. He contended that if the trigger-happy attitude of cops was not put under check, it would lead to anarchy. He pointed out life can be taken only by a procedure established by law as guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution. Terming the encounters killings of six persons allegedly involve in Kanpur incident of July 2 as suspicious in nature, Awasthi said revenge cannot replace justice howsoever grave and instigating the crime may be. He also raised a question if instant justice delivered by police was permissible in a democratic society governed by rule of law bypassing the criminal justice system. Or if the entire episode was not a ploy to save a selected few by demolishing house of Vikas Dubey and eliminating him and his co-accused and thus closing all chances of breaking vicious nexus of police-criminal-politicians. PUCL, which had earlier questioned encounters in the state between January 1, 2017 and March 31, 2018, also filed a plea, contending that police encounter or administrative liquidation was a serious crime, an offence against the entire society. "The incidents, which have been revealed in the killings of the Dubey and his associates, are very shocking in particular, keeping in view continuous cases of mass encounters in the state from January 1, 2017 onwards," it said. It sought an SIT probe into the encounter of Dubey and his aides by Uttar Pradesh police. It asked the court to constitute a committee headed by a retired Supreme Court judge to enquire into the encounters that have been taking place in Uttar Pradesh and the criminal political nexus, prevailing in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-indicates-panel-to-probe-encounter-killings-of-vikas-dubey-associates-861148.html
14-07-2020||National||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre on Jharkhand's plea against coal auction||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Centre on a plea by Jharkhand government against the decision to auction 41 coal mines, including nine in the state, for commercial exploitation on the grounds that it would destroy forests and tribal culture and customs. The state also feared that auction won't fetch proper price due to ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna issued notice to the Union government on the petition by the state government, represented by senior advocate F S Nariman and A M Singhvi. The court decided to list the matter after four weeks. In its plea, the state claimed the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulations) Act allowed only those commercial mining companies in competitive bidding process which carried out operations in India and restricted participation of global companies. It also emphasised at the need for fair assessment of social and environmental impact on huge tribal population and vast tracts of forest land of the state and its residents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-on-jharkhands-plea-against-coal-auction-861150.html
14-07-2020||National||Poet Varavara Rao at 81 cannot be threat to nation: Adhir Ranjan writes to PM||Congress Leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention for the release of Telugu poet Varavara Rao who was arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case in Maharashtra. Rao at 81 years of age "cannot be a threat to one of the strongest countries" in the world, Chowdhury said. "A person of 81 years of age has been languishing in jail for years without knowing his offence, now he has been mentally disoriented, having no medical assistance. "You may please intervene into this matter and save his life, otherwise our future generations will not forgive us (sic)," he wrote in his letter to Modi. Rao and nine other activists were arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case, which was initially probed by the Pune police and later transferred to the National Investigation Agency in January this year. The case pertains to the alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poet-varavara-rao-at-81-cannot-be-threat-to-nation-adhir-ranjan-writes-to-pm-861156.html
14-07-2020||National||West Bengal did not handle migrants issue properly: Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said the migrants' issue was not handled properly in West Bengal amid the Covid-19 pandemic, and the government there at one point of time even refused to permit labourers from other parts of the country to return to their homes. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai made the observation while hearing a petition filed by Centre of Indian Trade Unions, a Mumbai-based trade union body, raising concerns over the plight of migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. According to the petitioner, the process laid down by the Maharashtra government wherein migrant workers have to register themselves to travel by 'Shramik Special' trains to their native states was cumbersome and should be simplified. The government last month told the court that presently there are no demands for 'Shramik Special' trains. Senior counsel Gayatri Singh, appearing for the petitioner, on Tuesday told the court that the government's submission that there are no stranded migrants who desire to go back to their native states was "incorrect". "The petitioner has got in touch with several such migrant labourers and has learnt that there are some 56,000 labourers who still want to travel back to their native states, Singh said, adding many of these labourers are from West Bengal. The court, however, asked how can it accept this. "Do you know the situation in West Bengal? The government there at one point did not even permit migrant labourers to return...we do not want to say anything against anyone but the situation there was not handled properly, Chief Justice Datta said. He also gave an example of 30 labourers stranded in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra who had arranged a bus on their own and travelled to West Bengal a few months back. "Each and every migrant labourer is not banking upon the state government. Many are making their own arrangements to travel back to their native states," the court said. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the Maharashtra government, on Tuesday told the court that a similar matter pertaining to the issue of migrant workers was pending before the Supreme Court. The high court, after perusing the order passed by the Supreme Court on July 9, noted that it was specific to Maharashtra. "The Supreme Court, in its order dated July 9, 2020, expressed its displeasure at the state governments reluctance to find out if there are migrants stranded in Maharashtra and were ready to leave for their native states. The apex court sought Maharashtra governments response and has listed the matter for further hearing on July 17, the high court said. In view of this, the bench posted the petition for hearing in the first week of August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-did-not-handle-migrants-issue-properly-bombay-high-court-861157.html
14-07-2020||National||DH Podcast | From the Newsroom: The sacking of Sachin Pilot, Varavara Rao taken to J J Hospital||In today's episode, Sachin Pilot has been sacked from the posts of Rajasthan Deputy Chief minister and the president of the Congress' state unit, Bihar will see a total lockdown from July 16-31, Activist Varavara Rao taken to J J Hospital and CBSE class 10 results to be out on July 15.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-podcast-from-the-newsroom-the-sacking-of-sachin-pilot-varavara-rao-taken-to-j-j-hospital-861158.html
14-07-2020||National||Cap duration, daily sessions of online classes: Ministry of Human Resource Development guidelines||The Ministry of Human Resources Development on Tuesday recommended limiting the duration and the number of sessions of online classes during a day in schools, amid complaints from parents that children are exposed to more screen time and concerns that it will have an adverse impact on them. The MHRD felt that online interaction with pre-primary students should not be more than 30 minutes. Online classes for students in Class I to VIII should be limited to two sessions with a duration of 30-45 minutes each in a day. For students between classes IX to XII, according to 'Pragyata: Guidelines for Digital Education', the online learning could be undertaken for not more than four sessions of 30-45 minutes each.  "Do not make adoption of digital learning burdensome for students and their parents. Avoid setting unrealistic goals for students as well as yourself," it said. Amid reports of several students not able to attend online classes, the report suggested that schools should consider conducting an informal survey to identify facilities available at home for each child. The guidelines come against the backdrop of Covid-19 leading to the closure of schools since March 16 and impacting around 24 crore children who are enrolled in educational institutions. According to the Unlock 2.0 guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the schools and colleges are closed till July 31 and a decision on opening them will be taken towards the month's end. "Extended school closures may cause loss of learning. To mitigate the impact of the pandemic, schools will not only have to remodel and reimagine the way teaching and learning have happened so far, but will also need to introduce a suitable method of delivering quality education through a healthy mix of schooling at home and schooling at school," the guidelines said. However, it said schools should not assume that teaching-learning through synchronous communication is the only requirement or even desirable in order to support effective digital learning. "The goal is not to try and recreate face-to-face (F2F) classrooms over the internet. Anytime, anywhere, online and blended learning provide opportunities for learners to work more independently, expand their agency, intellectual horizon, learn to use tools and strategies that otherwise may not be feasible in classrooms for teaching-learning and assessment," it warned. It asked school heads not to expect that the teachers be engaged in six to eight hours of online teaching in a day. Teachers could be engaged for about two to three hours of online activities per day for the classes they teach but they should continuously "explore, create and share" learning resources with their students and parents. "Do not rush for the sake of completing the syllabus, rather focus on the consolidation of learning. Plan the interventions keeping in mind students’ level, age, resource availability, nature of content etc," it said. The report warned that children exposed to digital technologies/gadgets for a longer time are prone to severe health issues. "Hence seating with digital gadgets for longer hours or their excess use can be avoided by designing age appropriate schedules of digital education,"it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cap-duration-daily-sessions-of-online-classes-ministry-of-human-resource-development-guidelines-861161.html
14-07-2020||National||India's number of undernourished people declines by six crore to reach 14%: UN report||The number of undernourished people in India has declined by six crore, from 21.7 percent in 2004-06 to 14 percent in 2017-19, according to a UN report. The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World report, released on Monday, said that there were less stunted children but more obese adults in India. The report -- considered the most authoritative global study tracking progress towards ending hunger and malnutrition -- said that the number of undernourished people in India declined from 24.94 crore in 2004–06 to 18.92 crore in 2017–19. In percentage terms, the prevalence of undernourishment in the total population in India declined from 21.7 percent in 2004-06 to 14 percent in 2017-19, it said. The two subregions showing reductions in undernourishment -- eastern and southern Asia -- are dominated by the two largest economies of the continent -- China and India. “Despite very different conditions, histories and rates of progress, the reduction in hunger in both the countries stems from long-term economic growth, reduced inequality, and improved access to basic goods and services,” it said. The report is prepared jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the UN World Food Programme (WFP) and the World Health Organization (WHO). It further said that the prevalence of stunting in children under five years of age in India declined from 47.8 percent in 2012 to 34.7 percent in 2019 or from 6.2 crore in 2012 to 4.03 crore in 2019. More Indian adults became obese between 2012-16, it said. The number of adults (18 years and older) who are obese grew from 2.52 crore in 2012 to 3.43 crore in 2016, from 3.1 percent to 3.9 percent. The number of women of reproductive age (15–49) affected by anaemia grew from 16.56 crore in 2012 to 17.56 crore in 2016. The number of infants 0–5 months of age exclusively breastfed grew from 1.12 crore in 2012 to 1.39 crore in 2019. The report said that almost 69 crore people globally were undernourished (or hungry) in 2019, up by one crore from 2018. The hungry are most numerous in Asia, but expanding fastest in Africa. Across the planet, the report forecasts, that the Covid-19 pandemic could push over 13 crore more people into chronic hunger by the end of 2020. In percentage terms, Africa is the hardest hit region and becoming more so, with 19.1 percent of its people undernourished. At the current trends, by 2030, Africa will be home to more than half of the world's chronically hungry. The Covid-19 is intensifying the vulnerabilities and inadequacies of global food systems - understood as all the activities and processes affecting the production, distribution and consumption of food. “While it is too soon to assess the full impact of the lockdowns and other containment measures, the report estimates that at a minimum, another 8.3 crore people, and possibly as many as 13.2 crore, may go hungry in 2020 as a result of the economic recession triggered by Covid-19,” it said, adding that the setback throws into further doubt the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goal two, whose target is achieving zero hunger. The latest estimates are that a staggering three billion people or more cannot afford a healthy diet. In sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia, this is the case for 57 percent of the population - though no region, including North America and Europe, is spared. In 2019, 19.1 crore children under five were stunted or wasted - too short or too thin. Another 3.8 crore under-fives were overweight. Among adults, meanwhile, obesity has become a global pandemic in its own right. The study calls on the governments to mainstream nutrition in their approaches to agriculture; work to cut cost-escalating factors in the production, storage, transport, distribution and marketing of food - including by reducing inefficiencies and food loss and waste. It also urges them to support local small-scale producers to grow and sell more nutritious foods, and secure their access to markets; prioritise children's nutrition as the category in greatest need; foster behaviour change through education and communication; and embed nutrition in national social protection systems and investment strategies. The report noted that generally, cash transfer programmes are considered an appropriate instrument to increase dietary diversity in well-connected urban or rural contexts, while in-kind transfers are more appropriate for remote areas, where access to markets is severely limited. “In India, for instance, the country’s Targeted Public Distribution System represents the largest social protection programme in the world, reaching 80 crore people with subsidised cereals that can be purchased from more than 500,000 fair price shops across the country.” In India, rural business hubs have facilitated linking smallholder farmers to rapidly growing urban markets. Apart from procuring food products from the farmers, these hubs provide services such as farm inputs and equipment, as well as access to credit. Having food processing, packaging and cooling facilities at the same location allows consumers to benefit from economies of agglomeration and, on the whole, reduce transaction costs throughout the food supply chain. This model in India has given rise to rural supermarkets that provide cheaper staple food, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-number-of-undernourished-people-declines-by-six-crore-to-reach-14-un-report-861164.html
14-07-2020||National||NPCI to expand contactless parking solution with FASTag to major cities||The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) on Tuesday said it will expand its fully contactless parking solution with FASTag to cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, and Bengaluru. It said the first-of-its-kind contactless car parking facility at Hyderabad Airport received a huge response, prompting to take this service to other metros. "As the first bank to extend this facility of collecting parking charges through FASTag at the GMR Hyderabad International Airport, ICICI Bank, with NPCI, is set to roll out contactless car parking in other metros," it said a release. The facility of 100 percent contactless and interoperable parking solution with NETC FASTag is currently being implemented by 10 FASTag issuing banks at the GMR Hyderabad International Airport. NPCI expects the rest of the issuer banks to activate the contactless parking with NETC FASTag at the Hyderabad Airport in the next few weeks, said the release. NPCI has also initiated discussions with major malls, airports and other private parking lots in Chennai and Bangaluru for the NETC FASTag powered contactless car parking solutions. The company has been receiving interests from major banks in spearheading the parking projects. Sudipta Roy, Head - Unsecured Assets, ICICI Bank, said, "This is a safe, contactless and hassle-free system. It works on RFID technology that also powers digital toll collection at more than 695 toll plazas across the country. We feel that commuters using Hyderabad outer ring road and now the airport parking will get a seamless experience powered by ICICI Bank FASTag." The contactless car parking facility allows passengers and visitors pay for parking without the need to roll down their windows. While the parking lots across the country are being enabled with digital payment solutions, several models are semi-automated but not 100 percent contactless. This leads to an opportunity to all parking providers across the country to adopt safe and contactless payment solutions by implementing the NETC FASTag, NPCI said. "We are going to see a good adoption of this solution across all the parking lots in the near future. We are aiming at taking this unique contactless parking proposition in metro cities keeping in mind the convenience of passengers and visitors. In this new normal during the COVID-19 pandemic situation 100 per cent contactless payment solution is going to be the need of the hour," said Praveena Rai, COO, NPCI. Pradeep Panicker, CEO, GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL), said the Hyderabad airport has tested first with ICICI Bank and now opening up to all the balance issuers. The NPCI was incorporated in 2008 as an umbrella organisation for operating retail payments and settlement systems in India. It has created a robust payment and settlement infrastructure in the country through host of channels such as RuPay card, Immediate Payment Service (IMPS), Unified Payments Interface (UPI), Bharat Interface for Money (BHIM), BHIM Aadhaar, National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC FASTag) and Bharat BillPay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/npci-to-expand-contactless-parking-solution-with-fastag-to-major-cities-861184.html
14-07-2020||National||Locust control steps taken in nearly 3 lakh hectare across 9 states so far: Centre||As the locust menace continues, the Centre on Tuesday said control measures to stop the spread of the crop-threatening pest have so far been carried out in about 3 lakh hectare area across nine states, including Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. India has been battling with the locust problem since April. The swarms of locusts are largely prevalent in northern states, while the UN body Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has warned India to be alert this month. The government is using the latest technology and equipment to kill the swarms and stop its further spread to more places. In its latest update, the agriculture ministry said swarms of immature pink locusts and adult yellow locusts were active in Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Jhunjhunu, Sriganganagar, Alwar and Churu districts of Rajasthan. They were also active in Bhiwani and Mahendragarh districts of Haryana, while in Sitapur and Gonda districts of Uttar Pradesh, it said. The control measures are still continuing and were carried out in 33 places in three states -- Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana -- in the past two days, it added. From April 11 to July 12, the ministry said the control measures were taken in about 3 lakh hectare, which includes those in 1.60 lakh hectare across nine states -- Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana -- by locust circle offices (LCOs). The control operations in the rest of the 1.36 lakh hectare area in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar were carried by state governments, it added. In the intervening night of July 12-13, the ministry said the control operations were carried out at 26 places in eight districts (Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Sriganganagar, Churu, Jhunjhunu and Alwar) of Rajasthan, one place in Gonda district of Uttar Pradesh and at two places in Mahendragarh and Bhiwani districts of Haryana by LCOs. Besides this, respective state agriculture departments also carried out control operations at two places in the districts of Bhiwani and Mahendragarh in Haryana and two places in the districts of Sitapur and Gonda in Uttar Pradesh. Currently, the ministry said 60 control teams with spray vehicles have been deployed in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, and more than 200 central government personnel are engaged in locust control operations. In addition, 20 spray equipment have been received and are deployed for locust control. To strengthen the control capacity, 55 additional vehicles have also been purchased and deployed for locust control. Further, five companies with 15 drones are deployed at Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Nagaur and Phalodi in Rajasthan for effective control of locusts on tall trees and in inaccessible areas through spraying of pesticides. A Bell helicopter has been deployed in Rajasthan for use in the Scheduled Desert Area as per the need. Indian Air Force also has conducted trials in anti-locust operation by using a Mi-17 helicopter. "No significant crop losses have been reported in the States of Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Haryana. However, some minor crop losses have been reported in some districts of Rajasthan," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locust-control-steps-taken-in-nearly-3-lakh-hectare-across-9-states-so-far-centre-861220.html
14-07-2020||National||CSC launches LPG centres to cater to rural areas||The Common Service Centre (CSC), a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) under the Ministry of Electronics and IT, on Tuesday launched 2000 CSC Bharat Gas Supply Centres to facilitate fast delivery of LPG cylinders to consumers in rural India. CSC has exclusively tied up with BPCL for this service where villagers will be able to book new LPG connections, government sponsored Ujjwala as well as general category, at CSC centres. They will also be able to do booking of LPG refills and CSC will be distrusting LPG cylinders. The e-launch programme was held in the presence of  Dinesh Tyagi, CEO, CSC SPV and Peethambaran T, Executive Director, BPCL. “Common Services Centre will help beneficiaries to provide the BPCL service near to their home accessing through Digital Seva Portal. It will empower people in terms of booking of new LPG connection, LPG refills and supply and distribution of LPG cylinders through Common Services Centres, ” Tyagi said. “To fulfil the last mile gap, role of CSCs will be very significant. With this launch, BPL households in villages will be benefitted by getting LPG connections. I am sure this collaboration will create a magic in the service delivery of LPG gas cylinder, ” said BPCL Executive Director Preethambaran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-launches-lpg-centres-to-cater-to-rural-areas-861221.html
14-07-2020||National||SC refuses to cap Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the cost of medical treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals should not too high and no patient should be turned away, as the access to medical care is as good as access to justice. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna, however, refused to put a cap on the treatment of Covid-19 patients, saying cost may vary from state to state. Hearing a PIL by Sachin Jain, the court said the cost should be reasonable. It also pointed out that the Gujarat model was most suitable and other states may follow it. However, it may not work in Maharashtra where 80% of beds have been directed to be reserved for Covid-19 patients. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said a high-level panel was already looking into the matter. "We are not inclined and not equipped to see how to treat Covid-19 patients. This matter concerns private hospitals where citizens with a certain economic status would go," the bench said. The bench also agreed to contention by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for private hospitals that it is not possible to lay down the cost of treatment across the country as conditions and availability of medical facilities determined the cost. The court also noted that underprivileged patients were entitled to free treatment under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. The court allowed the parties to participate in a meeting by the Union government on July 16 where a solution can be reached within a period of a week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-cap-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals-861228.html
14-07-2020||National||Human clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine initiated in India: ICMR||Human clinical trials for a vaccine for Covid-19 has been initiated in the country with approximately 1,000 volunteers participating in the exercise for each of the two indigenously developed vaccine candidates, the ICMR said on Tuesday. Since India is one of the largest vaccine producers in the world, it is the country's "moral responsibility" to fast-track vaccine development process to break the chain of coronavirus transmission, ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava said referring to the two vaccine candidates developed indigenously. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has permitted two vaccines -- one developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and another one by Zydas Cadila Healthcare Ltd to go in for the first and second phase of human clinical trials. There are two Indian vaccine candidates that have undergone successful toxicity studies in rats, mice and rabbits and these data was submitted to the DCGI, following which both got clearance to start an early phase human trials earlier this month, Bhargava said at a press briefing. "Two indigenous Indian candidate vaccines have got clearance to start early phase human trials this month. "They have got their sites ready and are doing the clinical study on approximately 1,000 human volunteers each at different sites. They are trying to do early clinical testing for these two indigenous vaccine candidates," Bhargava said. "... it is a moral duty to develop them as fast as possible because more than half a million people have succumbed to the disease across the world. So, fast-tracking these vaccine becomes very important," he said. A recent letter by Bhargava envisaging the launch of a Covid-19 vaccine by August 15 had created quite a flutter with many experts stating such a timeline may not be realistic. Bhargava stated that India is considered as the "pharmacy of the world", saying 60 percent of the drugs utilised in the US are of Indian origin.  "The important fact that is not known is that 60 percent of the vaccines supplied in the world whether it be Africa, Europe or Southeast Asia or anywhere are of Indian origin," he said. India is perceived and is an important player in the supply of vaccines for the world, Bhargava noted. "Any vaccine candidate that is produced or developed in any part of the world will ultimately have to be scaled up by India or by China because these two are major producers of vaccines in the world and that every developed nation or everyone trying to develop a vaccine is aware of it and therefore they are in communication with India for the vaccine distribution ultimately if is developed," he said. Bhargava said that recently Russia had fast-tracked a vaccine, which has been successful in its early phases, and they have also accelerated its development and the whole world has applauded it. "The US again, as you read today has fast-tracked two of its vaccine candidates and the UK is also looking at how it can fast-track the Oxford vaccine candidate, for human use. "From India's perspective, we have two vaccine candidates. We are trying all-out efforts to fast-track it and it is the moral duty that there should not be a delay not even by a day for regulatory clearances for these vaccines so that we can break the transmission of the virus as soon as possible," Bhargava said. He emphasised that still 60 percent of the other vaccines whether it be polio, measles-rubella they are all manufactured in India and are given to the international agencies to supply to the world so this becomes an important aspect for India to fast-track its vaccine development and work together to develop these vaccines for the entire world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/human-clinical-trials-for-covid-19-vaccine-initiated-in-india-icmr-861237.html
14-07-2020||National||US move to reject China's claim on South China Sea has tacit support from India||The latest move by the United States to reject most of China’s territorial claims in the South China Sea as “completely unlawful” has tacit support from India, which has been concerned over maritime expansionism of the communist party. New Delhi has not immediately reacted to the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s statement denouncing Beijing’s bid to turn South China Sea as its “maritime empire” – ostensibly because Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government wants to tread cautiously and make it sure that the ongoing process of withdrawal of troops of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from the face-off scenes along the disputed boundary of the two nations does not get derailed. A source in New Delhi, however, told the DH that India had abiding interests in peace and stability in the South China Sea, which was a part of the global commons, and it would support any move to resist attempts to undermine freedom of navigation and overflight in the region. New Delhi may later this week formally call upon China and its maritime neighbours to resolve disputes through peaceful means without threat or use of force as well as to exercise self-restraint in the conduct of activities that could complicate or escalate disputes affecting peace and stability, said the source. The South China Sea is a major waterway and the sea lanes in this region account for over US $5 trillion of international trade. It has been at the centre of a territorial conflict between China and many of its maritime neighbours – Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei, Philippines and Taiwan. “India too depends on the South China Sea for over 55 per cent of its trade. India undertakes various activities, including cooperation in the oil and gas sector, with littoral states of South China Sea,” another source aware of New Delhi’s position on the issue said. The ONGC Videsh Limited has a long-standing partnership with PetroVietnam for exploration of oil and gas in Vietnam. China, however, has been protesting the role of the OVL and other foreign companies in exploration of hydrocarbons in the blocks in the continental shelf of Vietnam. China last year deployed its survey vessel – Haiyang Dizhi 8 – near “Vanguard Bank” in the Exclusive Economic Zone of Vietnam, to re-assert its claim on the disputed waters. The vessel, which was escorted by at least two ships of China Coast Guard, sailed close to an offshore oil block, where ONGC Videsh of India has 45 per cent, Rosneft of Russia has 35 per cent and PetroVietnam of Vietnam has 20 per cent stake. “India supports freedom of navigation and overflight, and unimpeded commerce in the South China Sea, based on the principles of international law, as reflected notably in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS),” said the source. “As a State Party to the UNCLOS, India urges all parties to show utmost respect for the UNCLOS, which establishes the international legal order of the seas and oceans.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-move-to-reject-chinas-claim-on-south-china-sea-has-tacit-support-from-india-861238.html
14-07-2020||National||Seven firms in race to build new Parliament building||Seven construction companies have submitted pre-qualification bids for the contract to build a new Parliament building which will come up next to the existing building. A Central Public Works Department (CPWD) official said the pre-qualification bids were opened on Tuesday afternoon. Bids were received from seven companies -- Tata Project Ltd, Larsen & Toubro Limited, ITD Cementation India Ltd, NCC Ltd., Shapoorji Pallonji and Co Pvt Ltd, Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited and PSP Projects Ltd, said an official from CPWD. The bid document offered an estimated cost of Rs 889 crore for the project. The government will pick one among them to construct  the new building which will come up on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate, which currently houses a reception, boundary walls and other temporary strectures. The new Parliament building is the part of redevelopment of Central Vista project planned by the NDA government. As per plan, the government wanted to start the construction activities after Parliament's winter session and complete the works in 12 months period. The ground plus two-storey triangular-shaped strecture  will comprise halls with more seating capacity for both Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Besides there will be offices for members of Parliament and dining facility. The current Parliament building, which is over 90 years old, will continue to house the Parliament library.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-firms-in-race-to-build-new-parliament-building-861250.html
14-07-2020||National||Orange alert issued for coastal areas of Maharashtra; 89k people hit by floods in Meghalaya||Rainfall lashed parts of northern India and floods affected 89,000 people in Meghalaya's West Garo Hills district, while IMD issued an orange alert for coastal districts in Maharashtra, stating 'heavy to very heavy rainfall' was likely in isolated areas. In Delhi, however, rains continued to play truant as hot and humid weather caused inconvenience to the residents in the national capital. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 38.5 degrees Celsius, three notches more than normal. Mercury oscillated between 37 degrees Celsius and 40 degrees Celsius in the rest of the areas. The maximum temperature is likely to remain in the higher 30s for the next few days, as only isolated light rains are expected during this period, the weatherman said. Despite the monsoon arriving early in the national capital, rains have remained subdued so far, with the city recording 46 percent rainfall deficiency.  The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and other coastal districts in Maharashtra stating it is very likely that 'heavy to very heavy' rainfall will occur in isolated places in this region. The orange alert by the IMD's Mumbai centre is also for coastal districts like Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg as well as Pune in western Maharashtra. A yellow alert for Kolhapur, Satara, Aurangabad and Jalna districts has also been issued. "Orange and yellow alerts have been issued for Tuesday and Wednesday for central Maharashtra, Marathwada and Konkan regions," an IMD official said. "On Wednesday, in Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected. In some districts of central Maharashtra and Marathwada, heavy rainfall is expected," the official said. An orange alert means the authorities should "be prepared", while a yellow warning asks them to "be updated". Over 89,000 people have been affected by floods in Meghalaya's West Garo Hills district. The Jinjiram river, a tributary of the Brahmaputra was overflowing, officials said. "The situation is bad and three blocks - Tikrikilla, Demdema and Selsella have been affected... The situation is being monitored," District Deputy Commissioner Ram Singh said. The deputy commissioner that a total of at least 16,400 households with a population of over 89,000 have been affected by the current floods. As per latest reports, the blocks of Tikrikilla, Demdema and Selsella have seen a huge surge in water levels. The villages of Charbatapara, Moulakandi, Patharkata under Demdema Block, Rajpur, many sections of Old and New Bhaitbari, Rajabala, Chokchokia, Selsella have been affected, according to the district administration. Many sections of the AMPT (Agia, Medhipara, Phulbari, Tura) road was also submerged as well as many PWD roads across the three blocks with Selsella - Tura road being amongst the worst affected, a PWD official said. Light to moderate rains lashed parts of Rajasthan where isolated areas also received heavy rains. Loharia in Banswara and Veja in Dungapur each recorded a maximum of 8 cm rains in the last 24 hours till Tuesday morning. Dausa, Chomu and Amer (both in Jaipur) recorded 7, 6 and 5 cm rains respectively during this period, according to the Met Department here. Ajmer, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh and Dabok (Udaipur) also received 25, 7, 4 and 1.6 mm rains till Tuesday evening since morning. The department has predicted light to moderate rains at several places, with the possibility of heavy rains at isolated areas in the state during the next 24 hours. Light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, the Meteorological Department said. It said some isolated places in eastern UP even received heavy rain. The MeT Department has predicted rain or thundershower at several places in eastern UP and at a few places in the western part of the state from Wednesday to Friday. Meanwhile, sultry weather conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Tuesday, with maximum temperatures settling one to three notches above normal, the Meteorological Department here said. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 36.1 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a maximum temperature of 36.2 degrees Celsius, while Hisar registered a high of 37.4 degrees Celsius. Bhiwani experienced a hot day with the mercury settling at an uncomfortable 40.1 degrees Celsius. Karnal recorded a maximum temperature of 35.4 degrees Celsius, while Narnaul registered a high of 38.2 degrees Celsius. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum temperature of 37.4 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana registered a high of 36.1 degrees Celsius and Patiala's maximum temperature settled at 37.3 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/orange-alert-issued-for-coastal-areas-of-maharashtra-89k-people-hit-by-floods-in-meghalaya-861256.html
14-07-2020||National||Ladakh clash: Indian, Chinese armies tackle 'trickiest part of' troop withdrawal exercise||In yet another marathon meeting, senior commanders from Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army on Tuesday tackled the trickiest part of the troop withdrawal exercise in eastern Ladakh as they they discussed the deescalation plan for the contentious Pangong Tso area, which often witnesses confrontation between the troops. Vacating the Finger Complex on the northern banks of the Pangong lake featured prominently during the talks. While the PLA army moved back to Finger 5 instead of Finger 4, which they had occupied since the last three months, the Indian Army was nowhere close to its original position of being able to patrol up to Finger 8. In addition reduction of the PLA troops from Depsang bulge – north of the Galwan valley – was also discussed with India insisting on the restoration of the status quo and return of the PLA troops to their side of the Line of Actual Control – the disputed boundary between India and China – rather than blocking the traditional patrolling routes of the Indian Army. At the Chushul border personnel meeting point, the meeting between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Leh-based 14 Corps and Maj Gen Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military Region began at 1130 am and stretched late into the night. Any official word on the outcome of the meeting is expected only on Wednesday. The Indian side insisted on "total restoration" of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the standoff began following a clash between the troops of the two countries in Pangong Tso, they said. The sources said the two sides might also finalise a road map for overall restoration of peace and tranquility in the high-altitude region that witnessed a nine-week long standoff between the troops of the two countries. The fourth round of discussions between senior military commanders take place days after the implementation of the first phase of the disengagement process from the friction points. Both sides had withdrawn their troops at Galwan, Hot Spring and Gogra creating a temporary buffer zone that is not being patrolled by either of the two armies for the time being. Last Friday, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks during which both sides resolved to push ahead with "complete disengagement" of troops in eastern Ladakh in a timely manner for "full restoration" of peace and tranquility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-clash-indian-chinese-armies-tackle-trickiest-part-of-troop-withdrawal-exercise-861269.html
14-07-2020||National||Akhilesh Yadav trolled for suggesting Google Maps be used to investigate VIkas Dubey encounter||Samajwadi Party leader and former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav suggested that Google Maps should be used to further reveal how the vehicle turned, starting the chain of events that led to Dubey’s death. The leader claimed that the UP government should use technology to solve the case. He also suggested that the proceedings should be done quickly, before the Google Maps data disappears. Google Maps does not allow a live view feed or a visual timeline of past events.  For this gaffe, the politician was ruthlessly trolled on social media. Read some of those reactions here -||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-yadav-trolled-for-suggesting-google-maps-be-used-to-investigate-vikas-dubey-encounter-861272.html
14-07-2020||National||India quizzing owners of banned Chinese apps over content and practices||Chinese companies such as TikTok-owner ByteDance have been asked by India to answer 77 questions about their apps that have been banned by New Delhi, including whether they censored content, worked on behalf of foreign governments or lobbied influencers. India's Information Technology Ministry has given the companies three weeks to respond to the questionnaire, which has been seen by Reuters, and said unspecified follow-up action would be taken, two sources said. India last month banned the apps following a border clash between soldiers from the two countries, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead. India has said the apps pose a threat to its "sovereignty and integrity". China has criticised the ban. The 59 banned apps, which include TikTok and Alibaba's UC Browser, were asked whether they acted at the behest of any foreign government to edit, promote or demote any content. One theme of the questionnaire is whether content was censored after an attack last year carried out by a Pakistan-based militant group in Pulwama district in Kashmir. The attack killed at least 40 Indian police officers and heightened tensions between India and Pakistan. "In the aftermath of the Pulwama Attack of 2019, did the company/app censor content relating to the attack or its perpetrators?" the question reads. TikTok said it was working to respond to the ministry's queries and that it complied with all Indian laws, adding that users' data security and privacy were its top priorities. The app ban has jolted the ambitions of ByteDance in India, where its TikTok video app was hugely popular. Neither Alibaba nor the Indian ministry responded to requests for comment. A source familiar with the government's thinking said the queries were in line with federal procedures and the same questions were sent to all affected companies. One question seeks to investigate if company executives in India communicated with film stars, social media influencers or journalists to promote any content, even if the communication was not for commercial purposes. Other queries were around advertisers, business structures, taxation practices and privacy policies, the document showed. The government also asked the app companies whether they had faced any investigation in the United States, European Union or elsewhere for surreptitiously harvesting user data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-quizzing-owners-of-banned-chinese-apps-over-content-and-practices-861273.html
14-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to deliver address on July 15, World Youth Skills Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday deliver an address to mark the World Youth Skills Day. The Skill India Mission was launched five years ago on this day, an official statement said on Tuesday. A digital conclave is also being organised by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship to mark the occasion. Skill India is an initiative of the central government which was launched to empower the youth with skill sets which make them more employable and more productive in their work environment. It offers courses across several sectors which are aligned to the standards recognised by both the industry and the government under the National Skill Qualification Framework.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-deliver-address-on-july-15-world-youth-skills-day-861276.html
14-07-2020||National||Delhi University students demand cancellation of online Open Book Exams||Students of Delhi University colleges on Tuesday demanded that the online Open Book Examinations (OBE) be cancelled and their evaluation be done based on their performance of previous semesters. Students and teachers have been opposing the online OBE and have cited various reasons, including internet connectivity and lack of transparency, as hindrances in conducting the exam. "We, the students of our respective departments and colleges of the University of Delhi, stand against DU's Online Open Book Exams. "After repeated and unequivocal attempts of students across this country, University Grants Commission (UGC) and Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) remain adamant on conducting this farce of an online exam," the students said in a statement. Stating that numerous states across the country have decided to cancel their respective state university exams, including the Delhi government, they demanded "cancellation of final semester exams, whether offline or online" and an immediate evaluation based on the results of previous semesters. The students said the recently held mock tests were 'mockery' of the hard work of students'. Out of a total 2 lakh final year students, only 1.1 lakh students were able to register and out of these only 26 per cent were able to upload their answers, which is only 13 per cent of the total students that were supposed to give the exam, the statement said. "The figures speak for themselves. This is not just an exclusionary programme but a programme that caters to a miniscule class of the privileged minority," the statement said. The Delhi High Court was informed on Tuesday that DU will hold final year undergraduate online OBE from August 10-31. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad was informed by the varsity that the students left out of online exams will be given an opportunity to appear in physical examinations, to be held sometime in September. The students, hailing from 31 different departments of various DU colleges, alleged that they faced unending obstacles on the portal like none of the question papers corresponding to their course, facing 'bad gateway' errors and the inability to upload documents. "We stand opposed to the guidelines of UGC making final year exams mandatory and condemn the deliberate silence of the MHRD, which seems to be taking further the systematically developed attack on publicly-funded higher education. "The kind of statements that we get to hear from the officials of UGC in various interviews and briefings reflect a strange obsession with final exams, somehow legitimising the entire degree of the student," it said. The students dismissed the idea of final exams as a "ridiculously farcical idea". "The OBE debacle must not be seen as a 'one-off' or an 'isolated' incident. It is simply an extension to the neo-liberal model of education which had been manifested in NITI AYOG Vision Documents, New Education Policy 2019, and the Union Budget allocations which have been insistent on forcing down massive privatization and 'Online Non-Classroom Learning and Evaluation' much before the conditions of the pandemic developed," they said. The open book exams will "further exacerbate the fault lines along class, caste, gender, and physical as well as mental ability among students as inaccessibility and constant anxiety among them threatens to plague the entire system".  Adding to that, the threat of students (and their family members) suffering from Covid-19 is not an imagined outcome any longer, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-university-students-demand-cancellation-of-online-open-book-exams-861279.html
14-07-2020||National||RS Secretariat launches employees' welfare scheme in Arun Jaitley's name||The Rajya Sabha Secretariat has launched an employees' welfare scheme in the name of late Arun Jaitley which will be funded by the pension his family receives as he has been a member of the upper house. The scheme seeks to benefit group 'C' employees of the secretariat by awarding their children three scholarships for higher technical and professional education. Besides, the employees will be extended financial support in case of death and medical emergency, an official statement said on Tuesday. Arun Jaitley's wife Sangeeta had urged Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu last year to utilise the family pension she is entitled to for the benefit of the bottom rung of the secretariat. Based on Naidu's instructions, the secretariat has formulated the "Shri Arun Jaitley Financial Assistance for Group C Employees" Scheme. "Mrs Jaitley's annual family pension entitlement at present rates comes to over Rs 3 lakh and she has already transferred the amount to the secretariat for the period since the demise of Shri Jaitley last year. The scheme is being made operational from this year," the statement said. Jaitley was the leader of the House in Rajya Sabha. Jaitley's daughter Sonali Jaitley Bakhshi said her father believed education wasn't just a right but was critical for a New India. "Thus, we donated his pension to benefit Rajya Sabha Secretariat's Group C Employees- to include a welfare scheme, scholarships for kids. For us, it's the best way to honour dad's ideals," she tweeted. Naidu also took to Twitter to thank the Jaitley family for the gesture. "Deeply touched by the gesture of the family of late Shri Arun Jaitley Ji in donating his pension for the welfare of Rajya Sabha Secretariat's Group C employees, including scholarships for their children. It is indeed an exemplary way of paying tribute and honouring his memory," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-secretariat-launches-employees-welfare-scheme-in-arun-jaitleys-name-861282.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Cong leader demands floor test in assembly||Senior Congress leader Deepender Singh Shekhawat on Monday demanded a floor test in the Rajasthan assembly at the earliest to make it clear as to how many MLAs are in support of Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot.  Congress MLAs were holed up on Monday in a resort near Jaipur after a legislature party meeting, where they expressed support for Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and only indirectly referred to Pilot, whose rebellion threatens his government. Shekhawat clarified that those with Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan Congress chief, do not want to leave the party and are not going to join the BJP, even if "helplessness arises".  "We want a floor test at the earliest, which will make the situation crystal clear. We are with the Congress and Rajasthan Congress president Sachin Pilot," the former Rajasthan assembly speaker said. Shekhawat does not hold any ministerial portfolio in the present Congress government. "I want to clarify that we will not join the BJP and don't want to leave the Congress. Even if helplessness arises, we will not join the BJP," he said To a question on whether those supporting Pilot were thinking of forming a new party, Shekhawat said, "As of now, we have not thought of anything but we will not go with the BJP. We are just talking about leadership change." He claimed that nearly 30 legislators were in support of Pilot. They can be even more than 30, which will be clear if the floor test is done, Shekhawat said.  He said that people have seen what can happen under political pressure. Legislators were present in the CLP meeting today but they were not there with their heart and soul, Shekhawat claimed.  He said that whether 109 legislators were in support of Gehlot, will be clear in the floor test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-cong-leader-demands-floor-test-in-assembly-860901.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Congress’s young leaders are seeking greener pastures, is leadership to blame?||Months after Congress lost Madhya Pradesh, a political thriller is being played out in Rajasthan where Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot are fighting a battle for political supremacy. Tension has been brewing in the Rajasthan Congress since Gehlot assumed the chair of Chief Minister with the central leadership giving the handle of power to the veteran leader. Pilot now openly rebels and claims the support of 30 MLAs and believes Gehlot is leading a minority government. Gehlot, on the other hand, played swiftly, calling a meeting of Congress Legislature Party and claiming the presence of 104 of the 107 Congress MLAs in the meeting. DH's Shemin Joy spoke to veteran journalist Rasheed Kidwai, a specialist of Congress politics and author of authoritative books on the party, about the political crisis and what could be in store. Q. Congress lost Madhya Pradesh only months ago. Now, there is a war of attrition in Rajasthan. How do you view this? A. I think it is a combination of realpolitik and leadership issues. Let us not forget that Jyotiraditya Scindia has left the party. Possibly, Sachin Pilot may go ahead with breaking with the Congress and joining hands with the BJP. This shows that the investment the party made in these young leaders is not paying dividends. They became MPs soon after the death of their fathers. In Pilot's case, he was only 24 years old when his father Rajesh Pilot died and was not eligible to fight an election. So his mother fought the election and won. He followed his mother and was later rewarded with posts and positions. Obviously, he is feeling suffocated now. What the Gandhi family did was that they forced two unhappy people into a marriage in Rajasthan. It was not a secret that Gehlot and Pilot do not get along. But both were made to compromise. It has now taken an ugly turn. This also tells you about the failure of a Chief Minister to carry his No 2 or the Council of Ministers along and the restlessness of a promising young leader. The leaders see the appointment of their loyalists in key positions as a matter of prestige. It becomes a prime reason for confrontation. Scindia had problems with (former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister) Kamal Nath, regarding Gwalior-Chambal region. Then there is the 2019 Lok Sabha election defeat, which had a psychological impact on average Congressmen. Scindia lost. Even Rahul Gandhi lost in Amethi. Then there was the complete decimation of the Congress in Rajasthan in Lok Sabha polls. This happened a year after the 2018 Rajasthan Assembly elections when they won nearly 100 seats. This loss had a psychological impact on these people. They started thinking that they are no match for Narendra Modi. More importantly, then you will not blame Modi for it. Then you will start thinking because of Rahul, we lost. Because, the election became Rahul versus Modi. As long as there is an election in which it is Rahul versus Modi, then the Congress will not win. So this kind of narrative has caught on. So, these leaders who are decorated and rewarded started looking for greener pastures outside. Q. There is an argument that Sachin Pilot steered the party to 100 seats in the 2018 Assembly elections. But the Congress has done injustice to him. Do you agree with such a proposition? A. See, this is a loaded proposition. In Parliamentary democracy, the cardinal principle is that the newly elected MLAs decide who will be the Chief Minister. Don't forget, Sonia Gandhi was earlier criticised for choosing Ajit Jogi as Chief Minister in Chhattisgarh in 2000, accepting the sentiments. He did not have much support at that time in the legislature party while the claims of senior leaders like V C Shukla were disregarded. Some sort of informal headcount was done in Madhya Pradesh where Kamal Nath was chosen over Scindia and in Rajasthan where over 60 out of the 100 MLAs were supporting Gehlot. If it was a close contest, then it would have been different. But the gap was glaring. I don't think blaming Congress leadership is entirely correct. Democracy is all about numbers. Q. Has the Congress central leadership, especially the Gandhi leadership, had not intervened effectively in the crisis? A. Their hands were tied because increasingly in recent times, they have started investing in Chief Ministers who are given a free hand. It is not like the times of Indira Gandhi or Rajiv Gandhi when rival factions will come to Delhi to brief the leadership. Now, the leadership does not have inputs from various sides. The General Secretary in-charges are now more in the hands of the Chief Ministers. You don't get independent inputs. At the same time, you need money to run the party and for that you need to rely more on Chief Ministers. Any internal opposition is actively discouraged. Q. How do you think the crisis will pan out? A. If Pilot had any inclination to stay in this, there would have been efforts to get out a statement that he has full faith in the leadership of the Gandhis. That statement has not come. The fact that there were raids in some places in Rajasthan, the timing of it and Pilot's meeting with Scindia, all these things point to a plot. When it happened in Madhya Pradesh, it happened in two-three stages. It did not happen in a single day. Something happened on March 1, then something happened later, Scindia joined much later and so on. There is a pattern and there seems to be a plot. We will have to wait how it pans out. Pilot is not Scindia, who comes from an RSS or Hindu Maha Sabha background. Pilot does not come from an RSS background. His political DNA is not that of Scindias. Then, it also depends on how Vasundhara Raje accepts it. In Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj Singh Chouhan played a big role in bringing in Scindia. We do not know Raje's attitude towards Pilot. Q. There is this constant chatter about the battle between the old guard and the younger generation in Congress. Why is there this kind of animosity between the two groups? A. I think this is exaggerated. Nobody is young. We are talking about leaders who are above 45 years or 50 years. You look at BJP. You have B S Yeddyurappa in Karnataka and you have Adityanath in Uttar Pradesh and you know how both handled the Covid-19 crisis. So, it is not much about age. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who is in his 70s, is doing well. The key point is the Gandhis are at the centre. Those who are close to them have a premium. So anybody who is close to them becomes a target for others. Nobody is questioning the Gandhis. It is the people near Gandhis who come under question within Congress. The blame is always on the people around them. Seldom the leader is blamed. Sonia is at the helm of affairs from 1998 and Rahul from 2004. All those people who are now unhappy with the Gandhis, when did they discover that Sonia's leadership has weakness or she is not able to strike a balance. Obviously, this did not happen between 2004 and 2014 when the UPA was in power. Nobody left the party then. Only when you are out of power, you lose that self-belief. The magnitude of the 2019 defeat has an explanation. Q. An argument is that there is a leadership crisis at the central level. Some say Rahul Gandhi should be blamed. Leaders are divided about Rahul at the helm. How do you see that? A. Somebody has to take the leadership. An average Congressman has reconciled to the fact that the Gandhis are first among equals. There is no hierarchy as per merit. For instance, the Congress Working Committee has very few directly elected lawmakers. Other than the Gandhis, there will be just a couple of them. Under PV Narasimha Rao, the Congress lost power and under Sitaram Kesari's presidentship, there was not much hope. Between 1998 and 2004 also, there was no hope for Congress. Outside world blames the Gandhis for everything but within the party, there is not much criticism against the Gandhis because they know that only the Gandhis can deliver. Where is the revolt against the Gandhis? The revolt comes from people like Shehzad Poonewala in 2017 or Sanjay Jha in 2020. These are very low-level rebellions. One should recall that Rao faced a rebellion from leaders of stature like Arjun Singh and N D Tiwari. Q. Do you think under the present circumstances, Sonia Gandhi is the best bet and her continuation as the party president would help Congress? A. I don't think the continuation of Sonia will help. The return of Rahul can help because there is one leadership. Sonia had been there in the coalition era and managed its contradictions. Now, it requires a different approach in an era of hyper-nationalism. It will be slightly more difficult for Sonia. For Rahul, it is a lot easier. Q. Several Congress leaders are facing corruption charges and being questioned by several agencies. Has the dent in Congress' image a problem for the party to bounce back? A. I think that dented image is there but it cuts across all parties. You look at electoral bonds and all kinds of things (under the BJP). We know that during elections, candidates of all parties spent more than the permitted Rs 70 lakh for a campaign but the Chartered Accountants help them in keeping these expenses below the permitted mark. At one level, everybody is corrupt. It is only a matter of how much. This is a very carefully curated narrative that the BJP has been able to build that the Congress is a corrupt party with allegations like those against the functioning of the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation etc. Congress is losing the battle of communication. While in Opposition, the general trend is that you are more accessible to the media. Today, it is far easier to interview Modi or Amit Shah or J P Nadda. But it is very difficult to get an interview with Sonia, Rahul or Priyanka Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-s-young-leaders-are-seeking-greener-pastures-is-leadership-to-blame-860909.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi to vacate Lutyen's Zone bungalow by August 1||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said she would be vacating her government accommodation in Lodhi Estate here by August 1, terming as "fake news" reports that she had sought more time to do so. The government had on July 1 issued an eviction notice to the Congress leader, asking her to vacate the 35, Lodhi Estate bungalow before August 1. Taking to Twitter, she termed as "Fake news", reports that she has requested the government to grant her extension and that she has been granted one.   This is FAKE NEWS. "This is FAKE NEWS. I have not made any such request to the government. As per the eviction letter handed to me on the 1st of July, I will be vacating the government accommodation at 35 Lodhi Estate by the 1st of August," she said in a tweet. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development had last week served a notice on her to vacate the said premises before August 1 as she no longer comes under SPG security cover. "Consequent to the withdrawal of SPG protection and grant of Z+ security cover by MHA, which does not provide for allotment or retention of government accommodation on security grounds to you, the allotment of type 6B house No. 35 Lodhi Estate is hereby cancelled from July 1. One month concession period on same rent till August 1 is allowed as per rules," the Housing Ministry notice had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-to-vacate-lutyens-zone-bungalow-by-august-1-860953.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Congress delays Legislature Party meeting in Jaipur, appeals to Sachin Pilot again||Ahead of the meeting if its Legislature Party in Jaipur, Congress on Tuesday made a fresh appeal to its rebel Rajasthan unit chief Sachin Pilot and his supporters to join the proceedings. The CLP meeting scheduled for 10:00 am on Tuesday has also been delayed by an hour to allow Pilot and his supporters to reach out to the party leadership. The appeal by AICC General Secretary Avinash Pande came as part of efforts by the top Congress leadership to reach out to Pilot, who has rebelled accusing Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot of giving him short shrift in the party and administrative affairs in the state. The top Congress leadership including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Rahul Gandhi, Ahmed Patel, P Chidambaram, K C Venugopal, have reached out to Pilot, but to no avail. "I appeal to Sachin Pilot and MLAs supporting him to join the CLP meeting. Please ensure your presence and reaffirm your faith in the values and ideology of the Congress and strengthen the hands of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi," Pande said. Pilot and about 16 MLAs supporting him remained ensconced at a resort in Gurugram and were in no mood to attend the CLP meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-delays-legislature-party-meeting-in-jaipur-appeals-to-sachin-pilot-again-860968.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena targets BJP over political storm in Rajasthan||Attacking the BJP over the political crisis in Rajasthan, the Shiv Sena on Tuesday accused the NDA constituent of working to destabilise governments of its opponents and encouraging horse-trading in the Congress-ruled state. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' asked the BJP what is it going to achieve with this political misadventure in the "desert", and said such moves will turn the country's parliamentary democracy into a desert. Rajasthan is home to Thar desert, which is also partly spread in states like Gujarat, Punjab and Haryana. The Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan is facing rough weather with his deputy Sachin Pilot declaring open rebellion against him. Pilot has claimed the Gehlot government is in minority and that he has support of 30 Congress MLAs in the 200-member state Assembly. "The central power is working to destabilise (the state) governments of its opponents, the Shiv Sena alleged. The country is facing problems like a coronavirus- triggered collapse of the economy and "Chinese intrusion" in Ladakh. The killings of 20 Indian soldiers in a face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley is still afresh, it said. Instead of solving these issues, the BJP is interfering in the internal bickering of the Congress and "encouraging horse-trading" in Rajasthan, the Sena alleged. What is the BJP going to achieve with this political misadventure, by causing a storm in the desert? Such steps will rather turn the parliamentary democracy into a desert," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. "The BJP is ruling the entire country (is in power at the Centre). They should leave some states for opponents (to rule). That will be the pride of democracy, it said. The Shiv Sena said it was being anticipated that the Rajasthan government would be destabilised after the BJP allegedly brought down the Kamal Nath regime in Madhya Pradesh earlier this year. Former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia had quit the Congress and joined the BJP along with his 22-supporter MLAs in Madhya Pradesh. It was predicted that Pilot would also go the Scindia way and it seems to be happening, the Marathi publication observed. With Pilot claiming that the Gehlot government is in minority, the Shiv Sena said the future of the Congress dispensation in Rajasthan, however, will be decided only on the floor of the House. It said Gehlots allegation that Congress MLAs are being offered Rs 25 crore each to switch loyalties is a serious one. It is also mysterious that raids are being carried out on properties of legislators supporting the Rajasthan chief minister, the Shiv Sena said. It accused Scindia of working hard to see that Pilot quits the Congress. "Pilots hatred for Gehlot" is destabilising the Rajasthan government, the Shiv Sena alleged, and charged the BJP with supporting the deputy chief minister in this bid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-targets-bjp-over-political-storm-in-rajasthan-860990.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Sachin Pilot sacked as Rajasthan Deputy CM, state Congress chief||The Congress on Tuesday sacked Sachin Pilot as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the party’s state unit chief, two days after his open rebellion against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. In swift action after Pilot turned down public appeals to come back to the party fold, the Congress also removed the 42-year-old leader’s loyalists Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena from the state Cabinet and axed those close to him from key party posts. The decision was announced after the meeting of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP), the second in as many days, to give an opportunity to Pilot and his supporters to come back. As Pilot dug in his heels and stayed ensconced in a resort in Gurugram, the party took the extreme step and expressed complete faith in the leadership of Gehlot. The Congress said several leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, P Chidambaram and K C Venugopal, had reached out to Pilot but to no avail. “I am sad that Sachin Pilot has fallen for a trap laid by the BJP,” Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said. Soon after the decision was announced, Pilot took to Twitter to say that “truth can be harassed but not defeated”. Pilot was yet to announce his next move though earlier he had ruled out joining the BJP. The swift action by Congress came after Gehlot had the numbers by his side — 109 in the Assembly of 200 — while Pilot was left with barely 16 MLAs, nearly half of the 30 legislators he had claimed to be with him. Gehlot mocked Pilot’s attempt at rebellion saying he should have been aware that it requires the support of two-thirds of MLAs to break a party and not 20 MLAs. “There is nothing in Sachin Pilot’s hands, he is a mere pawn in the hands of the BJP. The resort where Pilot and his supporters are staying is owned by the BJP... the same people of the BJP who supervised toppling of governments from other states are now in action managing the situation here,” Gehlot told reporters outside the Raj Bhawan. Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, BJP leader from Rajasthan, said anyone with a mass base wanting to join the party was welcome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sachin-pilot-sacked-as-rajasthan-deputy-cm-state-congress-chief-861016.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Truth can't be defeated: Sachin Pilot after being sacked as Rajasthan Deputy CM||The truth cannot be defeated, rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot said on Tuesday after he was sacked as Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister and as President of the state unit of the party. The decision to sack Pilot and two ministers -- Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena -- was taken at the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in Jaipur in the presence of AICC observers Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken and AICC General Secretaries Avinash Pande and K C Venugopal. सत्य को परेशान किया जा सकता है पराजित नहीं। After the meeting, Surjewala also announced that Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasara will be the new Rajasthan Congress President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/truth-cant-be-defeated-sachin-pilot-after-being-sacked-as-rajasthan-deputy-cm-861033.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Who is Govind Singh Dotasara?||Govind Singh Dotasara is the Education Minister of Rajasthan who has replaced Sachin Pilot as the Rajasthan Congress Chief after the latter failed to show up in the second meeting of the Congress Legislature Party held on Tuesday. Pilot and two other ‘rebel’ ministers—Vishvender Singh and Ramesh Meena—were sacked. Who is Govind Singh Dotasara? Dotasara has been in the news for criticising the removal of chapters from the CBSE syllabus. He condemned the Centre’s decision to remove chapters on nationalism, secularism and federalism from the CBSE syllabus. He tweeted, “I strongly condem(n) the BJP Govt's Decision of Removal of Nationalism, Secularism and Federalism from CBSE syllabus as it is an unequivocal testimony of BJP agenda of totalitarianism. Removal of citizenship in CBSE syllabus proves that BJP doesn’t want ‘thinking’ citizens in their ‘democracy’. This shows that BJP has accepted that its own ideology was at fault by removing these crucial chapters.” Surjewala said Govind Singh Dotasara is an experienced OBC leader and the son of a farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/who-is-govind-singh-dotasara-861056.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi, Hardeep Singh Puri face-off over Lutyen's bungalow||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday engaged in a war of words with the Modi government over a proposal to allow her to extend her stay in the Lutyen’s Zone bungalow that she has been asked to vacate by August 1. As Priyanka called reports of her being granted an extended stay in the 35, Lodhi Estate bungalow “fake news”, Housing Minister Hardeep Singh Puri called her out saying a two-month extension was granted at the behest of a “powerful Congress leader” who enjoyed much clout in the party. “Would only request you to first sort out these issues within your own party before venting out in public. Streak of entitlement and playing victim don’t go well together,” Puri said on Twitter. He said the Congress leader had called him on July 4 with a request to allot 35, Lodhi Estate bungalow to another Congress parliamentarian so that Priyanka could continue to stay there. Facts speak for themselves! A powerful Congress leader with much clout in the Party called me on 4 July 2020 at 12:05 pm to request that 35, Lodhi Estate be allotted to another INC MP so that Priyanka Vadra can stay on. Priyanka hit back at Puri insisting that she had made no such request and would be vacating the bungalow by August 1.  “I have made no such request, and I am making no such request. As I said, I will be vacating the house by the 1st of August as required in the eviction letter," she said referring to the bungalow she had been staying since 1997 but was asked to vacate earlier this month following the withdrawal of SPG security. Puri hit back saying that the Congress leader who had called him was “at the very top of the Congress hierarchy” and a “political advisor who speaks and acts on your family’s behalf”, but stopped short of naming the person. “It was when he requested that we decided to give a two month extension in good faith,” Puri added. Textiles Minister Smriti Irani, who defeated Rahul Gandhi in the Lok Sabha elections from Amethi, remarked that the Congress leader had called Puri after he was ordered to do so by the “high command”. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala hit out at Puri saying she needed “no favours from your ilk” and asked him to “stop bragging unwarrantedly”. Dear Mr. Puri, Priyankaji fights for the cause of people and need no favours from your ilk. So stop bragging unwarrantedly. The issue is closed. And so that all know, did you allot 35, Lodhi Estate to a Congress MP or BJP Spokesperson? Surjewala also wondered whether the bungalow was allotted to a Congress MP or a BJP spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-hardeep-singh-puri-face-off-over-lutyens-bungalow-861065.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan govt on autopilot as CM busy chasing Pilot, says Union minister Shekhawat||Taking a dig at the crisis-hit Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday said that the dispensation is on autopilot as the chief minister is "busy chasing a Pilot". Congress leader Sachin Pilot, who was sacked from the post of Rajasthan deputy chief minister and state Congress chief by the party, has rebelled against Gehlot along with MLAs loyal to him.    "Sad to see Rajasthan Govt on auto-pilot because the CM is busy chasing a Pilot," Union Jal Shakti minister Shekhawat tweeted. Shekhawat is also an MP from Jodhpur in Rajasthan. Pilot has been upset since he was denied the Rajasthan chief minister's post after the December 2018 assembly elections. Shekhawat also made a veiled attack on the Gandhi family without taking its name. "Looking at the rebellion clearly indicates that there is a lot of suffocation in the King's palace," Shekhawat tweeted. "Why does the headmaster's son come first in the class?" he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-govt-on-autopilot-as-cm-busy-chasing-pilot-says-union-minister-shekhawat-861071.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||No one can take away the fact that Sachin Pilot worked with dedication for Congress: Jitin Prasada||Prasada, considered a leader of the party’s ‘young brigade’, also expressed the hope that the situation can be salvaged. "Sachin Pilot is not just a colleague but my friend. No one can take away the fact that all these years he has worked with dedication for the party," Prasada tweeted. "Sincerely hope the situation can still be salvaged. Sad it has come to this…," he said. Shortly after he was sacked, Pilot said, "Truth can be rattled, not defeated". He also changed his profile on Twitter, deleting all references to his positions as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief. He only described himself as MLA of Tonk and a former minister of IT, Telecom & Corporate affairs, Government of India. Prasada, 46, and Pilot, 42, were said to be part of the Congress’ young brigade along with Jyotiraditya Scindia who left to join the BJP earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-one-can-take-away-the-fact-that-sachin-pilot-worked-with-dedication-for-congress-jitin-prasada-861090.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan political crisis: Sachin Pilot playing into the hands of BJP, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday accused rebel leader Sachin Pilot of playing into the hands of the BJP. Speaking after the Congress announced the sacking of Pilot and his two aides from the state cabinet, Gehlot alleged that that the BJP wanted to repeat what it had done in Madhya Pradesh. But the BJP's intentions will not fructify in Rajasthan, Gehlot said. The chief minister said that Pilot and other ministers, as well as MLAs, were given ample opportunities but they did not attend the Congress Legislature Party meeting on Monday and Tuesday. "There is nothing in the hands of Sachin Pilot. He is playing into the hands of the BJP which is making all the arrangements,” he told reporters after meeting Governor Kalraj Mishra. “I am very sad that horse trading was going on. It is for the first time in the country that democracy is under such grave threat,” he said. Gehlot that he had fulfilled the rebel leaders demands by making budget announcements and "their works were done but still they were like this". After attempts to assuage Pilot failed, the Congress on Tuesday removed him from the posts of Rajasthan's deputy chief minister and the party's state unit chief. The party also removed his loyalists Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena from the state cabinet. Gehlot met the governor immediately after the Congress Legislature Party meeting where the decision to remove the three ministers was taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-sachin-pilot-playing-into-the-hands-of-bjp-says-ashok-gehlot-861098.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Pilot grounded; Congress veterans call the shots yet again||With Sachin Pilot fired from both the posts of Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan PCC chief, the old guard in the Congress once again had the last laugh as the generation tussle in the century-old party came to the fore yet again. However, the generational discontentment comes at a time when the Congress is grappling with leadership issues even at the top after Rahul Gandhi resigned as party chief post the 2019 Lok Sabha poll debacle. Pilot, who was widely credited for the Congress's com back in the 2018 assembly poll, after having worked at the grassroot level in the state for eight years since he took the mantle in 2014, is now a discredited man in the Congress power corridors facing allegations of playing into the hands of the BJP. With this, Pilot joins the ranks of a teeming number of young leaders, who rose to prominence in Congress's hierarchy in last few years but had to move out after they challenged the rigid hierarchy within the party in which strong regional veterans still call the shots. The dominance of the Nehru-Gandhi family at the top position the icing on the doomed cake. Former Congress spokesperson Sanjay Jha, who was sacked after writing an article critical of leadership affairs in the party, rued “First, Jyotiraditya Scindia. Now, Sachin Pilot. Who next? Watch this space!” In Pilot’s case, he was sacked after he raised a banner of revolt against Rajasthan Congress veteran and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in less than two years after Congress came to power. In the bordering Madhya Pradesh, Jyotridaditya Scinidia, one of the triumvirates of the state, resigned from the Congress after being denied the state chief post, losing to Kamal Nath in the Chief Ministerial race as Nath got the backing of Digvijay Singh.  Scindia has joined the BJP and buzzword it that Pilot may also follow suit, although till yesterday he maintained that he had no plans of joining the saffron party. In another bordering state Haryana, Ashok Tanwar, who was made Congress state chief in February 2014, faced an unceremonious exit in October 2019 before the state assembly polls as the Congress decided to repose trust in the leadership of two-term Chief Minister and Tanwars’ bete noire Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Hooda and another senior party leader, Kumari Selja, made peace with each other. While Selja, who also belonging to the same Dalit community asTanwar, became state chief, Hooda was projected as the face of the CM face in the role of the Campaign Committee chief of the party. In September 2019, Tripura Congress chief and royal family scion Pradyot Deb Barman resigned, first as state President and then from the party itself over differences with party’s general secretary and northeast in-charge Luizinho Faleiro and opposing the “high command” culture in Congress.  A day before Pilot was sacked, Barman pointed out the problem of young talented leaders being ignored in the party. Hours before Pilot was sacked, Sanjay Jha had tweeted “There is a simple solution to the Rajasthan conundrum: Sachin Pilot should be made CM, Mr Ashok Gehlot (already 3 time CM) must be given a senior organisational role to revive weak states. A new leader appointed as head of RPCC. Where there’s a will there is a way.” However, the party chose to go the other way, preferring Gehlot (69) over Pilot (42) as the veteran managed to parade most Congress MLAs with him. When a lot of disgruntled young leaders in the party are complaining that talent is being ignored in the party to suit the interests of well-entrenched seniors in different states, the dilemma in Congress as a functionary said is that “these young men in a hurry” are no match for seniors like Gehlot and Hooda, who deliver without much noise. “What opportunity did Scindia or Pilot not get? While opportunities are given, one has to follow some discipline as well,” Digvijay Singh said. In Haryana, Tanwar was given five-and-half years but there was no sign of life in Congress. Hooda’s last-minute arrival ensured that the party gave a tough fight to the ruling BJP and ensured at least a hung verdict with substantial numbers.” Even in Punjab, it is the 78-year-old Amarinder Singh, who delivered the party to the state and not leaders like Pratap Singh Bajwa or Navjot Singh Sidhu. In Madhya Pradesh too, Congress had earlier appointed youth leader Arun Yadav as party chief in January 2014 but Congress could come to power only when veterans like Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh joined hands with a relatively young Scindia in 2018. Nath had replaced Yadav as state party chief in April 2018, six months before the state polls. In March this year when Scindia resigned and the Kamal Nath-led government fell, Yadav accused Scindia of betrayal saying people would teach a lesson to “Mir Jafar and Jaichands”. In the 2013 MP polls, Scindia was the campaign committee chief and the Congress's likely choice for CM but the organisation was in control of Digvijay Singh and the continued bickering among senior Congress leaders then ensured that the BJP had an easy win. In August 2019, Jharkhand Congress chief Ajoy Kumar, an IPS officer turned politician, quit the party slamming the seniors in the state politics in a three-page letter to Rahul Gandhi in which he accused the old generation leaders in the state of only seeking to grab political posts for personal benefits. It’s a different matter that Congress, which could win only one of 14 Lok Sabha seats in the state in 2019, that too due to the clout of former Chief Minister Madhu Koda, later managed to form a government in the state in alliance with JMM in lead role in 2020 when Ajoy Kumar was not the party chief. Pilot’s case is, however, somewhat different. As young Congress leader from UP, Jitin Prasad notes, “no one can take away the fact that all these years he (Pilot) has worked with dedication to the party”. Sanjay Jha went to the extent of saying that Pilot had single-handedly won the 2018 polls for Congress in Rajasthan. Among young Congress leaders who quit in the pas few years, except Priyanka Chaturvedi, who joined Shiv Sena, most found solace in the arms of BJP including Scindia in 2020 and ace strategist from Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma, who quit in August 2015. Sarma opposed he leadership of Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi ruing that he wasted 23 years of his life in Congress. In his first response after quitting, Pilot said “Truth can be plagued, not defeated” indicating he plans to fight it out in the long run. It remains to be seen whether Pilot manages to do what Mamata Banerjee did replacing Congress in West Bengal after she quit it in 1998 fighting against the old guard of the party or Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, who after being denied Chief Ministership of Andhra Pradesh after the death of his father, formed his own party. Both Banerjee and Jagan Mohan Reddy are Chief Ministers but the larger number is of those, who were eclipsed when they began their solo run like G K Vasan, Ajit Jogi and Kuldip Bishnoi.  Many came back to the fold of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pilot-grounded-congress-veterans-call-the-shots-yet-again-861110.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan political crisis: Ashok Gehlot should take floor test, demands BJP||As the ruling Congress in Rajasthan grapples with a rebellion led by Sachin Pilot, the BJP on Tuesday demanded that Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot take a floor test to prove his government's majority in the Assembly. The party also alleged that the residences of MLAs were being kept under police surveillance and the legislators of Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) "had been threatened". The BTP, which has two MLAs in the Rajasthan assembly, has asked its legislators to remain neutral. It was earlier supporting the Gehlot government. “Prove majority in a floor test first and then go for a cabinet reshuffle. The result of the political fight is out,” Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria told reporters. Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore claimed that Ashok Gehlot government will not be able to prove its majority in a floor test. BJP state president Satish Poonia said that the state government has lost the confidence of the people and it was time for its departure. “The government has failed to deliver on its promises and failed to perform. We are keeping a watch on the situation and will follow the direction of the party leadership,” he said. The party held a meeting of senior leaders to discuss the situation. Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal and convenor of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, which is BJP's ally, was also present. The crisis in Rajasthan Congress reached a tipping point on Tuesday as the party announced the sacking of Pilot as deputy chief minister and president of its state unit. Two of his loyalists were also removed as ministers. Some of the MLAs belonging to the Sachin Pilot camp too have demanded a floor test while contesting the rival Gehlot camp's claim of having the support of 109 legislators in the 200-member House. Gehlot has alleged that Pilot was playing into the hands of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-ashok-gehlot-should-take-floor-test-demands-bjp-861167.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||86% of total active Covid-19 cases come from 10 states: Health Ministry||As the number of coronavirus cases crossed the 9-lakh mark on Tuesday, the Health Ministry said that 86 per cent of the total active cases were recorded in 10 states of the country. Addressing a press briefing, Rajesh Bhushan, the officer on special duty in the Health Ministry, said two of the most affected states are Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu which are contributing to 50 per cent of the total active cases (154,134 active cases). Karnataka, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Gujarat and Assam are the other affected states that contribute to 36 per cent of the total active cases (111,068 active cases). Bhushan also said that the total recovered cases of Covid-19 are about 1.8 times the number of active cases. On Covid testing, he said that 22 states are currently performing more than 140 tests per day per million population. Responding to a question on the fatality rate, he said the national Covid-19 fatality rate is 2.6 per cent and it is coming down rapidly. "Compared to the global case, fatality rate it is significantly lower," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/86-of-total-active-covid-19-cases-come-from-10-states-health-ministry-861168.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Most Congress leaders dub Sachin Pilot's removal as Rajasthan deputy CM, PCC chief as 'unfortunate', 'sad'||Rebel Sachin Pilot's removal from the posts of Rajasthan deputy chief minister and Congress state unit chief on Tuesday evoked mixed reactions from the party leaders, with a section of them still hoping for a resolution of the matter and the rest blaming the young leader for his haste. Most of the leaders, however, described the turn of events as "unfortunate" and "sad". A day after the Congress said the "doors are open" for Pilot and gave him a second chance, the party virtually closed them for him on Tuesday, sacking him as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and state party chief, three days after he mounted a rebellion against his state chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Soon after the Congress action, party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said Pilot was holding constitutional post and some of his actions may not be in sync with that position. "Some doors have to close if the open doors are not utilised for constructive closures. We still hope that closure of options will be an exception, and harmonious settlement the rule," Singhvi told PTI. "A constitutional government responsibility of deputy CM obviously sits uneasily with activities which are anti-party," he added. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the development was "disappointing" for the party workers who have reposed faith in the Congress party. "It is not just disappointing for the party, but also for the grassroots workers, who want the party to progress and do well. The biggest blow is to the common workers who have reposed faith in the party. This has certainly hurt the common workers," he told PTI. Chowdhury said every party worker has aspirations to reach the highest post, but they should be kept within limits. He said when people see such things happening, with leaders aspiring for the top posts, they get hurt and disappointed. Senior party leader Salman Khurshid said, "the developments are sad. I don't want to go into the specifics of apportioning blame. I wish that we would altogether be fighting the challenges rather than letting such things happen." Asked about the young leaders being unhappy and some even leaving like Jyotiraditya Scindia, he said: "I don't see young and old as a distinction. The only distinction you can make is those who go away and those who stay. We have to concentrate on fighting the BJP and it's sad that these developments have taken place." Noting that what has happened is "unfortunate", veteran Congress leader M Veerappa Moily said the BJP is exploiting the vulnerability of young Congress leaders who are ambitious. He also felt that Pilot should have had patience and perseverance and not been in haste. "Pilot was made deputy chief minister and given the reins of the party in Rajasthan and the next leg was the chief ministership. But he had no patience. The BJP made use of his vulnerability," he told PTI. Former Union minister and Pilot's 'colleague and friend' Jitin Prasada said no one can take away the fact that Sachin Pilot has long worked with dedication for the Congress. Considered a prominent leader of the party's 'young brigade', Prasada expressed the hope that the situation can be salvaged. "Sachin Pilot is not just a colleague but my friend. No one can take away the fact that all these years he has worked with dedication for the party," Prasada tweeted. "Sincerely hope the situation can still be salvaged. Sad it has come to this," he said. However, a senior leader said "patience never hurts" and alleged that there is a "sense of entitlement" among the young generation in the party. Another leader said what is happening in the party "is not good". "Some youngsters have got more than they deserved due to extraordinary circumstances. They should be grateful and not greedy," said a senior leader, who did not wish to be named.   Shortly after he was sacked, Pilot said, "Truth can be rattled, not defeated". He also changed his profile on Twitter, deleting all references to his positions as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief. He only described himself as MLA of Tonk and a former minister of IT, Telecom & Corporate Affairs, Government of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/most-congress-leaders-dub-sachin-pilots-removal-as-rajasthan-deputy-cm-pcc-chief-as-unfortunate-sad-861181.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Congress embarrassed as Jitin Prasada heaps praise on Sachin Pilot||The Congress was left red-faced after one of its prominent young faces from Uttar Pradesh and former minister Jitin Prasada on Tuesday seemed to support sacked Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. Jitin, who had been spearheading a campaign to woo the influential 'Brahmin' community in the state through a caste-based outfit, heaped praise on Pilot and expressed hope that the situation could still be 'salvaged'. Sachin Pilot is not just a collegues but my friend. No one can take away the fact that all these years he has worked with dedication for the party. Sincerely hope the situation can still be salvaged. Sad it has come to this... ''Sachin Pilot is not just a colleague but my friend...No one can take away the fact that all these years he has worked with dedication for the party...sincerely hope that the situation can still be salvaged...sad it has come to this,'' Jitin said in a post on his Twitter handle. Prasada's tweet in support of Pilot made many speculate that the former was also likely to leave the party in the days to come.  UP Congress sources, however, rejected such speculations saying that the tweet had nothing that challenged the party's high command. ''It merely mentions the works done by Pilot for the party.. Everyone knows that. No other meaning should be derived from the tweet,'' remarked a senior state Congress leader here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-embarrassed-as-jitin-prasada-heaps-praise-on-sachin-pilot-861214.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Sad to see Sachin Pilot 'leave' Congress: Shashi Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Tuesday said he was sad to see Sachin Pilot "leave" the Congress and asserted that instead of "parting", the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister should have joined the effort to make the party a more effective instrument for "his and our dreams". However, when asked on Twitter whether Pilot had left the party, Tharoor said, "Not formally. I certainly hope that reconciliation is still possible. The events of the last few days led me to draw an obvious inference." "If he returns to the fold & works for a revived &reformed @incIndia, he would be more than welcome," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. The Congress on Tuesday cracked the whip on dissident leader Pilot, stripping him of the posts of deputy chief minister and the party's Rajasthan unit president for revolting against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Responding to the developments, Tharoor tweeted, "I am sad to see @SachinPilot leave @INCIndia. I consider him one of our best & brightest, and wish it had not come to this. Instead of parting, he should have joined the effort to make the Party a better & more effective instrument for his, and our, dreams."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sad-to-see-sachin-pilot-leave-congress-shashi-tharoor-861268.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin Pilot episodes reflective of leadership crisis plaguing Congress: Political analysts||With Jyotiraditya Scindia having exited the Congress and Sachin Pilot rebelling, political observers feel the recent events relating to the two leaders were reflective of a deeper crisis of leadership plaguing the grand old party and lack of a clear roadmap. The Congress on Tuesday cracked the whip on dissident leader Pilot, stripping him of the posts of Rajasthan's deputy chief minister and the party's state unit president, for revolting against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The crisis for the Congress in the Hindi heartland state comes close on the heels of the jolt it received in Madhya Pradesh where its government fell after another young leader of the party, Jyotiraditya Scindia, quit and joined the BJP with MLAs supporting him. Political analyst Yogendra Yadav said, "Pilot episode, like the one involving Scindia, is merely the symptom of a deeper crisis that afflicts Congress: a party that does not have a clear roadmap, a coherent strategy, a credible leader." The Congress, at present, is an organisation that possesses neither an ideology nor the glue of power that can bind it, the Swaraj India leader alleged. Sanjay K Pandey, a political commentator and a professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said the two episodes involving Scindia and Pilot showed that the problem facing the Congress was very much internal. "The Congress suffers from over centralisation of power in the hands of the family and a culture of the old guard coterie advising the top leadership," he told PTI. "It is also reflective of a deeper leadership crisis that is plaguing the party with Rahul Gandhi stepping down and Sonia Gandhi made interim chief. There is lack of decisiveness that is hurting the party," he said. Pandey said young talent is unable to come up in Congress ranks with the "old guard", which does not understand the pulse of the people in current times, dominating the scene in the party. Former JNU professor and political commentator Kamal Mitra Chenoy said the party was marred by factionalism and nothing could be done until one was part of one faction or the other. He said Pilot's move was wrong and instead of making moves allegedly against his own government, he should have first apprised the top leadership of his grievances directly. "Sachin Pilot's case is different from that of Scindia's. He was PCC (Rajasthan) chief and had worked hard for the Congress to win in the state polls. His exit demoralises the young cadre as his was a success story youngsters looked to emulate in the party," a young Congress worker said. Pilot has been upset since the Congress picked Gehlot as the chief minister after the 2018 assembly polls, while his own supporters insisted that he deserved credit for the party's victory as its state unit president. The current crisis surfaced last Friday when the Rajasthan Police sent a notice to Pilot, asking him to record his statement over the alleged bid to bring down the government. The same notice was sent to the chief minister and some other MLAs, but Pilot's supporters claimed that it was only meant to humiliate him. The Special Operation Group (SOG) had sent out the notices after tapping a phone conversation between two men, who were allegedly discussing the fall of the Gehlot government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jyotiraditya-scindia-sachin-pilot-episodes-reflective-of-leadership-crisis-plaguing-congress-political-analysts-861275.html
14-07-2020||National Politics||Sanjay Jha suspended from Congress for 'anti-party activities'||Congress leader and former spokesperson Sanjay Jha has been suspended for "anti-party activities and breach of discipline", the party's Maharashtra unit said on Tuesday. The entrepreneur-turned-politician's suspension from the Congress comes weeks after he wrote a newspaper article critical of the country's oldest political party. Jha has been suspended with immediate effect for anti-party activities and breach of discipline", Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat declared in a statement. Thorat is also a minister in the state, where the Congress is part of the Shiv Sena-led ruling coalition. Soon after the article appeared in a leading English daily last month, the Congress had removed Jha as a party spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sanjay-jha-suspended-from-congress-for-anti-party-activities-861311.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in J&K's Kupwara||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing towards Indian positions along the Line of Control (LoC) in Tangdhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, an Army official said. There have been no reports of any casualties so far. "Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) along the LoC in Tangdhar sector in Kupwara in the evening hours by firing mortars and other weapons," the official said. The Indian Army gave a befitting response to the Pakistani aggression, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jks-kupwara-860895.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi records 1,246 fresh cases, lowest in last 35 days; LNJP to have city's second plasma bank||The national capital on Monday recorded 1,246 fresh coronavirus cases, authorities said, the lowest in the last 35 days. In another positive trend, the first 12 days of July have largely reported more cases of people recovering daily from the coronavirus than the fresh ones added to Delhi's Covid-19 count, according to the city government data. The recovery rate stands at over 80 per cent It was also for the third consecutive day that figures of fresh cases remained below 2,000 in Delhi. On June 11, the number of new cases was 1,781 which dropped to 1,573 and 1,246 in the next two days. With forty fresh fatalities, the death toll reached 3,411. The total number of coronavirus cases stands at 1,13,740, a health bulletin from Delhi government said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate on Tuesday a plasma bank at the government-run LNJP Hospital, the second hospital in the national capital after the ILBS to start the facility for Covid patients, a senior official said. The hospital has hired three expert counsellors who will encourage patients to donate plasma and tell them it is a safe process, according to the official.  These counsellors will call up patients, who have recovered from coronavirus, and explain to them about the therapy, he said. "We already have a database of patients in our hospital and these counsellors will be calling them," the official said. "However, patients who have recovered after treatment from other hospitals can also come and donate plasma to the bank." Sources said there would be a separate entry for those coming to donate plasma. According to the health bulletin, 93,312 people have recovered from the infection so far, while the active cases stand at 19,017. The recovery rate stands at over 80 per cent. However, only 12,171 tests were (RTPCR- 3,860 and 8,311 – Rapid Antigen tests) conducted, the lowest in the last 13 days. Incidentally, the June 6 (Monday) bulletin also stated 13,879 tests were conducted on that day. On other days, the daily tests have been in the range of 19,000 to 24,000. Of the 15,253 beds in hospitals, 10,944 are vacant; of the 9,217 beds in the dedicated Covid care centre, 7,069 beds are vacant. The containment zones in the national capital stand at 658. From July 1-13, the city recorded 26,380 cases, while 32,984 people recovered.           Barring July 1 and July 6, all days of this month recorded more recoveries than fresh cases. The recoveries from July 1-13 too have seen a sharp rise– six days saw recoveries in the range of 2,000, three days in the range of 3,000 while one day (July 9) saw over 4,000 recoveries.         Last week, a Delhi government study said there has been a "sharp decline" in daily fatality figures in the past two weeks. On Sunday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Delhi has been able to minimise deaths of coronavirus patients in home isolation through pulse oximeters, which he termed as "suraksha kavach'' (protective shield). Meanwhile, a group of nurses working in the Covid-19 ward of Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital here protested against its management, alleging their contracts were terminated for "demanding basic facilities".  The hospital authorities, however, said the non-renewal of the contracts "is not linked to their demands". The 84 nurses, whose services have been terminated, protested on the hospital premises on Monday and also wrote to Union Health Minister Harshvardhan, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, seeking their intervention in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-records-1246-fresh-cases-lowest-in-last-35-days-lnjp-to-have-citys-second-plasma-bank-860898.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Ladakh: 4th round of Corps Commanders' meet today||The fourth round of Corps Commander level meeting between Indian and Chinese People’s Liberation Army will take place on Tuesday at eastern Ladakh to discuss further disengagement of the troops and withdrawal of the armaments from the depth areas. Like the previous three rounds, the discussions will be led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Leh-based 14 Corps from the Indian side and Maj Gen Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military Region representing the PLA. It would be held at Chushul on the Indian side. Both sides will talk on further de-escalation measures like reduction of the additional troops as well as the withdrawing of the howitzers, tanks and armoured vehicles that were brought in by the two armies on both sides of the disputed boundary. The two commanders will also discuss the verification norms for the pull-back exercise. Vacating the Finger Complex on the northern banks of the Pangong Tso will also feature prominently in the talks. While the PLA army moved back to Finger 5 instead of Finger 4, which they had occupied since the last three months, the Indian Army is nowhere close to its original position of being able to patrol up to Finger 8. Both sides had withdrawn their troops at Galwan, Hot Spring and Gogra creating a temporary buffer zone that is not being patrolled by either of the two armies for the time being. The withdrawal of troops and removal of temporary structures that continued for the better part of the previous week, coupled with high-level diplomatic engagement clears the deck for the fourth round of discussions between the military commanders. The formal process of disengagement of troops began last Monday following an extensive telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi the previous day. On Friday, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks during which both sides resolved to push ahead with "complete disengagement" of troops in eastern Ladakh in a timely manner for "full restoration" of peace and tranquility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-4th-round-of-corps-commanders-meet-today-860899.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan crisis: Bhartiya Tribal Party asks its MLAs to be neutral in the tussle between Sachin Pilot and Ashok Gehlot||The Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has two MLAs in the Rajasthan assembly, has asked its legislators to remain neutral and not align either with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot or his deputy Sachin Pilot. The development comes hours after a Congress legislature party meeting, where Congress MLAs expressed support for Gehlot and only indirectly referred to Pilot, whose rebellion threatens his government. The BTP has also asked its MLAs neither to align with the Congress nor the BJP during the ongoing political crisis in the state. The Gehlot camp has considered BTP MLAs as supporters of the government. One of the BTP's MLAs has maintained that the support to the government will continue. BTP president Maheshbhai Vasava issued a whip to both the MLAs directing them not to vote for the Congress or the BJP or in support of Gehlot or Pilot in case a floor test is held in the assembly. Disciplinary action will be taken if the MLAs ignore the whip, BTP state in-charge Rameshbhai Vasava said. "It is for the party and not for the MLAs to decide whom to vote and support," he said. Both the MLAs were present in the Congress legislature party meeting held at chief minister's residence. "Our support to the government continues," BTP MLA Ramprasad said. The BTP MLAs were also present in the hotel to where Congress MLAs left for after the legislature party meeting. Meanwhile, the CPI (M) said, “Democracy, Constitution and secularism are being attacked ever since BJP has formed the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi". "They toppled elected governments in states like Madhya Pradesh and misusing CBI, ED, Income tax department has become a routine for BJP,” CPI (M) leader Amra Ram said.   While Congress leaders consider CPI (M) MLAs also as their supporters, a leader of the Left party said that the decision to support the Gehlot government, if required, will be taken and declared later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-crisis-bhartiya-tribal-party-asks-its-mlas-to-be-neutral-in-the-tussle-between-sachin-pilot-and-ashok-gehlot-860918.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi University cut offs likely to be higher as many score above 95% in CBSE Class 12 exams||With almost double the number of students scoring above 95 percent in the CBSE Board results this year, the Delhi University cutoffs are also likely to be high this year. A major chunk of students who apply to the Delhi University is CBSE students. Shobha Bagai, dean (admissions), said the registration process was already underway till July 18. "The next step for students will be to update marks. There is an increase in students scoring above 95 percent and 90 percent marks, and we will see which streams they are from and how that will impact the cutoffs," Bagai said. "Once we get the data on the portal, only then an analysis can happen. We have been waiting for the revised academic calendar from the UGC," she said. "For us, it will make a difference, especially for science courses since NEET and JEE exams are scheduled in September." Many of the NEET and JEE aspirants also apply to the DU. In few days, the admission committee will sit down and take a decision, Bagai said. Former Academic Council member Pankaj Garg said the cutoffs in the first list would be high, but even the cutoffs in the fifth and sixth lists would be higher than last year by two-three percentage points. For instance, if the cutoff was 88 percent in a subject last year, it will be 90 or 91 percent this year, he said. "Also, this year, students were not allowed to choose courses while filling the varsity registration form. So colleges will keep their cut-offs high since the number of seats are limited for courses," he said. Anju Srivastava, principal of the Hindu College, said the first cutoff would be the same if not higher than last year. "There is data that students who have scored above 95 percent is almost double of last year. We will have to keep the cut-offs high because of the limitations," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-cut-offs-likely-to-be-higher-as-many-score-above-95-in-cbse-class-12-exams-860935.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan political crisis: Sachin Pilot-led Congress camp releases video showing 16 MLAs sitting together||In a show of strength, Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot-led Rajasthan Congress camp on Monday released a video showing at least 16 MLAs sitting together. This comes hours after the Congress held a legislature party meeting. Party leaders said 106 of 122 MLAs attended, a claim contested by the Pilot camp. The 10-second video was shared late at night on Pilot's official WhatsApp group.  In the video, at least 16 MLAs are seen sitting together in a close circle. Pilot is not seen in the video. Six other people can be seen in the video but they could not be identified. Some of the MLAs seen in the video are Indraraj Gurjar, Mukesh Bhakar, Harish Meena. Tourism Minister Vishvendra Singh tweeted the video with the caption "Family". Ladnun MLA Mukesh Bhakar tweeted, "...Loyalty in Congress means Ashok Gehlot's slavery. That is not acceptable to us." Pilot has been upset since he was denied the Rajasthan chief minister's post after the December 2018 assembly elections. On Sunday, he claimed to have the backing of 30 Congress MLAs and "some independents". Those close to him disputed Gehlot's claim that his government had a majority, and said this is proven in the assembly and not at the CM's house. Sources close to him have also ruled out the possibility of Pilot joining the BJP. In the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72. In the past, the ruling party has claimed the support of 13 independents, two MLAs each from the CPM and the Bharatiya Tribal Party, and one from the Rashtriya Lok Dal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-political-crisis-sachin-pilot-led-congress-camp-releases-video-showing-16-mlas-sitting-together-860942.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Fact-check | Did Indian railways replace Dehradun Railway station signboard from Urdu to Sanskrit?||BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra wrote “Sanskrit” in bold letters while tweeting pictures of the signboard at Dehradun railway station. While the first photograph shows the city’s name written in Hindi, English and Urdu, the second picture shows Urdu replaced with Sanskrit. The tweet garnered close to 20,000 retweets and more than 99,000 likes.     Most people commenting on Patra’s tweet believe that the language was recently changed on the board. Fact-Check According to the report, “In a bid to promote use of Sanskrit in Uttarakhand, the Railways ministry decided to rename the name of its stations in the state. The signboards which have names of railway stations written in Hindi, English and Urdu will now be written in Hindi, English and Sanskrit…Last week (first week of February 2020), name of Dehradun railway station was written in Sanskrit as Dehradunam, along with Hindi and English, when the station re-opened for public after three months.” A controversy erupted in February this year when Urdu was replaced with Sanskrit on a signboard. According to Hindustan Times, Rekha Sharma, senior divisional commercial manager Moradabad railway division, which manages the stations falling under Garhwal region, told local media, “The name was written by the construction agency which was renovating the station. They had put up a board with the name written in Sanskrit. The board was removed as soon as the matter came to light.” “The state government has to provide us with how the names of the railway stations are to be written in Sanskrit. Only then we would be writing to the railway headquarter to clarify on that fact of adding a fourth language on station signboards,” Sharma added. On February 7, Division Railway Manager (DRM) Moradabad issued a clarification notice regarding the replacement of Urdu with Sanskrit from Railway signboard in Uttarakhand. As per the letter, “Indian Railways has neither replaced Urdu language from any station nor has any intention to do so at this point in time. Sanskrit may be used as an additional language apart from existing languages in the signboards at railway stations but will not replace Urdu wherever the same exists.”   However, a senior railway official from Kathgodam railway station in Nainital was quoted by Hindustan Times as saying, “Even though official orders have not been received, preparations are afoot to write names of stations in Sanskrit.”   Alt News was able to get a photo of the board clicked by a local resident, where the paper is clearly visible. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra, therefore, shared an old photograph of a signboard at Dehradun station with the city’s name written in Urdu replaced with the Sanskrit language. The board was altered to its earlier form a few days later but Patra did not share this information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fact-check-did-indian-railways-replace-dehradun-railway-station-signboard-from-urdu-to-sanskrit-860978.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey's aide arrested, two looted rifles recovered: UP police||An aide of gangster Vikas Dubey has been arrested and two rifles of the Uttar Pradesh police looted during the Kanpur ambush earlier this month have been recovered, police said on Tuesday. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said that Dubey's aide Shashikant was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on him. "Shashikant was an accused in the killing of 8 policemen (in the Kanpur ambush). He was arrested from Chaubeypur around 2.50 am," the police officer told reporters in Kanpur. "During interrogation, he admitted to his involvement in the encounter at Kanpur's Bikru and revealed that the looted AK-47 and INSAS rifles of UP Police were hidden at Dubey's house," the ADG said. Based on the information, an AK-47 rifle, its 17 cartridges, an INSAS rifle and its 20 cartridges have been recovered. These weapons were looted from the police during the ambush, Kumar said. The police officer said of the 21 named accused in the Kanpur ambush, six have been killed and four arrested so far, while a hunt is on for 11 named accused. Dubey was shot dead on July 10 by police, who claim that he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain overturned on an isolated stretch of the highway on the outskirts of the city. The SUV met with the accident at Bhaunti in Kanpur district, toppling on the road which was slippery after the rains, police claimed. According to a statement from the Special Task Force, the driver had tried to avoid cattle on the road. The car was part of a small convoy of police vehicles. Dubey was the sixth man to die in a police encounter after the ambush he allegedly masterminded in Kanpur's Bikru village past midnight on July 2, killing eight policemen who had come to arrest him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubeys-aide-arrested-two-looted-rifles-recovered-up-police-861000.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Crisis: Congress MLAs meet again in Jaipur, Sachin Pilot turns down 'second chance'||The second meeting of Congress Legislature Party in two days began Tuesday morning with Rajasthan’s Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot turning down appeals to participate. Ahead of the meeting, Congress general secretary Avinash Pande made another bid to reach out to the rebel leader, who had skipped the first CLP meeting at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s home on Monday. Eighteen other Congress MLAs had also not attended Monday’s meeting, according to sources. But independents and MLAs from other parties participated, expressing support for Gehlot. Tuesday’s meeting was said to be a second chance for Pilot, who is also the president of the state unit of the party. But MLAs considered close to Pilot were again not seen there, and are calling for a floor test in the 200-member state assembly. Srimadhopar MLA Deepender Singh Shekhawat, who was Speaker in the assembly during the term of the previous Congress government, came out in the open Tuesday with the demand. The Pilot camp also released late at night a 10-second video clip of a group of Congress MLAs sitting together. There appeared to be 16 of them in the clip. Tourism Minister Vishvendra Singh tweeted the video, captioning it as "Family". The latest Congress meeting is being held at a resort where Gehlot and other MLAs are camping since Monday. It was scheduled to begin at 10 am, but started at least an hour later. "I appeal to Sachin Pilot and all his fellow MLAs to join today's Legislature Party meeting,” Avinash Pande, who is the Rajasthan in-charge at the AICC, tweeted in the morning. “While expressing your faith in the ideology and values of the Congress, please make your presence felt and strengthen the hands of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi," he said. He told reporters that a second chance is being given to Pilot and hoped that all MLAs come and extend solidarity with the leadership for which people voted to ensure the state’s development. Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Monday night announced summoning of the second CLP meeting, amid attempts by the party’s top leadership to woo back dissidents led by Pilot. Former party president Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are among the senior leaders who had been in touch with Pilot, sources said. Party leaders had said 106 of 122 MLAs – from Congress and the allies -- attended the first CLP meeting, a claim contested by the Pilot camp. Pilot and his supporters claimed to have the backing of 30 Congress MLAs and some independents. Pilot has been upset since he was denied the Rajasthan chief minister’s post after the December 2018 assembly elections. In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72. In the past, the ruling party has claimed the support of 13 independents, two MLAs each from the CPM and the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP), and one from the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD). But CPM and BTP have now indicated that their MLAs could stay neutral till the Congress settles its factional feud. In recent days, the Gehlot camp has also distanced itself from three of the independents, after their names surfaced in an alleged plot to topple the state government. The current crisis began Friday when the Rajasthan Police sent a notice to Pilot, asking him to record his statement over the alleged bid to bring down the government. The same notice was sent to the chief minister and some other MLAs, but Pilot’s supporters claimed that it was only meant to humiliate him. The Special Operation Group (SOG) had sent out the notices after tapping a phone conversation between two men, who were allegedly discussing the fall of the Gehlot government. Gehlot had alleged that the opposition BJP was trying to lure Congress MLAs. The BJP had dismissed the allegation, saying that the developments only reflected a power struggle within the ruling party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-crisis-congress-mlas-meet-again-in-jaipur-sachin-pilot-turns-down-second-chance-861011.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Plasma bank inaugurated at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital||Delhi got its second plasma bank on Tuesday, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurating the facility at the state-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital here for treatment of Covid-19 patients.  The chief minister had inaugurated the first such facility at the state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences on July 2. "Plasma therapy is really helpful in saving lives. We cannot say it is 100 percent successful... but the death rate has reduced in Delhi and plasma has a role in it," the chief minister said at the launch. The LNJP Hospital is located in central Delhi, so it is easily accessible to those willing to donate plasma, he said.  Covid-19 patients can donate their plasma 14 days after recovery.  Such people should be aged between 18 and 60 and weigh not less than 50 kg.    Women who have been pregnant at some time in their life, people with diabetes, hypertension, cancer survivors, those with chronic heart, liver, lung and kidney diseases and high blood pressure cannot donate plasma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-plasma-bank-inaugurated-at-lok-nayak-jai-prakash-narayan-hospital-861036.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Flight carrying 101 students stranded in Ukraine arrives in Madhya Pradesh||A special Air India flight carrying 101 Indian medical students, who were stranded in Ukraine due to the coronavirus-induced curbs, landed at the Indore airport in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday morning, an official said. The flight reached the Devi Ahilyabai Holkar International Airport here at 5.08 am, airport director Aryama Sanyal said. She said 101 Indian students stranded in Ukraine arrived here. They were screened at the airport and their belongings were sanitised. The passengers included medical students from Madhya Pradesh, as well as from Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Assam and Tamil Nadu who were studying in different institutes in Ukraine, he said. They wanted to come back home for a long time in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the official said. The passengers included 20 students from Indore who have been sent to a quarantine facility set up in a city hotel for seven days, he said, adding that the other passengers have also been sent to their native places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flight-carrying-101-students-stranded-in-ukraine-arrives-in-madhya-pradesh-861054.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: 98 fresh Covid-19 cases take infection tally to 25,034; death toll at 521||Rajasthan recorded three more deaths due to coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total number of fatalities in the state to 521. With 98 new cases, the total number of people infected with the deadly virus in the state so far is 25,034, of which, 5,759 are under treatment, officials said. One death each was recorded in Jaipur, Ajmer and Alwar, they said. In Jaipur, the death toll has increased to 176 followed by 65 in Jodhpur, 42 in Bharatpur, 27 in Kota, 25 in Ajmer, 21 in Bikaner, 18 in Nagaur and 15 in Pali, and 13 in Dholpur, they said. Of the 98 fresh Covid-19 cases, 37 were registered in Alwar, 34 in Jaipur, five in Kota, four each in Dausa, Bhilwara and Jhunjhunu, among other regions. A total of 18,317 people have been discharged after treatment, officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-98-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-infection-tally-to-25034-death-toll-at-521-861057.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Final year UG online exams to be held from August 10-31, Delhi University tells High Court||Delhi University will hold final year undergraduate online Open Book Examinations (OBE) from August 10-31, the Delhi High Court was informed on Tuesday. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad was informed by the varsity that the students left out of online exams will be given an opportunity to appear in physical examinations, to be held sometime in September. While the university initially informed that it has decided to conduct the exams from August 17 and will conclude on September 8, the court asked it to reconsider the schedule and compress it as the final year students are supposed to pass and join other courses in India or abroad and their career prospects are at involved. The counsel for DU and Dean of Examinations professor Vinay Gupta agreed to that and after discussions, it was decided that the online OBE will commence from August 10 and conclude on August 31. It was also decided that the first phase of mock tests will start from July 27, instead of July 31 and the second phase of mock tests will commence from August 1 instead of August 4. While the purpose of the first mock test is only to make students familiarise with the process and the technical aspect, the second mock test will be the real-time test, DU said. On the aspect of the schedule of physical examinations and declaration of results, DU’s counsel sought some time. The court also granted liberty to the varsity to bring out the notification for the revised date sheet of exams on its portal. The court, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, directed DU to file an affidavit detailing the timeline of the date sheet for the left-out students who will appear in the physical exams and also the timeline for results of students who will sit for online OBE exams in August and listed the matter for further hearing on August 17. Senior advocate Sachin Dutta and lawyer Mohinder Rupal, representing DU, informed the court that there are 2.7 lakh final year students and 95 percent have filed the forms for the online exams. They also told the court that while the fresh examination plan has been worked out for undergraduate courses, they are yet to finalise the exams' plan for the postgraduate students and it will be decided soon. During the hearing, the court questioned the varsity for pushing the exams to mid-August and said, “why your starting point is the middle of August when you were even ready for holding the exams on July 1?” Dutta said there are three additional measures now -- the students have been given the time till July 25 to fill up forms for online OBE exams, details of the students have been put on the portal and colleges can verify it, students can also check their details and inform the concerned college if there is any change. Earlier, the court had pulled up the university for repeatedly postponing the final year exams and had observed that examinations are nerve-wracking and career of thousands of students was at stake. The court had questioned the varsity on pushing the exams from July 10 to a date beyond August 15, even when it kept maintaining that it was ready to conduct the online OBE on July 1 as well as on July 10. It had noted that on June 26, DU informed the court that it will go ahead with conducting exams from July 1 and after less than 24 hours, the university postponed the exams to July 10. The court had on June 29 issued notice to the varsity asking why contempt proceedings are not initiated against it and its officers for trying to mislead the court by withholding information on deferment of the online OBE from July 1 to July 10. The court was then informed that the university was firm on commencing exams from July 10. The high court was hearing various petitions by several final years DU students seeking quashing and withdrawal of the notifications of May 14, May 30 and June 27 for online exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students, including of the School of Open Learning and Non-Collegiate Women Education Board. As an alternative prayer, one of the petitions has sought a direction to the DU to evaluate the final year students based on the previous years' or semesters' results in the same manner as the university has planned to promote the first and second-year students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/final-year-ug-online-exams-to-be-held-from-august-10-31-delhi-university-tells-high-court-861080.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Police force across Rajasthan alerted to ensure peace, maintain law and order||Police personnel across the Rajasthan have been alerted to maintain peace in their jurisdictions amid the political crisis in the state, an official said.  "Following intelligence inputs and political happenings, police force across the state has been alerted to ensure peace and maintain law and order situation," ADG (Law and Order) Saurabh Srivastava said.  He said that police force has been asked to keep vigil so that common people do not have to suffer. The Congress on Tuesday sacked Sachin Pilot from the posts of Rajasthan's deputy chief minister and the party's state unit chief. Cracking the whip on the rebel party leader, the party also removed his loyalists Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena from the state cabinet. The demand for a floor test by the members of the Sachin Pilot camp has gained momentum, with Ramesh Meena saying this will make it clear how many MLAs are with the Ashok Gehlot government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-force-across-rajasthan-alerted-to-ensure-peace-maintain-law-and-order-861100.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||One more dies of Covid-19 in Jammu, death toll in the state reaches 18||This was the third death related to Covid-19 at Government Medical College (GMC) hospital here in the past four days. The critically ill patient, hailing from Tallab Tillo area of the city, was admitted in the hospital two days ago after he was tested positive for Covid-19, the officials said, adding that he died this morning. The patient was suffering from high-grade fever, cough, hypertension, acute respiratory distress syndrome and bilateral community-acquired pneumonia and was put on oxygen support immediately after his admission, they said. His death raised the Covid-19 related fatalities in the Jammu region to 18. He is the eleventh person to die of the infection in Jammu district, while the rest of the seven deaths have taken place in Doda (two) and Udhampur, Kathua, Rajouri, Poonch and Samba (one each). The Jammu region has recorded a total of 2,332 Covid-19 cases till Monday evening. While 1,526 patients have recovered, 789 are still undergoing treatment at various facilities across the division. There has been a spike in coronavirus cases in the Jammu region over the past week, prompting authorities to take various precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the disease. While authorities in Ramban district reimposed restrictions in Banihal town, authorities in Jammu district have declared several areas as red zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-dies-of-covid-19-in-jammu-death-toll-in-the-state-reaches-18-861114.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh woman poisoned to death by in-laws for dowry||A woman was allegedly poisoned to death by her in-laws over demands for dowry in Shamli district, police said on Tuesday. The victim, Afsana, was rushed to a hospital on Monday where she was declared brought dead, they said. According to a complaint filed by the victim’s father, Yasin, Afsana was harassed by her husband and in-laws over dowry. A case has been registered against six people, including the victim’s husband and in-laws, police said. Efforts are on to trace the accused who are absconding, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-woman-poisoned-to-death-by-in-laws-for-dowry-861116.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh minister's prescription for flood control: 'Worship' the rivers||One must have heard about governments constructing embankments, undertaking repair works to prevent breaches and other similar measures to prevent floods and mitigate the sufferings of the people in the event of flooding. But an Uttar Pradesh minister, who, ironically, was the water minister, has come out with an altogether different measure to prevent the threat of floods. He has directed officials to 'worship' the rivers to please them so that they did not overflow their banks. ''Pujas should be held on the banks of the rivers....flowers should be offered to them (rivers).....it will prevent floods,'' minister Mahendra Singh said in a direction to the officials of the flood control department. The minister said that worshipping the rivers had been a tradition in the Hindu culture. ''It is not a new thing...people living near the rivers have been worshipping the rivers for a long time..Hindus consider the rivers as goddesses and worship them,'' he added. Singh's remarks came at a time when almost all the major rivers in the state had been rising following heavy monsoon rains in the past few days and flood threat loomed large in several eastern and central districts in the state. Ghaghra river has already crossed the danger mark at several places displacing people in Barabanki, Faizabad and some other districts.  Incidentally Singh is not the only UP lawmaker to have come out with such bizarre suggestions to ward off natural and other kinds of threats. Earlier also some BJP lawmakers had suggested to set up cow shelters to tackle the coronavirus pandemic saying that the coronavirus did not affect those who reared cows. It remains to be seen if the officials do follow the directive of their boss.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-ministers-prescription-for-flood-control-worship-the-rivers-861121.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh reports 28 more deaths, 1,594 fresh cases||Uttar Pradesh reported 28 more deaths due to the coronavirus and a daily spike of 1,594 cases on Tuesday, the health department said. With this, the death toll rose to 983 and the caseload increased to 39,724. "In the past 24 hours, 1,594 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 28 deaths were reported," according to the health department. The maximum 94 deaths have been reported from Agra, followed by 91 in Meerut. The state has 13,760 active cases as 24,981 patients have recovered, Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told reporters. He said over 11.57 lakh samples have been tested in the state so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-uttar-pradesh-reports-28-more-deaths-1594-fresh-cases-861133.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court allows woman to medically terminate abnormal foetus||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday allowed a woman's plea seeking termination of her over 23-week old pregnancy after a medical report from AIIMS endorsed the procedure in view of complications associated with the birth of the baby. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said in view of the report submitted by AIIMS, it was allowing the plea which had claimed that the foetus was abnormal as it suffers from "spina bifida and Arnold Chiari Syndrome defect" which results in the spinal cord being outside the body and the brain tissue extending into the spinal canal. The foetus also has other abnormalities like a deformed skull and a heart defect, the petition filed through advocate Sneha Mukherjee had said. The bench said it would give detailed reasons for its decision later and disposed of the matter. On July 10, the high court had referred the woman's case to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for setting up a panel of experts to examine her and the foetus to ascertain whether it would be safe to terminate the pregnancy. AIIMS in its report has said in view of complications associated with childbirth in the instant case medical termination of pregnancy be can be permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-allows-woman-to-medically-terminate-abnormal-foetus-861154.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Identical twins from Noida score perfectly identical marks in CBSE class 12 exams||The twins not only look identical but seem to possess identical intellect. Manasi Singh and her twin sister Manavi, residents of Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district, who look alike, will henceforth, also share another unique thing in their lives. The sisters, who had appeared for class 12 examination of the CBSE Board, have secured identical marks surprising not only their teachers and family members but also the residents of Hathras town. Both sisters, who were students of a private school at Greater Noida, scored 95.8 per cent marks. What made their results more surprising was that they secured equal marks in all the five papers-English, Physics, Chemistry, Computer Science and Physical Education. CBSE class 12 results were declared on Monday. The twins said that they did not expect to score equal marks, though they studied together. ''We did study together but we did not expect to get identical marks in all the papers,'' said Manasi. The sisters also have similar interests in many other aspects of life. For instance, both liked badminton and both of them want to become engineers. According to their teachers, there was a difference of only one per cent in their marks in the class 10 examination. In their internal examinations, conducted by their school, also they often secured identical marks. Earlier also, there have been instances of twins securing identical marks at board examinations in different parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/identical-twins-from-noida-score-perfectly-identical-marks-in-cbse-class-12-exams-861159.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Shops, markets in Noida to stay shut on weekends, essential services allowed||All government offices, except those providing essential services and banks, markets and shops would remain closed during weekends -- Friday 10 pm to Monday 5 am – across Gautam Buddh Nagar, officials said on Tuesday. District Magistrate Suhas L Y said new guidelines have been issued by the Uttar Pradesh government with respect to weekend restrictions and they will be applicable in Gautam Buddh Nagar henceforth, according to an official statement. During the period, special drives would be carried out at the district level for sanitation, water supply and door-to-door surveillance by local health department teams to check the spread of Covid-19 alongside vector-borne diseases. According to the order issued by the UP Home Department, all shops, grain markets and commercial establishments will remain closed during the weekend but can function on weekdays from 9 am till 9 pm. “All markets which stay closed on a particular day of the week shall now stay closed on either Saturday or Sunday, while special markets which are set up on weekends can now be set on any of the weekdays instead,” the order stated. All fruit and vegetable markets will remain open during the period. All places of worship can stay open during the period of restriction but will have to ensure social-distancing and other health-related guidelines, it added. All factories and companies, including IT firms and IT-enabled services, can operate. “During the period, essential services including healthcare shall remain functional like before and people involved in them – corona warriors, sanitation workers and door-step delivery executives – will be prohibited from any restrictions on their movement,” the order stated. Railways and state's road transport services will continue so will airline services, it said. There will be no restriction on people travelling to or returning from airports or railway stations and required bus services to these places would be ensured by the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC), according to the order. “There will be no restriction on goods carriers across the state during the period. National highways and state highways shall remain functional and fuel stations as well as dhabas along the highways will also remain open,” it said. It said the movement of officials involved in the special sanitation and Covid screening drives will not be prohibited and their identity cards will work as their pass. The state government has directed officers at district level to ensure compliance of the order and instructed police officers and magistrates to be on ground during the weekends for monitoring work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-shops-markets-in-noida-to-stay-shut-on-weekends-essential-services-allowed-861174.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey ordered firing at police team in Bikru village: Arrested aide||Following his arrest on Tuesday, Vikas Dubey’s alleged aide Shashikant alias Sonu Pandey denied killing DSP Devendra Mishra and said the slain gangster had ordered the firing at the police team that raided his house on the night intervening July 2 and 3. Pandey made the claims to a TV news channel while being taken away by the police after his arrest. On being asked who killed DSP Mishra, he told the new channel that he did not kill him. "They (policemen) were killed very brutally (badi berahami se maara gayaa)," Pandey told the channel in a very feeble voice. When asked why did he flee from his house and why did he get his head tonsured, he said, "My mother told me to run away (Maa ne bhagaa diyaa thaa). I got my head tonsured because my father (Prem Kumar Pandey) is no more." Prem Kumar Pandey was killed in the encounter with the police in Bikru village. Two of Vikas Dubey's alleged accomplices, Prem Prakash Pandey and Atul Dubey, were killed by the police in a shootout in Kanpur. When asked how the firing was started from the rooftop of Dubey’s house, Shashikant said, "It was immediately ordered (on the raid by the police team). Vikas Dubey gave the orders." In response to a question by the reporter, Pandey said, "He (Dubey) did not spare anyone." On being asked if “he (Dubey) also used to target girls”, Pandey replied in positive. Pandey was arrested and two rifles of the Uttar Pradesh police, looted during the Kanpur ambush earlier this month, were also recovered, police said on Tuesday. With this, all weapons looted during the ambush have been recovered, they said. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said Dubey's aide Shashikant alias Sonu Pandey was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest. "Shashikant Pandey was an accused in the killing of the eight policemen (in the Kanpur ambush). He was arrested from Chaubeypur around 2.50 am," the police officer told reporters in Kanpur. "During interrogation, he admitted to his involvement in the encounter at Bikru village in Kanpur dehat. It was revealed that the looted AK-47 of police was hidden in Dubey's house while the INSAS rifle was at Shashikant's house," the ADG said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubey-ordered-firing-at-police-team-in-bikru-village-arrested-aide-861204.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Taking holy dip in Ganga on Somvati Amavasya banned||Devotees will not be allowed to take a holy dip in the Ganga river here on the occasion of Somvati Amavasya on July 19 and 20 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the district magistrate said on Tuesday. Lakhs of devotees used to turn up at the Ganga ghats on the occasion every year for a ritual bath in the holy river.            The decision to impose a ban on bathing in the Ganga on Somvati Amavasya and to keep the borders of Haridwar district sealed to prevent the entry of vehicles and devotees from outside was taken at a joint meeting of the district administration and police for public safety, District Magistrate C Ravishankar said. Officials have been asked to take stern action against violators, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-taking-holy-dip-in-ganga-on-somvati-amavasya-banned-861205.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab minister Tript Bajwa tests Covid-19 positive||Punjab cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Tuesday, the first minister in the state to contract the infection, a health official said. The Rural Development and Panchayats minister had undergone a Covid-19 last Friday after his department's director tested positive for the disease. The samples of Bajwa, who is also the higher education minister, were collected for the second time after the first report had come negative on Saturday. "He (Bajwa) has tested positive for coronavirus," Health Department Director Avneet Kaur said here. "His samples were collected again on Tuesday and his report confirmed him to be positive." "Wishing my Cabinet colleague Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa Ji a speedy recovery. He has tested positive for Covid-19 today. Looking forward to having you rejoin us soon again," tweeted Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-minister-tript-bajwa-tests-covid-19-positive-861206.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Haryana government contemplating 50% quota for women in panchayats: Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala||The BJP-JJP government in Haryana is contemplating reserving 50 percent seats for women in Panchayati raj institutions, state Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said here on Tuesday. He said a two-wheeler will also be given to women members, including sarpanches and panches, who have done commendable work in villages. The government is preparing a list of 100 such women who have done outstanding work in villages and they will be given a “scooty” under a corporate social responsibility initiative with Honda company, Chautala said in a statement. On the reservation issue, the JJP leader said MLAs of both parties have brainstormed on this issue and a final decision will be taken soon. According to the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act, at least one-third of seats have to be reserved for women. Chautala, who is also the Minister for Rural Development and Panchayats, said the empowerment of women means the empowerment of entire society. This will definitely be a step in the right direction, he added. The JJP leader said the state government has been taking adequate steps for ensuring the maximum participation of women in society and Panchayati raj institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-government-contemplating-50-quota-for-women-in-panchayats-deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-861209.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||CM Arvind Kejriwal launches Delhi's second plasma bank, says therapy really helpful||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated Delhi's second plasma bank at the state-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital on Tuesday and asserted that plasma therapy was "really helpful" in saving lives of Covid-19 patients. Kejriwal inaugurated the first plasma bank at the state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences on July 2. He said over 200 people have taken plasma from ILBS so far. "Plasma therapy is really helpful in saving lives. We cannot say it can save 100 percent of the lives...but the death rate has reduced in Delhi and plasma has a role in it," the chief minister said at the launch. The LNJP Hospital is located in central Delhi, so it is easily accessible to those willing to donate plasma, he said. Covid-19 patients can donate their plasma 14 days after recovery. Such people should be aged between 18 and 60 and weigh not less than 50 kg. However, women who have been pregnant, people with diabetes, hypertension, cancer survivors, those with chronic heart, liver, lung and kidney diseases and high blood pressure cannot donate plasma. "We do not want to store plasma in plasma bank forever, but no one should suffer for lack of plasma either. The arrangement should be such that those needing plasma get it easily. So far, no one has been denied plasma," Kejriwal said. He said his government will continue setting up facilities and beds even if the beds for Covid-19 patients remain vacant to ensure there is no shortage if the cases increase. He said the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi is gradually reducing.  "The recovery rate is increasing very fast. Earlier, 35 out of 100 people tested would be diagnosed with coronavirus. Now only seven or eight people out of 100 are found positive. The chief minister said the number of fatalities has also decreased. "In mid-June, there were about 101 deaths per day but there are about 40 deaths now. All of us together have to reduce it further," he said. However, Kejriwal cautioned people against any complacency. "Nothing is known about Covid-19, it may rise again tomorrow. Therefore, we need to take precautions. We always have to wear a mask, maintain social distancing, wash our hands and sanitize them repeatedly," he said. He also said the city government has successfully implemented the home isolation programme and there has been no death among those undergoing home isolation. Kejriwal said he was happy that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also praised the model implemented in Delhi and everyone's cooperation in it. In the last one month, the people of Delhi, doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, governments including central and Delhi governments, religious, cultural, and voluntary organisations fought together against the deadly disease, he said. "We realized that a huge epidemic like this cannot be fought alone. We took everyone along. We also approached the central government and social service organisations. There are many NGOs of retired doctors in Delhi, such as StepOne and Doctors For U, which are helping us in this fight," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-arvind-kejriwal-launches-delhis-second-plasma-bank-says-therapy-really-helpful-861213.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina tests positive for Covid-19||Raina had been camping in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district for the past five days in the wake of the killing of saffron party’s young leader Waseem Bari along with his father and brother on July 8. On Sunday, Raina accompanied Madhav, Jitendera Singh and national vice president and J&K affairs in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna to Bari’s residence in Bandipora. On Tuesday Raina took to Twitter to announce his testing positive for Covid-19. “Hello friends, I was in Kashmir/Bandipora for five days after the killing of BJP leader Waseem Bari, Omar Sultan and his father by the militants. Today I had mild fever. When tested, the report came as Covid-19 positive. No other symptoms,” he tweeted. नमस्कार मित्रो, आतंकवादीयों द्वार बानडीपुरा मे भाजपा नेताओ श्रीमान वसीम बारी, श्री उमर सुलतान एव उनके पिता जी की हत्या के बाद मैं 5 दिनों तक कश्मीर /बानडीपुरा में रहा, आज मुझे हल्का सा बुखार था, टेस्ट करवाया तो रिपोर्ट में COVID-19 + आया है, No other Symptoms .. जय माता दी The tweet triggered panic in the entire BJP unit of Kashmir with people voluntarily going for Covid-19 testing. “I will also go for Covid-19 test as I was with him all these days in Bandipora and also in Srinagar,” party’s J&K spokesman Altaf Thakur said. “For a time being, I have gone into self-quarantine.” Sources in the BJP said that hundreds of party workers, middle-rung leaders, district presidents and zonal heads had met Raina over the past five days in Srinagar and Bandipora. “There is total chaos all around in BJP’s Kashmir unit,” they said. Khanna confirmed that as a precaution he along with other leaders present at a condolence meeting have gone into a self-quarantine. Meanwhile, the party's Kashmir unit has appealed to all the workers who came in contact with the BJP chief, to go for Covid-19 testing. A statement issued by the party’s media in-charge Manzoor Bhat said that all the workers, who met BJP chief at Bandipora and Srinagar must come forward and conduct Covid-19 tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-bjp-chief-ravinder-raina-tests-positive-for-covid-19-861219.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Wife of Vikas Dubey's aide 'caught' on tape seeking advice on how to 'deal' with police||In the audio, Shahikant's wife Manu is heard talking to Dubey's sister-in-law immediately after the ambush in which eight police personnel were killed at Kanpur’s Bikru village on June 2 night. "Two men died at my door, while another man died in my courtyard," she is heard saying. “Everyone has run away, what will I say when the police arrive here,” she adds. On being asked from the other side about the dead, she says, "They are all policemen. Vikas 'bhaiyya' and others have killed them." She was advised to delete all phone numbers after which Manu was heard saying, "Yes, I will hide the phone after switching it off." She was further advised to “delete all numbers and remove its battery” and tell police that they “don't know anything and sit inside”. "Tell me what will I say when they ask me where did your man go? If he came back after doing day duty, so where is he now? Papa and everyone else have fled," Manu adds. The Dubey's sister-in-law is heard asking her to delete her number from the call list first and then remove other numbers as well as that of her husband Sonu (Shashikant). “Keep the phone like this, don't switch it off," she is advised. In the last, Manu says she will tell police that she does not have a phone. "What will happen now, we are very upset,” she is heard saying in the audio. About the audio, Manu told reporters that she had purchased a new mobile phone and she was not familiar with its features. "I was learning the handling of the mobile, therefore, was unable to switch it off. I gave it to police when they came to search my house and that is how the police were able to find call recordings," she said. An aide of gangster Vikas Dubey, Shashikant, alias Sonu Pandey, was arrested and two rifles--AK-47 and Insas-- of the Uttar Pradesh Police, looted during the Kanpur ambush, were recovered with cartridges, police said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wife-of-vikas-dubeys-aide-caught-on-tape-seeking-advice-on-how-to-deal-with-police-861224.html
14-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh family cremates stranger after hospital exchanges bodies||In an alleged mix-up by a hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, a family cremated the body of a wrong person in place of their deceased kin, who shared the same name, police said on Tuesday. A complaint was filed against the government-run Maharaja Yeshwantrao Hospital (MYH) at Sanyogitaganj police station for this alleged lapse, an official said. Santosh Patelia, a resident of Sonkutch of neighbouring Dewas district, has lodged a complaint accusing the MYH management of gross negligence, he said. According to the complainant, the body of his son Akash Patelia (20) was handed over to a family from Indore's Kanadia area after post-mortem, the official said. "The body was wrapped in a cloth and the Indore-based family, which collected the same, did not remove the covering for the fear of exposure to Covid-19 at the hospital. The face of the deceased was not identified nor was it seen before the funeral," he said. The deceased had allegedly consumed acid and died on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday while undergoing treatment at MYH, following which post-mortem was conducted, the official said. Around the same time, an autopsy on the body of Akash Panchal (25), a kin of the Indore-based family, was also done on Monday at MYH, he said, adding that Panchal had reportedly died of electrocution. The complainant has alleged that the hospital had made the mistake because the deceased persons shared the same first name, the official said. "This is a medico-legal case. A complaint has been lodged at the Sanyogitaganj police station. So now the police will investigate the matter," MYH's superintendent P S Thakur said. Meanwhile, Sanyogitaganj police station in-charge Rajiv Tripathi said no FIR has been registered in the matter as of now and the police will conduct a thorough probe. The body of Akash Panchal was also handed over to his original family from Indore's Kanadia area, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-family-cremates-stranger-after-hospital-exchanges-bodies-861230.html
14-07-2020||Oasis||Humility needed on the spiritual path||Diligence, humility and caution are essential ingredients to those on the spiritual path. Ego, conceit and arrogance are its greatest dangers and must be avoided like the plague. Human beings are vulnerable to praise and adulation and quick to take offence are the mildest of criticism. When we are caught within the trap of our ego, we are bound to blunder. “Fools dwelling in darkness, wise in their own conceit, and puffed up with vain knowledge, go round and round staggering to and fro, like blind men led by the blind,” so declares the Katha Upanishad. Swami Vivekananda said, “the world is full of these. Everyone wants to be a teacher, every beggar wants to make a gift of a million dollars! Just as these beggars are ridiculous, so are these teachers.” According to Sadguru Sri Sharavana Baba, the human sciences that include the natural and social sciences are comparable to rivers as they are limited and end in the ocean. But spiritual science is like an ocean-- it is deep, powerful and immense. It is without limitation. It encompasses both the search for knowledge and the search for truth. The search for knowledge is limited by memory and belongs to the past and is therefore limited by the past but he searches for truth is ever-present, every new and ever effulgent and therefore suffers no limitation. Knowledge is appropriated in the head but the truth is appropriated in the heart. Outer knowledge is validated by experimentation and proof but inner knowledge is validated by individual experience. According to Babaji, there are six ingredients to construct a happy life. These include aarogyam (health), aishwaryam (wealth) and aikyum (unity), anbh (love) and arivu (intelligence). If these six attributes are aligned and consciously cultivated and balanced, it will result in ananandam (bliss).  Who is a good devotee? The good devotee is he or she who grows by refraining from judgements, avoids condemnation, does not use harsh words and sees the good in every individual and ignores the rest. Such an elevated soul will radiate divinity to those who come in touch with such a person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/humility-needed-on-the-spiritual-path-860883.html
14-07-2020||Panorama||Climate change: The heat is on||The temperature in the Indian subcontinent is set to increase 4 degree Celsius or more by the turn of the century, with frequent heatwaves persisting over longer durations. This and more such acute insights were revealed in a recent study released by the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Government of India. Based on a thorough assessment of the observed changes and future projections of temperature, rainfall, sea level, and extreme weather events such as droughts, floods, and heatwaves, the report is a clarion call for immediate action.  While mean annual and summer monsoon rainfall is projected to increase, the variability is also projected to rise—with more frequent and intense heavy rainfall events and extended dry spells. The report also predicts that sea levels will rise by approximately 300 mm by the twenty-first century, relative to the average over 1986-2005. The rising sea levels will erode and reshape the coastline, impacting fisheries and about 14 million people with gainful employment from fisheries. While the past trends in temperature, rainfall, extreme events and sea-level rise in the Indian region are a revelation, the future projections are a cause of concern, as risks are likely to be exacerbated.  Manifold risks  The changes in climate pose multiple risks to natural ecosystems such as forests, mangroves, and wildlife and also to land, freshwater. They also threaten socio-economic systems such as agriculture, animal husbandry and infrastructure. With increased rainfall variability in a country that is predominantly rainfed, 52% of cropped area runs the risk of decline in crop production.  Similarly, increased intensity and frequency of heavy rainfall or drought events pose a risk to agriculture and livestock. It can further soil erosion and land degradation, the latter being a grave issue with 30% of the land already degraded in India. Prolonged wet conditions have implications for human health, with the chances of infectious diseases, particularly water-borne, likely to increase. That aside, different categories of infrastructure—power, transport, road, dams, buildings—will be adversely impacted by climate-induced risks and hazards.  The report reinforces that climate change is a reality and will worsen in the decades to come if business-as-usual continues. It is time to mobilise action targeted towards environmental conservation, climate-proofing of assets, improving the resilience of natural and man-made systems, and transitioning to low-carbon pathways — all of which can contribute to achieving the Nationally Determined Contribution targets and ultimately the Sustainable Development Goals. Policies and programmes that synergistically promote development that is climate-resilient and sustainable could be the game-changer. These could span the transition from fossil fuel-intensive energy to renewables; climate-proofing of future infrastructure investments; promotion of green infrastructure and nature-based solutions such as mangroves that could serve as green barriers to floods; conservation and preservation of nature reserves for carbon sinks and planning green spaces in urban systems.  The above strategies can synergistically promote climate change mitigation and adaptation, and at the same time provide multiple co-benefits. Promotion of biodiversity, reducing land degradation, land reclamation through afforestation, reduced energy and water consumption by the creation of urban green spaces and green infrastructure due to reduced air conditioning needs, improved air quality, and reduced urban flooding are some such benefits. In addition to the above strategies, enhanced penetration of climate information services that are already available and generation of improved climate information to cater to all sectors is needed. This is particularly important for natural resource sectors, such as agriculture and fisheries to help cope with adverse effects of climate change, thereby reducing disaster-related losses, safeguarding assets, maintaining income and improving livelihoods. (The writer is a principal research scientist at the Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/climate-change-the-heat-is-on-860882.html
14-07-2020||Panorama||How Russia built a channel to the Taliban, once an enemy||During one of the most violent stretches of fighting in northern Afghanistan, as the Taliban scored victories that had eluded them since the beginning of the conflict, the top US commander went public with a suspicion that had nagged for years: Russia was aiding the insurgents. In diplomatic circles in Kabul around the time of that accusation, in 2017, there were murmurs that the Russian assistance had included night-vision goggles and armor-piercing ammunition. But Gen. John W. Nicholson, the commander, offered no definitive evidence, and that spoke to how confusing the battlefield had become as three longtime adversaries — the Taliban, Russia and Iran — agreed on their common interest in seeing the Americans leave Afghanistan. In the maze of corruption, cash and foreign hands in Afghanistan, it was no easy task to pin down who was doing what. “We’ve had weapons brought to this headquarters and given to us by Afghan leaders and said, ‘This was given by the Russians to the Taliban,’” Nicholson said a year later. “We know that the Russians are involved.” The recent revelation of an American intelligence assessment that Russia had provided the Taliban with bounties to attack US and coalition troops stunned political leaders in Washington and added a potent dose of Cold War-style skulduggery to deliberations over Afghanistan’s future. Both Russia and the Taliban have rejected the assertion. But while that would be a notable escalation of Russian interference in Afghanistan, it was clear to many officials that Russia had been working to hedge its bets with the Taliban for years. The Russians saw the Afghan government as entirely controlled by the United States, and at worst so fragile that it would struggle to survive the US withdrawal. In interviews, Afghan and US officials and foreign diplomats with years of experience in Kabul say that what began as a diplomatic channel between Russia and the Taliban just under a decade ago has more recently blossomed into a mutually beneficial alliance that has allowed the Kremlin to reassert its influence in the region. The shift coincided with increasing hostility between the US and Russia over Syria’s civil war and other conflicts, analysts say, as well as Russia’s frustration with rising instability in Afghanistan and the slow pace of the US pullout. Now, the US is conducting the troop withdrawal it agreed to with the Taliban even without a final peace deal between the insurgents and the Afghan government which the US has supported for years. But Russia’s covert efforts, officials and analysts say, are aimed at harassing and embarrassing the US as the troops leave rather than profoundly changing the course of the conflict. “It was in modest quantities; it was not designed to be a game changer on the battlefield,” Nicholson, who has since retired from the military, told the House Foreign Affairs Committee on Thursday about Russian arms and aid to the Taliban. “For example, the Taliban wanted surface-to-air missiles, the Russians didn’t give it to them. So I always concluded that their support to the Taliban was calibrated in some sense.” The dots began connecting more clearly during a stretch of alarming violence in northern Afghanistan, when the Taliban twice overran Kunduz city, a provincial capital, in 2015 and 2016, sending the US military scrambling. As Afghan intelligence narrowed in on the ambitious regional Taliban commander behind those assaults, they tracked his travel back and forth across the nearby border with Tajikistan, a Russian intelligence stronghold, according to current and former senior Afghan security officials. Kunduz is also the base of operations for two Afghan businessmen who US intelligence officials say acted as middlemen in the bounty scheme between Russian intelligence officers and Taliban fighters. US officials say they confronted Russia about its aid to the Taliban on several occasions, but their public claims lacked detail, and it never amounted to a major issue. Russian officials said they received no documented evidence. Three decades after the Soviet military withdrawal from Afghanistan, Russia’s cultural, economic and personal ties in the country remain deep. When Russia has looked to exert influence, whether benign or otherwise, it has had a host of friends to call on: Soviet-trained generals who led the Afghan forces for years on American pay; businessmen who bragged of friendship with President Vladimir Putin of Russia; politicians who kept homes in Moscow even as they grew rich on US contracts. US intelligence officials now date Russia’s discreet outreach to the Taliban as beginning about eight years ago — around the time that Putin, after a four-year hiatus as prime minister, reassumed the presidency with a more confrontational posture with the West. The mistrust soon became intense enough that Russian officials accused the US of playing a hand in the rise of an Islamic State group chapter in Afghanistan around 2015, with many of its earliest fighters being extremist militants from Central Asia who yearned to bring a holy war against Russia. At a meeting of the Russian Security Council in 2013, Putin said his country could no longer stand by in the face of failures by the US and its partners. “We need a clear action strategy, which will take into account different possible developments,” Putin said at the meeting. “The task is to reliably protect the interests of Russia under any circumstances.” Leading the portfolio on the diplomatic front was Zamir Kabulov, a veteran of the Soviet war in Afghanistan and reportedly a former Russian intelligence operative. Kabulov began publicly criticizing the US for weaknesses in the Afghan government and for failing to rein in Islamist militancy there — and increasingly describing the Afghan Taliban as a national entity that posed no threat beyond the country’s borders and could be worked with. Reports increased about Taliban figures making trips to Russia. And just as the US and Taliban were finalizing details of the US withdrawal, Russia brought the same Taliban leaders into Moscow meetings with a large number of Afghan political figures for discussions over the political future of the country. When the Taliban were in power in Afghanistan in 1990s, Tajikistan was a hub for the resistance commanders who received aid from Russia and Iran. In the 20 years since the US invasion, the country has become a center of criminal traffic and of vice, a kind of adult playground for many of the Afghan elite who frequently travel back and forth to Tajikistan and often have family there. In that mix of spies, money and mafia, the Taliban, too, found a foothold. The insurgents made a point of taking and maintaining control of some of the border crossings from Kunduz province into Tajikistan. From the south of the country all the way to the north, they had border access to evade military pressure, maintain ties with friendly foreigners and keep a channel for the opium trade that partly finances the insurgency. Several Afghan officials, including Asadullah Omarkhel, who was the governor of Kunduz at the time, said they shared with the Americans intelligence that Mullah Abdul Salam, the Taliban commander who led the assaults on Kunduz, repeatedly crossed into Tajikistan for what they suspected were discussions with Russian agents. A Tajik news outlet reported meetings between Russian officials and Taliban commanders at a Russian air base in Tajikistan as early as 2015. And it was these border crossings that the Taliban used to bring weapons in, officials say. Omarkhel said Americans initially were not confident about claims of Taliban ties to Russia, but then they started striking the Taliban bases along the border, including a strike that killed Salam. At Thursday’s congressional hearing, Nicholson repeated his accusation of Russia arming the Taliban, noting that even though the aid was not extensive, it still had an effect. “In the northern part of Afghanistan, in particular in Kunduz, the Russian assistance did help the Taliban inflict higher casualties on the Afghan security forces and more hardship on the Afghan people,” he said. International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-russia-built-a-channel-to-the-taliban-once-an-enemy-860885.html
14-07-2020||Panorama||Covid-19 and the rise of online dispute resolution||The Supreme Court has sought to ensure access to justice during the ongoing pandemic. Since March 2020, the Supreme Court has issued orders stating that it would hear urgent matters via video conferencing and prescribed standard operating procedures, including for advocates and parties for mentioning cases, e-filing and hearings. Several High Courts and District Courts have also initiated online hearings. On June 2, the Supreme Court notified that physical appearance in court may be permissible if parties consent and subject to availability of the bench and social distancing norms. The silver lining to the ongoing pandemic is the acceleration of digitisation of disputes. Covid-19 has created an unprecedented need for courts, arbitral institutions and organisations to adapt at short notice to new and different ways of working and offer solutions to parties and practitioners that will enable dispute resolution in a time of quarantine and enforced social distancing. Given the existing backlogs and uptick in Covid-related disputes, arbitration may be the preferred forum as opposed to judicial proceedings. The arbitration community has steadily adopted new technologies over time to assist in resolution of disputes. For instance, it has become fairly common practice for case management conferences to be conducted via video-conferencing and where circumstances justify it, cross-examination of some witnesses and experts may take place remotely. Electronic document storage and trial presentation are a practical option for international arbitrations and will now be the new normal for domestic arbitrations in India. Parties in India may accordingly resolve their disputes online via arbitration and approach courts only for reliefs and/or enforcement of the arbitral award. Arbitration is a procedure in which a dispute is submitted, by agreement of the parties, to one or more arbitrators who make a binding decision on the dispute. In choosing arbitration, parties opt for privatisation of justice instead of going to court. Depending on the nature of the dispute, the potential advantages of arbitration include: Time – The Indian court system is infamous for its overburdened courts, shortage of judges and protracted court proceedings. Cases have been pending for over 10 years before High Courts and subordinate courts. Comparatively, arbitration is less time-consuming, Section 29A of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (“the Act”), requires that the arbitral award in a domestic arbitration be rendered within 12 months from the date of completion of the proceedings. The parties may, by consent, extend this 12-month period by six months. However, parties may experience delays in scenarios where the opposing party may contest arbitration, choice of arbitrators or appeal against the arbitral award. Flexibility – Court litigation is controlled by statutory and procedural rules. In contrast, parties opting for arbitration may mutually agree upon the rules and the manner in which the arbitration proceedings may be conducted. Cost – Due to the difference in timeline, arbitration is less expensive than court litigation. However, costs may vary depending on counsel and arbitrators’ fees. As per Section 11 of the Act, in cases of domestic arbitration, where the court refers parties to arbitration, the court may fix the arbitrator’s fee as per rates stipulated in the Fourth Schedule to the Act. For instance, the maximum fees payable to an arbitrator under the Schedule is Rs 30 lakh. Expertise – Arbitrators are often appointed from a pool of professionals typically experienced in the subject matter of the dispute and may provide a greater level of expertise than a judge. The government, on its part, has undertaken several initiatives to monitor caseloads and promote alternative dispute resolution (ADR). Online dispute resolution (ODR) has also been touted as a mode for speedy dispute resolution. For instance, the Vice President of India, while speaking at a conference in 2018, remarked that ODR was the need of the hour and would help attract foreign investment by projecting India as an investor-friendly country. While it is hugely beneficial to have online hearings, such hearings may only be effective if they are well-run. Tribunals, counsel and parties must cooperate to ensure a smooth process. Given the sensitivity of the arbitrations, cybersecurity of the proceedings and personal data should be maintained throughout. Arbitral tribunals may issue cyber-protocols and procedural orders to deal with the logistics of holding such hearings. Arbitration remains a preferred dispute resolution mechanism in the business world, as Pricewaterhouse Coopers validated in its 2013 survey on ‘Corporate attitudes and practices towards Arbitration in India’. It suggests that 91% of the companies that responded include arbitration (not litigation) for resolution of disputes. The corporate participants in the survey, when asked to identify the top three factors which make arbitration the preferred dispute resolution mechanism, listed speed, flexibility and confidentiality. Over the years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emphasised on the ease of doing business. At a conference in New Delhi in 2016, Modi declared the creation of a “vibrant ecosystem for institutional arbitration” one of the “foremost priorities” of his government. Promoting ADR in India, including arbitration, mediation and conciliation would provide “comfort to investors and businesses” and “ease the caseload of Indian courts”. Modi rightly noted that the availability of quality arbitration mechanisms is an “integral component of ease of doing business, to which our government is committed”, whilst observing that regions like Singapore and Hong Kong have developed as business and arbitration hubs in tandem. The Department of Justice (DoJ), in 2018, urged government entities to explore alternative methods for settlement of disputes such as mediation, arbitration, conciliation, online or otherwise. The DoJ noted that there were more than three crore cases pending in various courts and 46% of these involved government entities. The increasing support for arbitration by private parties, government and judiciary could ensure ease of doing business and make India a preferred destination for foreign direct investment. (The writer is an International Disputes Lawyer, Incoming Associate with DLA Piper Australia at Sydney)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-and-the-rise-of-online-dispute-resolution-861291.html
14-07-2020||Panorama||8 questions from a disease detective on pandemic’s origins||For decades, Dr Daniel Lucey, an infectious disease specialist at Georgetown University, has crisscrossed the globe to study epidemics and their origins. His attention now is on the Covid-19 pandemic, which first came to public notice late last year in Wuhan, China. Its exact beginnings are sufficiently clouded that the World Health Organization has begun a wide inquiry into its roots. The advance team left for China this past weekend, and Lucey has publicly encouraged the health agency to address what he considers eight top questions. “It’s not a legitimate investigation if the team doesn’t ask them,” Lucey said in a recent interview. He cited public reports and scientific articles as starting points for his queries, adding that Beijing “has never come out and answered these questions.” Clear answers, Lucey said, would cast light on how the deadly pathogen spread so rapidly and, perhaps, how exactly the outbreak began. China has not been forthcoming with information, and the Trump administration has inflamed the situation with threats and bullying. It has charged, without presenting evidence, that the microbe jumped to humans from a Wuhan lab. Last week, after long threatening to do so, the administration began formal steps to end its WHO membership. A student of epidemics, Lucey has traveled to Asia, Africa, the Americas, Europe and the Middle East, at times as a caregiver. In 2014, working for Doctors Without Borders, he treated Ebola patients in Liberia. He posed his eight questions last month in a post for his blog, which he writes for the Infectious Diseases Society of America. The post came in response to an announcement by Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director general of the WHO, that the agency would be sending a team to China to investigate the pathogen’s source — a move long sought by the Trump administration. Ever since the outbreak erupted late last year in central China, the global rumour mill has buzzed with speculation and conspiracy theories. Experts have ruled out the idea that the pathogen was concocted as a bioweapon. They agree that it began as a bat virus that probably evolved naturally in another mammal to become adept at infecting and killing humans. But so far, after months of concentrated research at sites and laboratories in China and elsewhere around the globe, no clear intermediary has come to light. The first three of Lucey’s eight questions center on the Wuhan wet market — a sprawling marketplace that sold fresh fish and meat before being shut down. It was initially viewed as the viral point of origin. That idea was quickly thrown into doubt when a study by Chinese scientists reported that roughly one-third of the earliest hospitalized victims — including the first — had never visited the market. In a May blog, Lucey quoted the head of China’s Center for Disease Control as ruling it out as the pandemic’s place of origin. The market, the Chinese health official said, “is just another victim.” Hundreds of environmental samples were reportedly collected at the wet market, producing 33 positive results, but few details have been made public. Lucey asks: Were any of the positive results linked to human infections? And from what kinds of surfaces — doorknobs, cutting boards, sewage, garbage trucks — were the samples collected? So far, none of the reported positive tests have come from animals. His fourth question widens the scope of investigation to other markets in Wuhan and across China. Were any samples collected from animals “now known to be susceptible to the virus” — including cats, tigers, mink and ferrets? (Ferrets are routinely used to gauge the transmissibility of human flu viruses.) He also asks about pangolins, which were initially considered a possible intermediary in the human outbreak. Lucey’s fifth question addresses a detailed report in The South China Morning Post, published in Hong Kong, that identified an early human coronavirus case Nov. 17 in Hubei province. The province is the size of Washington state, and Wuhan is its capital. In March, Lucey wrote a blog post about the report, which described the virus’s rapid spread in Hubei, based on information that the report said came from the government. Now Lucey is urging the WHO investigators to determine where each of these early Hubei cases were reported, if indeed they occurred, and whether any other “documented or suspected” human infections may have occurred even earlier. The sixth and seventh questions go to whether the deadly pathogen leapt to humans from a laboratory. Although some intelligence analysts and scientists have entertained that scenario, no direct evidence has come to light suggesting that the coronavirus escaped from one of Wuhan’s labs. Even so, given the wet market’s downgrading in the investigation, “it is important to address questions about any potential laboratory source of the virus, whether in Wuhan or elsewhere,” Lucey wrote in his blog post. To that end, he urges the WHO investigators to look for any signs of “gain of function” research — the deliberate enhancement of pathogens to make them more dangerous. The technique is highly contentious. Critics question its merits and warn that it could lead to catastrophic lab leaks. Proponents see it as a legitimate way to learn how viruses and other infectious organisms might evolve to infect and kill people, and thus help in devising new protections and precautions. Finally, Lucey asks the WHO team to learn more about China’s main influenza research lab, a high-security facility in Harbin, the capital of China’s northernmost province. In May, he notes, a Chinese paper in the journal Science reported that two virus samples from Wuhan were studied there in great detail early this year, including in a variety of animals. It reported that cats and ferrets were highly susceptible to the pathogen; dogs were only mildly susceptible; and pigs, chickens and ducks were not susceptible at all. In his travels, Lucey went to Brazil to study the Zika virus; to Madagascar to study pneumonic plague; to Jordan to study the Middle East respiratory syndrome, or MERS; and to Guangzhou, China, to study severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. He said his wide travels over the decades had informed his current inquiry. In an email, he added that the WHO was aware of his eight questions and had given him “good feedback.” Lucey likened his queries to the process of unlocking a large building. “The key thing is to open the door,” he said in the interview. “Where you go once you get inside, that’s beyond me.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/8-questions-from-a-disease-detective-on-pandemic-s-origins-861292.html
14-07-2020||Panorama||Why’re our lakes dying?||The blaze of January 2019 burned for over 30 hours, raining down ash on balconies and cars more than six miles away. Less than two weeks later, the lake caught ablaze again. Bellandur Lake made international headlines that February when videos of the blistering fire went viral. However, this incident wasn’t a first, as there have been major fires dating back to 2015. Another searing image is of the 900-acre lake, the canals of which are often covered by a snow-white foam. This foam has bubbled up to a height of several stories and toppled onto nearby roads.  Bengaluru was once a sleepy ‘pensioner’s paradise.’  The unchecked development of the city made it an outsourcing and IT hub of 10 million people.  About 40% of the city’s sewage flows into Bellandur Lake every day. Not only are the industries discharging chemical waste into the water; the city’s residents are treating Bellandur Lake as a place to throw their garbage. A large portion of the marine debris also consists of construction debris, which is regularly dumped by trucks. This ultimately leads to the lake catching fire through solid and liquid waste floating on the surface of the water. This happens because of the build-up of flammable gases generated from its oxygen-starved waters. In earlier times, Bengaluru had a plethora of picturesque lakes and water bodies.  The wetlands in the city are now dying a slow death-- The city’s rapid growth and urbanisation have resulted in encroachment and discharge of sewage and industrial effluents.  Most lakes in the Bengaluru region were constructed in the sixteenth century by damming the natural valley systems. They met the drinking water, irrigation and fishing needs of the community and were known to have a positive impact on the ecology and microclimate of the city. The dams replenished the nearby groundwater resources, prevented flooding, treated wastewater, arrested sediment loads and functioned as a productive ecosystem.  As much as 85% of Bengaluru’s water bodies are now severely polluted. This fact emerged as a result of a two-year-long study of 681 water bodies, of which 392 are lakes. The study, conducted by Bengaluru-based Environmental Management & Policy Research Institute (EMPRI), classified 85% of existing water bodies as the lowest grade—Class E.  Class E water can only be used for irrigation and industrial cooling. About 13% of the samples collected were categorised under Class D (fit only for breeding fish and wildlife propagation), and the remaining 2% under Class C (disinfection and conventional treatment to make it potable). Not even a single lake in Bengaluru was categorised as Grade A (drinking water) or B (for bathing). Moreover, weeds are seen in 89% of the existing water bodies. Of this, 11% are completely covered by weeds. The report also points to the unsustainable use of water bodies by humans. Direct idol immersion and waste from religious activity, according to the EMPRI’s report, has led to leaching of toxic metals and paints. Eutrophication (algal blooms) has increased in 26 lakes. Similarly, washing of vehicles, animals, clothes and mass bathing in 56 lakes have led to an increase in oils and grease, microbial pollution and phosphates, the report noted. Bengaluru’s lakes are disappearing because of the city’s unprecedented urbanisation. This urbanisation “has telling influences on the natural resources such as decline in green spaces (88% decline in vegetation) including wetlands (79% decline) and/or depleting groundwater table,” according to a 2016 joint study by TV Ramachandra and Bharath H Aithal.  Lake catchments are used as dumping yards for municipal solid waste and concrete, which has led to emissions of greenhouse gases like Carbon dioxide and methane. The sustained inflow of untreated sewage has increased the organic content beyond remediation. During the summer, rises in temperature (to 35 °C) enhances biological activities, lowering dissolved oxygen levels and causing large-scale fish death due to asphyxiation. The solution proposed is a stakeholder approach to ensure that everyone living in the vicinity of the lake has a duty and responsibility to ensure the healthy life of the lake. (The writer is a Social Entrepreneur from Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-re-our-lakes-dying-861293.html
14-07-2020||Right in the Middle||An awkward baadoota||Baadoota, a non-vegetarian feast, is quite popular in the old Mysuru region. Such a feast is usually held on the eve of Mahalaya Amavasya, a festival observed to remember our ancestors, hosa thodaku post-Ugadi and beegara authana, a grand lunch for relations and friends served by boys family after the marriage. In joint families, the onus of serving baadu lies with grandmother. In villages, during beegara authana, the kith and kin of the host prepare the dishes. Once my uncle, who hosted beegara authana requested a relative who was not involved in the cooking, to taste dishes and comment on if the meat had been cooked? His invitees, who had actually cooked the food were annoyed that my uncle did not prioritise them to taste the dishes and silently left the premises without even taking the food. Chenna, uncle’s contemporary, was strong and healthy and could manage any amount of food without discomfort. He used to visit my uncle’s house every evening and strike up a conversation with him. He would chatter on about all and sundry with his tongue moving like a sewing machine and would only conclude when my aunt invited him for dinner. If he sensed that vegetarian food was available, he would politely refuse the invitation saying, “Avva your sister is waiting at home for me to serve food. I have to go, she will get annoyed otherwise”. In another instance, when baadoota was prepared, Chenna had come to visit in the evening. Since it was prepared only for family members, my aunt was not keen to host him. Chenna, who had sniffed out the aroma of baadoota, did not want to miss and deliberately prolonged the discussion expecting my aunt’s invitation. With no option left, my aunt reluctantly invited Chenna, “Anna wash your hands to have food”. Chenna was just about to strike with his uppish reply that his wife is waiting at home when my aunt let out a sigh of relief and said, “is it so Anna?” Shocked by aunt’s reaction, clever Chenna reacted, “Avva, please serve, otherwise, you will be annoyed at me for not accepting your food, my posterity may have to carry the blame forever for not obliging your invitation”. With no option left, my aunt served badoota to both of them. You can imagine the horrid consequences after the departure of Chenna. My uncle consoled my aunt saying “In every crumb, the name of the consumer is written”. My aunt replied that every crumb you eat has the name of the person who feeds you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/an-awkward-baadoota-860881.html
14-07-2020||Right in the Middle||A formidable foe||Chewing on an idea, I stepped into the kitchen for a cup of water. The refreshing elixir fired a string of words in the mindscape, giving the idea wings. I turned around much invigorated but stopped short. I was sure something had stirred a few feet away. My jaw dropped and the tumbler fell. In the nick of the moment, I caught sight of the vanishing tail! Code red! Jolted rudely out of my reverie, I sprang into action. A surgical strike was imminent. Wielding a broom, I was hell-bent on combing the intruder’s hideout.  Desperate times call for extreme measures. Getting down on my fours, I pulled fixtures apart. Brandishing the broom, I ran pell-mell, in a futile attempt to drive away the lizard.  You see, I can hob-nob with spiders, give marching orders to ants, and demand a strict code of conduct from roaches. But with lizards, it’s a different ball game altogether. They are obstinate, persistent, sneaky and ruthless, defying all protocols of co-existence. I am told that urban lizards are more intelligent than their country cousins in evading humans. Lizzy’s presence brought out the worst in me. Although I keenly write about animals, their life and newly found kith, I chose to neglect Lizzy’s kin.  I despise Lizzy’s quirky habits and pompous shows—weight-lifting acts with the roof followed by the disgusting ‘plop’ on the floor. Her croaking noises in the dead of night rattle me. I am unnerved with her silly pranks of wedging through crevices or detaching her tail. She deeply offends me by her insufferable, snobbish jumping jack-like practical jokes at the most unlikely places.  Lizzy was a tough nut to crack. My best efforts to coax her to go out into the outside world went in vain. And so, I maintain a stiff upper lip, unapprovingly of her disregard for my personal space. She remained elusive for a while.  The other day, as I was warming up to my yoga session, Lizzy poked her head out of nowhere again, throwing my session out the window. My eyes riveted on her movements,  Lizzy crawled lazily up the wall. Soon, something followed in tow…gosh, a little one! Egad! Will rambunctious, juveniles swarming around the house be the new normal now? As I am on tenterhooks, Lizzy, I am sure, is secretly drawing sadistic pleasure at my plight. While the world, fearing an outside foe, locks itself safely indoors, my nemesis lurks inside, on my wall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-formidable-foe-861290.html
14-07-2020||Second Edit||Erdogan reopens old wounds, conflicts||The Turkish government’s decision to reconvert the iconic Hagia Sophia in Istanbul from a museum to a mosque has dealt the latest blow to the country’s secular values. Originally a cathedral, the monument was built by the Byzantine Empire in the sixth century. When the Ottoman forces captured Constantinople in 1453, the cathedral was turned into a mosque. Then, in 1934, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of modern Turkey, turned it into a museum as part of his quest to modernise and secularise the country. In the decades since, the Hagia Sophia has emerged among the world’s most iconic monuments, a museum which housed within and on its walls centuries of history, diverse architectural styles and varied cultures. While Christian icons adorn its domes, its walls are suffused with Islamic calligraphy. It is not just its architectural beauty that makes the Hagia Sophia a valuable heritage. Even more outstanding is the fact that the UNESCO World Heritage Site had emerged as a symbol of Christian-Muslim co-existence and of Ataturk’s secular Turkey. The decision to make the Hagia Sophia a mosque was made by the judiciary. But it was what Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan wanted. Since coming to power in 2002, Erdogan and his Justice and Development Party (AKP) have been systematically dismantling the Kemalist legacy. He has been chipping away at the country’s secularism. Power has been centralised in the executive presidency and individual freedoms have been curtailed. Erdogan has pushed his country down the road of religious conservatism to shore up public support for his authoritarian rule. He has been promising to return Turkey to the glorious days of Ottoman rule. What better way to do this than by converting the Hagia Sophia into a mosque as it was under the Ottomans?   By reopening the Hagia Sophia to Muslims for prayer, Erdogan may be able to deflect attention away from his mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and the country’s economic problems. Once, Turkey aspired to be part of the European Union. Now, Erdogan appears to be positioning himself and his country as the leader in the Muslim world it once was. This could enthuse Islamist hardliners at home and abroad. But it will come at a cost. It will deepen polarisation at home and worsen ties with several countries, especially in Europe. For centuries, the Hagia Sophia was a symbol of conflict between Christians and Muslims. Ataturk changed that by making it a modern temple of Turkey’s composite culture. Now, Erdogan has made the monument an emblem of conflict again. He has re-opened old wounds and revived centuries-old conflicts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/erdogan-reopens-old-wounds-conflicts-860877.html
14-07-2020||Second Edit||Relax, population growth is falling||The report of the Sample Registration System (SRS) for 2018 presents a new demographic picture which should change some conventional notions about population growth in the country. It shows that the population will start falling in a large part of the country in the coming years, as the Total Fertility Rate (TFR), the average number of children a woman will have in her lifetime, has fallen below the replacement level of 2.1 in those areas. There are 13 states in this group, which consists of all the southern states, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Uttarakhand and Odisha. The national average is 2.2. The TFR for Gujarat is 2.1 while it is above the replacement level in eight states, including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar, which is the worst performer. These are also the states which have the largest populations and are the most socially and economically backward. The results of the SRS, conducted by the Registrar General of India, are supported by the UN’s population projections, which put the TFR at 2.2 in 2020 and 1.7 after 2050. The diminishing population growth is a result of socio-economic development, better access to healthcare facilities and contraceptives and higher literacy, especially women’s literacy. The average TFR was 1.7 for graduate women, 1.8 -1.9 for those educated up to Class 12, 2.5 for those with primary education, and 3.0 among illiterate women. The key to population decline is the same across the country for all communities, castes and any social group. The laggard states are those that have performed badly in all these areas. The lesson, if it has to be learned again, is that it is education, health facilities and development that shrinks the size of families. Coercive measures and blunt disincentives do not help and sometimes become counterproductive. The results also put paid to the fears being voiced about runaway population growth in the country.  The figures call for different policies to be adopted in different parts of the country, depending on the stage of growth or decline in particular areas. Planning should be made to counter the impact on the economy of population decline in some states. They may face labour shortages and other problems. Other social and economic consequences will also have to be reckoned with. The SRS report shows an increase in the median age. It means that more than half of India’s population is 25 years or older. This does not pose an immediate threat, but with the increase in the population of elderly people, there should be policies in place to take care of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/relax-population-growth-is-falling-861286.html
14-07-2020||South||Major fire breaks out at Visakhapatnam plant, 1 injured||At least one worker was injured after a major fire broke out following an explosion at a pharmaceutical unit near Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh on Monday night, officials said. The incident triggered panic among the residents in the Paravada area as it came just over a couple of months after the styrene vapour leak in the LG Polymers plant in the region. An explosion was first heard at Pharma City, following which there was a huge fire. The incident is said to have occurred in the Coastal Waste Management Project, a unit of Ramky Solvents, according to sources. At least nine fire tenders were being pressed into service to put out the massive blaze and also prevent it from spreading to other pharma plants in the vicinity, Visakhapatnam District Collector V Vinay Chand said. A worker sustained burn injuries, while three others who were also at the unit when the incident occurred escaped to safety. The injured was rushed to a hospital in Gajuwaka in the city for treatment, Chand said. The cause of the incident is not yet known, and fire and emergency services personnel could not immediately reach the spot as the blaze has engulfed the area, police sources said. State Industries Minister M Goutham Reddy spoke to Visakhapatnam district Collector and enquired about the incident. He directed the district administration to first evacuate workers who were on night shifts at other units. Reddy asked the police, fire services and health officials to be on high alert and ensure that there were no loss of lives. Last month, a gas leak incident in one of the companies in the Pharma City left two workers dead and four injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/major-fire-breaks-out-at-visakhapatnam-plant-1-injured-860876.html
14-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami tests negative for Covid-19; state tests over 15L samples||An official statement from the Director of Information and Public Relations Department on Tuesday morning said besides the Chief Minister, all officials and staff attached to the CM’s camp office, that couples as his residence as well, have also tested negative. “As part of the government’s testing initiative, samples of the Chief Minister and officials and staff working at the Camp Office were collected on July 13. The Chief Minister has tested negative for Covid-19. The results of officials and staff have also come out negative,” the statement said.  Tamil Nadu has conducted the highest number of tests in the country so far by testing over 15 lakh samples at 105 labs across the state. As of Monday, the state had tested 15,85,782 samples with 1,42,798 patients testing positive. Of these, 92,567 have been discharged after treatment, while active cases stand at 48,196 persons, including those under isolation. The death toll stands at 2,032.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami-tests-negative-for-covid-19-state-tests-over-15l-samples-860974.html
14-07-2020||South||Kerala tribal village panchayat imposes lockdown to curb Covid-19||Edamalakkudy, the first tribal panchayat in Kerala, situated in the forest areas of Idukki district, have self-imposed quarantine by preventing the entry of outsiders. The decision was taken by the 'Oorukoottam', local tribal assembly of the people. Secretary of the Edamalakkudy Panchayat, Varghese, said that it was owing to the high alertness of the people of the tribal hamlets that not even one Covid-19 case was reported so far.  Situated about 35 kilometres from Munnar, a known tourist destination, there is not even motorable road for around 15 kilometres into Edamalakkudy. It has a population of around 3,000 in 28 settlements. The panchayat has an area over 100 square kilometres and it shares borders with Tamil Nadu. Anticipating the risk of the spread of Covid-19 in the locality and the minimum health care facilities available, the local tribal assembly decided to impose lockdown in the region. Any one going out of the panchayat area would have to remain in two-week quarantine on return. No outsiders will be allowed to the panchayat till the Covid-19 scare was over. Instead of many people going out of the panchayat for essential needs like buying commodities, one or two persons would got out for meeting the needs of all and they would remain in quarantine for 14 days after returning.   Varghese said that already sufficient essential commodities to meet requirements for nearly two months were stocked at Edamalakkudy. Once heavy rains begin, it would be very difficult to reach Edmalakkuty as the forest roads would get damaged. The online education programmes of the Kerala government was also reaching Edamalakkudy where there are around 100 students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tribal-village-panchayat-imposes-lockdown-to-curb-covid-19-861061.html
14-07-2020||South||63 new Covid-19 cases in Puducherry, tally climbs to 1,531||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a virtual press conference that the total active cases were 684 and those treated and discharged were 829. Total fatalities remained at 18 as no death was reported for the last few days. The aggregate of Covid-19 cases now stood at 1,531. While 63 fresh cases were registered on Tuesday, 44 patients-- 33 in Puducherry and 11 in Yanam-- were discharged during the last twenty-four hours, the Minister said. The new cases were identified at the end of testing of 637 samples during the last 24 hours showing a 9.9 percentage of positivity. Fatality rate was 1.2 percent in the Union Territory, he said. Of the 26,592 samples tested so far in all the four regions, 24,863 samples were found negative and results of examination of the remaining samples were awaited, he said. Rao said that the number of positive cases had been on the increase in Puducherry as had been the scenario in several parts of the country. "The government is ramping up the number of tests and mobile teams were already collecting samples from the rural areas and also urban pockets since last few days as part of the efforts to zero in on the actual scenario of infections here," he said. The Minister sought the cooperation of people to contain the spread of infection by adhering to the norms of safety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/63-new-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry-tally-climbs-to-1531-861102.html
14-07-2020||South||Kerala minister on the defensive over phone calls with gold smuggling accused||A minister in Kerala is on the defensive as he was found to have contacted gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh several times during the last few months, even as the minister maintained that it was with regard to relief of Ramadan relief kits by UAE consulate. Meanwhile, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan ordered a probe into the phone calls between his former principal secretary M Sivasankar and Swapna. A team led by Chief Secretary Biswas Mehta would probe the calls. Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel was found to be in touch with Swapna as call records of Swapna came out. Jaleel maintained that the UAE consul general in Thiruvananthapuram only deputed Swapna to coordinate supply of Ramadan relief food kits. Jaleel said he got a message from the consul general on May 27 that Swapna would coordinate supply of relief materials. Hence she got in touch with him. Sivasankar was being quizzed by the customs in connection with his alleged nexus with the smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate. Customs sources said that so far there was no evidence of Sivasankar's involvement in gold smuggling. But it was suspected that the smuggling gang members used to meet at a flat taken on rent by Sivasankar. The customs official arrested four more persons suspected to be involved in distribution of the smuggled gold. It included persons who were earlier involved in gold smuggling also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-on-the-defensive-over-phone-calls-with-gold-smuggling-accused-861146.html
14-07-2020||South||Eight held for black marketing of Covid-19 drugs||Eight people who allegedly indulged in black marketing of emergency drugs used for Covid-19 patients were taken into custody here on Tuesday. Based on specific information, police teams nabbed the eight, who were black marketing generic versions of Remdesivir and other drugs which are being used as anti-viral medicine for Covid-19 patients, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar told reporters. Those arrested had formed a group and started black marketing of the emergency drug for Covid-19 patients to earn easy money illegally and sold it at higher prices, they said. With regard to sale or usage of these drugs, Police said it has been clearly mentioned on the box that the medicine is supposed to be meant for institutional and Hospital sale only. Remdesivir drug comes with a consent form that has to be filled and signed by the patient/attendants and doctor concerned at the time of administration of drug. A copy of consent form has to be handed over to patient and attendants. It is the duty of the institution to ensure availability of consent form all the time especially during inspection by Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation and Drug Controller General of India, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eight-held-for-black-marketing-of-covid-19-drugs-861187.html
14-07-2020||South||The postman who trekked dense forests for 10 years to deliver letters||65-year-old D Sivan was no ordinary postman. This bearded sexagenarian had to trek almost 15 km every day, braving wild animals and negotiating through the dense forests infested with snakes to deliver letters to inaccessible villages near Coonoor in the picturesque Nilgiris. For 10 years, Sivan had to encounter elephants, bears, gaurs, and other wild animals in the line of his duty as he walked along the Nilgiris Mountain Railway track and treading railway bridges to reach inaccessible remote areas in the hilly areas of Coonoor. Villagers of Vaduganthottam, Marapalam, K N R Nagar, Kurumpadi and Singara Estate would patiently wait for Sivan to arrive and deliver their mails— for many, he was a saviour as he delivered pension money for them. Sivan was designated as a Gram Dak Sevak (mail deliverer) in 2010 after working as a stamp vendor at the Wellington post office in the Nilgiris for 25 years from September 17, 1985.   “I have seen everything from elephants to poisonous snakes to gaurs as I had to trek dense forests to reach villages to deliver letters. Many might ask how I managed, but the answer is simple. I never disturbed them (animals), and they never disturbed me. We managed to tread our own path. In fact, they became my friends,” Sivan laughs. “And, I always greeted my friends before crossing their path. How can I enter their territory without wishing them Good Morning? I greeted them every single day,” Sivan tells DH over the phone. After having negotiated dense forests for a decade, the 65-year-old postman finally hung his boots on March 7, 2020. This almost forgotten hero has now got his rightful share of fame after a senior bureaucrat tweeted a picture of Sivan walking on a bridge in the Nilgiris with his bag and narrated his story of dedication and sincerity. Soon, Sivan became a social media sensation with hundreds of people saluting his contributions to nation-building and some even demanding Padma Shri for the now-retired postman. Telugu superstar K Chiranjeevi also praised Sivan’s sincerity in doing his job despite all adversities. “Thanks to such great beings. Humanity thrives,” the superstar wrote on his Twitter page. On Tuesday, BJP MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar sent a cheque of Rs 1 lakh to Sivan as an appreciation of his “service to the nation.” But, the newfound fame has not brought any change to Sivan, who is now happy that his hard work is being appreciated not just by people in Tamil Nadu, but the whole of India. “My phone has not stopped ringing. I get so many calls every day. People talk about my dedication and sincerity while on duty. It feels good and I enjoyed the last 10 years of my service not just because it was challenging, but it was fulfilling, delivering letters to people in inaccessible areas,” Sivan says. Sivan, who had a five-hour duty from 10 am to 3 pm during which he would walk at least 15 km to deliver letters, says he is enjoying his retirement life by sleeping for the most part of the day. Reminiscing his days as a postman, the 65-year-old says he would collect the bag from the Coonoor post office and walk his way to the Hillgrove post office from where he would collect letters that need to be delivered. “My first stop was the area near lower Singara Tea Estate after which I will walk my way negotiating dense forests to reach the first village Vaduganthottam. People in the villages know my timings and would wait for me. And then, I would deliver mails to three other villages before boarding a bus at Kurumpadi village to reach Coonoor,” Sivan says. The retired postman has an interesting story to narrate on how he took his wife a couple of times along with him to deliver letters. And why did he do that? “Mobile phones will go dead, the moment I enter the forests. And what if I had lost my life in an attack by an animal. So, I took my wife to show her my way so that she could have come and checked for me if I had not returned home the evening,” Sivan says. And in 10 years of his service as a postman, Sivan did not take even a single leave. “That is why I am sleeping so much now,” he laughs. “If I take leave, who will go and deliver letters? No one wanted to take the risk of going into the wild. So, I never took leave,” Sivan says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/the-postman-who-trekked-dense-forests-for-10-years-to-deliver-letters-861191.html
14-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu government includes Yoga & Naturopathy in battle against Covid-19, says over 61k benefited||The Tamil Nadu government, which has included Yoga and Naturopathy in addition to Siddha as add on for Covid-19 treatment has found this method improves the lung health and enhances the immunity of the persons concerned. Over 61,000 people have already benefited through Yoga and Naturopathy treatment and if the need arises, this treatment facility would be widely expanded, Health minister Dr C Vijaya Bhaskar said on Tuesday. "The patients were taught simple Yogasanas and pranayama to improve the lung health, besides being administered aromatherapy," he said in a release here. Also, they were provided with a nutritious diet of Navadhanyam (cereals and pulses) and herbal drinks. He said the Yoga and Naturopathy treatment is being provided for Covid-19 patients in the government medical college hospitals, government district headquarters hospitals and taluk hospitals across the state, by over 200 experts. Vijaya Baskar further said, "Yoga and Naturopathy are among the various strategies initiated by Chief Minister K Palaniswami in the fight against Covid-19, in addition to allopathy and Siddha treatment." "Such pro-people initiatives will strengthen the government efforts to contain the spread of Coronavirus and aid in treatment," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-includes-yoga-naturopathy-in-battle-against-covid-19-says-over-61k-benefited-861192.html
14-07-2020||South||Srisailam temple closed after five employees test positive for Covid-19; AP records 80 deaths in two days||The famous Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy devasthanam at Srisailam will remain closed for darshans for a week, beginning Wednesday, as 31 persons including the staff, their family members tested positive for Covid-19. The temple located in the Nallamala forests in Kurnool district is visited in large numbers by pilgrims from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Telangana. The temple reopened for public over a month back following the easing of lockdown restrictions and 3000-4000 pilgrims were being allowed inside, to maintain safe distancing. “In total 31 persons, including two paricharakas and three temple security staff, have tested positive. Since the sanitization of queue lines and other premises needs to be carried out properly, we are temporarily closing the temple for the public. However, all the daily rituals would be held as usual with limited priests and staff deployment,” temple executive officer KS Rama Rao told DH. The EO urged the devotees to take part in the temple services through the Paroksha-seva opportunity provided online. AP has reported 80 Covid-19 deaths in the last two days and recorded 1916 new cases between Monday and Tuesday morning. The state has a total recorded 33019 positive cases, with 408 deaths and 15144 active cases. Kurnool district is the worst affected with 3823 cases and 108 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/srisailam-temple-closed-after-five-employees-test-positive-for-covid-19-ap-records-80-deaths-in-two-days-861194.html
14-07-2020||South||Tamil Nady CM tests negative for Covid-19; samples tested cross 15 lakh in state||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has tested negative for the novel coronavirus, the government said on Tuesday. Tests were conducted on him and his staff at the Chief Minister’s Camp Office here on Monday. An official statement from the Director of Information and Public Relations Department on Tuesday morning said besides the Chief Minister, all officials and staff attached to the CM’s camp office, that couples as his residence as well, have also tested negative. Sources said this is the third time, Palaniswami has taken the Covid-19 test since the outbreak of the novel Coronavirus in March. His swab samples were collected and tested for the first time in June when staff at the Chief Minister’s office in the Secretariat tested positive for Coronavirus. One of his staff, an under-secretary level officer, also succumbed to Covid-19. “As part of the government’s testing initiative, samples of the Chief Minister and officials and staff working at the Camp Office were collected on July 13. The Chief Minister has tested negative for Covid-19. The results of officials and staff have also come out negative,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nady-cm-tests-negative-for-covid-19-samples-tested-cross-15-lakh-in-state-861215.html
14-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu custodial deaths: Five policemen sent to two-day CBI custody||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday secured two-day custody of five policemen involved in the alleged custodial death of a father and his son in Thoothukudi district. The CBI has taken over the sensational case from the CB-CID Wing of the Tamil Nadu Police which investigated the case for over a week. Inspector Sridhar, sub-inspectors Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan and head constable Muthu Raj and constable Murugan were sent to CBI custody for two days after the agency made a plea before Principal District and Sessions Judge Hemant Kumar. Though the CBI sought seven-day custody, the court granted the agency two-day custody of the policemen, who were arrested in the first week of July. The policemen are accused of torturing the father-son duo, who were arrested on June 19 over an argument with two cops near their shop in Sathankulam, 630 km from here. P Jeyaraj (61), and Emmanuel Bennix (31), died of the injuries allegedly sustained during the custody three days later at a government hospital in Kovilpatti. Their deaths triggered a massive outrage and the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took suo motu cognizance of the case and ordered a post-mortem in the presence of doctors appointed by it. Even as the Tamil Nadu government transferred the case to CBI, the high court asked the CB-CID to step in till the time CBI takes over the case formally to prevent evidence from dissipating. A total of 10 policemen have, so far, been arrested by the CB-CID.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-custodial-deaths-five-policemen-sent-to-two-day-cbi-custody-861222.html
14-07-2020||South||Series of industrial mishaps at Vizag: YSRCP alleges opposition TDP's conspiracy||The ruling YSRCP has pointed finger at the opposition TDP while alleging a conspiracy behind the series of industrial mishaps that claimed 18 lives in just over two months in Visakhapatnam. Visakhapatnam, known popularly as Vizag, on the East Coast is heavily industrialized with steel plant, shipyard, refineries, pharma, and other manufacturing units. The port city was designated as Andhra Pradesh’s executive capital by chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy, a decision fiercely opposed by the TDP and its chief Chandrababu Naidu. A huge blast and fire on Monday night in Visakha Solvents Limited, Jawaharlal Nehru pharma city at Parawada near Vizag has killed one operator Srinivasa Rao and injured a chemist. The visuals of the explosion and uncontrolled fires on the news TV screens and Whats-app forwards added to the fears of the already terrified locals. This is the third such industrial mishap at Vizag, in over two months’ time. While the LG styrene leak of 7 May near Gopalapatnam killed 15 locals; Benzimidazole leak in Sainor Life Sciences pharma unit in Parawada on 30 June caused the death of two employees. On Tuesday, YSRCP spokesperson and Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath stated “conspiracies as being hatched to damage the brand image of Vizag.” “After noticing the recent incidents, I, as an individual and as a local MLA, have doubts if there is a collusion. I appeal to the CM to initiate a thorough probe to reveal the truth,” Gudivada said addressing reporters in Vizag. On Tuesday, Naidu accused the Jaganmohan Reddy government “as behaving negligently; not focusing on measures to prevent the mishaps.” “Why is the government being indifferent? The series of accidents taking place in industrial areas of Visakhapatnam district is causing great concern,” Kalyan stated. “The way mishaps are occurring and the opposition leaders especially Chandrababu Naidu is reacting, I am afraid, it looks like it is a scheme to obstruct our CM’s plans to make Vizag the state’s capital. To save his investments in Amaravati, Naidu is resorting to the propaganda of frequent mishaps in Vizag” the YSRCP leader said while naming Jana Sena Party chief Pawan Kalyan “as supporting Naidu’s campaign.” Meanwhile, a preliminary probe of Monday’s accident pointed to variations in the temperature and pressures of the solvent reactor as the cause.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/series-of-industrial-mishaps-at-vizag-ysrcp-alleges-opposition-tdps-conspiracy-861225.html
14-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy announces Rs 15,000 for last rites of Covid-19 victims||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has announced Rs 15,000 towards the expenses of proper treatment and last rites of a Covid-19 victim’s body. The decision comes in the wake of a sequence of instances in the state where Covid-19 victim bodies were transported using earth movers and tractors. These incidents occurred in Srikakulam, Chittoor, and Nellore districts in the last few weeks.   In a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation, containment measures on Tuesday, Reddy stressed on the need of improving the preventive measures and treatment of the patients. “No hospital should turn away Covid-19 patients,” the chief minister said while instructing the officials to take strict action against the hospitals refusing treatment to Covid-19 cases. He also ordered a one-week special drive to ensure qualitative food, hygiene, and other services in the quarantine centres. “Call center numbers for complaints should be displayed properly and officials should take feedback regularly.” The directive comes after videos surfaced on social media indicating improper treatment of Covid-19 suspects in some quarantine centers. On Monday, Opposition leader Chandrababu Naidu tweeted one such video, where inmates were complaining of late meals, messy toilets etc. troubles.  "Such scenes from quarantine centres are causing anxiety among the public. If the government is spending grand amounts as claimed, why is the situation like this? Is this not corruption in the garb of treating Covid-19 patients?” Naidu tweeted.    The state has recorded 33,019 positive cases till Tuesday morning, with a total of 408 deaths. 80 of these Covid-19 deaths took place in the 48 hours between Sunday and Tuesday morning. “Tests are being conducted in containment zones after tracing the contacts. The main reason for the deaths is patients showing up in hospitals in an advanced stage of Covid-19,” officials said. The chief minister has approved an action plan to ready the services of 17,000 doctors and over 12,000 nurses for the requirement in the future days, the CMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-announces-rs-15000-for-last-rites-of-covid-19-victims-861262.html
14-07-2020||State||Karnataka II PUC results out much before the official announcement||The result of the second year pre-University course (II PUC) examination is already out and students were able to access their results from 10.30 am. However, Education Minister S Suresh Kumar will officially release the results by 11.30 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-ii-puc-results-out-much-before-the-official-announcement-860975.html
14-07-2020||State||PU results: Mysuru maintains status quo in terms of pass percentage||Except for Hassan, which has slipped down to the 11th position, from the sixth position in 2019, all districts in Mysuru region have remained in the same positions, with some differences in the overall pass percentage, in the PUC results, announced on Tuesday. However, among toppers in Commerce combination, a Mysuru girl, J N Brunda of BGS College, stands second in the State with 596 marks, out of a total of 600 marks. In the Science stream, M S Yashas of Gopalaswamy PU College has emerged as Mysuru district topper, with 594 marks. Spandana of Marimallappa’s College, which was once famous for producing many toppers, has scored 582 marks in Arts. While Mysuru has managed to retain the 15th place with a pass percentage of 67.98%, Chamarajanagar has retained the 12th position with 69.29% and Mandya is stable at the 21st position with 63.82%. Last year, their overall pass percentage in the PUC results were 68.55%, 72.67% and 63.08% respectively. While the pass percentage of Hassan was 75.19% in 2019, it has dipped to 70.18% this year. However, Hassan has maintained its lead in the region, emerging once again as the topper at the 11th position. In Hassan, when the results were good in 2019, there was a political tussle in claiming credit. While members of JD(S), lead by then minister and now MLA H D Revanna, claimed that the results were better due to the efforts of Bhavani Revanna, who is president of Zilla Panchayat Standing Committee on Education, the detractors claimed credit for the officials, including Deputy Commissioner and ZP Chief Executive Officer. Mysuru district, which was in the 14th place in 2017, had slipped drastically to the 17th place in 2018, with 66.77% results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pu-results-mysuru-maintains-status-quo-in-terms-of-pass-percentage-861062.html
14-07-2020||State||This Karnataka man built himself a camera-shaped house||In what can be described as the ultimate act of paying homage to one's craft - this Karnataka-based photographer built himself a camera-shaped home. Even his three children - Canon, Nikon, and Epson, are named after his passion. The unique, three-storeyed house, has a one-of-a-kind, camera-like facade complete with  lens, a flash, a showreel, a memory card and a viewfinder. Even the interiors of the house are camera related.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/this-karnataka-man-built-himself-a-camera-shaped-house-861149.html
14-07-2020||State||State registers a record 87 Covid-19 deaths||The state reported a record 87 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday taking the death toll to 842. Fifty six fatalities were reported from Bengaluru alone. As many as 2,496 cases were reported on the day. The state's mortality rate stands at 1.82% and the state capital's is 1.63%. Six patients have died due to non-Covid causes so far in the state.   Ballari reported five deaths, and Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada and Bagalkot reported four deaths each. According to the dates of deaths provided by the state health department on Tuesday in the daily bulletin, the deaths happened over a period of 12 days from July 2 to July 14. There is no explanation as to why it takes so long for a death to be included in the bulletin. Out of these 87 deaths, four patients died at their residence and one was brought dead. All fatalities were cases of SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) or ILI (influenza-like illness), one is a contact of a previously diagnosed patient, and another patient's contact is under tracing. The youngest among Tuesday's reported fatalities was a 35-year-old man and the oldest was a 90-year-old man. All of them showed symptoms of fever, cough, and breathlessness, and all had co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, ischemic heart disease, carcinoma, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease barring 18 patients who had no co-morbidities. As on Tuesday, there were 540 patients in the ICU, 317 in Bengaluru. Out of the 25,839 active cases,15,052 are in the capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-registers-a-record-87-covid-19-deaths-861303.html
14-07-2020||State||Students worried over ‘advantage’ for CBSE/ICSE counterparts||Students who got their II PU results are a worried lot as they feel it is difficult to compete with their counterparts from CBSE and ISC boards, as their scores are high despite not appearing for all papers. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has promised to take up their cause with the Higher Education department. Kumar told reporters, “I will discuss with Higher Education Minister C N Ashwathnarayan and find ways to normalise the scores for II PU students.” Students are admitted to higher studies based on the class 12 score. Many PU students pointed out that they would be at a disadvantage as students from central boards were graded based on the performance in the papers completed as well as their internal assessment scores for papers that were cancelled. The PU students said this was a “lenient marking,” which would put them at a disadvantage. As per details available from the department, 9,000 students benefited from grace marks. The department had received over 350 objections for English paper, but grace marks were not given for that, as there were options provided for the said questions. Kanagavalli, director, PUE department, said, “As per our norms, we gave grace marks for students who secured 70% marks in all subjects and failed in one subject. Such students were given grace marksup to 5%.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/students-worried-over-advantage-for-cbse/icse-counterparts-861304.html
14-07-2020||State||92 colleges report 100% results||As many as 92 colleges (against 80 last year) have secured cent percent results in the II PU examination this year. On the other hand, 88 colleges (against 98 last year) have reported zero result. Three government PU colleges have secured 100% results and this number is five when it comes to colleges with zero percentage results. Many students with special abilities have done well this year. Of the 310 total students appeared for exams, 218 have become successful. The department has yet to decide the dates for the supplementary examinations and officials said that the exams would probably conducted next month. Girls have outshone the boys this year too in the exam. As much as 62.60% students from urban areas have passed the examination as against 58.99% from rural areas. Dates to remember  July 16 to 30: To apply for scanned copy of answer scripts August 3 to 7: To download scanned copy of answer scripts August 4 to 10: To apply for revaluation andretotalling Fee tariff Rs 530 fee for scanned copy per subject Rs 1,670 Fee forrevaluation per subject||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/92-colleges-report-100-results-861305.html
14-07-2020||State||These students remained defiant in difficult times||Securing 95.5% in II PU was a dream come true for Yashwanth A of Oxford Independent PU college at Ullal in Bengaluru. To deal with the financial crisis at home and to manage his academic commitments, Yashwanth started taking tuitions for students of lower grades in his locality. Being a merit student even in SSLC with 97%, many parents were happy to send their wards for tuitions with Yashwant. His father is a carpenter and his mother works as a tailor. Looking at his scores in SSLC, the college secretary and principal Dr Supreeth B R paid the fees for his PU course. “I want to pursue medicine and am currently preparing for NEET. All the credit goes to Supreeth sir, who trusted me and helped me,” saysYashwanth. Dr Supreeth has promised to take responsibility of Yashwanth’s studies even in future. Score: Physics-95, Chemistry-96, Mathematics-97,Biology - 97.  His labour with books paid off School dropout, rescued child labourer Satish J secured 79% in commerce stream. Currently sheltered with SPARSHA Trust, an NGO, he wants to join the Indian Administrative Service(IAS). Satish studied at Seshadripuram PU college, Yelahanka in Bengaluru. “Had I not been rescued by SPARSHA Trust, I would have ended up as a child labourer. I thank each one at SPARSHA Trust and my teachers in college,” says Satish. Score: 478/600 Gardener’s son reaps success Another success story is Michael Augustine from Whitefield Global School, a unit of Deeksha Network. Securing distinction in PUC (science) was not a cakewalk for him. Born to a gardener father and homemaker mother, he finished SSLC in a government school. As he scored well in SSLC, he was able to pass the merit test at Deeksha and got a seat. “At Deeksha, I was able to receive clear guidance on how, when and what to study. My focus was on areas that needed improvement. The teachers were very motivating and supportive. I have learnt that everything depends on our perception. Hence, we must face life cheerfully and happily” the student said. Score: 527/600||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/these-students-remained-defiant-in-difficult-times-861307.html
14-07-2020||State||II PU pass percentage the best in 20 years||The II Pre-University exam results announced on Tuesday were the best since 2001 with an overall pass percentage of 61.80, a 0.07 percentage point improvement over 2019's result of 61.73%. Though senior officials say this is the highest ever pass percentage since the department's inception in 1971-72, the department was able to provide data only for the past 20 years. The examinations commenced in March and concluded on June 18 due to the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The results are available on www.karresults.nic.in and will be sent to colleges through the online portal. Successful students received their results on their mobiles. "Despite fear and pressure, students appeared for the last exam after a long break. The credit goes to students and I congratulate them and wish them good luck," said Primary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, addressing the media. The results have improved by around 10 percentage points over three years from 52.38% in 2017,  59.56% in 2018 and 61.73% in 2019. In all, 6,75,277 students appeared for the exams, of whom 4,17,297 passed. Consoling unsuccessful students, Suresh Kumar said, "Those who could not clear the exams need not be depressed. They can take up the supplementary exams and be mentally strong. I request parents not to compare their children with others and demoralise them." Meanwhile, the performance of students from the Arts stream has seen a steep dip. From last year's 50.53%, it went down to 41.27%. The Science stream saw an improvement with 76.2% as against previous year's 66.8%. Commerce results dipped by a few percentage points to 65.52% from last year's 66.39%.  Girls outshone boys again. Rural students fared better than their urban counterparts. TOPPERS Arts: Students from Indu Independent PU College, Kottur, in Ballari secured the first three positions. Karegowda Dasanagoudra secured 594 out of 600 and stood first for state and Swamy S M scored 592 while Mahamad Rafiq stood third with 591. Science: The first position was shared by two students Abhijna Rao from Vidyodaya PU College Udupi and Prerana MN from Vidyamandir Independent PU college Bengaluru with 596 out of 600. Akanksha A Pai from RV PU college Bengaluru secured 595 and was second while four studentsu shared third the position with 594. Commerce: Aravind Srivatsa from Vidyamandir Independent PU college in Malleswaram Bengaluru secured 598 out of 600 to top the state. Brunda J M from Sri BGS Girls PU College Mysuru secured 596 and stood second. Sindhu G M from Government PU College Sagar secured 595 for the third spot. Udupi, DK on top Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts shared the first position with an overall pass percentage of 90.71. They were followed by Kodagu and Uttara Kannada with 81.53% and 80.97% respectively. Udupi had topped the state even during 2019 and was second in 2018. Dakshina Kannada, which was on top in 2018, slipped to second spot with 90.91% in 2019. Even in 2017, Udupi was in the first place. Vijayapura at the bottomVijayapura district scored the lowest pass percentage of 54.22, dropping by 14.33 percentage points against last year's 68.55%. This is followed by Raichur and Chitradurga with 56.22% and 56.8% respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ii-pu-pass-percentage-the-best-in-20-years-861309.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Girls outshine boys in Second PUC exams with 68.73 pass percentage||Girls outshone boys in the Second Pre-University Board examinations in Karnataka, results of which were announced on Tuesday. As many as 6.75 lakh students had written the examination of which 4.17 lakh students passed. Thus, the pass percentage is 61.80 per cent, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said while announcing the results. He said 68.73 per cent girls cleared the exam against the boys whose pass percentage was 54.77 per cent. In terms of urban versus rural, 62.60 per cent students passed in the urban area while 58.99 per cent were from rural areas. The three districts where the students' performance was excellent were Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu whereas the districts where students fared badly were Chitradurga, Raichur and Vijayapura, the minister said. Combination wise, the pass percentage of students in science stream is 82.57 per cent, Commerce 72.60 per cent and Arts 47.90 per cent, said the Minister. He also said of those who passed the examination, 72. 45 per cent were from English medium and 47.56 from Kannada medium. There are 68,866 distinction scorers, 2,21,866 students who got first division and 77,455 students who passed the exam in second division, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/girls-outshine-boys-in-second-puc-exams-with-6873-pass-percentage-861096.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bed rentals: BJP govt looting public money, says DKS||KPCC president DK Shivakumar on Tuesday targeted the Yediyurappa-led BJP government over corruption allegations in renting of beds for Covid-19patients.  Yediyurappa was forced to interfere after he found that BBMP officials had not taken his approval for renting bed sets at Covid Care Centres, for which the government had to pay Rs 800 per day. Yediyurappa has asked officials to purchase them instead.  “They wanted to make money out of beds and pillows, too. Imagine the loot of public money that must have taken place in the procurement of medical equipment. Will this corruption be possible without the consent of your ministers and officials,” Shivakumar asked Yediyurappa at a news conference, adding that the Congress would “expose the government in stages.”  According to sources, Yediyurappa lambasted officials on Monday for “keeping him in the dark” on the decision to rent bed sets despite he being the Bengaluru Development Minister.  Shivakumar accused the government of creating a “fearful” atmosphere for private hospitals and doctors. “Instead of threatening them, you should take them into confidence,” he said.  The Congress leader said he would visit the Victoria Hospital to “expose” the way patients are being treated there. “They are being given food as if they are dogs. There’s no one to look after them,” he said. “And no one - CM, ministers, deputy commissioners - have visited Covid hospitals. You should go there first and enquire about patients. That will instil confidence in them and the doctors working there,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bed-rentals-bjp-govt-looting-public-money-says-dks-861246.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||MP-led call centre helps repatriation of Kannadigas||More than 200 Karnataka students who were stranded in different parts of Russia, landed in Bengaluru on Tuesday, with the help of an initiative taken up by Congress MP G C Chandrashekar. The MP, has been coordinating repatriation efforts over the last two months, of Kannadigas stuck in various parts of the globe, owing to travel restrictions. For this, he has been coordinating with the External Affairs Ministry, Embassy officials and the state government officials in bringing people back home. On Tuesday, as many as 217 students who were stuck in Russia, landed in Bengaluru, and are now under quarantine.  Speaking to DH, Chandrashekar said that he had helped about 1,000 students and working professionals come back to Karnataka from different countries, through his initiative. “Another batch of 180 medical students from Russia is set to fly by the month end. In June, we repatriated 92 students from Malaysia. Later, we were able to bring back 220 working professionals from Muscat to Mangaluru. A few left to Dubai from Bengaluru on Monday, as they were stuck here during the lockdown and were on the verge of losing their jobs. At present, we are trying to aid about 230 people stuck in Caribbean Islands, set to fly on July 17. Locally too, we have helped students from Karnataka who were stuck in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Goa,” he said.  It all began with the first batch of students from Malaysia. Once they returned, more number of people tagged him on social media, seekinghelp. “We get calls later into the night from students and parents alike, seeking help. Hence, we set up a call centre at my office with a team of 15 members,” he explained. At present, there have been at least 2,000 requests from Kannadigas from various countries, wanting to come back home. “I will continue to coordinate with the Central and the state governments to bring them back,” the MP said. The repatriation is taking place with the help of private chartered flights and the passengers are bearing the cost, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mp-led-call-centre-helps-repatriation-of-kannadigas-861247.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Liquor sales go up ahead of lockdown||With people trying to stock up liquor ahead of the week-long lockdown in Bengaluru and Bengaluru rural districts, liquor sales have doubled.  According to data available with the Excise department, on Tuesday, the state saw an overall sales worth Rs 179 crore, with 3.8 lakh case boxes of Indian Made Liquor and 68,653 case boxes of beer being sold. On Monday too, there was an increase in sales with the total value of sales amounting close to Rs 230 crore. The department recorded sales of 4.89 lakh case boxes of IML and 83,000 CBs of beer on Monday. This is twice as much as normal sales, officials in the Excise department told DH. "The overall increase in sales across the state, seems to have been driven by the rush in Bengaluru to stock up liquor ahead of the lockdown. Bengaluru alone accounts for about 25-30 per cent of the total sales," a senior official in the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/liquor-sales-go-up-ahead-of-lockdown-861248.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Land Reforms Act: Over 13k cases may be dismissed||More than 13,000 cases registered for violation of norms under the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, stand to be dismissed, following the state government’s move to amend the law.  On Tuesday, the Revenue department directed all the tahsildars and other officials concerned to resolve the 13,814 cases pending for violation of norms under Sections 79A and B of the original Act. These Sections have been repealed through an ordinance because of which the cases will not hold valid anymore.  The government has promulgated an ordinance to amend the Act allowing non-agriculturists to buy farm lands. Sections 79A and B dealt with this and cases were booked over the years against non-agriculturists who acquired farm lands. A circular from the Revenue department in this regard has also asked officials to make the required changes in Bhoomi software so that cases are not registered under these Sections in future. Noting that for cases pending before 2012 under these Sections, the ‘Pahani’ was still in the name of the seller, the department has asked officials to ensure that it is transferred to the name of the buyer. In cases post 2012, the records mention suspicion of violation of rules. This, too, has to now be removed, the circular stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/land-reforms-act-over-13k-cases-may-be-dismissed-861249.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lok Adalat goes online: 30 cases resolved||The first Lok Adalat after the Covid-19 was conducted through video conferencing here on Tuesday. The Lok Adalat bench comprising Justice Alok Aradhe, also the Chairman of High Court Legal Services Committee and conciliator Vijay Kumar Patil settled 31 cases. A release stated that with the disposal of 31 cases, the compensation amount of Rs 62.95 lakh were settled in favour of motor vehicle accident victims. The secretary of High Court Legal Services Committee has requested advocates and litigants to make use of virtual Lok Adalat for settlement of cases during Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lok-adalat-goes-online-30-cases-resolved-861251.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||237 Indian students stranded in Russia land in Bengaluru||A team of medical students from various districts across Karnataka, including Davangere, returned to Bengaluru from Moscow, Russia, in the wee hours of Tuesday, after three months of struggle to return to their motherland. The students have now been quarantined.  The colleges and hostels in Russia were closed down in the wake of Covid-19. As many as 237 Indian students had appealed to Union ministers, MPs, state ministers and legislators through social media sites, to take steps to evacuate them from Russia.  170 from Karnataka Of the 237 students, 170 are from the state and the others are from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. They left for Bengaluru from Moscow in a Royal Flight aircraft on the evening of Monday and landed in Bengaluru on Tuesday.  Appeal on social media As many as 11 students from Davangere had appealed to MP G M Siddeswara through Facebook and Twitter, to make necessary arrangements for their travel. Following this, the MP wrote to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on July 1, urging them to help the students reach India.  Speaking to DH, Parashuram, one of the students from Davangere, said, “Students from Bengaluru, Davangere, Tumakuru, Hubballi, Koppal and other districts were on the flight from Moscow. We had appealed to elected representatives to arrange for a direct flight from Moscow to Bengaluru. The Centre and state government responded to our appeals in time. We are told to be in seven days of institutional or home quarantine.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/237-indian-students-stranded-in-russia-land-in-bengaluru-861253.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC tells govt to come clear on helpline for Covid hospitals||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to clarify as to why only one helpline number - 1912 - of Bescom was available for queries about hospitals. Hearing a batch of petitions on issues related to Covid-19, a division bench of the High Court headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the state government to respond on certain grey areas in the written submission. The written submission stated that a circular has been issued informing about the helpline number 1912 exclusively for issues regarding the hospitals. The advocate appearing for the petitioner said that number used to be a Bescom complaint number. Going through the written submission, the bench sought to know the mechanism of handling this sole number. “Basically, this telephone number 1912 is provided by Bescom for receiving complaints on disruption of electricity supply. It is said that in the monsoon sometimes more than 20,000 complaints are received by Bescom on this number. Therefore, the state must clarify how many lines are available to receive queries on securing beds in hospital. Proper working of this helpline is crucial as this is the only way to find out the availability of beds. The purpose of providing the helpline cannot be achieved unless a proper mechanism is in place. Government needs to clarify on this aspect,” the bench said. The state government submitted that on July 10, a circular was issued regarding the testing modalities. The high court had asked the state to provide the outer limit for testing of the samples. The submission stated that testing was done under three categories, A, B and C. The outer limit for test results is prescribed as 12 hours for A category, 24 hours for B category and 24-48 hours for C category. “In order to reduce the turn-around time for reporting of tests, the July 10, 2020 guidelines state that symptomatic patients and primary contacts coming under category A shall be done through individual testing, while asymptomatic and other persons under category B will be done through pooled sample testing (5 samples only),’’ the state submitted. The state government further stated that all hospitals, labs, medical establishments performing rapid antigen tests have been directed to mandatorily register with ICMR and also enter test results on the ICMR portal. The state has also issued a circular on July 13 about quarantine of persons who have provided a sample for the testing. It said such persons are directed to maintain strict quarantine as they are potential carriers of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-tells-govt-to-come-clear-on-helpline-for-covid-hospitals-861254.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees record 87 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday; death toll climbs to 842||The state reported a record 87 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday taking the death toll to 842. 56 of these deaths were reported from Bengaluru alone. The state's mortality rate stands at 1.82 per cent and the state capital's is 1.63 per cent. Six patients have died due to non-Covid causes so far in the state.  Ballari reported five deaths, and Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada, and Bagalkote reported four deaths each. According to the dates of deaths provided by the state health department on Tuesday in the daily bulletin, the deaths happened over a period of 12 days from July 2 to July 14. There is no explanation as to why it takes so long for a death to be included in the bulletin. Out of these 87 deaths, four patients died at their residence and one was brought dead. All fatalities were cases of SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) or ILI (influenza-like illness), one is a contact of a previously diagnosed patient, and another patient's contact is under tracing. The youngest among Tuesday's reported fatalities was a 35-year-old man and the oldest was a 90-year-old man. All of them showed symptoms of fever, cough, and breathlessness, and all had co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, ischemic heart disease, carcinoma, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease barring 18 patients who had no co-morbidities. In Monday's press conference, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar had said that 75 per cent of the Covid patients had died because of their co-morbidities and Covid had only made them sicker, and that only 25 per cent had died because of Covid. The death audit in the state is not complete and is expected in three days, he had said. As on Tuesday, there were 540 patients in the ICU and 317 were in Bengaluru alone. With 2,496 new cases, the number of active cases now are 25,839. Bengaluru alone accounts for 15,052 active cases now. 1,142 patients were discharged on Tuesday pegging the recovery rate at 37.41 per cent. 664 were discharged from Bengaluru and the recovery rate of the city is 20.92 per cent. On Tuesday alone, 22,653 tests were done taking the total number of tests done so far to 8,56,148.  According to the BBMP's live bed-tracking portal, at Press time, there were 3,401 beds available, including 172 ICU ventilators, 237 ICU beds, 941 high dependency unit beds and 2,051 general beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-record-87-covid-19-deaths-on-tuesday-death-toll-climbs-to-842-861258.html
14-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru lockdown: Govt gives more leeway to industries||The state government on Tuesday spelt out the full list of industries that will be allowed to function during the 7-day lockdown period in Bengaluru Urban and neighbouring districts. Almost all industries, except those within containment zones, have been allowed to operate. A circular issued by Commerce & Industries Principal Secretary Gaurav Gupta listed 28 categories of essential industries and eight categories of continuous process industries that can operate in the two districts during the lockdown. This includes integrated steel plants, petroleum refinery units, cement and fertilizer plants, glass manufacturing and integrated textile units. The government has also allowed industries located in industrial areas to operate just as those in industrial townships in the two districts. The government has also allowed movement of employees working in industries between Bengaluru and neighbouring districts. "Bengaluru Urban, Rural, Ramanagar, Kolar, Chikkaballapur and Tumakuru districts are considered as one unit for movement and transportation of people from Bengaluru and vice-versa. Employees/workers working in these industries are allowed to travel with valid ID cards issued by their industry to the place of work and back," the circular said. Industry bodies had termed the decision to impose the lockdown as a “retrograde” move saying it would deepen the crisis faced by the industrial sector||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-lockdown-govt-gives-more-leeway-to-industries-861313.html
14-07-2020||West||Ex-UGC chief demands cancellation of final year exams||Former University Grants Commission (UGC) chairman Sukhadeo Thorat has termed the statutory body's advisory on holding examinations as "unfortunate", saying it creates fresh uncertainty for states that have decided to cancel the final year exams. In a letter to the UGC, Thorat and teachers from various varsities have requested it to reconsider the advisory and cancel exams for final semester/year to protect the interests of students. The UGC recently mandated to hold final examinations in colleges and universities by September-end, which is opposed by states like Maharashtra. Issuing revised exam guidelines on July 6, the UGC stated that academic credibility, career opportunities and future progress of students were linked to examinations. "The UGC's latest advisory on examinations is unfortunate. It is taking us backwards rather than forward. It effectively extends the period for holding of exams (for final year/semester cohorts) until September, the second such postponement. And it creates fresh uncertainty for states that had already decided to cancel exams," said the letter addressed to UGC chairman Dhirendra Pal Singh. The recommendation to cancel the exams was prompted by an unprecedented health emergency and not because of doubts about the value of examinations, it stated. "When faced with such an emergency, cancelling exams has two main advantages. First, it avoids the extended uncertainty created by repeated (but unavoidable) postponements. "Second, it protects the integrity of the examination by refusing to abandon its two most basic features-- impartiality, or equal treatment of all examinees, and close supervision to prevent cheating," it stated. The letter said that adopting 'online' or 'mixed' modes will be "biased" because they will favour students with better access to the internet and work against students whose access is precarious. "Using alternative methods of evaluation based on each student's own past performance (in exams conducted in normal times) offers a fair solution and brings closure, with the option of retaking the exam when normalcy is restored," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-ugc-chief-demands-cancellation-of-final-year-exams-860905.html
14-07-2020||West||Goa private hospitals asked to reserve 20% beds for Covid-19 patients||The decision was taken during a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday to review the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the coastal state. Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane also attended the meeting. Later, state health services director Dr Jose DSa issued an order which said, "All private hospitals in Goa with ICU facilities must mandatorily reserve 20 percent of their beds for Covid-19 patients." If any private hospital does not comply with the order, its license to operate could be suspended or cancelled, D'Sa said. Private hospitals have also been asked to share with the health services directorate details like rates being charged from Covid-19 patients for treatment, accommodation and other procedures, as per the order. Till Monday, Goa reported 2,583 Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-private-hospitals-asked-to-reserve-20-beds-for-covid-19-patients-860986.html
14-07-2020||West||Activist Varavara Rao taken to J J Hospital in Mumbai||Poet and activist Varavara Rao, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has been taken to the state-run J J Hospital here after he complained of dizziness, his lawyer said on Tuesday. Rao, 80, has been behind bars for almost two years and lodged at the Taloja jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. The activist and his family members have claimed he is unwell since some time, and sought the jail authorities to provide him immediate medical care. "Rao was taken to the J J Hospital on Monday night after he felt dizzy. The hospital is conducting a few tests on him, the activist's advocate R Satyanarayan Iyer said. On Monday, Rao filed two petitions in the Bombay High Court, seeking temporary bail owing to his deteriorating health and a direction to the jail authorities to produce his medical records and admit him to a state-run or private hospital. Raos family members on Sunday sought the jail authorities to provide him immediate medical care and claimed that when the veteran activist, who hails from Telangana, contacted them last week he was in a "delirious state and hallucinating". Rao has been in jail for about 22 months and had earlier approached the special NIA court, seeking bail on medical grounds and the prevailing Covid-19 situation. On June 26, the NIA court rejected his plea on the ground that he has been booked under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), following which he moved the high court. Rao and nine other activists have been arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, which was initially probed by the Pune Police and later transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in January this year. The case related to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial. The police have also claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/activist-varavara-rao-taken-to-j-j-hospital-in-mumbai-861018.html
14-07-2020||West||Maharashtra Health Minister Tope warns of action against hospitals overcharging Covid-19 patients||Tope was talking to reporters after a meeting with private doctors in the state's Jalna district on Monday. Asked about complaints that some private hospitals in Jalna were taking advance and hefty sums from Covid-19 patients, the minister said, "We will not tolerate it." He warned of strict action against the hospitals overcharging Covid-19 and non-coronavirus patients. The state has included Covid-19 treatment under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, government's flagship health insurance scheme. The scheme also covers private hospitals, Tope said. The minister said he had received complaints that when Covid-19 patients become critical, some private hospitals refer them to government medical facilities. "This is a serious issue and this should not be done," he said. Tope also said that private doctors in Jalna should work for seven days at government hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. He said the 10-day curfew imposed in the city since July 5 was necessary to break the chain of the viral infection, and appealed to people to cooperate with the local administration to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-health-minister-tope-warns-of-action-against-hospitals-overcharging-covid-19-patients-861082.html
14-07-2020||West||Gujarat woman delivers stillborn baby, kin blame cops||Carrying a stillborn child, irate relatives thronged a police station in Ambaji, Banaskantha district in north Gujarat to file a complaint against the policemen for allegedly stopping the mother, who was in labour pain, and those accompanying her as they were not wearing masks on the way to hospital. The relatives have alleged that this caused delay of nearly an hour which led to death of the baby. The police while ordering an inquiry into the incident have primarily denied that delay was caused for stopping them for not wearing masks. The district superintendent of police Tarun Duggal told DH that an inquiry has been initiated to find out the truth. Meanwhile, pictures of a woman filling her complaint inside the police station with the dead body of the baby kept on the table were doing the rounds on social media. According to Moti Rabari, 32, on July 12, he took his sister-in-law Radha, who was in labour pain, to general hospital in Ambaji at around 9 PM. The doctors there referred her to Palanpur civil hospital. Rabari has claimed that since there was no ambulance at the hospital, he took Radha in his private vehicle to Palanpur with other family members. He claimed that at Ambaji town's DK circle two policemen identified as Jayesh and Bharat stopped the car and fined him for not wearing a mask which has been made compulsory in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Rabai has alleged that despite paying the fine, his vehicle was "detained" and brought to Ambaji police station for harassment which resulted in loss of crucial one hour. Finally, he went to Palanpur civil hospital but looking at the critical condition of Radha, she was referred to Dhar Medical College and Hospital in neighbouring Patan district. He has said in his written complaint that the unborn child died in the womb and the doctors performed C-section surgery to remove the body. The police, on the other hand, have denied the allegations and said that CCTV footage contradicts the version claimed by the family members. The District Superintendent of Police Duggal told DH, "We started investiging the case since Monday but prima facie the evidence suggests lot of deviation and contradiction in the complaints. It is true that they fined for not wearing masks but delying them for an hour is not true as on today." He said that statement of doctors at the Ambaji civil hospital has been recorded which is contradicting the claims of Moti. Besides, the police also didn't detain the vehicle or brought them to police station for not wearing masks. "It is true that they were fined for not wearing masks. But, Moti came to police station to meet the police inspector on his own. The CCTV footage shows him standing outside the station for 13 minutes with no one around him. He is seen talking to someone on phone." Duggal said that entire Ambaji city, a famous temple town, is ffitted with cctv cameras under video intergration and statewide advaced security (VISAS) and in a day or two entire video footage will be collected to acsertain the claims. Meanwhile, Rajul Desai, member of National Commission for women, shot off an e-mail to Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha and asked to look into it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-woman-delivers-stillborn-baby-kin-blame-cops-861088.html
14-07-2020||West||Campaign to help street vendors amid coronavirus||SAAG, a think tank drawn from across South Asia, has an annual platform called 'The Food For Thought Fest', which is India’s only international gastronomy platform. SAAG is a collective of hospitality industry professionals, food scholars and policy influencers from South-Asian nations who believe in promoting regional unity through culinary diversity.In an effort to save livelihoods and because of the immense contribution made to the local culture and flavour by millions of street food vendors across these countries, SAAG has brought this campaign together to form a charter for the way forward. There are three million street food vendors in India alone and this number is growing exponentially in other countries as well. All of them have been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, lockdowns and the paucity of customers and tourism at present forcing many to close down their ventures and return to their villages.  In a press statement, Maneesh Baheti, Director & Co-Founder SAAG, said: “Our campaign hopes to offer a safe passage for street food vendors through these troubled times, till the government can step in. We have taken feedback from our partner countries, where the situation is similar to India. The need right now is to create an effort that not only gets these vendors back on their feet but also help them navigate to a post-Covid-19 world, where they can do business in a more credible and hygienic manner.” In this need of the hour, #savestreetfood will work on a multi-country effort to help street vendors survive this pandemic, by creating opportunities for financial support. After that, the charter ahead will work with the government on offering certification to every single street food vendor in India. The certification will entail basic training in hygiene and protocols to be followed in the preparation, dispensing and disposal of food. FSSAI already has experience in rolling this out with the National Association of Street Vendors of India (NAVSI) but for deeper penetration. FSSAI needs to tie up with organisations that are focussed on training, whether from the private sector or NGOs. Once this is done, the word-of-mouth awareness and success for initial sign-ups will prompt greater participation from all street food vendors as they come under a more organised body. This has tremendous potential for generating livelihoods and offering semi-skilled people with recourse to earn money from a profession that has a low entry barrier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/campaign-to-help-street-vendors-amid-coronavirus-861089.html
14-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: KDMC acquires 80% beds at private hospitals for Covid-19 patients' treatment||In an order issued on Monday, municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi stated that beds in paediatric intensive care units, NICUs and dialysis wards will be exempt. Private hospitals in the civic limits should admit and treat Covid-19 patients in the reserved beds and treatment charges should be as specified by the civic corporation, the order stated. Moreover, hospitals should also display details including the availability of beds and treatment charges at the entrance itself, the civic chief has stated. Action will be taken against hospitals that refuse treatment to Covid-19 patients or overcharge them, he added. As per official data, at least 13,240 cases of Covid-19 and 198 deaths have been reported in the limits of the KDMC. Meanwhile, the Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation has roped in local corporators to help in a Covid-19 screening and contact tracing drive. In a letter, deputy municipal commissioner (medical) Sambaji Waghmare has appealed to corporators to convince locals to cooperate with civic staff during the drive. Corporators can assist in the admission of Covid-19 patients, provide manpower and help set up mohalla clinics in their wards, the official said. Moreover, a special survey of suspected patients will be carried out with the help of health department employees, civic staff, teachers and aganwadi workers, it was stated in the letter. At least 5,746 Covid-19 cases and 199 deaths have been reported from the Mira-Bhayandar civic limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-kdmc-acquires-80-beds-at-private-hospitals-for-covid-19-patients-treatment-861126.html
14-07-2020||West||Maharashtra government orders probe over mention of Covid-19 on mark sheets||The incident of Covid-19 being mentioned in the mark sheets of students from Maharashtra's agriculture universities has come to light, following which state minister Dada Bhuse on Tuesday ordered an inquiry in the matter. The state agriculture minister's instructions have come in the wake of BJP leader Ashish Shelar's allegations that mark sheets of students had a mention of "promoted Covid-19" on them. Reacting to a media report, Shelar had tweeted, "It has come to the fore that the mark sheets of agriculture universities have 'promoted Covid-19' stamps. This is wrong and unjust to students." Maharashtra has four agriculture universities. In a letter to the director-general of Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education and Research and vice-chancellors of agriculture universities, Bhuse said Covid-19 had been mentioned on marksheets when there was no government order in this regard. The minister has ordered an inquiry into the matter and action will be taken against those responsible for the move, an official statement here said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-orders-probe-over-mention-of-covid-19-on-mark-sheets-861138.html
14-07-2020||West||Held like 'hostage', alleges Rajasthan MLA Rajkumar Roat in video||Two video clips of Rajasthan's Bharatiya Tribal Party MLA Rajkumar Roat surfaced on social media on Tuesday with the leader claiming in one of these that he has been kept like a "hostage" and not allowed to go to his constituency. The videos are shot in a car with the MLA occupying the front seat. One of these is purportedly shot by the MLA himself. It is not clear when the videos were shot. In the video uploaded on social media in the evening, a police inspector is seen taking away keys of his car, with a constable saying "there is a threat". In one of the video clips that surfaced earlier in the day, the Chorasi MLA, while referring to the current political crisis in the state, was heard saying that he has been “kept like a hostage”. The video was uploaded on rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot's official WhatsApp group. Roat said he has been at the MLA quarters in Jaipur for the past three days where “many asked him to come along”. The MLA said when he tried to leave for his constituency, three to four police vehicles came there and did not let him go. He is seen alleging that police vehicles surrounded his car and his keys were taken away from him. The MLA also showed two police vehicles parked around his car. The Congress has counted both BTP MLAs as supporters of the Ashok Gehlot government. They had voted for Congress candidates in the Rajya Sabha elections last month but their party issued a whip on Monday, directing them to remain neutral and not vote for the BJP or the Congress in case of a floor test in the assembly. Roat has switched off his mobile phone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/held-like-hostage-alleges-rajasthan-mla-rajkumar-roat-in-video-861172.html
14-07-2020||West||Maharashtra records Covid-19 cases spike of 6,741 and 213 deaths||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 2,67,665 on Tuesday with the addition of 6,741 new cases, state health department said. With 213 new deaths in a day, the fatality count increased to 10,695, it said. A total of 4,500 patients were discharged from hospitals in the day, taking the number of recovered persons so far to 1,49,007, it said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-covid-19-cases-spike-of-6741-and-213-deaths-861216.html
14-07-2020||West||Rajasthan to go MP way; Maharashtra's MVA govt will not last long: Ramdas Athawale||The Congress has already lost power in Madhya Pradesh and is about to be unseated in Rajasthan, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale said on Tuesday and claimed the MVA government in Maharashtra, too, will not last long. Athawale, a BJP ally who heads the RPI (A), said Congress rebel leader Sachin Pilot, who has been removed as Rajasthan deputy chief minister, should stand firmly behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said the Congress will lose power in the desert state if Pilot and MLAs supporting him join hands with the BJP. The Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment also predicted collapse of the Shiv Sena-NCP- Congress government in Maharashtra. The Congress government in Madhya Pradesh collapsed in March this year after 22 party MLAs resigned and later joined the BJP, which is now the ruling the central state. The Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan is currently faced with rough weather after Pilot rebelled. Pilot, removed as the deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress president earlier in the day, has claimed the support of 30 MLAs and maintained that the Gehlot government has been reduced to a "minority". In Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress came together to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by Uddhav Thackeray in November last year. In a video message, Athawale said Pilot was allegedly not being respected by the Congress and chief minister Gehlot. A BJP government will come to power automatically in Rajasthan if Sachin Pilot and the 30 MLAs supporting him come with the BJP. "Hence, I welcome Pilot's decision," Athawale said. The Congress has already lost power in Madhya Pradesh, it is about to lose power in Rajasthan and after that the Maharashtra government too will not last long. We are expecting that honourable Uddhav Thackeray's government will collapse soon. Let's see what happens, the Rajya Sabha MP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-to-go-mp-way-maharashtras-mva-govt-will-not-last-long-ramdas-athawale-861257.html
14-07-2020||West||Did nothing wrong, say Congress MLAs on sacking from Rajasthan Cabinet||Sacked from the Rajasthan Cabinet for backing dissident leader Sachin Pilot, Congress MLAs Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena insisted Tuesday that they had done nothing wrong. They, along with Pilot, were removed as Cabinet ministers for their alleged involvement in the “conspiracy to topple” the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state. Vishvendra Singh, who is an MLA from Deeg-Kumher, was the state tourism minister while Meena held the portfolio of the food and civil supplies minister. “Where did we make any statement against the party? We wanted to draw the attention of the party high-command to the fact that we were not able to deliver on things promised in the manifesto for which the public elected us,” Vishvendra Singh said in a video message. He asked what mistake they three committed that they were sacked from the Cabinet. “I have no concern for being sacked as a minister. Rather, I will be able to serve people better but what reply the chief minister has for people who elected us and the party,” he said. Ramesh Meena claimed he worked with honesty as a minister and his department led in performance. “Our department was top in performance. Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and the prime minister appreciated that. I worked with honesty and the result is that I am sacked,” he said in a video message. “What irregularity did I do,” he said. Meena said he had some resentment and issues related to the SC/ST community which he had raised on the party forum. Two other MLAs loyal to Pilot--Mukesh Bhakar and Ramniwas Gawriya--also reacted sharply to the development. Bhakar, who was removed from the post of the state Youth Congress president, said he became the chief of the body after winning its elections. “Who is Ashok Gehlot to remove me,” he said in a tweet. Gawriya tweeted that the youth led by “Rajasthan's Pilot” will end the “suppression of Jadugar”. Gehlot, whose father was a magician, is referred to as “Jadugar”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/did-nothing-wrong-say-congress-mlas-on-sacking-from-rajasthan-cabinet-861259.html
14-07-2020||West||Fake international social media followers racket busted in Mumbai||The Crime Branch of Mumbai Police has unearthed an international racket involved in the creation of fake profiles on social media and fraudulent activities in the social media marketing business. On July 11, a Bollywood playback singer had approached the Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh in order to seek action as per law on unknown persons who had purportedly created her fake profile on Instagram.  The singer has also complained that the said unknown persons are approaching other film personalities to activate profiles through them. Accordingly, the CP had directed the Crime Branch to investigate and as per the Joint CP (Crime) Vinoy Kumar Choubey’s order the Criminal Intelligence Unit  (CIU) had taken up the matter.  In this regard, a complaint in Bangurnagar Police Station with CR number 439/2020 came to be registered. With analytical technical intelligence and also through sources, one accused, Gauri Shankar Naga from Kurla has been arrested. He was produced before the Metropolitan Magistrate and was remanded to police custody till July 17. It has been revealed during the course of the investigation that the accused person is a part of a larger international fraud racket.  "The racket is functioning by creating crores of fake identities on various social media platforms and thereby creating fake performance statistics such as fake followers, fake comments, fake views, etc; in order to inflate influencers’  performance statistics," police officials said. "The accused had so far created more than 5 lakhs, such fake followers, for a total of 176 profiles on Instagram, Tiktok, Facebook social media platforms in order to fraudulently project them as influencers," police added. The investigation carried so far has revealed that these fake followers are created either manually or by certain illegal software. By manipulating the existing system of respective social networks, these racketeers post such fake followers etc. There are estimated more than 100 such portals involved in such racket across India.  The arrested accused was working for one such portal. It is for the first time that such a racket having international ramifications, been busted in India.  It has also found that these types of fake profiles and followers are being used to create rumours and panic amongst society. The investigation conducted so far by the CIU of Mumbai’s Crime Branch, estimated more than 100 such Social Media Marketing (SMM) portals provide fake followers and others through fake identities and/or bots.  The perpetrators are found operating through Indian as well as foreign internet networks and servers.  54 such Indian portals have been duly identified by the Crime Branch and efforts are on to bring the culprits to justice. The Crime Branch is also working in tandem with almost all the social media platforms in order to curb the menace of such fake influencers’ fraud racket. Realising the scale of such illegal business growing exponentially, an SIT of CIU and Cyber Cell has been set up under the supervision of DCP ( Detection) Nandkumar Thakur to investigate and curb the malpractices. This will be the first-ever SIT of such kind that will investigate the illegal aspects of social media marketing businesses operating in violation of IT Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fake-international-social-media-followers-racket-busted-in-mumbai-861298.html
