15-07-2020||Comment||It’s all about China||America is hurtling from one crisis to another even as the country approaches presidential polls in November. There is a sense of fragility in the air which underscores the deep social and political divisions in the country. From the Covid-19 pandemic to the violence in the aftermath of George Floyd’s death last month, the US seems remarkably unprepared to measure up to the scale of challenges facing a nation that has long prided itself on being a beacon of freedom and democracy for the world at large. And a time when it was most needed, political leadership in the country is missing in action. It is against this tumultuous backdrop that the US is preparing to move into the final phase of a rather subdued electoral cycle. The shaping of the narratives is well underway and political affiliation is determining which narrative one wants to buy into. On the one hand, liberals have argued that the mishandling of the coronavirus and race riots makes Trump extremely vulnerable vis-à-vis his Democratic Party adversary, Joe Biden. On the other hand, conservatives are pointing out that a racially polarised and radicalised electorate will lead to a consolidation of white voters in the mid-western states behind Trump, easing his re-election chances. Joe Biden himself had created a flutter when he said in an interview on a popular African-American radio show that “if you have a problem figuring out whether you’re for me or Trump, then you ain’t black.” For Trump, from the beginning of this year as the Covid-19 pandemic started rearing its head, it had been a challenge to shift the discussion away from his own administrative lapses. The US emerged as the global leader when it came to the number of deaths and infections due to coronavirus and there is a sense both in the US and around the world that the Trump administration’s handling of this crisis did not quite match its severity. For Trump, this is a huge problem as it has exposed all his frailties as a leader like no other past crisis. In the past, he could deflect attention and mobilise his base by targeting his opponents – the Democrats, the media, the wider liberal ecosystem. But the coronavirus laid bare his governance failures precisely at a time when the nation was beginning to look seriously at the next election cycle. And so emerged the China factor. In more ways than one, the 2020 presidential election scene has been quite unique so far in that a foreign policy issue has been dominating the discourse. Despite American global dominance, its electoral cycle tends to be extremely insular with the political parties fighting primarily on domestic issues. But in these elections, Trump has made China a significant issue in its own right. Though he has been extremely tough on China all through his tenure and unlike his mercurial temperament has shown a remarkable consistency when it has come to mobilising American domestic opinion against China. In many ways, his China policy perhaps will be his lasting legacy in the policy domain. But once he recognised the challenge he was facing in managing the Covid-19 pandemic, he hardened his stance on China and ramped up pressure on multiple fronts. From trade and technology to multilateral institutions and Hong Kong, the world’s two largest economies are facing off each other across several fronts. After celebrating the signing of the trade deal with China in January, which Trump had dubbed as a significant move toward creating a fairer and reciprocal partnership, he ended up feeling “differently” about the deal by May, arguing that “very disappointing thing happened with China because the plague flowed in and that wasn’t supposed to happen and it could have been stopped.” The Trump administration has been hammering away the point that China's information suppression and mendacity resulted in a world unable to tackle the lethality and contagiousness of the virus, which originated in Wuhan, capital of China’s Hubei province. After some initial reluctance, Trump has also not been shy of targeting Chinese President Xi Jinping directly as being behind a “disinformation and propaganda attack” on the United States and Europe. More significantly, he has suggested that China was “desperate” to have former Vice President Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee, win the presidential race. Trump terminated his country's relationship with the World Health Organization (WHO) after blaming China for having “total control over the World Health Organization.” In a move aimed at China, he has made it clear that he is keen to expand the G-7 to include India, Russia, South Korea and Australia. And retaliating against the new security law being pushed by China in Hong Kong, Trump promptly announced that he no longer considered Hong Kong to be autonomous, leading to an end to the preferential treatment for Hong Kong in trade and travel. More recently, the US has decided to bar Chinese passenger carriers from flying to the United States from mid-June in an attempt to pressure Beijing to allow US air carriers to resume flights. Amidst all this China targeting, Trump’s former National Security Adviser John Bolton’s new memoir has revealed that Trump was keen to convince Chinese President Xi Jinping to buy US agriculture products in order to help his re-election campaign, even as he seemingly approved of China's plan to build forced-labour camps for its Muslim Uighur minority. For a President who is trying to project his toughness towards China, this might be a damaging revelation. The last few months have been quite extraordinary as tensions between the US and China have been ratcheting up. Trump has made China a major factor in the presidential elections, hoping to rally his base around his platform and making it difficult for Biden to look weak on China. As the debate on Trump’s domestic priorities further intensifies in the coming months, it would be rather interesting to watch how far the China factor continues to have a role in the ongoing political tussle between the two presidential contenders. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations, King’s College, London)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/it-s-all-about-china-861693.html
15-07-2020||First Edit||Sachin Pilot episode Congress leadership’s failure||None of the players in Rajasthan’s political drama in the last few days — the sacked former deputy chief minister and state party president Sachin Pilot, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and the party’s central leadership — can be spared the blame for the situation prevailing there now. All of them have their claims, grouses, defence and explanations, but it is unlikely that the events would do any good to any of them. Pilot was in a hurry and made a big gamble, which he may have lost by pushing the party too far to the brink and leaving no escape route for the high command, for the chief minister or for himself. The party would certainly have lost credibility if it conceded the demand to replace Gehlot, who enjoys overwhelming support among the legislators, with a leader who, as it turns out, has the support of only a handful. It is not the first time that the rift between Gehlot and Pilot came out into the open after the party came to power in the state in 2018. But they were papered over and left addressed. Gehlot did not seem to accommodate Pilot, who had worked hard as party president to bring it back to power after the rout in 2013. There were reasons for Pilot to feel targeted and insulted. The bizarre note issued to him by the police in connection with an alleged bid to topple the government would testify to it. But the central leadership of the party is most to blame. In fact, there is no leadership after Rahul Gandhi’s resignation as president in the wake of the 2019 election results. Telephone calls at the last minute to Pilot from all the leaders in Delhi is no way to solve a crisis.  While the party should be concerned about the future of its government in Rajasthan after the alienation of some MLAs belonging to the Pilot camp, the greater worry should be about the steady exodus of young leaders from the party in many states. The list is long and includes Jyotiraditya Scindia in Madhya Pradesh, Pradyot Deb Barman in Tripura and many others in other states. The dynastic leadership in the party has proved ineffective in crisis situations and has been unable to hold the party together. Sachin Pilot may be guilty of being overambitious, or even hobnobbing with the BJP, but the leadership of a party is usually challenged only when there is a sense down the line that it is weak and cannot win elections, which is the ultimate standard of success for a political party and its leadership in a democratic system. Pilot has not yet made clear what his future plans are, but the Congress has to ponder much about its future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/sachin-pilot-episode-congress-leadership-s-failure-861673.html
15-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Police ensure strict implementation of lockdown in Hubballi||The 10-day lockdown in Dharwad district from Wednesday kickstarted at a slower pace in Hubballi, as a sale of groceries and other essential material were allowed till 12:00 noon. Except for those selling essentials like vegetables, groceries, milk, fruits and bakery items, other shops were allowed to remain open till 10:00 am when the lockdown began. Industrial and construction activities are allowed to function with some restrictions, till 6:00 pm. Banks, government offices, hospitals and medical shops will remain open as usual. Some hotels gave food in the parcel, while some hotels and shops remained closed since morning. As the NWKRTC and BRTS bus services remained suspended, teachers heading to Dharwad for SSLC paper valuation experienced inconvenience. Movement of private vehicles was as usual in morning hours, and it came down drastically in the afternoon when essential commodity shops closed. Police were seen warning people against unnecessary movement since morning itself, and asked people to maintain social distancing at market areas in the morning. They also asked some shops to stop business. Both traffic and civil police stopped vehicles for checking at junctions and started the strict implementation of the lockdown by the afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/police-ensure-strict-implementation-of-lockdown-in-hubballi-861483.html
15-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Dharwad teachers take school to students' doorsteps||At a time when heated debates are going on across India on whether to reopen schools and colleges in the time of Covid-19, a group of 15 teachers in Chikkamalligawada in Dharwad district have taken schools to the doorsteps of the students. The government higher primary school in Chikkamalligawada carters to the educational needs of three villages including Hiremalligawada and Janatha plot. In the last academic year, there were 412 students studying in this school, which has 14 teachers and headmistresses. “As per the government orders we started coming to schools, but after 15 days there was not much work,” said school headmistresses Mahadevi Doddamani and added that the teachers had a meeting with School Development & Monitoring Committee (SDMC) in this regard. The teachers convinced the committee members and parents that by following all the safety norms the teachers can teach lessons to students in their area. As per the decision, each of the 15 students started visiting the streets where students were. Every day they have been engaging the students from class 1 to 7 between 11:00 am and 1:00 pm. The classes are held six days a week, with subject teachers visiting each area on a rotation basis. As of now, the students are being taught Kannada, English, Mathematics and other subjects. The teachers have been maintaining strict social distancing, wearing of masks is compulsory, and the students sanitise their hands regularly. “In the last academic year, there were 412 students studying in our schools. However, now 180 students are attending the classes. Majority of the absent students have left for their natives or sent for cattle raring by their parents. Efforts are being made to bring them back,” said Mahadevi. Speaking to DH, SDMC President Ravi Hosamani said the members and parents agreed for this arrangement as we did not want students to miss on getting educated. Without school, they would have gone for work. The SDMC has collected the mobile numbers of all the high school students and are imparting classes through online. A few of the teachers have gone for SSLC evaluation, so those teachers are giving classes through WhatsApp. He said all the teachers have been co-operating and conducting classes efficiently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/dharwad-teachers-take-school-to-students-doorsteps-861610.html
15-07-2020||In Perspective||Much ado about banning Chinese apps||Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Indian techies and start-ups to come up with innovative mobile applications as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Innovation Challenge. This comes in the backdrop of the government banning 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok and Helo, among others. These apps have been extremely popular in the country and have helped thousands of Indian entertainers and artists gather millions of followers and enjoy celebrity status. A moot question for us to ponder over is, with over our four million-strong IT workforce and being the ‘IT capital of the world’, why don’t we have top class Indian apps in our own country and in other countries? Another question: Is the ban on Chinese apps a precedent? Will we ban Google, Facebook and others, should we have a rough relationship with the US in the future? Banning apps by itself will not solve the larger challenges faced by India’s digital ecosystem. Before we look at the areas for the government to focus on, let us understand the impact of the ban on the Chinese companies.    With India accounting for 70-90% of their global subscriber base, Chinese companies that provide apps like ShareIt, UCBrowser, Camscanner, Likee and TikTok are sure to be impacted. This will also impact thousands of their employees in India, adding to the unemployment challenges in the country due to the Covid-19 situation. As per the latest reports, the Chinese companies are still hopeful that the Indian government will revoke the ban. Alternative Apps Social media is already abuzz with alternative “made in India” apps. The key is for these apps to match the banned apps in terms of user experience. Failing which, end-users will find alternative methods, like using Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) to access the banned apps. India could learn from countries like Russia and China when it comes to encouraging a world-class app ecosystem. China has banned Google, WhatsApp, Facebook, etc., and the Chinese government supported the local app ecosystem. Baidu, Alibaba and WeChat are popular with over 80% subscribers in the country. Russia also has been successful in developing an app ecosystem that provides best-in-class social networking apps like VK (equivalent of Facebook) and a search engine like Yandex (similar to Google). The present situation provides a great opportunity for top-class apps from India. Perhaps the government should come up with a 2025 vision of getting at least five of the top 10 apps in the world to be from India? This is certainly not an outrageous thought in a country that can develop Aadhaar and Aarogya Setu, which demonstrate capability to deploy large-scale digital implementations. Beyond the present app challenge initiative, the government would do well to task the top technology institutions based on the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) to create world-class apps. As part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat and the VocalForLocal movement, the government should earmark a budget to encourage start-ups. Internet infra While a clear indigenous app ecosystem is the need of the hour, there are a few areas that need immediate attention from the government. India’s mobile data rates are pathetic. Sample this: As per the June 2020 Speedtest global index report, India with about 12 Mbps data rate, stands at 129th position amongst 138 countries. It is interesting that countries like Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Nepal fare better than India on this count. While South Korea tops the list with 107 Mbps, China ranks No 3 with 103 Mbps average speed.   Why is India lagging? It is mainly due to poor internet infrastructure. Mindless bidding during past spectrum auctions meant that many of the telcos soon filed for bankruptcy. If we recollect, just 10 years ago, there were 10-12 operators. Now, we are reduced to a handful. With the government-owned BSNL fast losing its market share, we are at the mercy of the private telcos. The overall debt in the telecom sector means that these telcos are not able to upgrade their infrastructure. The government would do well to reduce the taxes and regulatory levies imposed on the telcos. Presently, Indian telcos pay over 25% (including GST, licence fees, etc) of their gross revenue as tax, compared to less than 10% in other countries.   Even on fixed line broadband, India fares very poorly compared with the other countries. Broadband has largely remained an urban phenomenon. Our progress in getting rural broadband infrastructure with BharatNet has been pathetic. The target to connect 2.5 lakh gram panchayats has been constantly delayed and is now expected to be completed by 2022. If we had all the villages connected through fibre optic network by now, remote learning for the students in the rural hinterland could have been smooth during the present pandemic. Since India lacks a strong fibre optic backbone, our ability to rapidly move into 5G technology will be a challenge. Meanwhile, India needs a clear policy on data privacy and data storage. While the data privacy issues raised over the Aarogya Setu app have subsided, we need strong regulatory oversight and the Personal Data Protection (PDP) law should be passed by Parliament soon. The government should provide a policy on data processing and storage, specifying what data can be processed outside the country, while strictly enforcing compliance.  Developing alternative apps to counter the banned Chinese apps only solves a part of the overall challenges faced by India’s digital ecosystem. To address the Indian consumers’ increasing digital demands, a strong internet infrastructure and data storage and privacy policies are much needed. (The writer is an ICT professional and columnist based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/much-ado-about-banning-chinese-apps-861695.html
15-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: 10-day lockdown begins in Dharwad district||Police officials of various ranks have been deployed on major roads to restrict the movement of vehicles and public moving around unnecessarily. Barricades have been erected on main roads and only government vehicles on Covid duty have been allowed to ply.  All the shops remained closed since morning.  As some relaxation has been given for supply of essential commodities, only vegetable and fruit stalls, provision stores, bakery and hotels were open till 12 noon and were asked to terminate the business for the day. People too responded positively to the lockdown and most of the roads and the market area wore a deserted look. The lockdown will continue up to 8:00 pm on July 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-10-day-lockdown-begins-in-dharwad-district-861415.html
15-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||55-year-old ASI succumbs to Covid-19 at KIMS Hubballi||The ASI was in home quarantine since July 1 as he showed mild symptoms. He was hospitalised when his throat swab test report turned positive for the infection on July 7. Hailing from Haveri district, he had problems like diabetes and blood pressure, a police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/55-year-old-asi-succumbs-to-covid-19-at-kims-hubballi-861420.html
15-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Shivamogga to go under partial lockdown from July 16||The District administration of Shivamogga on Wednesday decided to impose partial lockdown in the entire district from July 16 until further orders, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown will be in force daily from 2 pm to 5 am on the next day, until the further orders, official sources said. The decision was taken at the meeting chaired by district in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa with senior officials, public representatives and office bearers of various organisations in the district. Shivamogga Member of Parliament B Y Raghavendra, who was present at the meeting, tweeted that the lockdown will be in in place daily from 2 pm to 5 am from Thursday. Other than government offices, agriculture, medical and other necessary services, all other activities will be shut until further orders. "Police have been instructed to take strict action against those gathering without maintaining social distancing, not wearing masks and violating guidelines. People are requested to cooperate," Raghavendra, who is also the son of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Aimed at controlling the spike in cases, Bengaluru urban and rural areas are under "complete lockdown" since last night 8 pm and it will be effective till 5 am on July 22. Following Bengaluru urban and rural districts, administrations in several other districts like Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi (only in Urban areas), Bidar, Raichur (in Raichur city and Sindhanur) and Yadgir too have announced lockdown. As of July 14 evening, cumulatively 44,077 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 842 deaths and 17,390 discharges. Shivamogga till last evening had a total of 530 positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-shivamogga-to-go-under-partial-lockdown-from-july-16-861530.html
15-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: 55 workers test Covid-19 positive at MTR factory||An outbreak of Covid-19 at food product company MTR's production facility in Bommasandra has snared 55 workers as of Wednesday and has resulted in the factory’s temporary closure. Shivashankar G R, general secretary of the Trade Union Coordination Centre (TUCC) which represents employees at the factory, clarified that the problem began on July 6 when a single employee travelled to his village in Nagamangala taluk in Mandya.  “Upon his return, he was Covid-positive, but did not develop symptoms (a fever) until about five days later. He had himself tested and as soon as it was clear that he had the disease, the company moved quickly to contain the outbreak, but the disease spread rapidly,” Shivashankar said. MTR said it closed down the factory on July 7 after patient zero was discovered a day before. “The moment the first positive case was reported, MTR Foods contacted the relevant authorities and quarantined all primary contacts and isolated the secondary contacts through contact tracing,” the company said. It added that its factory will remain closed until July 20 in order “to mitigate any risk.” According to sources, the factory employs about 550 people, out of which 130 have been tested. “The 55 positive cases were discovered during this testing. Six have been hospitalized, but the rest are at the Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Sri Ravi Shankar Ayurvedic Hospital,” the sources added. The company said it is currently following the guidelines and protocols recommended by local authorities. It added that the factory operations will resume at reduced capacity on July 21, and eventually scale up.  A company spokesperson clarified that the company’s products are manufactured on automated lines without the involvement of human touch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-55-workers-test-covid-19-positive-at-mtr-factory-861647.html
15-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Muslim organisations sets up 3 CCCs in Mysuru||Organisations of the Muslim community has opened three Covid Care Centres (CCC) under the Narasimharaja (NR) Assembly constituency in the city as the number of Covid positive patients is on the rise of late. It has to be noted that NR segment, where Muslims are a majority, was being discussed over the past one week. District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar has said that among the active cases, over 50% of the patients were from NR constituency and even most of the deaths related to Covid are from the same segment. There were also talks of ‘mini-lockdown in parts of the segment, citing non-cooperation by the residents. On July 14 (Tuesday), Quba Covid Care Centre and Quba Covid-19 Care Centre and Quba Covid-19 Help Centre was opened, with its own 24/7 helpline number 91640 54053 at Quba Public School in Udayagiri, in the city. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar inaugurated the Quba Covid-19 Care Centre and said this CCC should serve as an example for other districts and cities. He said, it is an example of cooperation to the government by good citizens. “Particularly in such areas, where Covid-19 pandemic is on the rise exponentially, such positive cooperation will check the spread of Covid and help save critical patients.” The centre initiated instant door-to-door Covid tests by Dr Nayaz Pasha Dr Shiraz Ahmed. Chaand Saab, ex-mayor Ayub Khan, Zaheerul Haq and Shahab Rahman were present. The Quba CCC has set up three centres — 200 beds at Farooqia College in Udayagiri, 200 beds at Andalus Public School at Rajeev Nagar and Beedi Workers Hospital at Azeez Sait Nagar — in consultation of religious heads, NGOs and corporators. However, the Quba CCC will accommodate and help patients of all other communities also. The Quba CCC has two ambulances and is used for ferrying Covid patients and unclaimed bodies. The centre will provide all facilities like food. Besides, Muslim doctors have offered their services voluntarily. Healthcare workers and beds have to be provided by the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muslim-organisations-sets-up-3-cccs-in-mysuru-861649.html
15-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Priority to Covid-19 tests: Suresh Kumar||District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar on Wednesday said that it is decided to concentrate more on persons suffering from fever, cough, common cold, Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) in the district. The minister was addressing reporters after holding a discussion with people’s representatives and officials about containing Covid-19. The district has a total of 2,670 ILI and 63 SARI cases. There are 32,405 persons in the district, who can easily be infected by the virus and all such persons will be tested for Covid, he said. The minister assured of taking measures to provide Covid test report within 48 hours after the samples are collected. The minister said, “In order to speed up the testing process, a total of 1,000 antigen kits are supplied to the district. With the help of the kits, the virus can be detected in a short span of time. More number of kits will be supplied to the district shortly, he said. The kits will be used to test the persons above 70 years of age and the people suffering from cancer, SARI, ILI, pregnant woman and persons undergoing dialysis. The minister said, “There are complaints that the staff members at Covid hospitals are not caring for the patients. The patients must be given utmost care and no staff must discriminate them. Rather, they should instil confidence and should provide personal care.” The rate of recovery is 58% in the district and the rate of active cases is 38%. With three deaths, the death rate is 1.6%. MLAs R Narendra, C S Niranjan Kumar and N Mahesh, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi and Superintendent of Police Divya Sara Thomas were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/priority-to-covid-19-tests-suresh-kumar-861651.html
15-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Centenary celebrations of JC Wadiyar on YouTube||In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the valedictory of the birth centenary celebrations of Jayachamaraja (JC) Wadiyar, the last ruler of the erstwhile Mysore state, will be restricted to YouTube live streaming on July 18, Saturday, 11 am onwards. However, the inaugural address of the event will be delivered by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu. His Highness Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar (HHSDNR Wadiyar) Foundation, the organisers, have made elaborate arrangements, to avoid any possible glitch, to host the event online, as it is a first such initiative, with high-profile speakers. The other speakers are former Union minister Karan Singh and Rajya Sabha Member Jairam Ramesh. It has to be recalled that the inaugural function of the centenary celebration was graced by President Ram Nath Kovind on October 10, 2019, at the Public Durbar Hall of the Mysuru Palace. Even though JC Wadiyar was born on July 18, 1919, the centenary celebration was launched by the President on October 10, 2019. It was a grand event. The Madras Engineering Group and Centre, Bengaluru; Madras Regimental Centre, Wellington, Ooty; Maratha Light Infantry Regiment, Belgavi; 61st Cavalry, Jaipur; Karnataka and Kerala Sub-Area, Bengaluru; KSRP-Mounted Police, Mysuru; Karnataka State Police Band, Mysuru; and ASC Centre and College, Bengaluru; played the music. The President also unveiled the plaque of Sri Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Centre for Higher Learning, being established by the University of Mysore (UoM), at the foot of Chamundi Hill. Then, Governor Vajubhai R Vala released the book ‘Srividya Sankeerthana Sudhalahari’ in Kannada and Devanagari script, which contains both literature and musical notes of 94 Carnatic classical music compositions of JC Wadiyar. Earlier, two sessions were held — one in Mysuru and another in Bengaluru — in connection with the centenary celebrations, by HHSDNR Wadiyar Foundation. Besides, many organisation of Mysuru city, including music sabhas, celebrated the birth centenary of JC Wadiyar. While Karan Singh of Jamwal Dogra Dynasty of Jammu and Kashmir, will speak on ‘Reflections’, Jairam Ramesh will elaborate on ‘Sri Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, The public figure’, following the inaugural speech of the Vice President on July 18. Ravi Joshi will give an introduction and welcome the dignitaries, president of HHSDNR Foundation Pramoda Devi Wadiyar will light the lamp and deliver the opening remarks. Secretary of the foundation Reginald Wesley will propose a vote of thanks. One can log on to https://youtube/XUUG8izrirl to watch the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/centenary-celebrations-of-jc-wadiyar-on-youtube-861652.html
15-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Ministers should visit coronavirus hospitals, instil confidence, says Karnataka Congress Chief D K Shivakumar||Noting that doctors, nurses and others were doing a great job, Shivakumar said the government has to stand with them and instil confidence in them. Speaking to reporters after visiting Victoria hospital, a major dedicated Covid hospital in the city, he said, "All the Ministers have to go to hospitals and instil confidence in the staff, patients.... they have to remove fear and tell them we will have to live with this (virus), and cannot escape from it." Shivakumar said he believes that by instilling confidence most part of the diseases can be cured. He lauded doctors, paramedical and other staff working at the Hospital for the sake of patients, putting their own life at risk and appreciated facilities provided there. During the visit, the state Congress President interacted with patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19, also medical staff and doctors. He said at Victoria hospital patients were allowed to use mobile phones, so that they can speak to family members, which has to an extent instilled confidence among them, and the same has to be replicated across the state.  Not wishing to comment on complaints about the quality of facility and PPE kits provided at the hospital, also alleged misappropriation on part of the government in the purchase of equipment for Covid treatment, Shivakumar said, "....let's see that at Vidhana Soudha (seat of state's legislature)." He said, "this is not the time to talk about corruption and other things, this is not the time for it....instilling confidence among patients, doctors and paramedical staff is important now."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ministers-should-visit-coronavirus-hospitals-instil-confidence-says-karnataka-congress-chief-d-k-shivakumar-861526.html
15-07-2020||National||Bokaro's unique project that managed 32,000 migrants||As thousands of returning migrants strained the infrastructure of many states, Jharkhand’s Bokaro administration stood out for its unique “Safe Arrival and Accommodation of Labour (SARAL)” project. It smartly used Geographic Information System (GIS) to map, monitor and plan a robust response. Triggered by the lockdown, a total of 32,314 migrants landed in Bokaro district between March and June. First, the stranded workers had to be brought back safely and their accommodation ensured. “Consulting panchayaths, the project Fellows created a dashboard. The GIS platform helped collate the data collected from multiple government departments,” Gajanan Rauta, Programme Officer, Aspirational District Program, TRIF told DH. “Capturing their Aadhaar numbers locally, calls were made to the workers to help the district prepare for their arrival. Route maps were prepared, surveillance teams constituted to  segregate arriving workers at checkposts.” The teams created a skill profile of every worker. “This helped create a livelihood platform. The state launched a programme where self-help groups were asked to cook and supply food to vulnerable households. Hundreds of such kitchens were opened during the lockdown, and data was fed into the GIS platform” Rauta explained. But many migrants testing positive demanded a healthcare response. “Data was collected to see from where the majority of cases were coming from. This was plotted on the platform to help create containment and buffer zones. Medical facilities were created appropriately.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bokaros-unique-project-that-managed-32000-migrants-861316.html
15-07-2020||National||India awaits details of Iran-China mega-deal||Even as it is about to ink a deal with Beijing for a whopping $400 billion investment by China in strategic sectors in Iran over the next 25 years, the Islamic Republic has sent out words to New Delhi, reassuring that its deal with the communist country would not have any impact on its relations with India. Tehran reassured New Delhi that the proposed Iran-China agreement would be a roadmap of cooperation between the two nations over the next two-and-a-half decades and it was not being worked out with any “hidden agenda”. The proposed Iran-China deal sent alarm bells ringing in the United States and the officials of President Donald Trump’s administration informally warned New Delhi about the possibility of the pact paving the way for Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) setting up military bases in the Islamic Republic in future. New Delhi is cautiously waiting for the details of the proposed deal to come out so that its implications on regional security could be assessed. The Indian Army recently had an eight-week-long military stand-off with the Chinese PLA along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. Though the two sides started pulling back troops from the face-off scenes, the stand-off brought the relations between the two nations to a new low, particularly after the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley. The Indian Army lost 20 soldiers in the clash. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but never made public how many of its soldiers were injured or killed in the incident.     Tehran is understood to have conveyed to New Delhi that its proposed deal with Beijing signalled its willingness to expand its relations, not only with China but also with India and other nations in Asia. The Congress on Tuesday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government for a purported move by Tehran to exclude India from the project to lay railway tracks linking the Chabahar Port to Zahedan to Iran-Afghanistan border. “India dropped from Chabahar Port deal. This is the diplomacy of the Modi government that won laurels even without getting the work done, China worked quietly but gave them a better deal. Big loss for India. But you can’t ask questions!” a senior leader of the main opposition party, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, posted on Twitter on Tuesday. Though New Delhi last year stopped buying crude oil from Iran to save its entities from United States sanctions, it continued its engagement with Tehran for its role in Chabahar Port in the West Asian Nation as the port would provide India sea-land access to Afghanistan and Central Asia, bypassing Pakistan. Tehran, according to the sources, conveyed to New Delhi that it continued to remain committed to India-Iran partnership on the Chabahar Port project for peace, sustainable development and regional economic integration. Iran, however, decided to go solo on a project to lay railway tracks linking Chabahar Port to Zahedan close to its border with Afghanistan and finally to Zaranj in Afghanistan. India was interested to take part in the project, but could not move ahead after the US re-imposed sanctions on Iran in November 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-awaits-details-of-iran-china-mega-deal-861322.html
15-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 15||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 9 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 9,64,610 as of July 15 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 24,948   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 5,34,621 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-15-861334.html
15-07-2020||National||DH Podcast | The Lead: Helpline for mental well-being amid Covid-19||In this episode,  Immediate Past President of Rotary Club of Bombay, Preeti Mehta gives insights about wellbeing helpline to DH Journalist Ahmed Shariff. Helpline: 1800-121-0980 +91-9999720986 (8am to 8 pm)    Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-podcast-the-lead-helpline-for-mental-well-being-amid-covid-19-861335.html
15-07-2020||National||22 states doing over 140 Covid-19 tests per day per million: Health Ministry||As many as 22 states are doing more than 140 Covid-19 tests per day per million in line with the comprehensive testing guidance note by the WHO, the Health Ministry said, while advising the remaining ones to increase testing accordingly. Explaining if India was testing adequately, Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty in the Health Ministry, said a guidance note by the World Health Organization underlined the need for comprehensive surveillance and testing of suspected cases. "While defining the meaning comprehensive in the same document, they say if you are testing 140 people per day per 10 lakh people, that would be indicative of comprehensive," Bhushan said at a press briefing. "There are 22 states performing more than 140 Covid-19 tests per day per million in line with comprehensive testing guidance note by the WHO," Bhushan said. "India is conducting about 201 tests per day per million population." Goa tops the list with 1,058 tests per day per million people, followed by Delhi with 978, Tamil Nadu with 563, Assam with 310, Karnataka 297, Madhya Pradesh 249, Jharkhand 242, Rajasthan 235, Maharashtra 198 tests per day per million population respectively. "But not all states are testing at that rate. Our advice to the remaining states and UTs is to increase testing as per the WHO-prescribed levels," Bhushan said. Asked about the fatality rate, he said the national Covid-19 fatality rate was 2.6 per cent and it was coming down rapidly. "Compared to the global case, fatality rate it is significantly lower," he added. "Covid-19 cases and deaths per million in India is amongst the lowest in the world," Bhushan said. India has 657 cases per million population as against 1,638 globally and 17.2 deaths per million as against 73 globally, Bhushan added. He pointed out a special intervention has been initiated to assist states that have higher fatality rates. Every week, on Tuesday and Friday, a group of doctors from AIIMS, through tele-consultation and video consultation, engage the ICU doctors of treating hospitals in various states and try to resolve the problem that they are facing in saving critically ill patients, according to Bhushan. "As we talk today, there is a tele-consultation that is going on. In fact, when I was coming here, I was told that today's tele-consultation conducted by doctors of AIIMS is being attended by three hospitals of Assam, four hospitals of Kerala, two of Andhra Pradesh, one of Karnataka, two of Bihar and one of West Bengal," he said. "So these tele-consultations are forums where treating clinicians get an opportunity to talk to the top most doctors from AIIMS, New Delhi, and be benefited from the advice that they give them," he said Bhushan informed that central government hospitals like the Safdarjung, RML, Lady Hardinge Medical College and six AIIMS, other than AIIMS Delhi, were doing a consultative exercise, as part of which the treating doctors there are informing the DGHS on the kind of complications that are being faced by the recovered Covid patients "Based on that information, the ministry might come out with guidelines in future," he said. On whether coronavirus is airborne, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said it was well established that Covid transmission was a droplet infection. There have been hypothesis and suggestions by several scientists that there may be some airborne transmission with micro-droplets, which again are droplets less than five microns in size, Bhargava said. "What clearly remains important is physical distancing and use of masks, and that has to continue to curb the transmission of the disease," he said. Asked if there was a need for a national lockdown, Bhushan said if the strict containment and perimeter control was not implemented in containment zones, then cases might increase. Many districts and cities where when efforts and preventive steps slackened, the positive cases rose, he said. It is important that whenever a large number of positive cases come from a particular area, that area is contained and proper containment measures are implemented, Bhushan said. These should not be seen as connected to lockdown, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-states-doing-over-140-covid-19-tests-per-day-per-million-health-ministry-861337.html
15-07-2020||National||Lupin plant in Gujarat closed after some workers test positive for coronavirus||One of the plants of drugmaker Lupin Limited in Bharuch district of Gujarat has been closed after at least eight employees tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Tuesday. The plant is located at Ankleshwar. "Results of samples of others are awaited. The plant was closed on July 12 when first cases were reported," Bharuch Collector M D Modia confirmed. Tuberculosis drugs are manufactured at this plant, Modia informed. It employs around 200 employees and all of them are being tested for the viral infection, he said. The company proactively shut down plant number 7 located in Ankleshwar to carry out sanitisation after positive cases were found, said a health department official. Lupin, an Indian pharmaceutical multinational, has nine plants at Ankleshwar where intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients are manufactured. It serves key markets of Italy, China, Canada as well as the domestic market, as per the company's website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lupin-plant-in-gujarat-closed-after-some-workers-test-positive-for-coronavirus-861348.html
15-07-2020||National||CBSE 10th Result 2020 declared: How to check Class 10 results on cbseresults.nic.in||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has declared the class 10 results today. The pass percentage of students this year has marginally increased compared to last year to 91.46%. A student needs to secure at least 33 percent to clear the exams. CBSE Board Class 10th Result 2020: How to check results on websites Step 2: Enter your exam details like school code, roll number and centre number and admit card ID.  Step 3: Check your CBSE Board results for class 10 The result will be displayed on your screen.  CBSE Board Class 10th Result 2020: How to check results via SMS The students can check their results through SMS on their registered mobile and on email ids. To check result via SMS type cbse10<space>RollNumber<space>AdmitCardID and send it to 7738299899.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-10th-result-2020-declared-how-to-check-class-10-results-on-cbseresultsnicin-861357.html
15-07-2020||National||Daily growth rate of coronavirus cases declined to 3.24%: Government||Addressing a press briefing, Rajesh Bhushan, officer on special duty in the ministry, said: "There has been a progressive decline in the daily growth rate of new cases." "If you see, the daily growth rate in of Covid-19 cases in March was around 31.28 percent, it declined to around 9 percent in May and reduced further to 4.82 percent by the end of May. If you look at the figures as on July 12, it has come down to 3.24 percent," Bhushan said. Many a time, in a country like India, which has a massive population, the numbers in absolute terms tend to "cloud" the focus of policymakers and the people who are managing public health challenges, according to the official. "So, it's important that we do not focus on absolute numbers and also see the trend of the daily growth rate of cases," he said. "Here we see that the growth rate of daily fresh cases is declining." With 28,498 fresh cases recorded in a day, India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past nine lakh on Tuesday, just three days after it crossed the eight-lakh mark, according to the ministry data. The total coronavirus caseload in the country surged to 9,06,752 and the death toll mounted to 23,727 with 553 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours. According to a PTI tally, the total number of cases is 9,31,101, the number of discharged people is 5,89,015 and the death tally is 24,260.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/daily-growth-rate-of-coronavirus-cases-declined-to-324-government-861376.html
15-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to deliver keynote speech at High-Level Segment of United Nations ECOSOC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address the UN on Friday at the High-Level Segment of the ECOSOC, his first since India was overwhelmingly elected as a non-permanent member of the powerful Security Council last month. Modi will deliver the keynote address at the Valedictory of the High-Level Segment of the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) on July 17. India last month was overwhelmingly elected as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN Security Council on Wednesday for a two-year term. India, the endorsed candidate from the Asia-Pacific States, won 184 votes out of the 192 ballots cast in the elections for the five non-permanent seats of the Security Council. During the address, Modi will be joined by Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will also address the segment. The theme of this year’s High-Level Segment is ‘Multilateralism after Covid-19: What kind of UN do we need at the 75th anniversary’. Held on an annual basis, the High-level Segment represents the culmination of the ECOSOC's annual cycle of work and convenes a diverse group of high-level representatives from Government, the private sector, civil society and academia. “Against the backdrop of a changing international environment and the unfolding Covid-19 pandemic, the session will focus on critical forces shaping the course of multilateralism and explore ways to bolster the multilateral agenda through strong multilateral leadership, effective international institutions, a broadening of participation and an enhanced focus on global public goods,” the Permanent Mission of India to the UN said in a statement. The event, being held on the eve of the 75th Anniversary of the founding of the UN, assumes special significance as it will be the first opportunity for Modi to address the broader UN membership since India overwhelmingly won the Security Council election on June 17. This year’s theme also resonates with India’s priority for its Security Council tenure in which New Delhi has called for reformed multilateralism in a post-Covid-19 world.   Modi had earlier delivered the keynote address virtually at the 70th anniversary of the ECOSOC in January 2016. India has had a long tradition of close association with the ECOSOC. The inaugural Presidency of the ECOSOC in 1946 was held by Sir Ramaswami Mudaliar of India. The UN Charter established the ECOSOC in 1945 as one of the six main organs of the United Nations and is mandated to offer direction to, and undertake the coordination of, the economic, social, and cultural activities of the United Nations, with responsibility for advancing international economic and social cooperation and development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-deliver-keynote-speech-at-high-level-segment-of-united-nations-ecosoc-861384.html
15-07-2020||National||India reports highest one-day spike of 29,429 coronavirus cases||India registered a record single-day jump of 29,429 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 9,36,181 on Wednesday, while the death toll climbed to 24,309 with 582 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of recoveries stands at 5,92,031, while there are 3,19,840 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country, the updated data at 8 am showed. "Thus, around 63.24 percent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 582 new deaths reported, 213 are from Maharashtra, 85 from Karnataka, 67 from Tamil Nadu, 43 from Andhra Pradesh, 35 from Delhi, 28 from Uttar Pradesh, 24 from West Bengal, 14 each from Bihar and Gujarat, 10 each from Madhya Pradesh and Telangana. Punjab has reported nine fatalities followed by Jammu and Kashmir with eight, Assam, Haryana and Odisha four each, Jharkhand three, Chandigarh two while Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Kerala, and Uttarakhand have reported one death each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-highest-one-day-spike-of-29429-coronavirus-cases-861396.html
15-07-2020||National||India-EU Summit will strengthen economic linkages with Europe: PM Narendra Modi||Ahead of the India-EU Summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the dialogue will further strengthen New Delhi's economic as well as cultural linkages with Europe. After 13 years of negotiations, India and the European Union on Tuesday sealed a civil nuclear cooperation agreement.  The deal came through a day ahead of their virtual summit which is aimed at further broad basing ties on a range of areas including trade, investment and defence.  "Will take part in the India-EU Summit at 4:30 PM today. I am confident this Summit will further strengthen our economic as well as cultural linkages with Europe," the prime minister tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-eu-summit-will-strengthen-economic-linkages-with-europe-pm-narendra-modi-861405.html
15-07-2020||National||Mantra to stay relevant is to improve skills, says PM Narendra Modi||The mantra to stay relevant in times of coronavirus is to "skill, re-skill and upskill", Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Addressing a virtual event to mark five years of the Skill India mission, he said skill is timeless and it keeps getting better with time and it makes you different from others. He also said that in today's rapidly changing world, millions of skilled people are needed and there is a huge potential, especially in the health services. "In this time of corona (virus), this question has become even more important. I have only one answer: the mantra to stay relevant is skill, re-skill and upskill," he said. Referring to migrant workers who returned to their home states during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Modi said these people, with a special skill set, have started rejuvenating villages. "Someone is painting the school, while someone is building a house with a new design," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mantra-to-stay-relevant-is-to-improve-skills-says-pm-narendra-modi-861436.html
15-07-2020||National||India Post launches stamp design contest for Independence Day||India Post is organising a national-level photography competition on the theme "UNESCO World Heritage Sites in India (Cultural)" as part of the Independence Day celebrations. Commemorative postage stamps will be issued on the occasion of Independence Day based on the best entry which will also fetch a cash award of Rs 50,000, the Philately division of the Department of Posts stated in a release on Tuesday. "The photography competition for Independence Day 2020 has been launched on the "MyGov" portal where contestants of all age groups, amateur or professional photographers from all parts of the country, may participate by uploading the photographs at https://www.mygovin/task/design-stamp-themed- unesco-world-heritage-sites-india-cultural," it said. The first and second runner-up will get Rs 25,000 and Rs 10,000 respectively while there will be Rs 5,000 consolation prizes for five participants, it added. The last date for submission of entries is July 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-post-launches-stamp-design-contest-for-independence-day-861442.html
15-07-2020||National||CBSE class 10 results declared, 91.46 per cent students pass||Girls outshone boys yet again in the class 10 exam, results of which were announced by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday, recording a pass percentage of 91.46. There has been a marginal increase of 0.36 per cent in the pass percentage as against last year. The board did not announce any merit list this year in view of the exceptional circumstances amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While girls have achieved a pass percentage of 93.31, pass percentage of boys and transgenders is 90.14 and 78.95 respectively. Over 1.84 lakh students scored above 90 per cent and more than 41,000 students scored above 95 per cent marks. Over 18 lakh students had appeared for the exam this year. Trivandrum region recorded highest pass percentage of 99.28, while the pass percentage of Guwahati region was lowest at 79.12. While the class 12 exams were rescheduled to be held in July in all parts of the country, class 10 exams were rescheduled only in North East Delhi which was affected by riots in March. However, later all exams were cancelled following spike in Covid-19 cases. For subjects for which exams could not be conducted, the board has announced the results on basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-10-results-declared-9146-per-cent-students-pass-861457.html
15-07-2020||National||Sharp spike in smuggling of goods amid Covid-19 pandemic: FICCI CASCADE||Industry chamber FICCI's arm on Wednesday said illicit trade has emerged as one of the most formidable challenges before the nation, especially during the current coronavirus pandemic which has led to economic distress. FICCI's Committee Against Smuggling and Counterfeiting Activities Destroying the Economy (CASCADE) said several cases of smuggling of goods such as gold, cigarettes, liquor have been reported amid the COVID-19 pandemic. "The perpetrators of illicit trade are always looking at innovative ways to deceive the system to carry out their activities. This deeply harms the economic interests of the nation and the society ends up paying a huge cost," FICCI CASCADE Chairman Anil Rajput said in a statement. Asking policymakers to treat illicit trade as a "national threat", FICCI CASCADE said, "illicit trade has emerged as one of the most formidable challenges before our nation, especially during the current pandemic which has led to economic distress." Citing instances of the recent seizures of smuggled cigarettes at New Delhi Railway station, Mumbai and Hyderabad; and gold in Kerala, FICCI CASCADE said, "not only does smuggling dent the government exchequer, by creating opportunities from tax arbitrage, but also threatens local industries on which livelihoods of many depend." Rajput said while the recent efforts of enforcement officers are laudable, the government cannot afford to let the guard go down. "At a time when the country is already dealing with the coronavirus triggered financial stress, it is even more important that the government maintains strict vigil to ensure that these offenders are kept at bay," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharp-spike-in-smuggling-of-goods-amid-covid-19-pandemic-ficci-cascade-861460.html
15-07-2020||National||Sunanda Pushkar case: Delhi Police tells High Court it did not rely on her tweets||The police on Wednesday told the Delhi High Court it has not seen the tweets of deceased Sunanda Pushkar nor was it relying on them in the case related to her death in which, her husband and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor is the sole accused. The investigating agency said that her tweets are not part of the record or the charge sheet filed in the case and if Tharoor wants to rely on them, they are in the public domain and he can access them. The submission was made before Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri in response to Tharoor's plea seeking directions to the Delhi Police to preserve the Twitter account and tweets made by his Pushkar prior to her death in 2014. The former Union minister was accused by Delhi Police under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code, for which the maximum punishments are three years jail term and 10 years imprisonment, respectively. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa said the tweets are part of the electronic record before the trial court in the form of Pushkar's laptop and mobile phone. He said all his client was seeking was to access her Twitter account through those devices and show the trial court her tweets prior to her death so as to indicate her state of mind. Tharoor's advocate said this was relevant as four autopsy reports and three medical board reports were not able to confirm till date whether it was a suicide or homicide and the police in 2017 went for a psychological autopsy of the deceased which involves ascertaining her state of mind prior to her death. "What would be a better indication of her state of mind than her tweets of that day," the senior lawyer argued. He also said the police was not relying on the tweets as it would lead to the closure of the case. Instead, they relied on the witness statements, recorded by the police under section 161 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which have referred to Pushkar's tweets while commenting on her state of mind. After hearing both sides, the high court gave time to the police to file its submissions along with case law on the issue raised by Tharoor in his plea and listed the matter for hearing on September 18. Pahwa had earlier also argued before the high court that Pushkar never had any suicidal ideations which is manifested from the series of tweets withheld by Delhi Police from the trial court. Tharoor, in his application, has said the tweets and Twitter timeline of Pushkar are of utmost importance in the case and as she is not alive, there is an apprehension that they might be deleted, denying him a crucial right to exonerate himself from the alleged charges levelled against him. The application was filed in a pending petition seeking direction to the police to place before the trial court certain tweets of Pushkar. Tharoor has sought a direction to the police to take steps to preserve the social media account and tweets by asking 'Twitter India' to preserve Pushkar's account till the pendency of the proceedings before the trial court. The plea referred to Twitter's policies as per which it can delete the accounts of users who have been inactive for a prolonged period of time. “Further, in certain cases, if some authorised person or close relative of a deceased person contacts Twitter, the account of such deceased person can be deactivated. In such cases of deletion of account or deactivation of account, the tweets and contents of the Twitter timeline are lost forever,” it has said. The police had earlier told the court that Pushkar was suffering from mental agony due to a strained relationship with her husband. She had a scuffle with her husband and had various injury marks a few days before her death, it had said. Police have accused Tharoor of torturing his wife which led her to commit suicide. Pushkar, 51, was found dead in a suite of luxury hotel Leela Palace in Delhi's Chanakyapuri on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying at the hotel as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sunanda-pushkar-case-delhi-police-tells-high-court-it-did-not-rely-on-her-tweets-861485.html
15-07-2020||National||Over 3 lakh samples tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday: ICMR||More than 3.2 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the highest so far on a day, taking the cumulative number of tests conducted in the country till July 14 to 1,24,12,664, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) officials said. According to the Union Health Ministry, the testing per million for India is consistently rising and has touched 8994.7 on Wednesday.   "A cumulative total of 1,24,12,664 samples have been tested up to July 14. A total of 3,20,161 samples were tested on Tuesday, the highest so far conducted in a day," Scientist and media coordinator at the ICMR, Dr Lokesh Sharma, said. The per-day testing capacity, which was around 1.5 lakh on May 25, is nearly four lakh per day now, Sharma informed.  India registered a record single-day jump of 29,429 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 9,36,181 on Wednesday, while the death toll climbed to 24,309 with 582 new fatalities, according to Health Ministry data.     The WHO in its Guidance Note on “Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19” has advised comprehensive surveillance and testing for suspected cases.  While explaining the concept of comprehensive surveillance and testing of suspect cases, the WHO advised that a country needs to conduct 140 tests per day per million population, the ministry said. As many as 22 states are doing more than 140 Covid-19 tests per day per million in line with comprehensive testing guidance note by the WHO, said the Health Ministry, while advising the remaining states and UTs to increase testing to match the WHO advised levels, the ministry said.  One of the factors strongly aiding the increasing numbers of Covid-19 tests in the country is the steadily growing network of labs for testing of Covid-19. With 865 labs in the government sector and 358 private labs, the total number of testing labs is 1223, as on date.  In addition to the gold standard for test, RT PCR, TrueNat and CBNAAT are also used to augment this facility, it said.  The expansion of laboratory capacity has seen an exponential increase from one lab in January 2020 to 121 labs in March 2020 and to 1223 labs today, the ministry said. Among the states and UTs, Goa tops the list with 1,058 tests per day per million people followed by Delhi with 978, Tamil Nadu with 563, Assam with 310, Karnataka 297, Madhya Pradesh 249, Jharkhand 242, Rajasthan 235, Maharashtra 198 tests per day per million population respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-3-lakh-samples-tested-for-covid-19-on-tuesday-icmr-861491.html
15-07-2020||National||SC asks Jammu and Kashmir administration to explain detaining bar leader after expiry of order under PSA||The Supreme Court Wednesday asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration to explain the basis for detaining high court's bar leader Mian Abdul Qayoom who has challenged his detention under Public Safety Act (PSA) since August 7 last year. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Indu Malhotra posted the matter for July 23 after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for J&K, said that he needs 10 days time to consider various aspects. “We want to know on what basis you (J&K administration) would like to detain him in Delhi’s Tihar Jail. Moreover, his detention as per order has already expired," the bench said. At the outset, Mehta said he had not received the copy of the plea and sought time to reply to it. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Qayoom, said the detention order was for a limited period, for around one year. The bench said that was the reason it has issued a notice on the plea during the last date of hearing. Dave replied that he understands why the Solicitor General was uncomfortable and complained that the present matter was not listed despite specific directions of the court. Justice Kaul told Mehta that firstly his detention period has expired and secondly his ideology remains the same. Dave pointed out that Qayoom is 73 years old and should not be kept in Tihar jail. “In the current scenario of Covid-19 would you like to keep this petition pending,” the bench told Mehta, who said that Qayoom's ideology remained the same. The bench said it understands all these issues but sometimes there are compulsions which need to be complied with. It told Mehta that he should respond by next date considering Qayoom's age, expiry of his detention order and the Covid-19 times. On June 26, the top court had issued notice to the J-K administration and sought its reply on Qayoom's plea challenging his detention order. Qayoom has also sought a direction to shift him from Tihar jail here to central jail in Srinagar on medical ground. He has challenged the May 28 order of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court rejecting his plea against his prolonged “illegal detention” under the PSA in jails outside the UT. He said he is a Senior Advocate with more than 40 years’ standing at the Bar and has served as President of the J&K High Court Bar Association for many terms, including from 2014 till the present day. Qayoom said he was detained on the intervening night of August 4th and 5th, 2019, under the provisions of Jammu and Kashmir Code of Criminal Procedure and thereafter, an order of detention under the PSA was passed against him on August 7, 2019. He said that on August 8 he was taken to Central Jail, Agra, Uttar Pradesh, without any prior notice of intimation, where he was kept in solitary confinement. He said the high court's May 28 order is ex facie unsustainable in law as it is premised on "stale, irrelevant, remote, vague, imprecise and deficient" grounds of detention. “The impugned judgment and order concluded that most of the grounds in the detention order “are somewhat clumsy” which implies that the High Court too found them wanting. Placing reliance on the doctrine of severability as enunciated by this Court in Gautam Jain versus Union of India...the High Court then proceeds to uphold the detention order solely on one ground,” his appeal said. He said the high court makes it abundantly clear that the detention order has been upheld solely on one ground -- the four FIRs dating back to 2008 and 2010, as enumerated in the detention order. “These FIRs are stale, irrelevant and have no proximate, pertinent or live link to the present, and are thus superfluous and extraneous to the satisfaction required in law qua the tendency or propensity to act in a manner prejudicial to public order. Pertinently, even in the said decade-old 4 FIRs, the Petitioner was neither arrested, nor any charge sheet ever filed by the police against the Petitioner,” he added in his plea. Qayoom said he had already been detained in 2010 on the basis of the said FIRs under the PSA, and the said detention was subsequently revoked. “Thus, the same FIRs cannot be used to pass another order of detention under the PSA, as held by this Hon’ble Court…,” his plea said. Qayoom said he is suffering from serious health ailments and is at a high-risk vulnerability for Covid-19 due to his co-morbid conditions. “The Petitioner has numerous serious medical conditions for which he has been receiving treatment for the last 25 years under the care and supervision of his doctors in Srinagar, Kashmir. The Petitioner is also dependent on his family for ensuring the regular and daily intake of medicines and regular injections,” he added. As an interim prayer, he sought his transfer to Central Jail, Srinagar, during the pendency of the present petition, ensuring that all necessary medical precautions are taken qua Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-jammu-and-kashmir-administration-to-explain-detaining-bar-leader-after-expiry-of-order-under-psa-861495.html
15-07-2020||National||UP farmer's son scores 98.2% in Class 12, set to join top US university||The son of a farmer in a remote Uttar Pradesh village has scored 98.2 per cent in his Class 12 examinations which has paved the way for his admission to a prestigious Ivy League University in the US on a full scholarship. Anurag Tiwari, who belongs to Sarasan village in Lakhimpur district, said he has got selected to Cornell University where he would be pursuing higher studies in Economics. The 18-year-old humanities student scored 95 marks in Mathematics, 97 in English, 99 in Political Science, and a full 100 both in History and Economics, as per the exam results announced by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday. The outstanding Class 12 results just paved the way for the “Cornell Dream” of the boy, who scored 1,370 marks in his Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT), widely used for admissions to major colleges in the US, in December 2019. “Congratulations! The admission selection committee in the College of Arts and Sciences has approved your early decision application to Cornell University for the fall of 2020. I am honoured to share this wonderful news with you and to welcome you to the Cornell community,” stated Jonathan R Burdick, Vice Provost for Enrollment, in a letter to Anurag in December. His admission now depended on how well he performed in the board exams. He also shared with PTI another letter from the varsity that offered him a full scholarship. But the journey so far has not been easy, said Anurag, who had to move to a residential school in Sitapur district for education, as he cited the weak financial condition of his family that includes parents Kamalpati Tewari and Sangeeta Tewari and three elder sisters, one of them now married. “My parents were initially reluctant to send me to Sitapur. My father is a farmer and mother a home-maker. They thought if I go away for studies, I may not return to farming. But my sisters convinced them to allow me to study,” Anurag, who studied at the VidyaGyan Leadership Academy, run by the Shiv Nadar Foundation in Sitapur, said. “Now they are all happy and proud of me,” the village lad said in fluent English. Asked about his fluency in English, Anurag said it happened after Class 6 when he joined his current school and hardly spoke the language at his native village. “For the first two years here, I could barely speak English. However, I had tried hard and could understand if someone spoke. It is only now that I have gotten fluent but I'm still trying to improve it,” he said. On the idea of studying abroad, Anurag said he was always inclined towards Humanities and Liberal Arts. After Class 10, he opted the Humanities stream against advices of many, some of whom questioned his choice and suggested more traditional traits – science and commerce. “Eventually my teachers and counsellors in Delhi advised I could try for Ivy League colleges if I wished to pursue Liberal Arts. There are various good colleges in our country but even those abroad can be good based on my preference for studies. Thus, I applied to Cornell University and took the SAT,” he said. The boy said he would have gone to Cornell University in August but due to certain travel and visa restrictions that is unlikely now and expects to land there only by February 2021. “I'm hoping to study Economics as a major subject and Mathematics as minor and also pursue post-graduation abroad only and eventually decide if I can get into Data Analysis. “But after completing my education and gaining some work experience, I would certainly want to return to India to work here and also contribute in the education sector,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-farmers-son-scores-982-in-class-12-set-to-join-top-us-university-861520.html
15-07-2020||National||Supreme Court to take up Maratha quota case on July 27||The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to consider from July 27 on a day-to-day basis a matter concerning validity of reservation for Marathas in jobs and education in Maharashtra.  The case arose out of Bombay High Court allowing 12 to 13% reservation for Marathas. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat refused to stay the High Court's order allowing the reservation, saying the court had earlier too declined to grant any relief by interim order. "It is better if we hear out the matter," the bench said. The court also made it clear that the hearing would take place in virtual mode as chances of physical functioning of courts were bleak due to Covid-19 pandemic. During the brief hearing, senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for petitioners, contended there was a whole group of post graduate students whose careers were at risk as a huge chunk of 12 to 13% reservation has marred their chances. The percentage of reservation has gone upto 73%. He sought interim relief and also emphasised at physical hearing. Divan questioned validity of the High Court's order asking if it was not bound by the Supreme Court's nine-judge bench decision (Mandal Commission case), putting a ceiling of 50 % reservation. The court asked the parties to chalk out modalities for hearing the matter. The top court had on July 12, 2019 directed that the Maratha reservation in jobs and education can't be applied with retrospective effect. Jaishri Patil and others challenged the validity of the high court's June 27, 2019 order for applying 12 to 13% quota since 2014. The petitioners claimed that the decision had breached the 50-per cent ceiling on reservation fixed by the apex court in its landmark judgment by the nine-judge bench in the 'Indra Sahwney' case (1992), also known as the "Mandal verdict".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-take-up-maratha-quota-case-on-july-27-861521.html
15-07-2020||National||India, China refuse to share details of 15-hr long meet||India and China are understood to have prepared the draft of a road map for withdrawal of troops from the Pangong Tso and Depsang areas in eastern Ladakh in a 15-hour long marathon meeting between senior-level military commanders on Tuesday. Defence Ministry officials have refused to share any details of the plan, which is being scrutinised within the top echelons of the central government. The China Study Group headed by the National Security Advisor Ajit Doval is likely to take stock of the situation at a meeting on Wednesday evening after which the government may release some information on the outcome of the fourth round of talks between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and Chinese People's Liberation Army. Besides the NSA, other members of the China Study Group include the Cabinet Secretary, secretaries of the home, defence and external affairs ministries and the top brass of the Army and intelligence agencies. Army Chief Gen M M Naravane and Northern Army commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi would brief the China Study Group members on the roadmap finalised at the meeting between  Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Leh-based 14 Corps and Maj Gen Liu Lin, Commander, South Xinjiang Military Region. The detailed discussions between the two Army commanders focussed on the second phase of the de-escalation after the PLA pulled back its troops and removed the temporary structures at Galwan, Hot Springs and Gogra sectors. In reciprocation, Indian Army too withdrew its soldiers in all the three sectors, creating a 2 km buffer zone, which is not being patrolled by either side at the moment. But both India and China have kept a large number of troops as well artillery guns, tanks and other military hardware in the rear to take care of any emergency that may pop up at the Line of Actual Control.  The process to reduce the troops from the depth areas was also discussed between the Corps Commanders. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to travel to Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh on July 17 and 18 during which he would travel to the forward areas on the LAC and Line of Control. Meanwhile, in the wake of the Sino-Indian stand-off, the Defence Ministry has empowered the armed forces for emergency procurement up to Rs 300 crore to meet their "emergent operational requirement". The decision was taken at a special meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council on Wednesday chaired by Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-refuse-to-share-details-of-15-hr-long-meet-861533.html
15-07-2020||National||Photographer saves life of man considered dead, after hearing wheezing sounds||Shivers ran down Tomy Thomas’s spine as he realised that the ‘deceased’ man he was supposed to photograph had produced low quivering sounds.  “When I entered the house, the man was found lying face down on the floor. Apparently, he had injured his head after he hit the corner of a bed, blood could be seen clotted on the head wound. Since the light in the room was not adequate to click photos, I leaned over the man to turn on the light switch which was on the wall right next to where he was lying. It was then that I heard a feeble voice,” the 48-year-old photographer from Kerala told The NewsMinute. He immediately alerted the police officer who was in the house and an ambulance was called.  Thomas, who is based in Ernakulam, recalls that in 25 years of working with the police on similar assignments, he has never had an experience this bizarre.  The man was in the same position he was discovered when Thomas walked in. After hearing the wheezing sound, Thomas and the police officer turned him over on his back. They detected a faint heartbeat and immediately called an ambulance.  The police said that the man, identified as Sivadasan, apparently had fallen down due to high blood pressure and as a result hit his head. He lived alone in a rented house at Manalimukku near Kalamassery, an industrial district in Kochi. He was found by his employer who had gone to check on him as Sivadasan didn’t turn up at work for three days. “Since he didn’t open the door upon knocking, his colleague looked through an open window to see Sivadasan lying on the floor. He was the one who alerted the police saying that Sivadasan was lying dead in his house,” an official from the Edathala Police Station said. The neighbours rushed to the spot after being informed of the incident however, they were afraid to break the door down and go near Sivadasan due to Covid-19 fear, said the police. Police officials broke down the door after arriving but did not go near Sivadasan as they didn’t have protective gear.  Thomas was called on Sunday to photograph the body by the police who were preparing an inquest report on the incident.  The Palakkad-native has been moved to Jubilee Mission Hospital and is undergoing treatment in the neurology intensive care unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/photographer-saves-life-of-man-considered-dead-after-hearing-wheezing-sounds-861542.html
15-07-2020||National||GoM recommends hike in sugar MSP to Rs 33/kg; asks Food Min to move cabinet note||A group of ministers, headed by Home Minister Amit Shah, on Wednesday recommended increasing the minimum selling price (MSP) of sugar by Rs 2 to 33 per kg to ensure mills clear the pending cane arrears of around Rs 20,000 crore at the earliest, sources said.       Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal were present in the meeting.       Sources said the GoM took stock of the pending sugarcane dues to be paid by sugar mills which stand at around Rs 20,000 crore so far in the current 2019-20 season (October-September) and ways to ensure mills clear this at the earliest.       One of the proposals discussed was to increase the minimum selling price (MSP) of sugar. The GoM directed the Food Ministry to move a Cabinet note with a proposal to hike the MSP of sugar as recommended by the Niti Aayog, the sources said.       The government will consider other options if an increase in MSP of sugar does not help in reducing substantial cane arrears to farmers, the sources added.       A task force constituted by Niti Aayog on sugarcane and sugar industry had also recommended a one-time increase of Rs 2 per kg in MSP of sugar. Last year, the government had increased the price at which mills sell sugar to bulk buyers by Rs 2/kg to Rs 31/kg.       The minimum selling price of sugar is fixed taking into account the components of FRP and minimum conversion cost of the most efficient mills.       According to the official data, mills have purchased sugarcane of around Rs 72,000 crore from farmers during 2019-20 season (October-September). Of that, around Rs 20,000 crore of arrears are yet to be paid to farmers.     Arrears comprise payments to be made on the basis of Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) fixed by the Centre, and State Advisory Price (SAP) determined by the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gom-recommends-hike-in-sugar-msp-to-rs-33/kg-asks-food-min-to-move-cabinet-note-861547.html
15-07-2020||National||Skill India mission played major role in boosting spirit of entrepreneurship in last 5 years: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said the Skill India mission has played a major role in boosting the spirit of entrepreneurship among youth in the last five years. Shah also said the Skill India mission has been empowering the youth of the country by enhancing their inner potential by providing them with the right skill sets. "In the last five years, Skill India has played a major role in boosting the spirit of entrepreneurship among the youth. By encouraging the job seekers to become job givers, I am sure that this will go a long way in realising PM @narendramodi ji's vision of #AatmaNirbharBharat," he tweeted. The home minister also extended his greetings to everyone on World Youth Skills Day, which also marks five years of the Skill India mission under the "visionary leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi". Earlier, addressing a virtual event to mark five years of the Skill India mission, the prime minister said the mantra to stay relevant in times of coronavirus is to "skill, re-skill and upskill". Modi said skill is timeless and it keeps getting better with time and makes you different from others. The prime minister also said that in today's rapidly changing world, millions of skilled people are needed and there is a huge potential, especially in the health services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/skill-india-mission-played-major-role-in-boosting-spirit-of-entrepreneurship-in-last-5-years-amit-shah-861550.html
15-07-2020||National||86.3% students pass West Bengal Class 10 board exam||An estimated 86.34 per cent students passed the Class-10 board examinations in West Bengal this year, the results of which were published on Wednesday. A total of 10,03,666 students had appeared for the Madhyamik Pariksha and 8,43,305 of them were successful in clearing the exam, West Bengal Board of Secondary Education President Kalyanmoy Ganguly told reporters here. According to the merit list published by the board, Aritra Paul of Memari Vidyasagar Memorial School in Burdwan East district topped the tests, securing 694 out of 700 marks with a percentage of 99.14. "To all successful Madhyamik candidates, congratulations for having crossed your first academic milestone, especially in these trying times. With continued support from your parents and teachers, may you do well in the future and become responsible and caring citizens," Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said in a tweet. Two students were jointly ranked second, scoring 693 marks, while three examinees jointly secured the third position, obtaining 690 marks. East Midnapore reported the highest number of successful candidates at 96.56 per cent. A total of 84 students were in the top 10 rankings. Mark sheets will be distributed from various centres across the state on July 22, Ganguly said. "The results were out 139 days after the exams due to the hard work of everyone involved in the examination process amid the Covid-19 pandemic, and support from the state government," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/863-students-pass-west-bengal-class-10-board-exam-861552.html
15-07-2020||National||SC to consider plea against Mahadayi Tribunal's award||The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to consider in August on separate petitions filed by Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka challenging validity of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal's award of August 14, 2018. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph ordered to put the contentious issue on distribution of Mahadayi river water for passing directions in the week commencing August 24. "List the Special Leave Petitions for directions," the bench said in its order. In March, this year, the top court had declined to entertain a plea by Goa against a statement made by Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa for making budget allocation for Kalsa-Banduri drinking water project in Hubballi-Dharwad and others parts in North Karnataka. The court had then clarified that the Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal's order of April 17, 2014 restraining any blocking of the flow of river water or its diversion into Malaprabha basin would continue to operate till other conditions were fulfilled. The Centre had on February 27, 2020 notified the tribunal's decision of August 14, 2018, for its implementation.  This has prompted Karnataka to go ahead and allocate funds for the project. Goa, for its part, opposed diversion of water, saying its lifeline faced imminent treat of choking because of reduction of water flow and consequent disruption of its ecology.  The tribunal has allocated Karnataka 13.42 tmcft, Goa 24 tmcft and Maharashtra 1.3 tmcft in its final decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-against-mahadayi-tribunals-award-861566.html
15-07-2020||National||Ensure patients get affordable Covid-19 drugs, end black marketing, say MPs||Amid complaints about over-charging for treatment, members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs on Wednesday asked senior government officials to ensure affordable treatment to Covid-19 patients and take steps to tackle black marketing of medicines. The MPs in the multi-party panel headed by senior Congress leader Anand Sharma wondered why costly medicines are preferred and promoted when cheaper and effective drugs are available. "Why are they not being promoted despite being equally effective... There is a need to check recommendation and prices of expensive medicines pushed by pharma companies," sources quoted the MPs as saying in the meeting to to discuss 'Management of Covid-19 pandemic and coordination with State Governments, phased unlocking, resumption of economic activities, inter-state movement of people and goods and state of preparedness'. An earlier meeting of the Home panel scheduled on June 3 to discuss Covid-19 and lockdown was postponed after several MPs expressed their inability to attend the meeting due to quarantine measures taken by respective states. On Wednesday, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla gave a detailed presentation on the actions taken by the Ministry of Home Affairs, including the steps it took to enforce the lockdown as well as the unlocking process. The steps taken by the MHA to help the state governments in tackling the pandemic were also explained by Bhalla during the meeting in which Health Joint Secretary Luv Agarwal also attended. During the meeting, sources said, the MPs told the officials that the drugs for Covid-19 treatment should be made easily available for patients. The price of these medicines should be affordable, they said. Amid reports of black marketing of Covid-19 drugs, the MPs also asked the officials to take steps to tackle the issue. Sources said the panel also told the officials to promote cheaper and easily available domestic-made medicines for Covid-19. MPs also discussed the provisions of the National Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act and urged officials to analyse both in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic and see whether there is any overlapping. The MPs suggested that steps should be taken to synchronise the two Acts, so that it does not work in counter purpose. This is the second meeting of a Parliamentary panel to discuss Covid-19. On July 10, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology headed by senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh met to discuss the "preparedness to deal with Covid-19 and other pandemics in future". Top government officials had told the panel that a vaccine for the virus infection would take at least a year to be available for treatment. At least two more meetings of Parliamentary panels have been scheduled to discuss Covid-19 related issues – the labour panel on July 20 and the Health panel on August 4. The Standing Committee on Labour, which was to meet on Wednesday but rescheduled to July 20 after panel chairperson Bhartruhari Mahtab went into self quarantine, will take up the issue of changes made in labour laws by several state governments during the Covid-19 lockdown, which had attracted criticism from various sections. It will also seek clarifications from the officials about the impact the pandemic had on migrant labourers. On August 4, the Standing Committee on Health headed by senior Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav would be meeting for a briefing from the Health Secretary on the status of 'Outbreak of pandemic Covid-19 and related Contingent and Mitigation Plan'. However, the attempt by Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairperson Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary to take up discussions on Covid-19 and utilisation of PM-CARES funds did not succeed as BJP MPs stone-walled the suggestion citing rules. Chowdhury has now taken up the matter with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. Though he did not make any specific demand in his letter to Birla, the Congress Leader in Lok Sabha gave his version of what happened in the July 10 meeting of the PAC. While he pitched for taking up the Covid-19 issue, the BJP MPs insisted that the PAC can discuss only CAG reports. Chowdhury cited previous instances to rebut this and said the PACs of Parliament and state Assemblies had taken up matters other than the CAG reports. He is learnt to have cited that the PAC has taken up issues like pilgrimage to Sabarimala and developments in telecom sector, which were not part of CAG reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-patients-get-affordable-covid-19-drugs-end-black-marketing-say-mps-861569.html
15-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Girls outshine boys in CBSE Class 10 results||In today's episode, the First day of lockdown in Bengaluru, girls outshine boys in CBSE Class 10 results, Google will buy a $4.5 billion stake in Reliance's digital unit and Gehlot accuses Pilot of being involved in horse-trading with the BJP to topple his government.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-girls-outshine-boys-in-cbse-class-10-results-861573.html
15-07-2020||National||Absconding newspaper owner, accused of rape, held in Kashmir||Bhopal-based newspaper owner Pyare Miyan (68) who was on the run after five girls and a woman accused him of rape was arrested in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, the city police said here. Earlier in the day, the police claimed to have seized porn CDs, high-end cars, liquor bottles and bones of wild animals among other things during raids on his properties. "We had information from sources that he was in Srinagar. He was arrested in coordination with local police," said Superintendent of Police (Bhopal South) Sai Krishna Thota. Thota, who is heading the special investigation team which is probing the case, said a team had been sent to Srinagar and Miyan was likely to be brought here by Thursday morning. Apart from a case of rape under the Indian Penal Code and offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO), the police also invoked the Excise Act and Wildlife Act following seizure of liquor, an antler and bones of wild animals from his flats. Sections of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were also invoked as two of the minor girls belong to these communities, the police said. "CDs, DVDs, pen drives and hard disks containing pornographic material were seized from five properties of Miyan in Bhopal and Indore in the last two days. These also include child pornographic content," Thota told PTI. The complainants had told the police that Miyan used to show them porn videos, he said. The seized vehicles included an Audi and a Pajero, the SP said, adding that these vehicles were used to ferry girls to Miyan's flats. One of the flats was also found to have a dance floor and a large bar, according to police sources. "Four minor girls and a woman have filed complaints of rape against Miyan. The latest complaint was lodged by a minor girl at Koh-e-Fiza police station on Tuesday," Thota said. During the last two days, the Bhopal administration razed a marriage hall and an apartment built illegally on government land by Miyan. On Sunday, the police booked Miyan's accomplice Sweety Vishwakarma (21) after five girls were found roaming around in inebriated state. The girls allegedly told the authorities that Miyan had invited them to a birthday party on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday in a flat in Shahpura area. Meanwhile, the allotment of a government accommodation to Miyan has been canceled, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/absconding-newspaper-owner-accused-of-rape-held-in-kashmir-861580.html
15-07-2020||National||Over 91% students pass CBSE class 10 exams, number of students scoring above 90% and 95% drops||Girls outshone boys yet again in class 10 examination, results of which were announced by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday, recording a pass percentage of 91.46. There has been a marginal increase of 0.36 percent in the pass percentage as against last year. However, the number of students scoring above 90 percent and 95 percent have reduced this year by three percent and one percent, respectively. While girls have achieved a pass percentage of 93.31, pass percentage of boys and transgenders is 90.14 and 78.95, respectively. Over 1.84 lakh students scored above 90 percent and more than 41,000 students scored above 95 percent marks. A total of 18.73 lakh students appeared in the exam, out of which 17.13 lakh students passed. A total of 1.5 lakh student have been placed in compartment. Trivandrum performed best amongst all regions with 99.28 pass percentage, followed by Chennai region with 98.95 percent while Bengaluru stands at third position with 98.23 percent pass percentage. The pass percentage in Delhi was up by around five percent. While the pass percentage in 2019 was 80.97 percent, it has been recorded at 85.86 percent. The foreign schools affiliated to the CBSE have achieved a pass percentage of 98.67 percent. Last year, their pass percentage was 98.75 percent. The best performance has been achieved by Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) with a pass percentage of 99.23 percent, followed by that of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) with 98.66 pass percentage. For subjects for which exams could not be conducted, the board has announced the results on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme. As per the assessment scheme, for students, who had appeared in the exams in more than three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best three performing subjects has been awarded in the subjects whose examinations have not been conducted. For students who have appeared in the exams in only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two performing subjects has been awarded in the subjects whose examinations have not been conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-91-students-pass-cbse-class-10-exams-number-of-students-scoring-above-90-and-95-drops-861583.html
15-07-2020||National||MP: Proposal for monthly aid to acid attack victims gets nod||he Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday approved a proposal to provide monthly financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to the acid attack victims in the state. Prem Singh Patel, who has taken charge as the MP minister for social justice, divyang welfare and animal husbandry, cleared the proposal during a meeting held with officials here on Wednesday. Patel was among the 28 new ministers, whose portfolios Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan allocated on Monday. "I have given my approval to a proposal to give Rs 5,000 per month financial assistance to the victims of acid attack in the state so that they can lead their lives with dignity," he said. "This is the first file I have cleared after assuming charge of the ministry as it is a very important matter," Patel added. The minister said that the beneficiaries would start getting the aid "soon". State Commissioner for Nishaktjan (Disabilities), Sandeep Rajak, said that he had moved this proposal for the minister's clearance. "Now that the minister has approved, it will soon be implemented in the state," he said. "Once its implementation begins, it will provide a major relief to the victims of acid attack. It would help them in leading a respectable life in the society," Rajak said. According to him, all divyang persons, including the acid attack victims, in the state currently get Rs 600 per month pension. The commissioner said that the scope of 'divyangta' (disability) in the state has been widened with the number of categories being increased to 21 from the earlier seven. According to the 'Sparsh' portal of the government, the number of acid attack victims in the state is 17, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-proposal-for-monthly-aid-to-acid-attack-victims-gets-nod-861584.html
15-07-2020||National||Tamil Nadu to conduct BCG vaccine trials on elderly to reduce Covid-19 incidence||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday announced that it will soon launch a trial to study the efficacy of the inexpensive and much-used anti-tuberculosis vaccine, Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), in people belonging to the age group of 60 to 95 in the fight against novel coronavirus. The government said the trials will be conducted at the National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT) in this metropolis and sanction for the same has been accorded. The Tamil Nadu government’s announcements comes on the heels of independent studies suggesting that the BCG vaccine, which is widely used in countries like India as part of their fight against tuberculosis (TB), is found to be effective in reducing the incidence of Covid-19 and the mortality rate. The BCG vaccine has been an integral part of India’s immunisation programmee for the past several decades. Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar said the BCG vaccine is found to be playing a role in increasing innate immunity and there are chances of reducing morbidity and mortality if the vaccine is administered to people in the age of 60 to 95 years.  “Since there is no appropriate drug to treat Covid-19, the ICMR had sought the Tamil Nadu government’s permission to study the efficacy of the vaccine in the elderly and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has given his consent immediately for the trials. The National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis would begin the trials very soon,” Vijayabhaskar said in the statement. The government feels the vaccine would help reduce the incidence of Covid-19 in elderly and bring down the mortality rate, but experts are not convinced. Dr Ram Gopalakrishnan, Infectious Diseases Specialist at the Apollo Hospitals here, said it was only a hope that the vaccine would help in the fight against Covid-19 as there is no scientific study to suggest it actually does. “There is a claim that countries that use the vaccine had low prevalence of Covid, but India and Brazil, who use the vaccine have huge number of cases. There is no scientific basis to the claim, and it is fine if the government does a proper trial across a large population in the country. But they should not sound recommending it now,” Dr Ram Gopalakrishnan told DH. A leading pulmonologist based out of the city also concurred that BCG vaccine might not really help the elderly. “It is a controversial subject and we really do not know whether BCG vaccine can increase immunity in elders. This is only an hypothesis and difficult to answer whether it will reduce the prevalence of Covid-19,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-to-conduct-bcg-vaccine-trials-on-elderly-to-reduce-covid-19-incidence-861586.html
15-07-2020||National||IIT Delhi launches 'world's most affordable' coronavirus test kit||Claimed to be the world's most affordable diagnostic kit for coronavirus, a low-cost test kit developed by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) here was launched on Wednesday. According to IIT officials, the base price of the RT-PCR assay developed by IIT Delhi is Rs 399. Even after adding the RNA isolation and laboratory charges, the cost per test will go up to Rs 650 and will be considerably cheaper compared to currently available kits in the market. It can deliver results within three hours. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' launched the test kit named "Corosure" which will now be available for use at authorised testing labs. "The Corosure Kit has been developed indigenously and is much cheaper than other kits. The country requires cheap and reliable testing for the country which can help control the pandemic. The kit has received ICMR approval with the highest score and DCGI approved with very high sensitivity and specificity," he said at the launch. Referring it to as world's most affordable Covid-19 diagnostic kit, the HRD Minister said the innovation is a step towards "Make in India". IIT Delhi, which became the first academic institute to get ICMR nod for a Covid-19 testing method, gave non-exclusive open licence to 10 companies for commercialising the test, but with a price rider of Rs 500 for the assay needed for testing. The kit Corosure has been commercialised by Newtech Medical Devices. According to the team at IIT Delhi, the current testing methods available are "probe-based", while the one developed by them is a "probe-free" method, which reduces the testing cost without compromising on accuracy. Using comparative sequence analyses, the IIT Delhi team identified unique regions (short stretches of RNA sequences) in the Covid-19 and SARS COV-2 genome. "These unique regions are not present in other human coronaviruses providing an opportunity to specifically detect Covid-19," Professor Vivekanandan Perumal, lead member of the team, had said. "Primer sets, targeting unique regions in the spike protein of Covid-19, were designed and tested using real-time polymerase chain reaction. The primers designed by the group specifically bind to regions conserved in over 200 fully sequenced Covid-19 genomes. The sensitivity of this in-house assay is comparable to that of commercially available kits," Perumal added. India saw a record single-day jump of 29,429 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 9,36,181 on Wednesday, while the death toll climbed to 24,309 with 582 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data.   This is the fourth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 28,000. The number of recoveries stands at 5,92,031, while there are 3,19,840 active cases of coronavirus infection currently in the country, the updated data at 8:00 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-delhi-launches-worlds-most-affordable-coronavirus-test-kit-861589.html
15-07-2020||National||Safety of women, children topmost priority of Narendra Modi government: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Wednesday that the safety of women and children is the topmost priority of the Narendra Modi government. The home minister's comments came in the wake of the government launching a portal a few months ago for registering cybercrime complaints online. "The safety and security of women and children is the topmost priority of Modi government. There is also a special provision on cybercrime.gov.in to report cyber crimes against women and children. You can visit the portal to report any such incident," he tweeted. The safety and security of women & children is the top most priority of Modi government. This portal is an initiative of the central government to facilitate victims and complainants to report cybercrime complaints online. This portal caters to complaints pertaining to cybercrimes only with special focus on cyber crimes against women and children. The complaints reported on this portal are dealt with by law enforcement agencies and police based on the information available in the complaints. It is imperative to provide correct and accurate details while filing a complaint, for prompt action, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/safety-of-women-children-topmost-priority-of-narendra-modi-government-amit-shah-861590.html
15-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pitches for 'action-oriented' agenda at EU-India Summit||To deepen economic engagement and spur recovery after the Covid-19 crisis, India and the European Union (EU) on Wednesday agreed to add “political guidance” to the efforts to end the impasse in the negotiation for the much-awaited trade and investment agreement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a virtual summit with the EU leaders – President of the European Council, Charles Michel, and President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. The Department of Atomic Energy of the Government of India and its EU counterpart EURATOM inked an agreement on the side-line of the summit. The agreement will pave the way for cooperation in peaceful uses of nuclear energy in agriculture, healthcare, industry, radioactive waste management and fusion as well as nuclear safety and security. Modi and the EU leaders reaffirmed commitment to work towards balanced, ambitious and mutually beneficial trade and investment agreements, opening markets and creating a level playing field on both sides. They also agreed to establish a regular “High-Level Dialogue” at ministerial level to provide guidance to the bilateral trade and investment relations and to address multilateral issues of mutual interest. Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and the European Union’s Trade Commissioner Phil Hogan will co-chair the new dialogue, which, according to a joint statement issued after the summit, will “aim at fostering progress on the trade and investment agreements, addressing trade irritants and improving conditions for traders and investors on both sides as well as discuss supply chain linkages”. The negotiations between India and the EU for a broad-based trade and investment agreement remained stalled since 2013 due to differences over certain issues, including improved market access for some goods and services, government procurement, geographical indications, investment protection rules and sustainable development. The 15th India-EU summit was the first after the United Kingdom formally exited the bloc in January this year. The last summit was held in 2017. The EU is India’s largest trading partner for goods with trade exceeding $ 100 billion. India also has a large service trade of about $ 40 billion with the 27-nation bloc. The EU is one of the largest investors in India with cumulative investment of over $ 91 billion. “The world is confronting new economic challenges in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The democracies around the world should come together to stand up to the challenges,” Modi said in his opening remarks at the virtual summit. “The EU and India are banding together to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and I welcome India’s role in tackling the virus, both at the regional and the global level, as well as to the research and manufacturing of a vaccine, which should be available to all. We will cooperate to strengthen our health systems and ensure the WHO (World Health Organization) is effective,” said Michel, who addressed a news-conference after the summit. He also said that India and the EU agreed on the need to make the economic and social recovery more sustainable, more resilient and inclusive. “The EU is India's largest trade and investment partner. But India represents only about 2% of EU external trade. This is clearly an area that offers impressive potential for significant future growth. We agreed to enhance conditions for traders and investors,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pitches-for-action-oriented-agenda-at-eu-india-summit-861592.html
15-07-2020||National||Ashok Lavasa named ADB vice-president, to quit poll panel||Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa is set to leave the poll panel to join the Asian Development Bank (ADB), more than a year after he had a run-in with Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora during the Lok Sabha polls over enforcing the Model Code Conduct.  Lavasa will succeed Diwakar Gupta who will on August 31 next complete a five-year-term as the ADB vice-president for Private Sector Operations and Public-Private Partnerships,  as ADB vice-president. The ADB has its headquarters in Manila in the Philippines. Lavasa would have succeeded Arora as the Chief Election Commissioner in April 2021 and would have continued till October 2022. His exit well before the end of his term would place his colleague Sushil Chanda next in the line of succession to head the three-member-commission after Arora's retirement.  Lavasa's disagreement with Arora and Chandra on the issue of the implementation of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) during the parliamentary polls last year had come to the public domain. He had written a letter to Arora protesting that his dissenting minority views were not being recorded in the decisions taken by the EC on notices or orders issued by it in the cases related to the alleged flouting of the poll-code, particularly on giving clean chits to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the then president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Amit Shah, who later took over as Union Home Minister.  The BJP-led government had last year launched a probe against Lavasa, asking 11 PSUs to verify if he had exercised “undue influence” during his tenure at the Ministry of Power.    Lavasa, who joined the Indian Administrative Service in 1980, retired as Finance Secretary in October 2017. He had earlier served as Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, and at the Ministry of Civil Aviation.  He led the delegation of the Government of India in the climate change negotiations for the Paris Agreement and was instrumental in finalizing India’s nationally determined contributions, which included a major role of the private sector, the ADB stated on Wednesday. “At both policy and project levels, he made significant contributions to the inclusion of the private sector in many development programs in India for different sectors such as energy, agriculture, finance, and infrastructure.” As Joint Secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs of the Government of India, he had worked closely with many ADB projects that had private sector components, a spokesperson of the regional development bank said. He is going to be the second Election Commissioner to leave the poll panel before the end of his term. Nagender Singh had in 1973 resigned as Chief Election Commissioner before completing his term after being appointed as a judge of the International Court of Justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-lavasa-named-adb-vice-president-to-quit-poll-panel-861602.html
15-07-2020||National||Inspired by Sushant Singh Rajput, Bihar man buys land on the moon ||A businessman from Bodh Gaya bought an acre of land on the moon inspired by late bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Bodh Gaya recently bought himself an acre of land on the moon.  “In the news, we saw many big people like Shah Rukh Khan, recently deceased actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and others who bought land on the moon, after which I started collecting information about it. I came to know about the online sale and purchase of land on the moon by a US society ‘Luna Society International’”, Kumar told ANI.  While the cost of the land was not too much, the process was tedious, according to him.  “Then I contacted the society through Google and applied for one acre of land in October of 2019. I had given around Rs. 48,000 at that time … money was converted from Indian rupees to dollars. After a lot of online paperwork, I got a message on July 4, 2020, that my deed had been completed,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inspired-by-sushant-singh-rajput-bihar-man-buys-land-on-the-moon-861605.html
15-07-2020||National||India-China: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to visit Ladakh on July 17||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will visit Ladakh on Friday to take stock of the country's military preparedness and review the overall situation, government sources said on Wednesday, as India and China move to finalise a framework for a complete disengagement at friction points on their border. Singh will be accompanied by Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane and it will be his first visit to Ladakh after the standoff between the armies of India and China on the Line of Actual Control(LAC) began on May 5. Singh's trip comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise visit to Ladakh on July 3 during which he also addressed troops and signalled the country's firmness in dealing with the India-China border row. The sources said Singh will carry out a comprehensive review of the security situation in the region with Gen Naravane, Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Yogesh Kumar Joshi, Commander of the 14 Corps Lt Gen Harinder Singh and other senior Army officials. From Ladakh, the defence minister will travel to Srinagar where he will hold a high-level meeting with senior military officials on Saturday to review the situation along the Line of Control(LoC)with Pakistan, the sources said. Singh was originally scheduled to visit Ladakh on July 3 but it was deferred. Indian and Chinese troops were locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for over eight weeks since May 5. The tension escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. However, following a series of diplomatic and military talks, the two sides began a mutual disengagement process on July 6 and withdrew troops from most of the friction points. On Tuesday, senior commanders of the two armies held a fourth round of talks during which the Indian delegation conveyed a "very clear" message to the Chinese army that status quo must ante be restored in eastern Ladakh and China will have to follow all mutually agreed protocols for border management to bring back peace and tranquillity along the LAC, government sources said. During the course of the intense and complex negotiations that lasted nearly 15 hours, the Indian delegation apprised the Chinese Army about the "red lines" and conveyed that the onus was largely on China to improve the overall situation in the region, the sources said. The key focus of the talks was learnt to be on rolling out the phase two of the disengagement process besides firming up modalities for withdrawal of forces and weapons from the rear bases in a time-bound and verifiable manner, the sources said, adding they were aimed at further de-escalation of the situation at various friction points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-to-visit-ladakh-on-july-17-861611.html
15-07-2020||National||India's first fully indigenously developed vaccine against pneumonia gets DCGI nod||The country's first fully indigenously developed vaccine against pneumonia has got approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. With the help of Special Expert Committee (SEC) for vaccines, the drug regulator reviewed the phase I, II and III clinical trial data submitted by Pune-based firm Serum Institute of India and then granted the market approval for Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Conjugate Vaccine. The vaccine is administered in an intramuscular manner. The ministry said the vaccine will be used for active immunisation against invasive disease and pneumonia caused by 'Streptococcus pneumonia' among infants. The Serum Institute of India first obtained the approval of the DCGI to conduct Phase I, II and III clinical trials of the vaccine in India. These trials have since been concluded within the country. The company also conducted clinical trials in Gambia. Thereafter, the company applied for approval and permission to manufacture the vaccine.  The SEC recommended for grant of permission of market authorisation to the said vaccine. On July 14, Serum Institute of India Pvt Ltd was granted permission to manufacture domestically developed first Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Conjugate Vaccine, the ministry said. "This is the first indigenously developed vaccine in the field of pneumonia," it said. Earlier, the demand for such vaccine was substantially met by licensed importers in the country since the manufacturers were all vaccine companies based outside India, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-fully-indigenously-developed-vaccine-against-pneumonia-gets-dcgi-nod-861612.html
15-07-2020||National||Southern regions shine in CBSE Class 10 exams||CBSE’s southern regions – Trivandrum, Chennai and Bengaluru – came out with flying colours with maximum number of students clearing the Class 10 examinations, results of which were declared on Wednesday. The pass percentage for Class 10 examinations witnessed a marginal increase as 91.46% of the 18.7 lakh students who took the exams cleared it. The CBSE did not announce a merit list of toppers as the examination was disrupted due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Examination for two papers – Information and Communication Technology, and Computer Applications – were remaining as schools shut down mid-March. In north-east Delhi, exams for another six papers cancelled due to riots in late February. The CBSE provided alternate assessment to declare results for those papers. Of the 16 CBSE regions, Trivandrum topped the charts achieving a 99.28% pass percentage, followed by Chennai (98.95%) and Bengaluru (98.23%). According to a CBSE statement, over 1.8 lakh students scored more than 90% marks, compared to 2.2 lakh last year. The number of students scoring more than 95% marks also dropped to 41,804 as against 57,256 last year. Girls perform better than boys as 93.31% cleared the examinations. The pass percentage for boys was 90.14%. The performance of transgender students dipped sharply, as only 78.95% could clear the exams this year as against 94.74% last year. As many as 94.5% of children with special needs passed the exams, a slight dip from last year's 96%. The CBSE has decided to replace the term “Fail” by “Essential Repeat” on its website and all documents this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/southern-regions-shine-in-cbse-class-10-exams-861619.html
15-07-2020||National||Covid-19 cases in CRPF cross 7,000 with 242 new infections||The number of coronavirus cases in the central police forces under the command of the Union home ministry have gone over 7,000 with 242 fresh infections being reported on Wednesday, according to the latest data. The cases pertain to the seven forces -- Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), National Security Guard (NSG) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). As per the latest data accessed by PTI, these forces have recorded a total of 7,059 Covid-19 patients till now out of which 3,233 are active cases while the rest of the personnel have recovered. The maximum cases at 2,229 have been recorded in the CRPF, the country's largest paramilitary force that comprises about 3.25 lakh personnel. This is followed by 2,093 cases in the BSF and 1,306 cases in the CISF.  The about 2.5 lakh personnel strong BSF guards the Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh, while the CISF is the national civil aviation security force. The ITBP has 732 cases, the SSB 300, NDRF 313 and the NSG 86 cases. The ITBP guards the 3,488 km long India-China LAC, the SSB guard the open Indian borders with Nepal and Bhutan, the NDRF is the central disaster contingency force and the NSG is the federal counter-terrorist and counter-hijack combat commandos force. Among the 242 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday, the maximum 77 cases have been reported in the CRPF, 68 in the BSF, 43 in the ITBP, 41 in the CISF and 13 in the SSB, the data said. The data says samples of at least 691 personnel of these forces have been taken and results are awaited. There have been 36 coronavirus deaths in these forces with the maximum 13 fatalities in the CRPF, nine each in the BSF and CISF, three in the ITBP and two personnel have succumbed to the disease in the SSB. These forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law and order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations and disaster rescue and relief under the command of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-crpf-cross-7000-with-242-new-infections-861620.html
15-07-2020||National||Karnataka announces Rs 5,000 incentive for plasma donors||The Karnataka government on Wednesday announced that an incentive of Rs 5,000 would be given to people who have recovered from the coronavirus infection and are willing to donate plasma to help cure other Covid-19 patients. Highlighting that 17,390 people have recovered in the state out of which 4,992 are in Bengaluru, medical education minister K Sudhakar appealed to the recovered patients to donate plasma and save lives. "Please don't take it otherwise.. we have decided to give an incentive of Rs 5,000 to the donor. Please come forward voluntarily and help the patients recover by way of donating plasma," Sudhakar said during the daily briefing on the Covid-19 situation. To a question on plasma therapy tried in Karnataka, Sudhakar said five patients were subjected to the therapy of which three recovered while it did not work on two patients who were already on their death bed.  "We have a proven information that for Covid patients, plasma transfusion definitely works to a greater extent. That's why the government has issued the order of giving an incentive of Rs 5,000," Sudhakar told reporters. Cautioning private hospitals not to fudge the records and give contradictory statements with their press briefings, the minister said private establishments and the government should come together and contain the pandemic. He warned private hospital owners that government would take over their hospitals if they put out wrong data about availability of beds to treat coronavirus patients.   The warning came a day after the government said that criminal proceedings would be initiated against two reputed private hospitals for not cooperating with the government in Covidcare. The government shut down the out-patient department of the two hospitals for two days as a warning to them. On the strike by doctors at the Jagadguru Jayadeva Murugarajendra Medical College for alleged non-payment of their stipend for many months, Sudhakar said the government has taken a serious note of it and it will be released to the students in three to four days with arrears.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-announces-rs-5000-incentive-for-plasma-donors-861627.html
15-07-2020||National||Stop broadcast of film on Prophet Muhammad: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh to Centre||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has written to the Centre demanding a ban on the broadcast of the film Muhammad: The Messenger of God on digital platforms following a complaint by a city-based organisation in this regard. Deshmukh has sought the ban on the film under the Information Technology Act to ensure the law and order situation is not affected in the state, said an official statement issued on Wednesday. The organisation, Raza Academy, had submitted the complaint to the states cyber cell, seeking a ban on the films broadcast on digital platforms, it said. The statement does not specify details of the Academy's complaint. Following this, Deshmukh wrote a letter to the central government seeking a ban on the films broadcast under the provisions of the IT Act to ensure the law and order situation is not affected in the state, the statement said. The film is to be broadcast on July 21, it said. The home minister has demanded that instructions be issued to prevent the broadcast of the film on digital platforms like YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and WhatsApp among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-broadcast-of-film-on-prophet-muhammad-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-to-centre-861628.html
15-07-2020||National||India sees record 20,572 Covid-19 recoveries in 24 hrs; recovery rate rises to 63.24%||India's Covid-19 recovery rate rose to 63.24 per cent with 20,572 patients recuperating from the disease in 24 hours till Wednesday morning, the highest so far, even as the country saw yet another record daily jump of 29,429 cases, according to Union health ministry data. Aggressive testing, timely diagnosis and effective management of patients either through supervised home isolation or active medical attention in hospitals have led to a surge in recovered cases which exceed active Covid-19 cases by 2,72,191 as on date, the ministry said. The country's total Covid-19 tally surged to 9,36,181 on Wednesday, while the death toll climbed to 24,309 with 582 new fatalities. This was the fourth consecutive day that coronavirus cases have increased by more than 28,000. The number of recoveries stood at 5,92,031, while there are 3,19,840 active cases of the coronavirus infection at present in the country, the health ministry data updated at 8 am showed. All the active cases are under medical supervision.  "The recovery rate has climbed up to 63.24 per cent today," the health ministry said. "The gap between recovered and active cases has been consistently growing. It stands at 2,72,191 today. The number of recovered cases outweighs the active cases by a factor of 1.85," it said in a statement.  The health ministry said the norms and standards for home isolation along with the use of oxymeters have helped to keep a check on the asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients without putting pressure on hospital infrastructure.  Medical infrastructure in India to treat Covid-19 patients includes 1,378 Dedicated Covid-19 Hospitals, 3,077 Dedicated Covid Health Centres, and 1,0351 Covid Care Centres equipped with 21,738 ventilators, 46,487 ICU beds, and 1,65,361 oxygen beds. The Central government has distributed 230.98 lakh N95 masks, 123.56 lakh PPEs and 11,660 ventilators to states, Union Territories and Central institutions to ensure effective clinical management of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-record-20572-covid-19-recoveries-in-24-hrs-recovery-rate-rises-to-6324-861642.html
15-07-2020||National||12 killed in rain, flood related incidents in India; red alert issued for Mumbai, coastal areas||Twelve people were killed in rain and flood-related incidents in across the country, while the IMD issued a red alert for Mumbai and other coastal areas in Maharashtra following heavy rains in the region. While seven people died in Assam floods, four, including a pregnant woman, died in a house collapse in Uttarakhand. A farmer was killed after being struck by lightning in Maharashtra. According to an official bulletin, 36 lakh people have been affected in 26 districts of Assam due to floods. Of the seven dead, three died in Morigaon district, two in Barpeta and one each in Sonitpur and Golaghat districts. The Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said that so far, 92 people have died in flood-related incidents. Sixty-six people died in floods and 26 were killed in landslides. In the wake of the heavy downpour in Mumbai and coastal Maharashtra, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) upgraded the warning status from orange to red. The city has been witnessing heavy rains since Tuesday night, resulting in water logging in many areas. A red alert has been issued for Mumbai, R K Jenamani, a scientist with the National Weather Forecasting Centre, said. A bulletin said scattered "heavy to very heavy rainfall" with isolated "extremely heavy falls" are very likely to occur over Mumbai city, Thane, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts during the next 18 hours. It added that due to the heavy rains, inundation of low-lying areas is expected. The rains could also lead to disruption in electricity and water supply, local traffic and road transport. Until 8.30 am, Dadar recorded 15.9 centimetres rainfall; Parel 13.2 cms; Colaba 12.9 cms; Worli 11.7 cms; Santacruz 10.6 cms; Santacruz 6.3 cms; Borivali 10.1 cms. From 8.30 am to 11.30 am, Santacruz received 6.3 centimetres of rainfall; Bandra 9.5 cms; Colaba 1.2 cms; Mahalakshmi 5.3 cms; Ram Mandir (western railway) 6.3 cms. Meanwhile, in Maharashtra's Nagpur district, a farmer died after being struck by lightning. He had gone to the fields to bring his cows home when lightning struck him on Tuesday evening. According to IMD data, the Safdarjung Observatory in Delhi, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded 44 mm rainfall in July so far, which is around 50 per cent less than the normal of 88.3 mm.  Palam and Lodhi Road weather stations in the national capital have also recorded 24 and 43 percent less rains in July.    Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said Delhi received only isolated light rains over the last few days as the monsoon trough had shifted towards the foothills of the Himalayas.  At present, the axis of monsoon lies south of Delhi. It will start moving towards the north on July 17 and cause rains in northwest India, including Punjab, Haryana and Delhi.  A fresh spell of "light to moderate" rains is expected from July 17 to July 20 in the national capital, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting center of the IMD, said.  "We expect to record around 20 mm rainfall in Delhi during this period which will reduce the deficiency to a certain extent," he said, adding the mercury is expected to dip to the lower 30s.  On Wednesday, the city continued to reel under hot and humid weather as rain gave it a miss.  The Safdarjung Observatory recorded a maximum of 37 degrees Celsius, two notches more than normal. Humidity levels shot up to 81 per cent.   The national capital has recorded a 50 per cent rainfall deficiency in July so far, but "moderate" showers on the weekend are expected to make up for the deficit, the weatherman said. In Uttarakhand's Dehradun district, four members of a family, including a pregnant woman and an eight-year-old girl, were killed and two injured in their sleep when their house in Chukkhuwala area collapsed in the early hours of Wednesday, police said. The house collapsed when a buttress caved in following heavy rain at around 1.30 am. While three family members died on the spot, another woman succumbed at the hospital, they said. In Uttar Pradesh, light to moderate rains along with thundershowers occurred at a few places in the state. Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning was witnessed at isolated places over the state. Weatherman forecast rains along with thundershower at many places over the state on July 16 and 17, it said. In Haryana and Punjab, maximum temperatures hovered close to normal limits. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states received heavy showers on Tuesday night and recorded a maximum temperature of 33.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a maximum temperature of 35.1 degrees Celsius, while Hisar registered a high of 36.9 degrees Celsius. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum temperature of 34.8 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature in Ludhiana was 33.7 degrees and 34 degrees in Patiala. According to the MeT department, rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places in both states over the next two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-killed-in-rain-flood-related-incidents-in-india-red-alert-issued-for-mumbai-coastal-areas-861650.html
15-07-2020||National||Union Minister V Muraleedharan seeks postponement of Kerala entrance examinations||The Centre has already decided to postpone the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance (NEET) examination to September 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic, he said. "I would like to urge the state government of Kerala to reconsider its decision to conduct the Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical (KEAM) 2020 examination now as the Covid situation in the state is getting worse day by day", the minister of State for External Affairs said in a letter to the Chief Minister. It was "totally unsafe" and 'risky' to conduct the examinations now as it poses "significant threat" to the health of the students, he said adding the government's decision to go ahead with the examinations had caused anxiety among the parents. Vijayan had said on Monday that the entrance examinations for engineering, architecture and medical admissions would be held as scheduled on July 16. Special test centres would be opened in hotspots and containment zones so that students in those areas can take the exam without going out. Arrangements would also be made for students in quarantine or those coming from red zones. Over one lakh candidates have applied for the entrance examination to be conducted in 342 centres located in Kerala, New Delhi, Mumbai and Dubai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-v-muraleedharan-seeks-postponement-of-kerala-entrance-examinations-861653.html
15-07-2020||National||Coal India worker unions call for 1-day strike on August 18 against divestment||Coal India worker unions affiliated to five central trade unions on Wednesday decided to go on one-day strike on August 18 against the proposed divestment or buyback of shares of the PSU, a union leader said. Leaders of federations affiliated to five central trade unions of BMS, HMS, AITUC, CITU and INTUC held a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the proposed divestment and share buyback of Coal India by the government, Nathulal Pandey, the president of HMS-affiliated Hind Khadan Mazdoor Federation, said. It was decided unanimously to go for one-day strike on August 18, he said. The demand of unions include withdrawal of "disinvestment or buyback of shares by Coal India immediately" and commercial mining, he said. The unions had observed a three-day strike from July 2 to protest against commercial mining of coal. The charter of demands includes ensuring high power committee wages to the contractor workers, "immediate action against the officers of Coal India Ltd who have shown hyperactivity outside their jurisdiction to defeat 3-days strike from July 2 to 4", Pandey said. It was also decided to serve a joint notice on August 1 for the proposed one-day strike, he said. "From the day of giving notice of strike, the programme of work to rule, rally demonstrations, gate meeting, pit meeting etc., will also be started," he said. Pandey said that the one-day strike will be extraordinary as not even a single worker will go to the mine for work. The federations include, RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), CITU-affiliated All India Coal Workers Federation, Indian Mineworkers' Federation (AITUC), HMS-affiliated Hind Khadan Mazdoor Federation. State-owned Coal India (CIL) earlier said it managed to clock an average daily production of 44 per cent and average attendance of nearly 36 per cent during the three-day strike called by worker unions early this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-india-worker-unions-call-for-1-day-strike-on-august-18-against-divestment-861654.html
15-07-2020||National||Admission to colleges for under-graduate courses via online mode this year: WB education minister||West Bengal Education Minister Partha Chatterjee on Wednesday said students will take admission to colleges in the state for under-graduate courses through the online mode this year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The detailed advisory about admission would be issued by the higher education department in early August, Chatterjee told reporters here. He said results of higher secondary examinations will be announced on July 17, and mark sheets will be available from 52 centres on July 31. The minister, who spoke hours after the Class-10 board examinations were declared, said students can get admission to their own institution from August 1 to 10 or apply to another school from August 11 to 31. To a question, Chatterjee said the higher education department is yet to get any reply to the letter by Principal Secretary Manish Jain, voicing the state's reservations about making it mandatory for final semester students to sit for exams in the present situation. "We cannot compromise on the issue of students' safety. Our universities have already decided on the evaluation criteria based on the earlier recommendations of the University Grants Commission in April," he said. Chatterjee said department officials had also apprised Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar about the state's views on the issue and he "voiced concern about the welfare of students". The Centre, in an advisory on July 6, had recommended making it mandatory for students to sit for final semester exams offline or online by September 30. On th lack of placement opportunities to final-year students due to the economic impact of the pandemic, Chatterjee said "we are thinking of approaching the alumni of different higher educational institutions for coming to the help of students in whatever way they can".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/admission-to-colleges-for-under-graduate-courses-via-online-mode-this-year-wb-education-minister-861660.html
15-07-2020||National||Heavy rains expected in Gujarat on July 16; IMD issues red alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rains in Gujarat on Thursday and issued a red alert for it. The weather department has also issued an orange colour alert for Goa, coastal and central Maharashtra for the same day. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely over Gujarat on Thursday, the IMD said. Mumbai and coastal Maharashtra received heavy rains resulting in flooding in low-lying areas on Wednesday. The IMD had issued a red alert for coastal Maharashtra for Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-rains-expected-in-gujarat-on-july-16-imd-issues-red-alert-861661.html
15-07-2020||National||The struggle to keep India's Covid-19 patients breathing||Infections were surging in Maharashtra state, where the 934-bed Kasturba Hospital is located in Sevagram village, some 50 miles south of the city of Nagpur. The busy not-for-profit hospital was already getting a million patient visits every year. Most of the Covid beds - including the 30 in critical care - needed piped oxygen supply. Over the next few weeks, the hospital spent $40,000 (Rs 30,04,400), to connect a bank of cylinders to the new beds using copper pipes. “It was a huge challenge,” Dr SP Kalantri, medical superintendent of the hospital, told me. “Ideally you’d need to plan and execute well ahead to create additional beds with access to piped oxygen. Oxygen is the key to survival for coronavirus patients.” Some 15 percent of Covid-19 patients see rapid lung failure and require help with breathing, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). Some patients appear in no evident respiratory distress, but are found to have dangerously low oxygen levels - a condition called silent hypoxia. A fraction of critically ill patients require a ventilator. “Demand for high-flow oxygen has shot through the roof after the pandemic,” Dr Muzzafal Lakdawala, who runs a Mumbai-based rock concert venue-turned-600-bed Covid facility with its own oxygen tank, told me. The WHO estimates that with a million new Covid-19 infections a week, the world will require some 620,000 cubic meters of oxygen a day, or 88,000 large cylinders. Some 80 percent of the market is owned by a handful of companies, and demand in many countries is outstripping supplies, it says. With more than 800,000 reported infections and rising, demand for oxygen has also risen in India. Hospitals and care centres are consuming up to 1,300 tonnes of oxygen every day, compared to 900 tonnes before the pandemic. It has a bunch of gas companies that extract and purify oxygen from the air at 500 factories spread across the country. Oxygen for medical use typically accounts for some 15% of overall supplies. The rest - industrial oxygen - is mainly supplied to steel and automobile industries for running blast furnaces and welding. These companies ship oxygen in liquid form to hospitals with tankers, which are then piped directly to beds. Oxygen is also supplied through steel and aluminium cylinders. Portable machines called concentrators can also filter oxygen from the air. All of these are being used to treat Covid-19 patients now. But when the pandemic struck India - the first case was detected in January, and infections began climbing in April - there was scant data available for medical oxygen supplies. “We didn’t know how much oxygen was being supplied through cylinders and tanks. We didn’t even know many cylinders we had,” says Saket Tikku, president of the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers Association. Sometime in early April, officials sat down with gas companies. They found that the state of Jammu and Kashmir did not have a single liquid oxygen factory, and there were no medical oxygen makers on the island of Andamans, where cylinders were shipped from the mainland. In remote north-eastern states, supplies were scarce. The government swiftly decided to use industrial oxygen for medical use - there is little difference between the two, but medical oxygen is purer, supplied under stricter regulations and has to be properly dispensed. The gas makers also moved to set up a control room where they could receive calls from hospitals and care centres around the country and make sure supplies reached them in time. But problems persist. Many small gas suppliers complain they are not being paid by government hospitals that buy oxygen in bulk. In north-eastern Assam state, for example, the government hasn’t paid suppliers for over a year now, says Mr Tikku. A medical oxygen company’s electricity connection was cut off after the cash-starved firm defaulted on bills. Memories are still fresh of a harrowing night in August 2017 when some 30 children died in a government hospital in northern Uttar Pradesh state after the oxygen supplier cut off shipments after bills went unpaid. “On the one hand, the government asks us to ensure supplies. On the other, they don’t pay suppliers in time, even during a pandemic,” says Mr Tikku. India now claims to have some 130,000 “oxygen supported” beds in more than 3,000 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and care units. The government also plans to supply some 50,000 ventilators to government hospitals for Covid treatment. It’s not clear how many of these places have on-site liquid oxygen tanks or cylinder banks providing piped oxygen to patients. Many government hospitals in India’s cities don’t have enough piped supplies and depend on bulky cylinders. As the pandemic spreads to small towns and villages with creaky public health infrastructure, lack of enough high-flow piped oxygen supplies can lead to a lot of avoidable deaths, doctors fear. “We don’t need more ventilators really. We need more oxygen access in rural areas,” says Dr Atul Varma, who runs a 20-bed hospital in Bihar, one of India’s poorest states. India’s installed medical oxygen capacity is nearly five times the current demand, so there are no concerns about shortage in supplies yet. Curiously this has been partly made possible by a decline in demand for oxygen from private hospitals. Reason: other patients are staying away from hospitals in fear of contracting Covid-19, and delaying treatment and surgeries. “Our medical oxygen supplies are down by 20 percent overall because private hospitals have seen a decline in patient admissions,” says Anirban Sen, head of sales at Linde India, a leading gas company. Clearly, making sure India has enough beds with access to high-flow oxygen will be the biggest challenge in the weeks and months ahead when the pandemic inevitably spreads to the heartland. “Pushing oxygen into smaller cities and villages will be a challenge. Facilities are bad. There are not enough cylinders or piped oxygen and no liquid oxygen makers,” says Mr Sen. “It is going to be tricky. We need to prepare now.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-struggle-to-keep-indias-covid-19-patients-breathing-861676.html
15-07-2020||National||IMA says 99 doctors succumbed to Covid-19, issues 'red alert' for medicos||As many as 99 doctors in the country, a majority of them general practitioners, have succumbed to Covid-19, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said on Wednesday, and declared a red alert for medicos and medical administrators asking them to raise their guard. According to IMA National Covid registry data, of the total 1,302 doctors infected with Covid-19, 99 have succumbed to the disease. Of those dead, 73 were above the age of 50 years, 19 in the age-group of 35-50 and seven below 35 years, the data showed. "IMA declares RED ALERT to doctors and medical administrators to raise their guard. If Covid-19 mortality has to be lessened, it has to start with doctors and hospitals," the doctors' body said in a statement. The IMA strongly advocated the leadership of doctors in adopting all scientific best practices. This requires intense review and updating of all administrative set ups in the hospitals, including infection control protocols. Any gap in providing for the safety of doctors, nurses and staff have to be plugged, it said in the statement. A feedback system from the doctors, employees and public needs to be put in place. Cleaning and sanitising protocols should be meticulously adhered to, the IMA said. "Analysis of data shows that while senior and young doctors are equally infected with Covid-19, mortality is higher among elders. While this is on expected lines, there is scope for lessening deaths across the age spectrum. Meticulous adherence to norms and discipline inside hospitals will have a salutary effect," the statement said. National President of IMA Dr Rajan Sharma said that while the medical profession remains the beacon of hope for the nation to lead the exit from the pandemic, Covid-19 death among doctors has become a matter of great concern. "IMA strongly advocates the leadership of doctors in adopting all scientific best practices. Doctors need to take charge of the situation and ensure the safety of themselves, their families, their colleagues and staff." Senior doctors who are decision makers for the institutions have enhanced responsibility of taking care of their flock, the IMA national president said. "Friendly and scientific batch posting needs to be implemented. Working hours should be tempered by concerns of safety. Providing for PPEs, training, physical distancing and sanitisers should be monitored on daily basis. "Operation theaters, labour rooms, laboratories and casualties require special care. ICUs and Critical Care units deserve close scrutiny for adherence to best practices and protocols," Secretary General of IMA Dr RV Asokan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-says-99-doctors-succumbed-to-covid-19-issues-red-alert-for-medicos-861691.html
15-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi, EU leaders discuss China's aggression along LAC||The “rules-based international order” has come under stress, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, as he discussed with the European Union (EU) leaders China’s aggression along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh. Modi held the 15th India-EU summit with Charles Michel and Ursula von der Leyen, the presidents of the European Council and the European Commission respectively, through video-conference on Wednesday. They unveiled a roadmap for India-EU strategic partnership over the next five years and agreed to strengthen military-to-military relations and exchanges. The leaders agreed to launch a dialogue on maritime security and consultations on security and defence, particularly to enhance naval cooperation. They underlined the need to preserve safety and stability in the Indian Ocean. “We will also work to reinforce maritime security, especially in the Indian Ocean, where 40% of our trade passes (through),” Michel said at a news conference at the EU headquarters in Brussels after the virtual summit with Modi.   They announced the launch of negotiations to work out a working arrangement between the Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI) and its EU counterpart, Europol, to support law enforcement authorities of India and the member-states of the 27-nation bloc in preventing and combating organised crime and terrorism. Modi and the EU leaders did discuss the recent eight-week-long stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The Prime Minister’s reference to growing stress on rules-based international order appeared to be in the context of the aggression and expansionist moves on China, not only along the disputed boundary with India but also in the South China Sea, the East China Sea and Taiwan Strait. “As part of the review of the global and regional developments, our relations with China did come up during the summit. (The) Prime Minister shared our views on India-China relations in general and the current situation in border areas,” Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West) at the Ministry of External Affair (MEA), told journalists after the meeting. India and the EU on Wednesday agreed to set up a maritime security dialogue replacing the counter-piracy dialogue and explore opportunities for further maritime cooperation. They also agreed to deepen cooperation between the Indian Navy and the European Union Naval Force (EUNAVFOR) Atalanta. The two sides agreed to continue the regular exchange of views on disarmament, non-proliferation and export controls through the annual India-EU Dialogue on Disarmament and Non-Proliferation.  The Prime Minister and the EU leaders called for support to an open, free, stable and secure cyberspace, and their commitment to foster the responsible and liable behaviour of all the actors in the cyberspace. They underlined the need to increase global cyber resilience, including the health sector. India and the EU will continue to cooperate on international and regional issues of common interest including Iran and Afghanistan, according to a joint statement issued after the summit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-eu-leaders-discuss-chinas-aggression-along-lac-861702.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||DH toon: Truth can't be defeated, says Sachin Pilot after being sacked as Rajasthan Deputy CM||The decision to sack Pilot and two ministers -- Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena -- was taken at the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in Jaipur in the presence of AICC observers Randeep Singh Surjewala and Ajay Maken and AICC General Secretaries Avinash Pande and K C Venugopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-truth-cant-be-defeated-says-sachin-pilot-after-being-sacked-as-rajasthan-deputy-cm-861342.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||Not joining BJP, says Sachin Pilot||"I am not joining the BJP," Congress leader Sachin Pilot said on Wednesday, asserting that the speculation about his switching sides was being fuelled by certain leaders in Rajasthan to tarnish his image. Pilot's remarks come a day after the Congress sacked him as Rajasthan's deputy chief minister and the party's state unit president. Two loyalists of Pilot were also dropped from the state Cabinet. "I have worked very hard to bring the Congress party back in the government and defeat the BJP," he told PTI. In an apparent reference to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's camp, Pilot said some leaders in Rajasthan were trying to fuel speculation that he is joining the BJP and that he would like to categorically state that he was not doing so. "Such a speculation is being fuelled to tarnish my image," he said. After being sacked, Pilot had tweeted in Hindi on Tuesday, "Truth can be rattled, not defeated." Gehlot has accused his former deputy of playing into the hands of the BJP. Pilot had kept away from two CLP meetings held on Monday and Tuesday after which the action against him was taken. Pilot has been upset since the Congress picked Gehlot as the chief minister after the 2018 assembly polls, while his own supporters insisted that he deserved credit for the party's victory as its state unit president. The current crisis erupted last Friday when the Rajasthan Police sent a notice to Pilot, asking him to record his statement over the alleged bid to bring down the government. The same notice was sent to the chief minister and some other MLAs, but Pilot's supporters claimed that it was only meant to humiliate him. The Special Operation Group (SOG) had sent out the notices after tapping a phone conversation between two men, who were allegedly discussing the fall of the Gehlot government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-joining-bjp-says-sachin-pilot-861383.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||My loyalty to Congress ideology, not individual: Sanjay Jha||Sanjay Jha, who has been suspended by the Congress for anti-party activities, on Wednesday said he is loyal to the party's ideology, but his "fidelity is not to any individual or family. Jha, who has been critical of the way the Congress handled issues regarding rebel party leader Sachin Pilot, said he remains a Gandhi-Nehruvian idealist which is a vanishing breed within the Congress. The entrepreneur-turned-politician also said he will continue to raise issues that are fundamental to the resurgence of his party, and added that the battle has just begun. His comments came a day after Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat in a statement said Jha has been suspended from the party with immediate effect for anti-party activities and breach of discipline". Jha in a tweet on Wednesday said, My loyalty is to the Congress ideology. My fidelity is not to any individual or family. I remain a Gandhi-Nehruvian idealist (a vanishing breed within Congress). I will continue to raise issues that are fundamental to the resurgence of my party. The battle has just begun." Reacting to his suspension, Jha on Tuesday wondered what "anti-party activities" he had indulged in to invite the action from the Congress. He was dropped Jha as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson last month after he wrote a newspaper article critical of the party. He has also been critical of the way the Congress handled issues pertaining to rebel party leader Sachin Pilot, who was on Tuesday sacked as Rajasthan's deputy chief minister and the party's state unit president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/my-loyalty-to-congress-ideology-not-individual-sanjay-jha-861432.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||Congress may go the Rajasthan way in Bihar||It's not only in Rajasthan where the Congress is on the verge of an imminent split. In the poll-bound Bihar, the grand old party is heading towards a vertical split with the majority of the MLAs likely to shift their allegiance to Nitish Kumar's JD(U). This was confirmed by two Congress sources who conceded to DH that a senior minister, who is also a close aide to Bihar Chief Minister, is in an advanced stage of negotiations with the Congress legislators. "Shortly before the poll notification for Bihar Assembly election is announced, there will be a mass exodus in the Congress with around 15 out of 26 MLAs likely to cross over to the JD (U)," said the source. "The Congress had won 27 seats during 2015 Assembly polls. Out of which one legislator Md Javed became an MP in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Of the remaining 26 legislators, a large chunk of the MLAs owe their victory to Nitish, who was gracious enough to give Congress 41 seats out of 243 constituencies to contest in the Grand Alliance (which also then had RJD in its fold) in 2015," the source told DH here on Wednesday. Ruling party sources too have not denied the move as they feel there is no substitute to Nitish in Bihar. "The Congress MLAs, who are ready to cross over the fence, see a bleak future for themselves if they continue in the grand old party. By joining the JD(U), they will not only ensure their victory and strengthen Nitish's hands, but they will also bolster the Chief Minister's position within the NDA and ensure that the JD(U) plays the role of a big brother by wresting more seats than the BJP," a senior member in the ruling dispensation told DH. Most of these Congress legislators have been reportedly nursing grudges for long, as they are averse to joining hands with the RJD or playing second fiddle to Lalu's outfit after the RJD treated Congress shabbily during the parliamentary elections and gave merely nine Lok Sabha seats to contest out of 40 parliamentary constituencies in Bihar in 2019. "The split in Congress is inevitable. But it will take place most likely after the short-duration monsoon session of the State Assembly in August," said the source who earlier served as Bihar Congress president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-may-go-the-rajasthan-way-in-bihar-861433.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||Pilot says not joining BJP; Congress tells him door still open||Rebel leader Sachin Pilot on Wednesday reiterated that he was not joining the BJP as was being claimed by some leaders in Rajasthan, prompting the Congress to say that the doors of the party had not closed on him yet. Pilot told news channels that he was still a Congressman who had worked hard to bring the party back to power in Rajasthan. “Some leaders in Rajasthan trying to fuel speculation that I am joining BJP but I am not doing so,” Pilot told PTI. Congress had on Tuesday removed the dissident leader from the posts of Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister and the party’s state unit president, accusing him of hobnobbing with the BJP to topple Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot-led government. After Pilot’s reiteration on not joining the BJP, AICC General Secretary Avinash Pande said the Congress had not shut the doors on the rebel leader yet. “The party’s doors have not been shut for Pilot. May god give him wisdom to realise his mistake. I pray that he comes out of the elusive trap set by the BJP,” Pande said, noting that the party had given him key responsibilities in recognition of the hard work he had put in.  “Political struggle is a continuous process that cannot be measured in a few years. Faith and patience are basic principles of life and are most essential in politics,” Pande said. The words of counsel from the Congress leader came after the Rajasthan Assembly Secretariat issued notices to Pilot and 18 of his supporters seeking an explanation for skipping the Congress Legislature Party meetings on Sunday and Monday. The notices were issued on the complaint filed by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi under the anti-defection law. The rebels have been asked to respond to the notices within two days failing which the party would launch disqualification proceedings against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pilot-says-not-joining-bjp-congress-tells-him-door-still-open-861437.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||India losing power and respect everywhere, government has no idea what to do: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday launched a fierce attack on the government's foreign policy, saying the country is losing power and respect everywhere and the current dispensation does not know what to do. "India's global strategy is in tatters. We are losing power and respect everywhere and the Government of India (GOI) has no idea what to do," he tweeted. He cited a media report that claimed that Iran has dropped India from the Chabahar rail project, citing funding delays. The former Congress president has been attacking the government on its foreign policy and the Congress party has been alleging that it has failed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-losing-power-and-respect-everywhere-government-has-no-idea-what-to-do-rahul-gandhi-861447.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hits out at Uttar Pradesh govt over law and order situation in state||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday slammed the Yogi Adityanath government over the deteriorating law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, citing a kidnapping case in Kanpur. In a Facebook post, she said a young man was kidnapped by miscreants in Kanpur and his family was asked for a ransom for his release. "The family collected Rs 30 lakh by selling their house and wedding jewellery. At the behest of the police, the family handed over the bag full of money to the kidnappers and the police could neither catch the miscreants, nor their son could be freed," Priyanka Gandhi said. The family members of the kidnapped man are distraught, the Congress general secretary in-charge UP East added. Dubey, a wanted criminal, was shot dead on Friday last by police, who claimed he was trying to flee after the car carrying him from Ujjain overturned on an isolated stretch of the highway on the outskirts of the city. Dubey was wanted in connection with the ambush in Kanpur's Bikru village past midnight on July 2, killing eight policemen who had come to arrest him. According to media reports, first, it was stated that the report of a deceased person was negative for coronavirus and the body was handed over to the person's family. Then it was said the report was positive, but the ambulance came to take the body after 16 hours, Priyanka Gandhi said. This happened in the home district of the CM in Gorakhpur, she said. "Is this how the UP government is fighting coronavirus?" the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-hits-out-at-uttar-pradesh-govt-over-law-and-order-situation-in-state-861475.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||BJP stages protest seeking CBI probe into party MLA's death||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday staged demonstrations in front of police stations across West Bengal, demanding a CBI probe into the alleged murder of party MLA Debendra Nath Roy. Alleging that West Bengal has been turned into a "police raj" by the Mamata Banerjee government, BJP leader Sayantan Basu said the state government was making attempts to hide the “truth” of the case by claiming that it was a death by suicide. The Hemtabad MLA’s body was found hanging from the ceiling in a verandah outside a shuttered shop near his home at Bindal village in North Dinajpur district on Monday. Leading a demonstration in front of a police station in the city, BJP Mahila Morcha (West Bengal unit) president Agnimitra Paul claimed that there were "several loopholes in the suicide theory put forward by the police and the administration”. Demonstrations were also held in front of various police stations in Kolkata, the neighbouring Bidhannagar (Salt Lake) and other parts of the state. State-level leaders of the party, including Sayantan Basu, Jayprakash Majumdar and Sabyasachi Dutta, a former TMC mayor of Bidhannagar who joined the saffron party last year, were at the forefront of a protest rally before the Bidhannagar police commissionerate. The state BJP leadership claimed that it was a case of murder, and alleged foul play by the Trinamool Congress leadership in North Dinajpur district, within which Roy's constituency is situated. Alleging that Roy was murdered, the BJP had called a 12-hour bandh in north Bengal on Tuesday, even as the post-mortem report released on the same day said, Roy had died due to hanging and no other injury mark was found on his body. The BJP leader's family has also demanded a CBI inquiry into the incident, saying they suspected he was murdered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-stages-protest-seeking-cbi-probe-into-party-mlas-death-861537.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||Armed forces get special powers for capital procurement worth Rs 300 cr||In view of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, the defence ministry on Wednesday granted special powers to the three services for individual capital procurement programme worth Rs 300 crore to meet emergent operational requirements, officials said. They said there was no cap on the number of procurement programmes and that each acquisition under the emergency requirement category should not cost more than Rs 300 crore. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. "The DAC delegated the powers for progressing urgent capital acquisition cases of up to Rs 300 crore to the armed forces to meet their emergent operational requirements," the defence ministry said in a statement. The decision, it said, will shrink the procurement timelines and ensure placement of orders within six months and commencement of deliveries within one year. It said the special meeting of the DAC was convened considering the prevailing security environment along the northern borders and the need to strengthen the armed forces for the defence of the country's borders. The three services have started buying a range of military equipment, weapons and platforms in the last few weeks in the midst of the tense border row with China in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/armed-forces-get-special-powers-for-capital-procurement-worth-rs-300-cr-861591.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||Stop accepting BJP's 'hospitality', come back, Randeep Surjewala tells Sachin Pilot||The Congress on Wednesday virtually shut the doors on Sachin Pilot with sharp attacks from Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot who claimed that he had proof that Pilot was hobnobbing with the BJP and Assembly Speaker launching disqualification proceedings against him and his 18 supporters. Though the Congress made four public appeals to Pilot to return to the party fold, the final one after the latter reiterated that he was not joining the BJP, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala put a number of conditions including an open declaration of loyalty to the Congress and return to Jaipur. At the same time, Congress held out no assurance about his demands being met. In Jaipur, the Assembly Speaker asked Pilot and his 18 supporters to explain his absence from the meetings of the Congress Legislature Party held on Sunday and Monday, virtually pushing him to a corner. "We heard Sachin Pilot’s statement on not joining the BJP through the media. If you don't want to go to the BJP, then immediately reject the hospitality of the Haryana BJP government, free our MLAs from the BJP security ring at two hotels. Stop discussions with the BJP,” said Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala. AICC General Secretary Avinash Pande also made an appeal to Pilot’s supporters to return, after Gehlot’s show of strength by parading 104 MLAs and claiming support of five more, a slender majority in the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly. Amid the public appeals from Congress, Gehlot launched an all-out attack on Pilot accusing him of hobnobbing with the BJP to topple his government while holding the post of Deputy Chief Minister and the state Congress President. “It would be wrong to say that I am against the new generation of leaders. Rahul Gandhi likes them, Sonia Gandhi likes them, Ashok Gehlot likes them … they can serve the country better than us …. but if they go ahead and indulge in horse-trading themselves, then will they not harm the nation,” Gehlot told reporters in Jaipur. "Our deputy chief minister and PCC chief was himself conspiring with the BJP to topple the government. He was talking to the BJP, I have proof. Talks were held at 2:00 a.m.. It is good that we got to know of it in time,” the chief minister said. Gehlot’s attack came at a time when a section of the Congress felt that a rapprochement with Pilot was still possible. “Differences are not anti-party. They have to be sorted out and compromise worked out. We have done it over the years.” Alva said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/stop-accepting-bjps-hospitality-come-back-randeep-surjewala-tells-sachin-pilot-861599.html
15-07-2020||National Politics||BJP grooms young, Congress can't hold on to them||While Sachin Pilot episode highlighted the lack of a generational change in the Congress party’s central and state leadership, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is preparing for another round of generational shift in the key party roles this month, with at least 30% of new faces. After coming to power in 2014 at the Centre, the BJP kept mentoring future leadership, amid the flak invited for creating a Mardarshak Mandal in which party veterans like L K Advani and Murali Manohar Joshi were pushed, instead of being inducted into the Narendra Modi cabinet or being assigned major roles in the party. In 2017, when the Modi government carried out a major cabinet reshuffle, the attempt to bring in a new leadership was evident when Nirmala Sitharaman, Dharmendra Pradhan and Piyush Goyal were given key portfolios of defence, petroleum and railways. In 2019, many seniors in the BJP were pushed into backstage. Radhamohan Singh (70) who held the agriculture portfolio was pushed to party work. Former steel minister Chaudhary Birender Singh (74) was not allowed to contest. In the new Union cabinet, many young leaders became ministers. Gajendra Singh Shekhawat (52), a replacement to Vasundhara Raje in Rajasthan and Nityanand Rai (54) projected for a larger role in OBC-dominated politics of Bihar were among them. UP’s Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is 48 while Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat is 59. In contrast, the Congress is still stuck with elder leaders and the Gandhi dynasty. In the melee, many young leaders promoted by Rahul Gandhi moved over to greener pastures or quit, after slamming the senior leaders. Take the case of Sheila Dikshit, who lost to Arvind Kejriwal in 2013 after a 15 year-long-stint in which no second-rung leadership was allowed to develop. In 2017, Congress projected 78-year-old Sheila as the CM face for Uttar Pradesh and tasted defeat yet again. In most states, Congress has fallen back on veterans barring Chhattisgarh where Bhupesh Baghel (58) helmed the party affairs, after party veteran, 70-year-old Ajit Jogi quit the party in June 2016. In Odisha, where Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik of BJD is now 73, BJP has promoted Dharmendra Pradhan (51) and Baijayant Panda (56). In sharp contrast, Odisha Congress chief Niranjan Patnaik is 72. In 2017 Virbhadra Singh (83) was the Congress face in Himachal Pradesh. The party now lacks young leadership in the state. The same is true for Punjab where Amarinder Singh (78) still calls the shots. Jyotiraditya Scindia (49) and Pilot (42) are the recent examples of young leaders sidelined in the party. The Congress, thus, is in the danger of becoming irrelevant among the youth-dominated voter demography in near-future, with a vacuum in leadership, while the BJP will be ready with an army of young and energetic politicos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-grooms-young-congress-cant-hold-on-to-them-861709.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||CRPF man among 7 new Covid-19 deaths in J&K, toll 195||Dr Nazir Choudhary, Medical Superintendent at SMHS said the CRPF man of 66 Bn CRPF, who was admitted on Monday, died a few hours later. “His sample was taken and results came positive on Tuesday afternoon,” he said.  Srinagar district has contributed the most number of cases since 30 June and 14 July. 994 new cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in Srinagar followed by Baramulla with 477 and Kulgam with 197 positives during this time. Covid-19, as per health department advisories, can prove lethal to people aged over 60, pregnant women, those with hypertension, diabetes and other comorbid conditions. However, official data from J&K has shown that about 20 percent of deaths have taken place in people who had no underlying disease or condition. Many of them were young individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-man-among-7-new-covid-19-deaths-in-jk-toll-195-861330.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||In Kailash Joshi's memory, Bagli to be made district, says Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said Bagli will be made a district to fulfill the wishes of former CM, late Kailash Joshi. Chouhan was speaking in Hatpiplaya in Dewas district after unveiling a statue of Joshi. "It was Joshiji's wish to make Bagli a district and today, on his birth anniversary, I am announcing to make Bagli a new district," Chouhan said at the function which was also attended by Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia and state BJP president VD Sharma. Hatpiplaya is scheduled to have a bypoll, the date of which is yet to be announced. Chouhan sanctioned a micro-irrigation project worth Rs 2,540 crore having the potential to irrigate 96,800 hectare of land in the area as well as a Rs 241 crore 'nal jal' scheme to provide water to 103 villages. He also inaugurated development works worth Rs 25 crore and laid the foundation stone of a park dedicated to Joshi. Speaking at the function, Scindia said the previous Congress government under Kamal Nath had cheated people as it failed to write off farm loans or provide jobs to youth. Sharma said Joshi was known his values in politics and had worked hard to set up the BJP in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-kailash-joshis-memory-bagli-to-be-made-district-says-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-861339.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||May impose curfew, seal borders of four NCR districts: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||The state has so far reported 22,628 coronavirus cases, of which 15,425 have been detected in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR). So far, 238 of 312 fatalities in the state have been reported from the districts adjoining national capital Delhi. Gurgaon and Faridabad are the hardest hit as 7,126 and 5,665 cases, respectively, have surfaced there so far. Both districts have reported 109 and 101 fatalities, respectively. “We can think of sealing the boundaries of these four districts; we can think of imposing a curfew in these four districts,” Vij said in Chandigarh, where he attended his office at the Civil Secretariat after a gap of 35 days following recovery from a fractured thigh bone. For the past three weeks, the 67-year-old BJP leader had been carrying out official work from his residence in Ambala Cantt. Earlier in the day, while talking to reporters in Ambala, Vij, who is also the state's Health Minister, had said the state's recovery rate is over 75 percent, which is quite good. He said adequate arrangements, including isolation facilities, doctors and medicines are there to deal with coronavirus cases. “We are conducting over 15,000 tests per million. I have issued orders for two lakh rapid antigen testing kits, which will help us scale up our testing,” he said. "Eighty percent of our cases come from these districts (Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat, Jhajjar). If the need arises, in the interest of Haryana, if we have to impose stricter curbs to contain the spread of the infection, we will not hesitate to do so,” said Vij. When asked if the state government could impose a lockdown in the worst-affected areas, Vij replied, “In Haryana's interest, whatever is required to be done, I will do that.” Later in Chandigarh, Vij said one thing is clear that the surge in infections in the districts adjoining Delhi is linked to the national capital. He said any decision on imposing stricter measures will be taken after due consultations with all concerned. Vij said states have come up with different measures to contain the spread of the virus and the Haryana government will study which one can be implemented in the state. Earlier two months ago, while citing a sharp increase in coronavirus cases in Haryana districts adjoining Delhi, Vij had ordered sealing of borders with the national capital. Recently, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala had said the government will increase testing, hospital beds and ventilators to tackle coronavirus in some of the NCR districts. Special attention will be paid to the districts of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak and Jhajjar, Chautala had told reporters after a meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and attended by chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/may-impose-curfew-seal-borders-of-four-ncr-districts-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-861362.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Buddhist monks protest in Ayodhya, demand UNESCO excavate Ram Janmabhoomi site||Buddhist monks staged a sit-in and fast in Ayodhya on Tuesday, claiming that the Ram Janmabhoomi premises was a Buddhist site and demanded that the excavation of the place should be done by the UNESCO. At the protest outside the office of the Ayodhya district magistrate, the Buddhist monks demanded that those items found during the levelling of the land of the Ram Janmabhoomi site must be made public. A shivalinga, seven black touchstone pillars, six red sandstone pillars, a "flower pinnacle", and four broken idols of gods and goddesses were found in May during the levelling of the site for a Ram temple, the trust charged with its construction had said. The Buddhist monks demanded that the excavation of the site must be done by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), claiming that the items recovered belong to Buddhist culture. They demanded that the construction work of the Ram temple must be stopped immediately. The followers of Buddhism consider Ayodhya as the ancient city of Saket that was the centre of Buddhism in ancient times. "We have sent our memorandums to the President, chief justice of India and also to other government agencies through the Ayodhya administration," a Azad Baudh Dharm Sena member said. "If the construction of the Ram temple is not stopped within a month and the premises not assigned to the UNESCO for excavation, then we will again start our movement," he said. "We have received the memorandum of Buddhist leaders and we will be sending it to the persons addressed," Faizabad City Magistrate S P Singh said. "On our assurances, the Buddhist community has called off its sit-in and fast."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/buddhist-monks-protest-in-ayodhya-demand-unesco-excavate-ram-janmabhoomi-site-861369.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas along Line of Control in J&K's Akhnoor sector||Pakistani troops shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Akhnoor sector on Tuesday, officials said. "At about 19.45 hours today, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Akhnoor Sector of Jammu district", a defence spokesman said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly, he said. Two women were killed last Saturday in Pakistan shelling along the LoC in Poonch district. On July 10, an Army man was killed in a ceasefire violation by the Pakistan Army along the LoC in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-line-of-control-in-jks-akhnoor-sector-861379.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Congress to send disqualification notices to Pilot, MLAs for not attending CLP meet||Disqualification notices will be issued by Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C P Joshi to Sachin Pilot and other MLAs who did not attend the Congress Legislature Party meeting held on Monday and Tuesday, a senior party leader said. The Congress had on Tuesday cracked down on Sachin Pilot, stripping the dissident leader of the posts of Rajasthan's deputy chief minister and the party’s state unit president and sacking two loyalists from the state Cabinet. “The notices of disqualification will be issued to all such MLAs, including Sachin Pilot, who were absent from the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting through the Speaker of the legislative assembly,” AICC general secretary Avinash Pande said on Wednesday. He said the party has filed a petition before the Speaker for dismissal of such MLAs. If replies by the MLAs are not found to be justified, it is up to the Speaker to decide for action, he added. A total of 19 party MLAs, including Pilot, were absent from the CLP meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-to-send-disqualification-notices-to-pilot-mlas-for-not-attending-clp-meet-861400.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Civil Services candidates can get medical tests done in their states, UTs||So far, the candidates chosen for personality tests had to undergo medical tests in Delhi only. "In addition to the designated hospitals in Delhi, the medical examination of the candidates shall also be carried out in the designated Government Hospitals in the States/UTs, in view of the situation arisen due to Covid-19 pandemic," the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said in a gazette notification issued on Tuesday. Through the notification, the Rules of Civil Services Examination, 2019 has been amended to incorporate the changes.  The personality test for the Civil Services Examination will restart from July 19, as the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) could not complete the interviews due to the pandemic and lockdown. The Civil Service Examination chooses candidates for the elite services of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Foreign Service (IFS) among others. The Commission has already postponed the date of the Civil Services preliminary examination 2020 to October 4 due to the pandemic situation. Earlier, it was scheduled for May 30. Recently, the UPSC had allowed candidates the option to change their choice of examination centre owing to travel disruption in some states. The UPSC had given candidates two windows for submitting the revised choice  -- July 7-13 and July 20-24 -- on the Commission’s website https://upsconline.nic.in.  The requests for change in the centres will be considered based on the principle of "first apply-first allot" basis, the UPSC had said. "Once the capacity of a particular Centre is attained, the same will be frozen. The candidates, who cannot get a centre of their choice due to the ceiling, will be required to choose a centre from the remaining ones," it had said. In addition, the UPSC is also making a window for withdrawing applications between August 1 and 8. "Once the application has been withdrawn by the candidate, it cannot be revived in future under any circumstances," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civil-services-candidates-can-get-medical-tests-done-in-their-states-uts-861411.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||SC asks J&K to explain Kashmir bar leader's detention even after order expiry||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to explain the basis for the detention of Kashmir Bar Association President Mian Abdul Qayoom in jail here after the lapse of one year period.  A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Indu Malhotra decided to take up the matter on July 23. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave questioned the detention of 73-year-old Bar leader beyond one year period as per the order passed under the Public Safety Act. "We would like to know the basis for his detention in Tihar jail here," he asked. Mehta, for his part, sought 10 days time to respond to the contention. He also claimed that he has not been served with a copy of the petition. Countering Mehta's submission, Dave questioned the additional time sought in a habeas corpus petition. The court then asked Mehta to respond to the plea, pointing out all cases cited against him pertained to the year 2010 and prior to that. Qayoom challenged the validity of the High Court's judgement of May 28 dismissing his plea against the detention following the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019.  The septuagenarian-petitioner, a senior advocate, contended that the Hig Court's order was illegal, unconstitutional and untenable as it erred in relying upon four FIRs lodged against him in the year 2008 and 2010.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-jk-to-explain-kashmir-bar-leaders-detention-even-after-order-expiry-861424.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court rejects plea against 100% domicile job quota in J&K||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to consider a plea against 100% domicile reservation in public employment in Jammu and Kashmir, months after the withdrawal of the special status of the erstwhile state and its bifurcation into two Union Territories. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat told the petitioners, Najum Ul Huda and Nishant Khatri, to approach the High Court. The petitioners claimed 100% reservation on the basis of domicile and residence was an "unambiguous violation of law as it would render the guarantee of equal opportunity contained in Articles 16(1) and 16(2) wholly meaningless and illusory". They challenged the validity of the decisions taken by the Union government on March 31, 2020, amending J&K Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act, 2010 by an executive order and another order issued on April 3 which stated that no person would be entitled to appointment to any post unless he or she was a domicile of Jammu and Kashmir. The petitioners said no citizen can be discriminated on the ground of residence and only Parliament was competent to enact a law to provide residence-based or domicile reservation in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. After revoking of Article 370 of the Constitution, Jammu and Kashmir did not enjoy any special status and all laws and the Supreme Court judgements were applicable in the Union Territory, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-rejects-plea-against-100-domicile-job-quota-in-jammu-and-kashmir-861438.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||45 prisoners test positive for Covid-19 in Kashmir||The samples of 239 inmates, staffers and mess staff of the jail were collected after a Public Safety Act (PSA) detainee of Kupwara, Zahoor Bhat – brother of JKLF founder Maqbool Bhat, was declared positive for the virus on July 11. “Besides Bhat, 45 jail inmates have tested positive,” an official said and added the sample of an official, a staffer, and a supplier of essentials also returned positive. He said the positive cases are being isolated. The jail located in the Mattan area of southern Anantnag district has a capacity of around 80 inmates but is overcrowded with around 180 prisoners.   At present 3,633 people, including 109 females, are lodged in different jails in Jammu and Kashmir. J&K Director General of Police, Prisons, V K Singh recently said there is no indication of release of any detainees in the near future. “Only those released who are being bailed out by courts,” he said. On Tuesday, J&K saw 346 new cases of Covid-19, which included, an infant, many children and doctors. The total in the Union Territory till July 14 evening was 11173.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/45-prisoners-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kashmir-861439.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||BJP worker kidnapped in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla||A BJP worker was allegedly kidnapped by unknown persons in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, officials said here.  Mehrajuddin Malla, who is also the vice chairman of Municipal Committee Watergam, was allegedly kidnapped at Marazigund in Rafiabad area of the district while he was on his way to Sopore town, they said. The officials said police has taken cognisance of the matter and launched operations to rescue the BJP worker. The incident comes less than a week after BJP leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and father were shot dead by militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Bandipora district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-worker-kidnapped-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-baramulla-861440.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Woman strangulated to death for dowry in Uttar Pradesh||A 24-year-old woman was allegedly strangulated to death by her father-in-law and others over demands for dowry in Johra village here, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Tuesday, they said. A case has been registered against the victim's father-in-law Santram, brother-in-law Lokesh and his wife Jaiyanti in this regard, police said. According to the police, the victim, Manisha, was harassed by her husband's family members over dowry. Efforts are on to trace the accused who are absconding, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-strangulated-to-death-for-dowry-in-uttar-pradesh-861441.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||122 ‘criminals’ killed in 6,126 encounters in Uttar Pradesh in past 3 years; 13 cops lose their lives||As many as 122 alleged criminals were killed in over 6,000 encounters in Uttar Pradesh in the past three years, while 13 policemen also lost their lives during this period, a senior police official said. He also said over 2,000 criminals were injured in police action, while over 13,000 of them have been arrested. "Thirteen policemen have been killed in action in as many as 6,126 encounters (in UP), while as many as 122 criminals have been gunned down," Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar told PTI while sharing details of police encounters from March 20, 2017, to July 10, 2020. “As many as 13,361 criminals have been arrested, while 2,296 criminals were injured in police encounters,” he said, adding 909 policemen were also injured in these incidents. Referring to the Kanpur ambush in which eight policemen were killed, Kumar said, "Of the 21 named accused in the incident, six have been killed and four arrested so far. A hunt is on to nab the 11 other accused." Eight police personnel, including a DSP, were gunned down by the henchmen of gangster Vikas Dubey in Bikru village of Kanpur on July 3. Seven others, including a civilian, were injured in the attack after the police team entered the village past July 2 midnight to arrest the gangster. Dubey was later killed in an encounter on July 10 after police claimed that he tried to escape from the spot in the Bhauti area where the vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident. Kumar said overall there has been a decline in the crime rate in the state this year compared to the last year. "A total of 579 instances of loot took place in the state from January 1, 2020, to June 15, 2020. This is 44.17 per cent less compared to the crimes committed in the same period in 2019,” the ADG (Law and Order) said. He said 33 incidents of dacoity have been reported in the state this year so far. “It is 37.74 per cent less compared to the crimes committed in the same period in 2019”. Similarly, 2,604 instances of burglary have taken this year so far and is 30.97 per cent less compared to the crimes committed in the same period last year, Kumar added. He said 1,019 dowry-related deaths have taken place this year, registering a 6.34 per cent decline compared to the previous year. As many as 913 incidents of rape have been reported this year so far, a decline of 25.41 per cent compared to the last year, Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/122-criminals-killed-in-6126-encounters-in-uttar-pradesh-in-past-3-years-13-cops-lose-their-lives-861482.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 situation in Delhi better than in June: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Covid-19 situation in the national capital is better than in June, but the war against the disease has not been won yet. Addressing an online media briefing, he said, "The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is under control but we do not have to be complacent. We will continue our preparations." He said his government's first principle of combating the disease is that the Covid-19 fight cannot be won alone, that is why, the AAP dispensation sought cooperation from everyone, be it the Centre, hotels and other organisations. He also said that the coronavirus situation in Delhi is better as compared to June. There are 18,600 active cases of coronavirus in Delhi, Kejriwal said, adding that only 4,000 beds have so far been occupied. The Delhi government has also been conducting 20,000-23,000 Covid-19 tests every day, the CM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-in-delhi-better-than-in-june-arvind-kejriwal-861484.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Navy official killed in car crash, 2 colleagues hospitalised||A Navy official died while two of his colleagues were injured when their speeding car rammed into a vehicle on a highway in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida early on Wednesday, police said. The trio, all of them around 35, was en route to Delhi from Allahabad when their car crashed on the Yamuna Expressway, they said. "The incident took place on the route from Greater Noida towards Noida around 3.25 am. One of them, identified as Satishchand Gangwar, died in the crash. The others, Kuldeep Das and Dhananjay Singh, were injured," an official from the local Rabupura police station said. The injured have been hospitalised at a private facility, the official said. Police said the other vehicle's details were yet to be known. The three were residents of 1 UP Naval Unit in Chaitham Lines area of Allahabad, the police said, adding that further proceedings were underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-navy-official-killed-in-car-crash-2-colleagues-hospitalised-861493.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Five Naxals surrender in Chhattisgarh||Five Naxals, three of them collectively carrying a reward of Rs five lakh, have surrendered in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district, police said on Wednesday. Since the local police last month launched a campaign asking rebels to return to the mainstream, 58 Naxals have so far surrendered in Dantewada, Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said. "On Tuesday, five cadres turned themselves in before police, saying they were disillusioned by the hollow Maoist ideology and at the same time were impressed by the local police's Lon Varratu (a term coined in local Gondi dialect which means 'return to your village/home') rehabilitation campaign," he said. Out of the five who surrendered, Jagdish alias Ratan Kawasi (30), who was carrying a reward of Rs 3 lakh on his head, was the "most dreaded one", the official said, adding that he was active as deputy commander of Bodhghat LGOS (local guerrilla operating squad). He was allegedly involved in various Naxal attacks, including the Jhara Ghati ambush in Narayanpur district in 2007 wherein seven policemen were killed, and Mardapal attack in Kondagaon the same year in which nine policemen lost their lives, he said. Jagdish was also part of Maoists technical team and used to make muzzle loading guns, single shotguns, 12 bore guns, claymore pipe bombs, improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and other explosives, and also used to repair sophisticated rifles, Pallava said. Two other surrendered cadres, Kamlesh alias Motu Ram Poyami (22), an LGOS member, and Mani Ram Alami (24), head of Jantana Sarkar group of Maoists, were carrying rewards of Rs 1 lakh each, he said. Besides, Janmilitia members Balku Kashyap (20) and Shivnath alias Manuram Poyami (25) also surrendered. They all have been given an immediate assistance of Rs 10,000 each and will be provided facilities further as per the government's surrender and rehabilitation policy, the police official said. Under the 'Lon Varratu' initiative, the police have been putting up posters and banners in the native villages of Naxals, who carry cash rewards on their head. The posters mention the names of rebels and appeal to them to join the mainstream, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-naxals-surrender-in-chhattisgarh-861500.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||All Punjab ministers to undergo coronavirus test||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has advised his cabinet colleagues to undergo test for coronavirus after one of the ministers tested positive for the infection. “All the cabinet ministers will give their samples for testing (coronavirus) today. Their results will come by today evening or tomorrow,” Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu told reporters here on Wednesday. Officials said the chief minister has advised his ministers to get themselves tested as a precautionary measure. Punjab Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Tuesday had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He is the first minister in the state to contract the infection. Sidhu said Bajwa, who is admitted to a private hospital in Mohali, is stable. “He is completely fine. He is likely to be put under home quarantine by tomorrow evening,” the health minister said. Sidhu appealed to people to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines to contain the spread of the disease. “People must maintain social distancing and wear masks and follow the government guidelines,” he said. Punjab's Covid tally had reached 8,511 with 213 deaths by Tuesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-punjab-ministers-to-undergo-coronavirus-test-861523.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 situation better in Delhi than June, but war against virus not won yet, says Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the current Covid-19 situation in the national capital is better than what it was in June, but the war against the disease has not been won yet. He said had the Delhi government fought the virus alone, it would have "failed" and therefore his dispensation sought cooperation from the BJP-led Centre, NGOs, and other organisations. "Our first principle was that this fight cannot be won alone," Kejriwal said. The chief minister said the AAP government will continue its preparations to deal with any spike in Covid-19 cases. Addressing an online media briefing, the chief minister said according to the Centre's formula, Delhi was expected to have 2.25 lakh cases by July 15, but at present, there are only 1.15 lakh cases. As the Covid-19 cases had started rising in the first week of June, it was expected that there would be 1.34 lakh active cases by July 15,  but till date, there are only 18,600 active cases in the city. "We are in a better situation today, as compared to June, but it does not mean we have won the war (against Covid-19). We have yet to go a long way. There may be a spike again in Covid-19 cases. We don't have to be complacent. We will not sit idle. We will have to be fully prepared," Kejriwal said. The 'Delhi Model', which was recently praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is based on collective efforts by the AAP government, the Centre, other organisations and all political parties, he said and thanked the BJP the and Congress for their cooperation. The chief minister said the Delhi government worked on three principles after realising that the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be won alone. "If the Delhi government had thought it would win the fight against coronavirus alone, we would have failed. Our first principle was that this fight cannot be won alone. "Our second principle was that we did not criticise our critics for their views about our work. We improved things after somebody flagged it. The third principle was that we did not accept defeat. Had we accepted defeat, there would have been a surge in the numbers of deaths," he also said. According to Kejriwal, the government scaled-up testing for Covid-19 aggressively and daily 20,000 to 23,000 tests are being conducted in Delhi. "The Covid-19 situation is under control, but we will continue our preparations against the virus," he said. Lauding his government's home-isolation policy, he said due to it, people are coming forward in large numbers to undergo tests. "There are 15,500 beds in Covid-19 care facilities. On June 1, we had only 300 ICU beds, but today, we have 2,100 ICU beds out of which 1,000 have so far been occupied," he said. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 1,606 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the city to over 1.15 lakh, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,446.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-better-in-delhi-than-june-but-war-against-virus-not-won-yet-says-arvind-kejriwal-861541.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: No complete lockdown in Uttarakhand from Thursday, says Government||The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday denied reports of a complete lockdown in the state from July 16 to July 31 and said no such decision has been taken yet. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has asked a senior police officer to take stern action against those spreading the false news, an official spokesperson said. He said reports of a complete lockdown surfacing on social media are "untrue and misleading". No such decision has been taken yet, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-no-complete-lockdown-in-uttarakhand-from-thursday-says-government-861598.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||BJP will lose power in MP after bypoll results: Cong leader||Accusing the BJP of forming the government in Madhya Pradesh through "backdoor" earlier this year, Congress's state working president Jitu Patwari on Wednesday said that after the results of the bypolls to 25 Assembly seats, the saffron party will again be out of power. He said that the Congress delegation would soon meet the Election Commission (EC) to seek immediate bypolls in the state. In the 230-member state Assembly, 25 seats are currently lying vacant. Bypolls to these seats are necessitated due to the resignation of 23 leaders from their Assembly membership and death of two sitting legislators. "After the by-polls, the BJP, which came to power through the backdoor by luring the Congress men, will be out of the government as people will give a befitting reply to it," Patwari told reporters. "A Congress delegation will soon meet the EC officials to demand that by-elections be held in the state immediately," the former state minister said. Chouhan took oath as chief minister for a record fourth term on March 23, after Kamal Nath resigned from the post following rebellion by 22 MLAs of the Congress. Out of the 22 MLAs who walked away with former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, 14 were inducted into the cabinet by Chouhan. All of them are not legislators at present and will have to contest bypolls. Alleging that the current BJP government was indulging in corruption and luring other MLAs, he said, "That is why, holding by-polls soon is very essential." Referring to Jyotiraditya Scindia's allegations of corruption during the previous Congress rule in the state, Patwari said that the BJP leader was leveling "baseless" charges. He asked Scindia to provide the proof of corruption in different departments like health, women and child development, and transport, during the erstwhile government. Patwari mentioned these departments as they were held by Scindia supporters during the previous Congress dispensation. Patwari also alleged that Scindia supporters were given plum portfolios in the Chouhan government as they were aware that they would lose the by-polls. He claimed that the Congress will depute senior MLAs to keep an eye on these departments and their activities. Replying to a query, he said that former chief minister Kamal Nath is likely to be elected as the Leader of Opposition in the state assembly. Patwari also hit out at the Chouhan government saying that although the coronavirus pandemic has not come under control yet, the BJP was organising political rallies in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-will-lose-power-in-mp-after-bypoll-results-cong-leader-861613.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Six family members killed during clash in Mandla district of Madhya Pradesh||Two brothers allegedly killed six members of a family during a dispute in Madhya Pradesh's Mandla district on Wednesday evening, the police said. The accused were related to the victims' family, as per the preliminary probe. The gruesome incident took place at Maneri village under Bijadandi police station area, about 100 km from the district headquarters. "It is confirmed that six persons have died so far. All the deceased are members of a family," said Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vikram Singh Kushwaha. The accused were identified as Harish Soni and his younger brother Santosh Soni who were related to the victims, he added. Further probe was on, the ASP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-family-members-killed-during-clash-in-mandla-district-of-madhya-pradesh-861618.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 death toll higher in Kashmir than what is being reported, claims doctors' association||A doctors' association in Kashmir on Wednesday claimed that the Covid-19 death toll was higher in the Valley than what was being reported. It claimed that the official count of Covid-19 fatalities in the valley is an underestimate and only provides a snapshot of the “true” death toll. “Many Covid-19 deaths go unreported in Kashmir,” Doctors Association of Kashmir (DAK) president Dr Nisar ul Hassan said. Hassan said many people with coronavirus symptoms do not get themselves tested because of the fear of stigma and quarantine of family members. “Social stigma makes people hide their illness and keep them away from seeking health care,” he said. Hassan said people also fear that if they die of Covid-19, they will not get a “decent burial”. “As a result, people are choosing to die at home, unrecorded,” he claimed. “Another apparent deterrent to testing is widespread conspiracy theories about the virus. People believe that Covid is a hoax and the virus is fabricated,” he added. The DAK president said while hospitalisation and the death rate is higher among the elderly people, many are not tested for coronavirus. “Older people don't develop typical Covid symptoms. In them, feeling weak or confused may be the only sign of having the infection,” he said. Hassan said, “Many patients with heart or lung disease die of Covid, but their death is attributed to their underlying condition.” The Kashmir valley has witnessed over 180 deaths of Covid-19 patients so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-toll-higher-in-kashmir-than-what-is-being-reported-claims-doctors-association-861624.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Local BJP leader kidnapped in Kashmir's Baramulla||Days after a BJP leader and his two family members were shot dead by militants, a saffron party worker was allegedly kidnapped by unidentified ultras in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Wednesday. Mehraj Din Mallah, who was allegedly kidnapped in Watergam, Baramulla on Wednesday morning, is the vice-president of the municipal committee (MC) in Watergam. BJP J&K spokesperson Altaf Thakur said Malla was walking on a road when the kidnappers bundled him in the vehicle and took him away. “The kidnappers threw away his mobile phone. Malla might be kidnapped by militants. Why should someone kidnap him other than militants,” he said. The Jammu and Kashmir Police said it has launched a manhunt to trace Malla, who is son of senior BJP leader Ghulam Muhammad who had joined the party in 2012 and since then his son was also part of the BJP. The incident comes a week after BJP leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and father were shot dead by militants in northern Bandipora district. The killings triggered panic and a sense of fear among the BJP leaders in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/local-bjp-leader-kidnapped-in-kashmirs-baramulla-861658.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||Dubey’s aide killed in ‘encounter’ was minor, says kin||A fresh controversy erupted in gangster Vikas Dubey’s ‘encounter’ case after it emerged that one of his associates gunned down by the police in a separate encounter was a ‘minor’. Two alleged key aides of Vikas identified as Prabhat Mishra and Baua Dubey had been gunned down in an ‘encounter’ on July 10. It later emerged that Prabhat alias Kartikey was a little over 16, according to his mark cards of high school examination, for which he had appeared in 2018. The police, in the FIR lodged against Kartikey, had claimed that his age was 20. Kartikey’s family members claimed that he was ‘innocent’. “My brother (Kartikey) had no criminal history... he was innocent,” his sister said. The police, however, claimed that Kartikey had tried to escape after snatching the pistol of a cop while he was being brought to Kanpur. On being asked to surrender, he opened fire. He was killed when the police fired in self-defence. ''It does not matter if a criminal is minor....he was part of the Vikas Dubey gang, which was involved in the killing of eight cops,'' said a senior police official here. Samajwadi Party's IP Singh slammed the UP government over what he termed 'killing' a minor in a 'fake' encounter and demanded a thorough probe into the matter. Vikas and five alleged members of his gang have so far been gunned down in different 'encounters' with the police after eight cops were ambushed at Bikaru village on July 3 by the gangster and his associates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dubey-s-aide-killed-in-encounter-was-minor-says-kin-861664.html
15-07-2020||North and Central||ASHA workers in Himachal Pradesh get smartphones to perform duties efficiently||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has distributed free smartphones to accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers in the state to help them perform their duties efficiently, an official statement said. The phones were distributed to some of the total 7,842 ASHA workers as part of a scheme launched by the chief minister, an ASHA union representative said, adding that the remaining workers would be provided with the phones soon. Addressing the workers through video conference, Thakur said with the help of the smartphones, ASHA workers would be able to use applications like 'Himarogya', 'TB Mukt Himachal' app and perform their jobs efficiently, the statement said. He said the mobile phones would also help them in effective dissemination of information, education and communication through single push button including videos and posters and bulk SMS, it said. The chief minister said the state government had given an incentive of Rs 1000 per month for four months from March to June to ASHA workers and is providing another incentive of Rs 2000 per month for July and August, it said. He said ASHA workers not only helped in detecting the people with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms but also motivated them to strictly follow quarantine norms. Later, presiding over a meeting with deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officers of the state through video conferencing from Shimla, Thakur directed them to keep a strict vigil on the arrival of migrant labourers, particularly in industrial units. Thakur said the state government had decided that industrialists or their contractors would be allowed to bring labourers after due approval of the administration and they would be quarantined as per the guidelines issued by the health department. The chief minister said that big industrial units would have to create adequate quarantine capacities. He also directed the industries and labour and employment departments to keep a strict vigil on industrial units to follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued from time to time in this regard. Thakur said that keeping in view the festive season, the state government has decided not to open temples and other religious places in the state for the time being to avoid overcrowding. He also directed the officers to strictly enforce the decision of allowing the participation of not more than 50 people in marriages and other family functions. Thakur said about 1,557 residents of Himachal Pradesh have returned to the state from 78 cities of 61 foreign countries after being medically examined. He said that out of these 1,117 people had arrived at New Delhi airport, 192 at Amritsar airport and 248 at Chandigarh international airport. The chief minister also directed the DCs to be more vigilant keeping in view the rainy season as it may increase the cases of viral and related ailments causing an extra burden on health institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asha-workers-in-himachal-pradesh-get-smartphones-to-perform-duties-efficiently-861688.html
15-07-2020||Oasis||An egalitarian understanding of colour||Very recently, the cricketing legend Sir Michael Holding of West Indies delivered an impassioned speech on racism and colour consciousness, prior to a test match between England and West Indies. The essence of his thought-stirring speech was— if we educate ourselves and evolve, these colour-based differences shall vanish forever. Yes, to eradicate this obnoxious and inveterate idea of racial and colour supremacy, we all need to evolve collectively.  It is not the skin-pigmentation that is of any importance or consequence, it is the inner fabric of an individual that is of paramount significance. Hadis (not Hadith, that’s erroneous and started by the Indian scribes) say—Aztam ul-faam ya niz insaan shghist (It’s the human not his/her colour that matters). Urdu poet Nooh Narvi says, “Seerat ke hum ghulaam hain, soorat nahin toh kya/Hoorein falak ki shaida theen, Hazrat Bilaal par” (I respect a person’s persona and not his/her countenance/The houries of the heaven were smitten by Bilaal). It is worthwhile to mention that Hazrat Bilaal was the first muazzin (one who calls the devout followers to the mosque for prayers) of Islam who hailed from North Africa. His skin-colour was pitch-dark and he was of African origin.  What’s important is—we all need to have an egalitarian understanding of colour equality and consciousness. On what basis, can we call ourselves evolved if we still adhere to prejudices that this colour is desirable and that colour is undesirable? Urdu poet Sahir Ludhianavi aptly penned, “Rang aur nasl, zaat aur mazhab/Jo bhi ho aadmi se kamtar hai” (Whether it’s colour, race, creed or anything/Human is most sublime and supreme; all other concerns and considerations are subservient to the intrinsic greatness of a human). We all need to rise above this quotidian pettiness to call ourselves to be veritably emancipated and really evolved. The ingrained misconception that the black is bad or a black person is a sub-human, belonging to a subaltern society must be removed and plucked out of the collective human conscience. Let’s look forward to having a seamless world sans any silly differences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/an-egalitarian-understanding-of-colour-861669.html
15-07-2020||Opinion||Why the Sachin Pilot rebellion won’t alter Congress 'family' DNA||The ongoing political drama in Rajasthan has understandably added to the uneasiness in the Congress about the leadership vacuum in the party.  There is an all-round acknowledgement that the brewing differences between Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot could have been sorted out if a proactive Congress leadership had stepped in before this feud degenerated into an ugly public spectacle. It was for the same reason that the Congress lost a prominent party face, Jyotiraditya Scindia, and government in Madhya Pradesh, to the BJP barely a few months ago.  A directionless party post-2019 Lok Sabha polls The truth is that the Congress has been in a state of limbo ever since Rahul Gandhi put in his papers as party chief over a year ago. Sonia Gandhi’s appointment as interim Congress president may have staved off an immediate crisis but the fact that it is only a temporary arrangement has been cold comfort to the dejected and dispirited rank and file. As the Congress loses state governments and leaders and shows no signs of revival, there is a sense of urgency in the party that a full-time president be appointed at the earliest to provide direction to its cadre. This has led to the usual clamour from party sycophants that Rahul Gandhi be brought back to helm the Congress.  But there is also a silent majority in the party which is not only sceptical about Rahul Gandhi’s return but believes it is now time a non-Gandhi is given charge of the Congress. Besides the fact that there is growing revulsion to dynastic politics among the people, the Nehru-Gandhi scion has also failed to deliver for them. The earlier reverence for the Congress  “first family” stemmed from the belief that the Gandhis kept the party united and that they were a passport to power. Gandhis no longer as powerful   With the family charisma fading, the Gandhis are no longer in a position to hold the party together as recent developments have shown or to win elections. The Congress footprint has shrunk – the party is virtually non-existent in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand – and is struggling for survival elsewhere. Rahul Gandhi clearly lacks the Midas touch with the party registering a poor double-digit tally in the last two Lok Sabha elections.  The former Congress president also finds himself handicapped by the BJP’s high-voltage campaign caricaturing him and making him a butt of jokes. As a result, he is not taken seriously and is not seen as a worthy prime ministerial candidate. At the same time, the Congress is haemorrhaging. The exit of several senior and prominent leaders from the Congress fold – from Sharad Pawar and Mamata Banerjee to Jagan Reddy, Himanta Biswa, Jyotiraditya Scindia and now Sachin Pilot – shows that the presence of the Gandhis does not necessarily ensure greater internal cohesion.  But can a non-Gandhi take over? The big question at this stage is if Rahul Gandhi should take over the reins of the party given his past record. Or should the baton be handed over to someone outside the family fold? If at all, the Gandhis do decide to step aside, it is unlikely to leave the field open to younger contenders who have the potential to eclipse Rahul Gandhi. Or entrust the reins of the party to someone who could function independently. Sonia Gandhi has learnt a bitter lesson in this regard from her past experience when P V Narasimha Rao and Sitaram Kesari, seen to be pliable and trustworthy, showed they were no push-overs. Both were eventually given the sack. The situation today is far worse. The authority of the Gandhi family is substantially weakened. Under these circumstances, it cannot afford to hand over the party to someone who may eventually decide to fly solo. Nevertheless, several names from outside the family have been doing the rounds. Chief ministers Ashok Gehlot and Amarinder Singh are among them. Gehlot is a Gandhi family loyalist and is politically savvy while Singh has charisma. But age is not on his side. However, it is highly unlikely that the two would relinquish the chief minister’s post to take charge of the Congress.  Then, there is Dalit leader Mallikarjun Kharge but like Singh, his age works against him. Mukul Wasnik was a front turner for the Congress president’s post last year but the party preferred to bring back Sonia Gandhi. As a Dalit and also a loyal family retainer, Wasnik fits the bill. Digvijaya Singh has the necessary qualifications to head the party but he has blotted his copybook with his penchant for landing the party in trouble with his controversial statements. Also, he is unlikely to be sufficiently subservient or play second fiddle to the Gandhis.    Clearly, the Congress has a tough task on hand. On one hand, it has an array of leaders from outside the Gandhi family fold who could be picked for the job though they don't necessarily have a pan-Indian presence for it. On the other hand, there is Rahul Gandhi who comes with a lot of baggage. However, his lineage combined with a lack of consensus on a non-Gandhi, have put him ahead in the race. (Anita Katyal is a Delhi-based journalist and a keen observer of domestic political developments) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-the-sachin-pilot-rebellion-won-t-alter-congress-family-dna-861370.html
15-07-2020||Opinion||Taking the right approach to child labour in Indian pastoral communities||The Indian case for child labour in pastoralism has been adequately overlooked, despite agriculture and its various branches being the largest employer of child labour.  However, many would argue that the need for children to work in pastoral communities is inevitable to keep the livelihood alive and does not necessarily conform to norms of child labour. The involvement of children in pastoral communities has been traditionally acceptable and age-appropriate tasks have enabled children to learn certain skills of inherent social, economic, and cultural value. Even though there is hardly any evidence that helps in understanding how children’s contribution to pastoral communities in India has transitioned over a while, it is crucial to pay attention to the increasing socio-economic threats to pastoralists in the wake of globalised supply chains impacting agricultural sub-sectors and inadequate government policies. Such factors have led to the exclusion of heterogeneous pastoral communities from the market economy causing a decline in their household income, further creating conditions for children to engage in hazardous work and replace adults in many activities.  Hazardous experience for children Children, as young as ten, are involved in time-consuming activities, such as herding where they are regularly exposed to harsh climatic conditions. Often, the children work in unhygienic conditions that pose certain risks to their health. The Child Labour and Adolescent (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 2016, also allows children to be engaged in ‘family work’, a term that is not clearly defined, justifying child labour in the pastoral sector and its related sub-sectors. Rewant Ram, working with Urmul Trust in Bikaner district has been leading on-ground efforts in enhancing resilience and sustainability of pastoral livelihood options. He shared, “The parents are aware of the associated health risks during the long arduous journeys they undertake. These children remain at the risk of contracting diseases such as Anthrax from their infected animals and limited access to healthcare facilities along the pasture routes further jeopardises their well-being. The children are even forced to discontinue their school education resulting in limited livelihood diversification in the future. This traps the future generations in a vicious cycle of poor education levels, limited opportunities and poverty.” With the majority of pastoralist communities being seasonal migrants, their children remain deprived of consistent quality education opportunities. Even when they are able to get enrolled in school, the overlaps in academic years and the inevitable need to work in order to sustain family income eventually makes them drop out of school. There is also a serious dearth of support systems and monitoring mechanisms at the policy level to help the child cope up with the learning difficulties due to differences in curriculum and language. Additionally, requirements such as Aadhaar and the need of a residence proof for enrolment makes it difficult for the children to be enrolled in school as most of the pastoralists have are not even registered. The children also face caste-based apathy and are often mistreated because of the stereotypes about pastoral communities. These challenges are enough to create negative circumstances for children preventing them from exercising their human right to education.  It is also important to understand that addressing the issue of child labour in pastoralism and ensuring access to quality education for these children is not only a child rights issue but a part of the quest for sustainable rural development, food security, and strengthening of pastoral livelihoods.  Need for strong policy interventions Little has been done towards increasing the access of social, cultural, and financial capital for pastoralists and they have been relegated to the peripheries of the society, leaving very limited scope for engagement with them. From environmental risks and impacts, declining livestock health and capital, to restrictions in mobility due to COVID-19, the condition of millions of pastorals and their children is now more complex than ever.  An approach that separates the issue of child labour in pastoralism from pastoralism distress will only lead to reinventing of the wheel. It is high time that the environmental and economic contributions of pastoralists are acknowledged with strong policy support and implementation.  Children of pastoralist groups such as the Gujjars and Bakkarwals of Jammu and Kashmir and Changpas of Ladakh, where political imbalances have impacted their existence, are worst-hit besides others who have been struggling to get themselves registered and some, and are now on the verge of giving up their identities to accepted into the larger part of society.  Perhaps, these facts are indication enough to start asking the right questions about why certain communities where children’s work was, at one point, akin to sustaining the community livelihood and preserving the indigenous knowledge, are now at the periphery.  Learning about how children’s quality participation in agricultural sub-sectors became hazardous work and designing interventions, needs an extremely nuanced and cross-sectoral approach to prevent child labour.  Without ensuring efforts towards meaningful growth, preservation, and strengthening of pastoral communities economically, socially as well as politically, it is unlikely that children will transition from hazardous work to decent livelihood, as pastoralists tend to be pushed into hazardous work and remain out of school. (Aastha Maggu is Programme Manager with Desert Resource Centre and Gazal Malik is Policy Research Coordinator at Global March Against Child Labour. The views and opinions expressed in this article are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/taking-the-right-approach-to-child-labour-in-indian-pastoral-communities-861406.html
15-07-2020||Opinion||Teamwork: the pull of a superordinate goal||In the public education system, very often, an entire lifetime of service as a government schoolteacher can go unnoticed and unrewarded. And yet, it is within this environment that we also have teachers who respond to an inner calling to do their best for children from disadvantaged backgrounds who come to their schools. Often, these teachers are lone rangers in their schools, which also means that the fortunes of a school are completely dependent on them. Only when a group of fine teachers come together will a school have a more secure future. Therefore, I had reason to be doubly pleased whenever I observed that there were some schools that were doing well not because of one individual but a cohesive team of teachers. The remarkable thing that I noticed about this collective ownership of a school among such teams was not merely the fact that they set themselves high goals or that they all worked equally hard but that they seemed comfortable with the knowledge that they had varying abilities. Five teachers across disciplines as varied as English, science, social sciences, maths and first language with different levels of experience, qualifications and pedagogic abilities seemed united by the same level of commitment. This is a valuable lesson for any team in any profession. Writing about this for the journal of the National Human Resource Development (a pre-eminent body of HR professionals in India), I had called it a version of the much researched and discussed, ‘Pygmalion effect’. I argued that something has made these teachers reset the bar for what they expect from themselves and having set it high, they do everything to meet these demanding standards of performance. The Pygmalion effect kicks in from all sides. At some of the Model Schools, the motivation for excellence came from the fact that the teachers have been selected to the position from a large pool of aspirants. For some, it was the realisation that they have been provided an opportunity to teach children from very disadvantaged backgrounds and the children’s future depends solely on their efforts. For others, it was a moral compulsion that one of the teachers articulated thus, ‘My school is better resourced, both in terms of infrastructure and with teachers, than many other schools. It is my duty, therefore, to provide children with the best possible education.’ So, it isn’t surprising that what we heard most often from these teams was, ‘Kuch karke dikhana hai’ (I want to achieve something). Actions finally decide everything. At some of these schools, within a remarkably short time, at others, after a longer haul, the teachers have implemented a number of simultaneous actions. Unfailingly, these involve extra hours before and after school; coming to school on Sundays and holidays; going door-to-door to meet parents; putting in their personal money to create materials or facilities; and, building their own subject knowledge. It also means painstakingly prepared child-wise portfolios to track each child’s progress. It means identifying children who need extra attention and investing time in supporting them. It means carving out a separate schedule for talented children to train them for admissions to Navodaya schools, the Maths Wizard and various other competitions. The teachers seemed to be filled with purpose and energy, possessed by the ambition to make their school the best in the region. They could not wait to come to school; they did not care if it was well past the time to leave. So, when in the deep interior regions, like Kudalagi or Veerpur Kuraha, we heard teachers say, ‘Nothing is a burden for us, we have a shared goal,’ it did not sound unreal. In at least a couple of these schools, the headteacher was, for all practical purposes non-existent, a virtual figurehead; either a person of low energy or poor health. But the rest of the teachers carried the school on their shoulders with no resentment. And invariably, from among this team of teachers with varying abilities, there emerged, a de-facto leader, the one with ideas and conviction who the others willingly followed and supported. Here, I must also share an interesting observation of teamwork. In many of these schools, when we asked teachers to tell us about themselves, their colleagues jumped in to provide details, taking pride in each other’s accomplishments. At one of these schools, the science teacher was preparing her children for the Rashtriya Bal Vigyan Congress. She was good in her subject but new to the job and with little experience in the government school environment. So, helping her was a seasoned colleague, the Hindi teacher who had been at government schools for over twenty years. He shared everything he knew, telling her how in his previous school the science teacher had prepared the children for this competition. The grateful young science teacher, when she spoke to us, remarked that science learning in the school owed much to the Hindi teacher. I stole a quick teamwork ‘ordinary people, extraordinary teachers’ glance at the Hindi teacher and saw him flush purple in the wintry sunshine of Uttarkashi. In many ways, this section perhaps pulls together the best attributes described in the other sections and presents stories in which these attributes are present as a collective force. These stories about teamwork among teachers are from schools with varied backgrounds — of well-equipped Model Schools as well as schools that had nearly been ruined by local politics. The teams I feature in this section, do not need supervision or exhortation from outside or above. Indefinably, their expectations have got recalibrated and they are not ready to settle for anything less than the best from themselves. In the process, they re-equip themselves, learn new things, become better professionally and renew their resolve. In normal professional spaces, people rise above themselves only when someone explicitly states such an expectation or for some reward or recognition. Here, in these government schools, as one of the teachers told us, ‘Neither are we doing it because we are told, nor with any expectation of a reward in return.’ The bugle is from within. No one else can see or hear it. It is for this reason that these teams are remarkable. (Excerpted from Ordinary People, Extraordinary Teachers by S Giridhar, COO, Azim Premji University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/teamwork-the-pull-of-a-superordinate-goal-861670.html
15-07-2020||Panorama||India’s Ram vs Nepal’s Ram?    ||Nepali Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli on Monday claimed that Hindu god Ram was born in Nepal and not India and that the ‘real’ Ayodhya lies in Nepal, not in India’s Uttar Pradesh, amid strained relations between the two neighbours. Prime Minister Oli gave this statement without any concrete evidence to support his claim, stoking a controversy. Speaking at an event at his residence in Kathmandu, Oli accused New Delhi of “cultural aggression”. He also said that Nepal had become a victim of “cultural encroachment”. He accused India of manipulating history and culture by creating a fake Ayodhya in India. He said that Lord Ram was Nepali, and was born in Ayodhya, which lies near Thori of Birgunj in Nepal.  Prime Minister Oli’s remark has come at a time when Nepal-India relations seem to be going downhill and it can further escalate tensions between the two South Asian neighbours. His bizarre comments, which are not diplomatically appropriate, can hurt the religious sentiments of millions of people.  As mentioned in the Ramayan, Ayodhya is the birthplace of Ram, and it has been accepted as such for centuries. However, due to a lack of concrete evidence, the debate has been raging for years. But Valmiki Ramayan itself is just one of the over 300 tellings and retellings of the epic. Due to the lack of archaeological evidence, every new telling of this epic is equally valid. But this new telling by Nepal’s Prime Minister, at a time when relations between the two countries is at a low, can further provoke India and ruin the environment for bilateral talks. The issue of Ram and Ayodhya is a sensitive one in India. Recently, a decades-long controversy was settled in India’s Supreme Court, which ruled in favour of a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, while giving the Muslims five acres of land at an alternative site to build a mosque. While the political relations between Nepal and India may be going down, the people of the two neighbouring nations still have good relations. Oli’s comments can hurt the sentiments of many Indians and affect the relations between the people of the two countries. The recent border dispute between India and Nepal hasn’t been resolved yet. Kathmandu recently published a new political map showing the regions of Lipulekh, Kalapani, and Limpiyadhura as part of its sovereign territory. Nepal’s parliament endorsed a constitution amendment bill to update its political map, displaying the contested areas as Nepal’s. The move to release a new map came after India inaugurated a newly-built road via Lipulekh, as part of the Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra route. Nepal claims that the road traverses its territory. This has even led to India perceiving Nepal as a proxy of China. Rather than a dialogue to resolve the issue, it has resulted in a deadlock. At this sensitive and crucial time, insensitive comments can ruin the environment for dialogue. Prime Minister Oli is facing a crisis in his party and if he is commenting to raise religious and nationalistic sentiments to fight his opponents within his party, then this is not the right time to do so. It will further deepen the tensions with India. Nationalism and religion form a potent mix that can damage the people-people relations. This is a crucial time when the two countries should be united in fighting the coronavirus pandemic. They should also resolve border disputes with a proper dialogue. Such comments as Oli made can be harmful to creating a suitable environment for that dialogue. Kathmandu and Delhi should resolve their strained relations through diplomatic channels and dialogue before it’s too late. (The writer is a Nepali businessman and columnist and Chairman, Tribune National Media)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/india-s-ram-vs-nepal-s-ram-861667.html
15-07-2020||Panorama||‘Now I am become death’: The first nuclear bomb test||It was 1 AM  on July 16, 1945, when J. Robert Oppenheimer met with an Army lieutenant general, Leslie Groves, in the parched landscape of Jornada del Muerto — Dead Man’s Journey — a remote desert in New Mexico. A group of engineers and physicists was about to detonate an atomic device packed with 13 pounds of plutonium, a nuclear weapon that the government hoped would bring an end to World War II. Some scientists on the project worried that they were about to light the entire world on fire, according to researchers. Others worried that the test would be “a complete dud.” Oppenheimer, who was tasked with designing an atomic bomb for the Manhattan Project, had not slept. At 5:29 AM local time, the device exploded with a power equivalent to 21,000 tons of TNT and set off a flash of light that would have been visible from Mars, researchers said. It was the first nuclear test in history. Less than a month later, the United States would drop a nearly identical weapon on the city of Nagasaki in Japan. The bomb, named Fat Man, fell three days after Americans dropped a uranium bomb, called Little Boy, on Hiroshima. Both weapons immediately killed tens of thousands of Japanese people and forced Japan’s surrender on Aug. 14, bringing an abrupt end to the war. Since the Trinity test 75 years ago, at least eight countries have conducted more than 2,000 nuclear bomb tests, said Jenifer Mackby, a senior fellow at the Federation of American Scientists. More than half of those tests have been conducted by the United States, a legacy of the Trinity explosion, as the United States and several other countries have continued to refuse to ratify the treaty prohibiting nuclear weapon test explosions. “You could say it unleashed the nuclear age, really,” Mackby said. “It unleashed a whole new class of destruction.” Many of the scientists who witnessed the blast quickly realized the “foul and awesome” power they had set free, according to historians.  Oppenheimer said a Hindu scripture ran through his mind at the sight of the explosion: “Now I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds.” Kenneth T. Bainbridge, the test director, was less poetic. “Now we are all sons of bitches,” he said.  The goal of the test was to see if the military could harness plutonium into a weapon that would destroy whole cities, said Alex Wellerstein, a science historian at the Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, N.J., who studies the history of nuclear weapons. The effects of radiation were not well understood by most scientists on the project at the time, according to historians, and the preparations that were made to keep civilians safe reflected that ignorance. They placed crude monitors around the small towns within 40 miles of the testing site. A scientist who was seven months pregnant and her husband, who was also a scientist, were sent to a motel in one of the towns with a Geiger counter, a device used to detect radioactive emissions, to measure the radiation. If the needle hit a certain mark, she was instructed to alert officials so that they could evacuate the town, Professor Wellerstein said. Officials did not warn any of the residents — many of them ranchers, Navajos, Mexican settlers and their descendants who raised cattle and drank water from cisterns — about the test. Should anyone ask about the blast, officials had proposed several cover stories, including telling the public that a remote ammunitions depot had exploded, Professor Wellerstein said. “They took some effort” to protect the public, he said. “Would we consider it adequate today? No, not at all. It’s not considered adequate to set off a nuclear bomb, not tell anyone about it and set up a pregnant scientist in a motel with a Geiger counter to monitor radiation.” The blast stunned bewildered residents of the small towns within a 50-mile radius of the site. “It produced more light and heat than the sun,” said Tina Cordova, a founder of the Tularosa Basin Downwinders Consortium, which has urged the government to conduct more research about the aftermath of the blast and to compensate the affected communities. Based on census data at the time, the consortium estimates there were tens of thousands of people living within a 50-mile radius of the blast, Cordova said. “Ash fell for days afterward in the landscape and in every direction and in amazing quantities,” she said. Warnings went unseen and ignored. The day after the blast, Leo Szilard, a Hungarian physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project, sent a petition signed by 70 scientists to President Harry S. Truman, urging him to give Japan a chance to surrender before dropping the bombs. “Thus a nation which sets the precedent of using these newly liberated forces of nature for purposes of destruction may have to bear the responsibility of opening the door to an era of devastation on an unimaginable scale,” the petition cautioned. It was not the first plea to reconsider using a nuclear bomb to end the war. A month before the test, a committee, which included Dr. Szilard and was headed by the German scientist James Franck, issued the Franck Report, urging the United States to first demonstrate the power of the weapons to members of the United Nations. Such a demonstration, the report said, would say to the world: “You see what weapon we had but did not use. We are ready to renounce its use in the future and to join other nations in working out adequate supervision of the use of this nuclear weapon.” Truman did not see Dr. Szilard’s petition and he most likely did not see the Franck Report, said Steve Olson, who has written a book about the development of plutonium at the Hanford nuclear reservation in southeastern Washington State. “It’s very hard to conceive of a set of developments in 1945 that would have avoided dropping those bombs,” Olson said. “Truman wanted to end the war as quickly as possible.” The United States wanted “unconditional surrender” from Japan, he said. “Government leaders thought that was going to require a psychological shock.” The bombs in Nagasaki and Hiroshima are believed to have killed up to about 200,000 people, with many of those victims succumbing to radiation poisoning in the weeks that followed. Scientists “were totally shocked when the Japanese reported radiation sickness at Nagasaki,” said Professor Wellerstein, who has written about what the United States knew about the long-term consequences of using the weapons. While scientists were concerned about the possible effects of radiation on their own staff, they showed little interest in calculating what that damage could be for the Japanese, Professor Wellerstein said. He added that they expected “the blast and fire effects of the atomic bomb would greatly overshadow any radiation casualties.” The destruction of the cities would haunt Oppenheimer, who worried he had set a course for a future apocalypse. “President, I feel I have blood on my hands,” he said to Truman later that year. The true effects of the test on the people who lived near the test site remain unclear. The government never conducted a full investigation into the effects of the radiation, even after the communities downwind of the blast saw an unusual spike in infant deaths in the months after the explosion, said Joseph J. Shonka, a scientist and one of the authors of a 2010 study about the effects of nuclear testing for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cordova, who grew up in Tularosa, N M, said cancer had been pervasive in the towns near the Trinity test site, where everyone can name someone who died of the disease. Members of Congress from New Mexico have introduced legislation that would expand the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, which compensates uranium miners and people who lived downwind from nuclear testing sites, to include the residents who lived around Trinity. In 2014, the National Cancer Institute began interviewing people who lived in the towns near the testing site to try and document the effects of the blast. The institute said it anticipated publishing the results “within the next few months.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/now-i-am-become-death-the-first-nuclear-bomb-test-861671.html
15-07-2020||Right in the Middle||An enjoyable diet||I seem to have an inherent lack of enthusiasm for any kind of physical exercise and would any day prefer to bury my nose in a book instead of pointless running about while playing a game. I often ‘bunked’ the sports period in school on some pretext or the other and escaped into the blissful sanctuary of the library. I was painfully thin as a child even though I was fond of eating. As I grew into an adult, I felt blessed to be able to eat anything without putting on an ounce of weight. Unfortunately, this happy state of affairs did not last long.  Then the question became, “How do I control my rising weight while still avoiding exercise?” The answer was simple, “Go on a diet!” So I tried several diets—the no sugars, no rice, no fried foods, no processed ready-made foods. In other words, no tasty food. One day, I read an article in an old issue of the Reader’s Digest that said, “if nobody saw you eat it, it doesn’t count.” Finally, I had found the perfect diet—eat whatever you want when no one is looking and then nibble on greens like a martyr in front of the family at the dining table! Until then, I hadn’t realised that I’d been dieting for years! Since I spend most of my mornings alone in the kitchen, preparing breakfast and lunch, I have easy access to all kinds of tasty tidbits. When I open the fridge to take out the coriander leaves or green chillies, can I be blamed for scoffing a handful of fresh grapes from an open bowl? When I take out some almonds and cashews to roast them to make gravy, it can’t be wrong to pop a few in my mouth, can it?  How can I test the dishes for salt, if I don’t taste them? It’s also necessary to eat  chapati with the dish to see how the combination has turned out. The author of the article also wrote that the fries he eats don’t count because he eats them off his children’s plates. I used to do something similar when my children were small. Then there are times when I feel quite peckish between meals. This is when I raid the biscuit tin and the laddoo dabba. After all, one has to keep body and soul together. No one is around then, no one sees me, so it doesn’t count! The only sad part about this diet is that it doesn’t work!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/an-enjoyable-diet-861665.html
15-07-2020||Second Edit||Our biggest worry now: Children’s education||With the Covid-19 pandemic forcing shutdowns and wreaking havoc on lives, livelihoods and economies, an “unprecedented education emergency” looms over the world, according to Save the Children’s recent report. Drawing on UNICEF data for April, which said that 1.6 billion children worldwide were out of school due to Covid-related school closures, the global child rights NGO warns that 9.6 million children are at risk of never returning to school. This is alarming as it means that Covid-19 is reversing all the gains that the international community has made over the decades with regard to fighting illiteracy and bringing children to schools. Schools in many countries have shut down and while older children in some countries are still able to go to school, younger ones are having to study online. For many, poverty and lack of internet connectivity stand in the way of accessing online education. Covid-19 has also forced children into employment. Since parents have lost their jobs or are earning little, children are having to work. With the economic outlook bleak for the coming years, it does seem that many children will remain out of school. The battle to get children to come to school, not drop out, and to complete their education has been a tough one. However, the effort was worth it as the number of children receiving some form of education was growing. That is in danger of being reversed. Going to school is valuable not only to provide children with skills to read, write and count and to access knowledge but it provided children with the opportunity to meet and play with other children. They learnt social and other life skills in the process. Schools provided children with a space to be just children, have fun but also learn. With Covid-19 forcing children out of school, millions will be denied of this experience. The coming months and years will witness governments cutting back in budget allocations for education. Schools in remote areas could be shut and hiring of teachers reduced. Such education-unfriendly decisions will worsen children’s access to schools. Governments at the Centre and in the states must bear in mind that children are the future of the country. To not invest enough in their health and education will undermine their well-being and that of the country. Understandably, the government is preoccupied now with fighting the pandemic. Civil society needs to rise to the occasion. Experts in the fields of education and child development need to begin planning to prevent the looming “unprecedented education emergency.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/our-biggest-worry-now-children-s-education-861672.html
15-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy announces Rs 15,000 for last rites of Covid-19 victims||The Chief Minister also warned that the government would take strict action against Covid hospitals if they were found denying medical treatment to patients. He also instructed the officials to take up a one-week special drive to provide quality services in the quarantine centres where the call centre number should be displayed for registering complaints. These decisions were taken after a review meeting on Covid-19 containment measures held here. "Rs 15,000 should be given towards the last rites of the deceased and (CM) instructed the officials to issue orders immediately," an official statement quoted him as having said at the meeting.  Stating that no hospital should turn away Covid patients, the Chief Minister said, "If the hospital authority refuses to do so, he will be dealt with severely and the hospital permissions will be revoked." The CM also directed officials to focus on hygiene, medicines, quality of food at quarantine centres and ensure that the call centre number for complaints is displayed at every Covid Centre and that feedback be collected regularly. Awareness should be created among people on the need and availability of undergoing tests and what a person who suspects that he has Covid symptoms should do. The tests should also be carried out as per Standard Operating Procedure, which should mention the category that one has to undergo the tests, the Chief Minister added. In the meeting, officials informed him that tests are being conducted in containment zones after tracing the contacts and the main reason for the deaths was patients showing up in an advanced stage of Covid-19. They also indicated that 17,000 doctors and over 12,000 nurses could be required in the coming days for handling Covid patients in the state. The Chief Minister has asked the officials to prepare an action plan, keeping future needs in mind. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Medical and Health Alla Nani, Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney, DGP Goutham Sawang, Medical and Health Special Chief Secretary K S Jawar Reddy and other officials participated in the meeting. Last week, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief N Chandrababu Naidu, had tweeted a video, showing bodies of coronavirus victims being dumped into a pit with the help of a JCB and demanded an apology from the Chief Minister. Naidu had tweeted that such incidents are occurring time and again in the state and slammed the government for not giving the patients a 'respectful departure'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-announces-rs-15000-for-last-rites-of-covid-19-victims-861364.html
15-07-2020||South||Customs quiz Kerala IAS officer for nine hours in gold smuggling case||Senior IAS officer M Sivasankar, sacked principal secretary of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, was questioned by Customs officers for nearly nine hours, till early Wednesday morning in the gold smuggling case. The bureaucrat had appeared before officials by around 5.15 pm on Tuesday shortly after being served notice summoning him to appear before the officers in connection with the ongoing investigation in the sensational case. The marathon questioning went on till around 2.15 am this morning after which the official was escorted back to his home by customs authorities. The Customs is probing whether Sivasankar, who was also removed as IT secretary, had used his office to provide any help to key accused-- Sarith, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. Sivasankar is presently on a year's leave. The Chief Minister had told the media on Tuesday that panel headed by Chief Secretary Dr Vishwas Mehta was probing the charges against the bureaucrat and action would be taken if he was found guilty. The government had removed Sivasankar as Principal Secretary to the CM and also IT Secretary after allegations surfaced that he had links with the woman accused in the case related to the attempt to smuggle gold through diplomatic baggage using the name of a person in the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The Customs seized the gold, weighing over 30 kg and valued at around Rs 15 crore on July 5. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has been entrusted with the probe into the case has booked four accused-- Sarith, Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair, and Fasil Fareed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/customs-quiz-kerala-ias-officer-for-nine-hours-in-gold-smuggling-case-861378.html
15-07-2020||South||Police, Ultras exchange fire in Telangana||An exchange of fire took place between members of banned outfit CPI(Maoist) and police personnel in Telangana's Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Wednesday morning, following which an extensive search operation was launched to nab the ultras who fled. The exchange of fire (EoF) occurred in the Mallepallitogu forest area at 9 am and on noticing police movement, the Maoists numbering around 30, escaped leaving behind their goods, Bhadradri-Kothagudem District Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said. He said 500 personnel in 25 teams were conducting search operations in Manuguru forest area following a tip-off that Maoists sneaked into Telangana from neighbouring Chhattisgarh when the incident occurred. Extensive combing was on in the area to nab the ultras, who escaped, the senior police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-ultras-exchange-fire-in-telangana-861490.html
15-07-2020||South||Another Kerala CMO staff could be probed in gold smuggling case||After Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar, another employee of the Chief Minister's office may also face probe for links with gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate. Sivasankar, who was quizzed by customs officials from Tuesday evening till the early hours of Wednesday in Thiruvananthapuram, was learnt to have maintained that though he personally knew Swapna and another accused Sarith P S, he was unaware of their smuggling activities. However, the customs was probing whether Sivasankar helped Swapna to go in the hideout after the gold smuggling issue came out. Arun Balachandran, a former fellow in the Chief Minister's office and now working with the High Power IT Committee of the state government, may also face probe as he helped Swapna in getting a flat on rent in the same apartment complex where Sivasankar was also having a rented flat. It was suspected that Swapna stayed at this flat while the gold smuggling got exposed on July 5. Balachandran told DH that he only enquired about the daily rent of the flat as Sivasankar sought help in this regard. Sivasankar said that the flat was for one of his friends and family for a short stay. All those communications were through chat, Balachandran said. The fresh developments would cause further embarrassment to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Government sources said that as a damage control exercise Sivasankar may be soon placed under suspension citing conduct rule violations. The chief minister is already being alleged of protecting Sivasankar. Sivasankar, who was also holding IT principal secretary post, was removed from CM's principal secretary post and IT principal secretary post last week as soon as allegations of his links with gold smuggling case accused surfaced. Sivasankar was summoned by the customs on Tuesday evening and the quizzing that began by 5 pm ended only by 2 am on Wednesday. Sources said that his statement had to be recorded in detail and hence it took a long time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-kerala-cmo-staff-could-be-probed-in-gold-smuggling-case-861492.html
15-07-2020||South||HC extends stay on demolition of Telangana secretariat till July 16||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday extended the temporary stay on demolition of buildings of the state secretariat till July 16. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy which was hearing a petition filed by Prof P L Vishweshwar Rao and Dr Cheruku Sudhakarhad on July 10 ordered a stay on the demolition till July 13. Later, the stay was extended till July 15 directing the government to submit the state cabinet resolution on the demolition in a sealed cover. The petitioners alleged that the demolition of the present secretariat complex consisting of 10 blocks, approximately 10 lakhs Sq ft, was being done without following the due procedure of law. The Government act is against the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules 2016, against the Provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and against the provisions of the Environment Protection Act 1986, among other laws, the petitioners alleged. Telangana Advocate General informed the court that the state government has taken necessary permission from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation for demolition. The court while extending the stay on Wednesday directed the Centre to submit a reply on its stand on the environmental issues with regards to the demolition of the secretariat complex. The K Chandrashekhar Rao-led Government began razing to the ground the secretariat building complex on July 7, days aftertheHighCourtdismissed a bunch of PILs challenging the state's decision to construct a new secretariat complex by demolishing the existing one. After the High Court cleared decks for the construction of the new secretariat, the demolition of the old secretariat building complex began and the foundation stone for the new one was laid on June 27, 2019. The state government earlier indicated that the new secretariat which would come up in about seven lakh sq ft would cost around Rs 400 crore and it had decided to equip the new one with state-of-the-art connectivity and other features.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-extends-stay-on-demolition-of-telangana-secretariat-till-july-16-861516.html
15-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Karnataka makes it mandatory for pvt hospitals to display bed allocation boards||Amid complaints of difficulty in getting beds for Covid-19 patients, the Karnataka government on Wednesday issued a notification making it mandatory for private hospitals to display a bed allocation display board. "It is made mandatory that all hospitals registered under KPME (Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act) in Karnataka State should display at the reception counter, a bed allocation display board," the notification signed by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar said. It said the board should display details like- name of the hospital, total number of beds (as per KPME registration), total number of beds allocated for Covid-19 patients referred by BBMP (Bengaluru civic body- Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike), among others. Stating that the data must corroborate with the data of the central bed allocation system of BBMP, the notification said the display board should be arranged by July 16 and non-compliance to the order will attract punishment under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Indian Penal Code. Earlier, in the notification issued by the state government dated June 23, it was mandated to reserve 50 per cent of the beds in private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients referred by public health authorities. However, some patients are finding it difficult to get beds even after the allocation has been made by the BBMP's central allocation system and this is causing a lot of hardship to patients, according to the notification issued on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-karnataka-makes-it-mandatory-for-pvt-hospitals-to-display-bed-allocation-boards-861549.html
15-07-2020||South||Srikakulam's rainbow model of household survey to monitor Covid-19 symptoms||Officials in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday started a seven-week fever surveillance programme for timely identification and treatment of patients and to keep the spread of Covid-19 in check. In a unique approach, a different colored sticker would be pasted on every house, which would be visited once a week by the health workers, after every visit. The rainbow colors of the VIBGYOR method, as suggested by district collector J Nivas, would help in ensuring that every house is surveyed every week and the stickers would be pasted in the Violet, Indigo, Blue, Green, Yellow, Orange and Red sequence, said the officials.  “As part of the fever survey which began Tuesday, the local Auxiliary Nurse and Midwife and ASHA worker visit every household, monitor the temperature, health of all family members and record the conditions of those with Covid-19 characteristics. Other ailments, if any, would also be tabulated especially that of senior citizens,” district health officials said. “At the same time, awareness and precautions about Covid-19 would be explained. While trying to erase the social stigma, people with symptoms would be encouraged to get tested immediately,” the officials added. Andhra Pradesh has been reporting a surge in Covid-19 deaths lately. While 37 people died on Sunday, the number climbed to 43 on Monday and 44 on Tuesday. According to the state health department officials, the main reason for most of these deaths was patients showing up in hospitals at an advanced stage of Covid-19.  Andhra Pradesh had recorded 35,451 positive cases till Wednesday morning, with a total of 452 deaths.  Srikakulam district, which was coronavirus-free initially, reported its first cases on April 25. The return of migrant workers from places like Gujarat and Hyderabad, however, has added to the number of cases in the district. In towns like Palasa, lockdown rules were reimposed to contain positive cases. As of Wednesday morning, the northernmost Andhra district adjoining Odisha has recorded 2,163 positive cases, with a total of 18 deaths. Over 1.1 lakh samples were tested until now from Srikakulam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/srikakulams-rainbow-model-of-household-survey-to-monitor-covid-19-symptoms-861617.html
15-07-2020||South||Strategise to turn Vallarpadam terminal into transshipment hub: Mandaviya||Union Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday asked officials to chalk out a strategy to turn the Vallarpadam terminal at Cochin Port into a transshipment hub. The minister, who reviewed the development activities at the terminal, gave these directions. The Kochi International Container Transshipment Terminal (ICTT), locally known as the Vallarpadam terminal, is located strategically on the coastline in Kerala. The  terminal envisaged as the first transshipment port of India, managed by DP World. "We are developing a transshipment facility on the Indian port. Resolving various issues of the Vallarpadam terminal is one of the top priorities of the Ministry of Shipping," Mandaviya was quoted as saying in a statement by the shipping ministry. A transshipment hub is a terminal at the port that handles containers, stores them temporarily and transfers them to other ships. He added that Vallarpadam terminal fulfils all the criteria needed to develop it as a transshipment hub as it is positioned in proximity to international sea routes. Besides, it can be easily accessed through all Indian feeder ports, the statement said. The Vallarpadam terminal is proposed to be developed as the most-preferred gateway for southern India and a leading transshipment hub of South Asia. The first phase of the Rs 6,250-crore ICTT at the Vallarpadam island was dedicated to the nation in February 2011, describing the project as a "long-awaited milestone" in the development of the country's logistics infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/strategise-to-turn-vallarpadam-terminal-into-transshipment-hub-mandaviya-861623.html
15-07-2020||South||Kerala girl alleges torture by people who helped her get donations for mom's treatment||A Kerala girl, who was in the news recently for receiving over Rs 85 lakh contribution for her mother's liver transplant in around 24 hours after her plea went viral on social media, has once again come up with a social media post alleging torture by people who helped her post her plight on the social media in the form of a video. On Tuesday, Varsha posted a video accusing those who helped her post her situation on social media of pressuring her to part with the excess contribution that she received. Kochi City Police Assistant Commissioner (Special Branch) Sivan Kutty told DH that a complaint had been received and a case was registered against four persons including social worker Sajan Kechery who had helped Varsha post with the social media post. Varsha said in the post that she and her mother were still under rest at a house near the hospital as their medical reviews were still pending. She alleged that Sajan and others were constantly pressuring and torturing her to share the excess money and were directing many others to contact her seeking financial assistance for treatment. Sajan even asked that he be given rights to handle her bank account, she alleged. Varsha said she was not reluctant to helping others and had already helped another girl facing similar issues. However, her mother's first check-up was still pending and might still require money for follow-up treatment. Hailing from a poor family in Taliparamba in Kannur district, Varsha is doing her graduation and her mother Radha P works at an ice cream shop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-girl-alleges-torture-by-people-who-helped-her-get-donations-for-moms-treatment-861636.html
15-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu crosses milestone of 1 lakh Covid-19 recoveries||In a positive milestone, the number of Covid-19 recovered patients crossed the one lakh mark in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday as it logged the highest-ever single day discharge of 5,000 people from various hospitals. The highest recovery eclipsed the 4,496 fresh cases and took the State's tally of positive cases to 1,51,820. Of the fresh cases, 66 were from other states and foreign countries as well. Tamil Nadu, which has been maintaining a robust recovery rate, saw its cumulative count of those discharged, zoom to 1,02,310 which works to 67.38 percent of the total reported cases while active cases were 47,340. Also, the aggregate number of samples tested topped 17 lakh and in total 17,36,747 specimens have been examined including 41,382 today. According to a health department bulletin, 68 people died pushing the death toll to 2,167 and 1,318 were from Chennai. Of those reported dead on Wednesday, 64 had co-morbidities. A 19-year-old girl, two men aged 97 and 94, besides a 34-year-old man, were among the dead. For the first time on Tuesday, Tamil Nadu's everyday count of positive cases crossed the 4,500 mark, and the state's daily tally stood at 4,526. The number of labs also climbed to 107, with the addition of a facility at the Government Headquarters Hospital in the Nilgiris district and there are 54 testing centres in the government and 53 in the private sector. Chennai's share of fresh cases continued to be relatively low with 1,291 infections and the state capital's tally of cases stood at 80,961 followed by nearby districts of Chengelpet (8,741) and Tiruvallur (7,573). The temple town of Madurai in southern Tamil Nadu was the next with a higher load of 7,331 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-crosses-milestone-of-1-lakh-covid-19-recoveries-861639.html
15-07-2020||South||Kerala priest convicted of rape seeks bail to marry victim||A Catholic priest in Kerala, who was convicted for raping and impregnating a minor girl, has expressed a desire to marry the victim, now 18, and take care of their child. Priest Robin Vadakumcherry, who is in his mid-fifties, sought two-month bail to marry the girl. The bail application was submitted before the Kerala High Court recently. The police, however, was learnt to have opposed the bail plea maintaining that the wish to marry could be a ploy to get bail. The court is likely to consider the bail plea next week. Vadakumcherry, who was a priest under the Mananthavady diocese in Wayanad, was convicted by a POCSO court in Kannur last year. Vadakumcherry, hailing from Kottiyoor in Kannur, has raped the victim belonging to his parish several times during 2016. The girl, who was only 16 at that time, got pregnant and delivered a child. Efforts were made to conceal the crime and Vadakumcherry was held just ahead of his bid to leave the country. The public prosecutor of the rape case BP Saseendran said that the desire for marriage could be an attempt of the convict to get bail as his bail plea was earlier rejected. Vadakumcherry had made such a desire during the trial of the case to escape conviction. Citing these, the police submitted a counter-report at the High Court, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-priest-convicted-of-rape-seeks-bail-to-marry-victim-861677.html
15-07-2020||South||Local spread of Covid-19 alarming in Kerala||The number of Covid-19 cases through local contact is increasing at an alarming rate in Kerala. Of the 623 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, 432 were linked to local spread. The source of 37 of those cases could not be even traced. Over the last few days, the number of fresh cases due to local spread has been rising steadily. A major chunk of cases in the capital city of Thiruvananthapuram, which the highest number of active Covid-19 cases at 939, was through local spread. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged people to maintain social distancing norms. At least two-metre distance was asked to be kept from others in public places. Steps like triple lockdown are being initiated and more first-line treatment centers would be set up by converting facilities like stadiums. So far, 9,553 persons have been infected in Kerala, of which the number of active patients stood at 4,880 on Wednesday. While 4,634 Covid-19 patients have recovered, 35 deaths have been reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/local-spread-of-covid-19-alarming-in-kerala-861684.html
15-07-2020||South||Looking at converting Jayalalithaa's house into CM's residence, TN govt tells HC||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday informed the the Madras High Court that it is also actively considering converting "Veda Nilayam", the residence of late AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa at upscale Poes Garden here, into the official residence of the Chief Minister. Advocate General Vijay Narayan submitted before Justice Anand Venkatesh that the government would be acquiring not only the immovable property but also the movables to make as it was during the times of the late chief minister. The submission was made during the hearing of a plea of a residents association against converting Jayalalithaa's residence into a memorial. The A-G submitted that the suggestion of a division bench of the high court to convert a major portion of the property into the official residence of the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu instead of a memorial was also under the active consideration. He opposed the plea by Poes Garden and Kasthuri Estate House Owners Association, which contended that if Jayalalithaa's residential premises was allowed to be converted into a memorial, it would affect the peaceful lives of its members as the place would be frequented by thousands of people. Justice Anand Venkatesh, however, dismissed the plea as premature and on mere apprehensions. The Judge observed that converting a residence into a memorial was not something new and that it had happened in cases of various leaders who had earned the love and respect of the people. Tamil Nadu government had in May promulgated an ordinance to temporarily take possession of Veda Nilayam and movable assests as well for setting up a foundation and make arrangements to covert it into a memorial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/looking-at-converting-jayalalithaas-house-into-cms-residence-tn-govt-tells-hc-861685.html
15-07-2020||South||Two Tamil Nadu district collectors test positive for Covid-19||Two district collectors, who were at the forefront of the Covid-19 containment efforts in their respective regions, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Tamil Nadu. Coimbatore Collector K Rajamani and his Kancheepuram counterpart P Ponniah tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. While Rajamani’s swab sample returned positive in the morning, the Ponniah test result was confirmed in the evening. Sources said both are receiving treatment and their conditions were stable. This is the first time district collectors are testing positive for the virus. Three ministers and over half-a-dozen MLAs had tested positive for Covid-19 in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-tamil-nadu-district-collectors-test-positive-for-covid-19-861712.html
15-07-2020||State||Two more Covid-19 cases in Kodagu||Two more Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the Kodagu district on Wednesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-more-covid-19-cases-in-kodagu-861386.html
15-07-2020||State||Pre-University education department files cyber complaint over fake Twitter account||The Pre-University Education Department on Wednesday filed a complaint with the Cyber Crime police over a fake twitter account in the name of S Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and misleading the students.  Creating confusion among the students and teachers, the fake twitter account by miscreants on Tuesday tweeted that all the II PUC students will be provided with more than 26 grace marks in english subject paper. The tweet, coinciding with the announcement of II PUC results, went viral on social media platforms triggering confusion.   An official communication issued by the minister said, “A complaint against the fake twitter account in my name has been filed before the Cyber Crime police and requested them to trace the miscreants and initiate action against them for misleading the students by spreading fake information in the name of minister.”  It can be recalled that recently a similar type of incident was reported with Deputy Commissioner of Police (Command Centre) Isha Pant, IPS also complaining about a fake account in her name to Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pre-university-education-department-files-cyber-complaint-over-fake-twitter-account-861532.html
15-07-2020||State||Bidar MP Bhagwanth Khuba tests positive for Covid-19||MP Bhagwanth Khuba is the new entrant to a list of elected representatives of the state to test positive for Covid-19. As he was suffering from fever for the past four days, his throat swab sample was sent to a laboratory and the results returned positive. A total of 10 people including his family members, car driver and office staff have been kept under home quarantine. Humnabad MLA Rajashekhar Patil and his brother and MLC Chandrashekhar Patil have gone into self-quarantine. Khuba is the third elected representative from Kalyana Karnataka to contract the infection after Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur and Jerwargi MLA Dr Ajay Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bidar-mp-bhagwanth-khuba-tests-positive-for-covid-19-861574.html
15-07-2020||State||Covid-19: Dy CM Ashwath Narayan warns docs, nurses skipping work||Doctors and nurses who desert Covid-19 duty will lose their professional licences, Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan warned on Wednesday, even as Covid Care Centres are hit by a severe shortage of healthcare providers.  Narayan, who is in charge of managing Covid Care Centres, found that several doctors and nurses were not showing up for work when he sat down with officials to take stock of the situation.  “The government has clearly told the Medical Council of India and the Indian Nursing Council to relieve doctors and nurses who do not attend work,” Narayan said. “Doctors running away out of fear is wrong. We have a war-like situation in the state and we need to be service-minded. The government will provide all kinds of protection. Instead, it’s wrong to leave patients stranded by cheating your own profession,” he said.  At present, there are six Covic Care Centres that together have 2,624 beds. The centres need 86 doctors of whom 61 are available. The centres need 134 nurses, but only 54 are around. “This is really worrisome. Because people are escaping from duty, the pressure of work is severe on those who are there. This is affecting patients as well,” Narayan said.  According to Narayan, Covid Care Centres need one doctor and two nurses for every 100 patients. “The Medical Education department should provide us with the personnel,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-dy-cm-ashwath-narayan-warns-docs-nurses-skipping-work-861626.html
15-07-2020||State||B S Yediyurappa seeks an end to bed rent row, says govt will buy infrastructure||Seeking to end the controversy surrounding bed rentals, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced that the government will buy all essential infrastructure for Covid-19 treatment at the Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC). In a detailed statement, Yediyurappa said the government had decided to buy six essential items for each bed set - cot, fan, bucket, mug and dustbin - at a cost of Rs 7,500 per set, amounting to Rs 4.87 crore for the 6,500 beds being arranged at BIEC, touted as the largest Covid Care Centre.  Earlier, the BBMP rented these items from various firms at a cost of Rs 800 per day, for which the expenditure would run into a tune of Rs 24 crore per month. "This was very expensive. Hence, the government has decided to buy these items and then make use of the same for government hostels," Yediyurappa said.  The government will also spend Rs 2.45 crore on setting up vinyl flooring in the premises at a rate of Rs 31 per sqft for an area of 7.9 lakh sqft.  Further, there were certain non-reusable essential items required to arrange the beds. The government would rent 19 such items for each bed at a cost of Rs 6,500 per month for each set. This would cost Rs 4.23 crore to the government, he said. Drawing curtains on the controversy, the CM said: "Once it came to my notice that the essential items were being rented, I directed the officials to immediately rectify this. As per my instruction, the authorities have taken immediate steps to buy the necessary items and this has prevented the wasteful expenditure on unnecessary renting of items." With the total expenditure for buying all the essential items coming up to Rs 7.32 crore, the CM has directed BBMP to immediately release this amount to all vendors concerned.  Earlier this week, Yediyurappa is said to have lambasted officials for deciding to rent the infrastructure by "keeping him in the dark" despite him being the Bengaluru City Development minister. The Opposition Congress had alleged a scam in the bed rentals, accusing the BJP government of "looting public money" during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/b-s-yediyurappa-seeks-an-end-to-bed-rent-row-says-govt-will-buy-infrastructure-861629.html
15-07-2020||State||Villagers discontent with environmentalist Kamegowda||Discontentment between environmentalist Kamegowda and the residents of Dasanadoddi village has come to the fore, with both knocking the doors of the police station and the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Dasanadoddi residents alleged that Kamegowda did not dig any pond or lake as projected, but dug only pits. “This was not of any use to the people of the village, but became difficult for the cattle to graze. Kamegowda behaves as if the hillocks are his personal property. He has been harassing the people of the village,” theycomplained. They alleged that Kamegowda has lodged a police complaint against them, for no reason. “We will stage a protest against him. We will lodge a complaint at the DC’s office,” said D K Shashikumar, of the village. However, Kamegowda said, “I am facing trouble from some people of the village. After the Prime Minister mentioned my work in his speech, they are conspiring against me. They have been displaying old hatred. I have lodged a complaint against them at Belakawadi police station.” Belakawadi Police clarified that Kamegowda has given an oral complaint. The police personnel will visit the village and advise the people, the police said. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said, “The discontentment, brewing between Kamegowda and the villagers, is true. I have told the assistant commissioner and tahsildar to convene a meeting and sort out the issue. Due to hatred against him, the people should not say that he has not constructed any pond. Only after inspecting the ponds and lakes constructed by him, we submitted a report to the government.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/villagers-discontent-with-environmentalist-kamegowda-861632.html
15-07-2020||State||Sriramulu pleads helplessness, says only God can save us||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, Health Minister B Sriramulu on Wednesday expressed helplessness saying "only a God can save us."  Speaking to reporters here, the minister said, "The Covid-19 cases are proliferating rapidly. The situation is getting out of hand. Only God can save us." On the allegations by the Congress on financial anomalies in procuring medical equipment and safety gears, the Health minister said, "The virus is spreading fast. In such situation the Congress is indulging in cheap politics. The government is ready to face the consequences of its actions. But the Congress must stop making wild and baseless allegations, he said adding that the Congress leaders should have control over tongue. Sriramulu said the Ayush and MBBS doctors should not strike work in crisis situation, "The government is ready to discuss their demands. A few private hospitals are bringing a bad repute to all establishments." Stringent action will be taken against the private hospitals if they refuse to admit and treat the Covid patients, the minister warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sriramulu-pleads-helplessness-says-only-god-can-save-us-861633.html
15-07-2020||State||Caste certificate to Brahmins: Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Wednesday said that the state government has decided to issue caste certificates to Brahmins.  The minister said that the MLAs, members of the State Brahmin Development Board, the president of Brahmin Mahasabha and others approached him in this regard. The Revenue department has decided to issue caste certificate to the community people. The certificates will be issued at the Office of Deputy Commissioners and Thasildars, he said. According to the minister, 3% of the total population of the state is Brahmins and the community people have never obtained caste certificates and it was not possible for them to availbenefits. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol said in Bagalkot that the government has decided to provide caste certificates to Brahmins following a decision of the Centre according 10% reservation for upper caste communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/caste-certificate-to-brahmins-ashoka-861634.html
15-07-2020||State||Bidar MP Khuba tests +ve for Covid-19||Bidar MP Bhagwanth Khuba is the new entrant to the list of elected representatives from the state to test positive for Covid-19.  His throat swab sample was sent for testing four days back after he complained of fever. The report came back positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. A total of 10 people, including his family members, car driver and office staff, have been placed under homequarantine. Humnabad MLA Rajashekhar Patil and his MLC brother Chandrashekhar Patil have gone into self-quarantine. Khuba is the third legislator from Kalyana Karnataka to contract the infection after Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur and Jerwargi MLA Dr AjaySingh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bidar-mp-khuba-tests-ve-for-covid-19-861635.html
15-07-2020||State||SC to consider plea against Mahadayi award in Aug||The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to consider in August separate petitions filed by Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, challenging validity of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal’s award of August 14, 2018. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and K M Joseph ordered to put the contentious issue on distribution of Mahadayi river water for passing directions in the week commencing August 24. “List the Special Leave Petitions for directions,” the bench said in its order. In March this year, the top court had declined to entertain a plea by Goa against a statement made by Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on making budget allocation for Kalasa-Banduri drinking water project in Hubballi-Dharwad and others parts inNorth Karnataka. The court had then clarified that the Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal’s order of April 17, 2014, restraining any blocking of the flow of river water or its diversion into Malaprabha basin, would continue to operate till other conditions were fulfilled. The Centre had, on February 27, 2020, notified the tribunal’s order of August 14, 2018, for its implementation. This has prompted Karnataka to go ahead and allocate funds for the project. Goa, for its part, opposed diversion of water, saying its lifeline faced imminent threat of choking because of reduction of water flow and consequent disruption of itsecology.  The tribunal has allocated Karnataka 13.42 tmcft, Goa 24 tmcft and Maharashtra 1.3 tmcft in its final order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-to-consider-plea-against-mahadayi-award-in-aug-861637.html
15-07-2020||State||Honnali seer dies of Covid-19||Honnali taluk-based Rampura Mutt Seer Halaswamy (55) died of Covid-19 in District McGann Hospital in the city on Wednesday.  According to the doctors of the hospital, the seer was suffering from a respiratory disorder for the past several days. Despite appeals made by devotees to visit the hospital, the seer did not want to go to the hospital. However, he was brought to the hospital three days ago. Despite all efforts to save his life, he breathed his last in the hospital, they said. The seer was popularly known as Mullugadduge Swami. He headed the Rampura Mutt and Gavi Mutt in Channagiri taluk. With this, Covid-19 death toll in the district rose to 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/honnali-seer-dies-of-covid-19-861640.html
15-07-2020||State||Recruitment rules for asst profs lack transparency: Lecturers||A recent notification by the Department of Collegiate Education on the recruitment rules for Assistant Professors has drawn flak from lecturers. They contest that the freshly-issued rules were neither in spirit with the UGC guidelines (2018) that prescribe weightage to research publications and awards, nor had the government been transparent about the process. While in February, the government had called for objections to the draft rules, the final notification has been put out without any information on the number of objections received or why they were not considered, lecturers charged. Recently, the government notified Education Department Services (Collegiate Education Department) (Recruitment of Assistant Professor) (Special) Rules, 2020, which calls for an entrance test based on general knowledge and optional subject papers. Several criticized this saying it did not take into account years of research and teaching experience, doing injustice to currently employed lecturers. Many objections were sent in this regard to the government in February this year. However, neither has the government taken this into account, nor has it given any reason for rejecting this suggestion, lecturers said.   Guest lecturers who spoke to DH on the condition of anonymity said as per their knowledge, at least 500 objections were filed, including requests for age relaxation, job security for guest faculty and to accord marks for teaching and research experience. The government must publish the list of objections and the reason for not considering them, they said. One guest lecturer from Mangalore University said the new rules sought to negate years of work experience some of them had.  Another lecturer from Tumkur University who has worked as a guest lecturer for more than 15 years, added that they had also requested the government to reserve a certain percentage of posts to those with experience. “Let the government at least tell us why these objections were not considered,” the lecturer added.   The government has to fill 1,240 assistant professor posts in various colleges under the Department of Collegiate Education. Commissioner of Collegiate Education Pradeep P, said the department was open to sharing the details with any individual that approached them with the request. As for the recruitment process, considering that the state government has stalled all recruitment for the current year, the department would await further guidelines from the government,he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/recruitment-rules-for-asst-profs-lack-transparency-lecturers-861641.html
15-07-2020||State||Govt reduces exam fee for next semesters||Barely a few days since suspension of examinations for intermediate semesters, the Karnataka Higher Education department on Wednesday announced 50 per cent reduction in examination fee for the nextsemesters.  Following the requests by several students to refund the examination fee which is already collected by respective universities, Minister for Higher Education Dr C N Ashwath Narayan announced reduction in exam fee for the next semester and directed the officials to issue an circular onthe same. “As the fee is already collected and it will be used for evaluation work. Instead of refunding, we will reduce exam fees by 50% for next semesters,” said Ashwath Narayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-reduces-exam-fee-for-next-semesters-861644.html
15-07-2020||State||Approach authorities for mental health in telemedicine: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed a petitioner to a make representation before the authorities with the request to include mental health professionals in telemedicine guidelines. The PIL primarily contended that the Outpatient Department (OPD) at Nimhans was non-functional for two months. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka disposed of the petition filed by Jay Datt Bhatt. The bench stated that the OPD has resumed operations at Nimhans since June 1, 2020. On the other prayer in the PIL, the bench directed the petitioner to make representation before the appropriate authority. Telemedicine Practice Guidelines were prepared by the Medical Council of India in consultation with NITI Aayog. The petitioner claimed that the guidelines recognise limited medical practitioners. "The submission is that only a registered medical practitioner will be able to prescribe telemedicine. His contention is that many other professionals are rendering tele psychotherapy services and therefore, it is necessary to include those professionals, so that even they can prescribe telemedicine. It will be open to the petitioner to make representation before the authorities which have drafted the telemedicine guidelines. It is obvious that if such a representation is made, concerned authorities will look into it and take steps in accordance with law,’’ the bench ordered. The telemedicine guidelines were issued in March 2020 in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. It provides information on various aspects of telemedicine, including information on technology platforms and tools available to medical practitioners. It also has information on how to integrate these technologies to provide healthcare delivery. The guidelines state that a registered medical practitioner is entitled to provide telemedicine consultation to patients from any part of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/approach-authorities-for-mental-health-in-telemedicine-karnataka-hc-861645.html
15-07-2020||State||2 BBMP officers die of Covid||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday witnessed the death of two senior officers due to Covid-19. So far, the civic body has lost four officers and two pourakarmikas in its fight against Covid-19.  The officials, who died on Wednesday, were R Vishwanath (52), executive engineer of Mahalakshmipura division and B K Shailesh (58), manager at the revenue office of Govindaraja Nagar area. Vishwanath died of cardiac arrest and a test later confirmed Covid-19. He had joined BBMP as a second division assistant in 1997. He is survived by his wifeand two sons.  Shailesh suffered a stroke on Wednesday morning. He was diagnosed with comorbidities, such as hypertension and diabetes, according to his family members. Shailesh is survived by his wife and a son.  Shailesh had developed Covid-19 symptoms three days ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-bbmp-officers-die-of-covid-861648.html
15-07-2020||State||Karnataka requests Centre to approve Mekedatu project||Karnataka on Wednesday requested the Centre to approve the pending proposal of building balancing reservoir across Cauvery river at Mekedatu at the earliest. Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi during his meeting with Union Jalshakthi Minister Gajendra Shekhawat requested him to expedite the approval. Jarkiholi, along with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi,  also appraised the Union Minister that the project is important to provide drinking water to Bengaluru and surrounding areas. Karnataka plans to build a reservoir at Mekedatu across the Cauvery river to supply drinking water to Bengaluru and surrounding areas. However, Tamil Nadu has been opposing the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-requests-centre-to-approve-mekedatu-project-861668.html
15-07-2020||State||3 'T's turn backward dist Yadgir into a role model||The backward Yadgir district has managed to prevent deaths from Covid-19, despite its poor medical infrastructure. The district, with four taluks, reported a total of 1,452 positive cases till July 14, but only one death, thanks to the early tracking, detection and treatment. The Azim Premji Foundation and TATA Trust have donated about 1,050 thermal scanners and oximeters to Asha workers who are using them during the door-to-door survey to detect ILI and SARI cases. These instruments have come in handy to detect vulnerable group. Yadgir Deputy Commissioner M Kurmarao told DH that as soon as migrant labourers returned to the district, they were kept under institutional quarantine and all of them were subjected to Covid-19 tests before they were sent home. Positive cases detected during the quarantine period were treated fast. Most of the cases were asymptomatic which helped the doctors treat them effectively. Frontline workers like police, health department staff and others too were tested for Covid-19. Serious patients with co-morbid conditions are being sent to ESIC hospital, Kalaburagi, for treatment.  “We have taken about 30,000 throat swab samples so far, for tests. Though the newly constructed 300-bed district hospital was not inaugurated, it was equipped well to treat the suspected Covid patients, the DCexplained. District Health Officer Dr M S Patil said, “We carried out survey throughout the district thrice before the arrival of migrant labourers. Vulnerable groups like ILI and SARI patients and pregnant women were subjected to Covid-19 tests and treated properly.” “Those who returned to the district from outside were kept under strict institutional and home quarantine and were monitored properly. Though the district lacks specialists doctors, we involved private doctors to treat the patients. Services of Ayush doctors are being utilised to treat asymptomatic positive cases at Covid Care Centres,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/3-ts-turn-backward-dist-yadgir-into-a-role-model-861679.html
15-07-2020||State||Karnataka reports more than 3,000 Covid-19 cases in 24 hrs||Karnataka for the first time recorded more than 3,000 cases in a single day. Out of the 3,176 new cases reported on Wednesday, 65% of the cases that is 1,975 were from Bengaluru alone. Now the state is reporting more new cases daily than Delhi. The state's total cases are doubling in nine days as opposed to the national average of 21 days. The state also reported a record 87 deaths for the second consecutive day, 60 of which were from Bengaluru alone. However, these deaths happened from June 24 to July 14 over a period of 20 days. The youngest to die among the reported fatalities was a 26-year-old man, a case of influenza-like illness (ILI) who had a fever and chronic kidney disease. He died at home on July 9. There has been no explanation from the health department on the inordinate delay in reporting Covid-19 fatalities. The state's recovery rate is 39.45% and the mortality rate is 1.94%. With this, the total number of active cases in the state has shot up to 27,853. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar attributed this meteoric rise in cases to a milestone in testing. "The state tested 22,204 tests in a single day on Wednesday alone. This is a new milestone. This coincides with another milestone of detecting more than 3,000 cases in a single day," he said. In Bengaluru, 1,095 antigen tests were conducted on Wednesday out of which 148 tested positive. "In the next 15 days, 58 medical colleges together will be able to test about 25,000 to 30,000 samples every day. Private hospitals and labs together will be able to test another 10,000 samples per day. Together the testing capacity will be stepped up to 40,000 to 50,000 per day," Sudhakar said. To make effective use of the week-long lockdown in containing Covid-19, every booth level task force, in all 8,154 teams, will cover 300-400 households or 1000-1500 population and conduct door to door survey to identify vulnerable people including senior citizens, people with comorbidities, ILI and SARI. They will also check homes which qualify for home isolation in case any person needs to be isolated. They will also create awareness about the reverse isolation of elderly above 60 at home. the teams will consist of block-level officers, linemen, watermen, BBMP officers, 5-10 local volunteers, presiding officers of social organisations, elected representatives, and workers from political parties. 5,000 incentive for those who donate plasma 18,466 people have recovered so far in the state out of which 5,455 are in Bengaluru. 597 people are recuperating in ICUs across the state with 317 in the state capital alone. Sudhakar appealed to recovered people to donate plasma and save lives. Rs.5000 incentive will henceforth be provided to every plasma donor as a mark of appreciation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-more-than-3000-covid-19-cases-in-24-hrs-861681.html
15-07-2020||State||Kalaburagi's Cardiovascular Institute closed after staffers test Covid-19 positive||A branch of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research located in Kalaburagi has been closed after 21 staff including four doctors of the hospital tested positive for Covid-19. A patient from Sedam taluk with complaints of cough and respiratory problem took treatment at a private hospital. As per the doctor's advise, he gave his throat swab on July 5. Before the report arrived, he admitted to Jayadeva hospital. Upon examination by the cardiologists, he underwent angiogram and angioplasty. However, his swab results had returned positive. Those who came in direct contact with him were homed-quarantined immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagis-cardiovascular-institute-closed-after-staffers-test-covid-19-positive-861682.html
15-07-2020||State||Can't reserve 50% beds for Covid-19 patients, lack of doctors, nurses: PHANA||Urging the government to rethink its June 23rd order to private hospitals to reserve 50% of their total bed capacity to treat Covid patients referred by the government, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said they had no doctors, nurses, paramedics and housekeeping staff to simply sustain their operations anymore. On Wednesday, the government instructed hospitals to display the number of beds available for treatment of Covid patients referred by the BBMP at the respective hospital counters. PHANA has 384 member hospitals in Bengaluru. "58 hospitals have shut shop after the lockdown. Despite severe shortcomings, we are functioning. Actions like those taken on Apollo and Vikram Hospital will only demoralise hospitals further," Dr Prasanna HM of Pristine Hospital said who is the President-elect of PHANA.  Dr R Ravindra of Suguna Hospital who is the President of PHANA said hospitals have no doctors, nurses, paramedics and housekeeping staff. "We don't know where to accommodate Covid patients who approach us directly, Covid suspects and non-Covid-19 patients. During our discussion with the government prior to the June 23 order, 50% reservation for government-referred Covid patients was not what was suggested," Ravindra said. Explaining the problems of the hospitals, Prasanna said doctors, nurses and paramedics had either gone back to their native places, are infected or are refusing to work in fear of catching the infection. "Even if we offer double salary, life insurance and medical insurance, health workers are not coming forward to work," he said. There is an acute shortage of attenders, sweepers, ward boys inhospitals. 30% of nurses have disappeared. "We have no anesthetists or intensivists as they are at great risk of getting infected by the aerosols produced by Covid patients when they are intubated. At least 6,000 nurses have gone back to their villages. There was 30% attritioneven before the Covid admissions started. At least 6% of our staff are infected," Prasanna said. Ravindra explained that 34 mid-sized to small hospitals have closed apart from seven to eight large hospitals since the start of the pandemic. "Today, there are 19 regulations that we have to follow to function. We simply don't have the administrative bandwidth to comply with the norms. We have only 8,500 beds in Bengaluru as opposed to the 15,500 beds claimed by the government. Among those 40 are maternity, 20 are eye hospitals, 15 are day care centres, nine are cancer care and nine are kidney care centres that simply cannot function as Covid hospitals," Ravindra explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cant-reserve-50-beds-for-covid-19-patients-lack-of-doctors-nurses-phana-861689.html
15-07-2020||State||Four-hour-long downpour wreak havoc on Yadgir||A heavy downpour brought Yadgir town to a standstill on Wednesday. Skies opened up at 12 noon and it poured for next four hours leaving the town waterlogged. Many houses and shops in the low-lying areas were inundated with water following the incessant rain. The showers turned Chittapur Road, Station Road and Gandhi Circle into streams. Torrential rains that lashed parts of the district have infused new life into the water bodies. A few alert villagers of Pagalapur near Yadgir rescued a woman, who was crossing the overflowing stream. Cooking utensils and food grains at an anganwadi centre at Mudnal Tanda in Gurumatkal taluk washed away after the rainwater gushed into the centre. The renewed monsoon activity over the district has triggered panic among the farmers. They fear prolonged wet weather will dent green gram crop. Parts of Kalaburagi, Ballari, Vijayapura, Dharwad and Uttara Kannada districts witnessed moderate rain on Wednesday. Hubballi city, which witnessed the overcast conditions till noon, received heavy showers towards the evening. Meanwhile, the outflow from Almatti reservoir was increased on Wednesday. The outflow clocked at 46,130 cusecs while the inflow was 27,658 cusecs. The water level in the reservoir has decreased to 517.50 metres and the storage stood at 92.46 tmcft as on July 15. The water level in Krishna downstream has increased, sparking concerns among the people of the villages located on the banks. The backwaters of Narayanapur are posing a flood threat to the historic Sangamanath Temple in Kudalasangama. Several parts of coastal and Malnad districts recorded mild to moderate rain on Wednesday. Yellow alert However, the coastal districts, are likely to witness heavy showers in the next five days. According to India Meteorological Department, heavy rain, coupled with thunder activity, is most likely to lash Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada and Udupi districts for next five days starting Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-hour-long-downpour-wreak-havoc-on-yadgir-861696.html
15-07-2020||State||CM seeks to end rent row, says govt will buy infra||Seeking to end the controversy surrounding bed rentals, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced that the government will buy all essential infrastructure for Covid-19 treatment at the Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC). In a detailed statement, Yediyurappa said the government had decided to buy six essential items for each bed set - cot, fan, bucket, mug and dustbin - at a cost of Rs 7,500 per set, amounting to Rs 4.87 crore for the 6,500 beds being arranged at BIEC, touted as the largest Covid Care Centre.  Earlier, the BBMP rented these items from various firms at a cost of Rs 800 per day, for which the expenditure would run into a tune of Rs 24 crore per month. "This was very expensive. Hence, the government has decided to buy these items and later, make use of the same for government hostels," Yediyurappa said.  The government will spend Rs 2.45 crore on vinyl flooring on the premises at the rate of Rs 31 per sqft for an area of 7.9 lakh sqft.  Further, there were certain non-reusable essential items required to arrange the beds. The government would rent 19 such items for each bed at a cost of Rs 6,500 per month for each set. This would cost Rs 4.23 crore to the government, he said. Drawing curtains on the controversy, the CM said: "Once it came to my notice that the essential items were being rented, I directed the officials to immediately rectify this. As per my instruction, the authorities have taken immediate steps to buy the necessary items and this has prevented the wasteful expenditure on unnecessary renting of items." With the total expenditure for buying all the essential items coming up to Rs 7.32 crore, the CM has directed BBMP to immediately release this amount to all the vendors concerned.  Earlier this week, Yediyurappa is said to have lambasted officials for deciding to rent the infrastructure by "keeping him in the dark," despite he being the Bengaluru City Development minister. The Opposition Congress had alleged a scam in the bed rentals, accusing the BJP government of "looting public money" during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-seeks-to-end-rent-row-says-govt-will-buy-infra-861698.html
15-07-2020||State||CM asks officials to step up lockdown enforcement in B'luru||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday is said to have expressed dismay over people moving about outside their homes despite the lockdown in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts. Yediyurappa, who has been working from home, received updates on the implementation of the lockdown from officials and the media. Apparently, he took officials to task for laxity in enforcing the lockdown.  “There was pressure to impose a lockdown in the hope that it would help bring the situation under control. But, if people go about it like it’s business as usual, then what’s the point,” he is said to have questioned officials.  He also enquired about the lockdown in Dharwad and Kalaburagi districts and got briefed on the preparedness in Dakshina Kannada, that goes into a lockdown from Thursday.  The CM is likely to hold a meeting Friday with ministers and officials who have been made in-charge of Covid-19 in the eight municipal zones of Bengaluru.  Earlier in the day, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the lockdown was “crucial in order to break the chain” and urged citizens to cooperate.  “We are confident that people will voluntarily comply. Otherwise, we will have to use force. We don’t want to do that, and hope people will not create such a situation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-asks-officials-to-step-up-lockdown-enforcement-in-bluru-861700.html
15-07-2020||State||Covid-19: DyCM warns docs, nurses skipping work||Doctors and nurses who desert Covid-19 duty will lose their professional licences, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan warned on Wednesday, even as Covid Care Centres are hit by a severe shortage of healthcare providers.  Narayan, who is in charge of managing Covid Care Centres, found that several doctors and nurses were not showing up for work when he sat down with officials to take stock of the situation.  “The government has clearly told the Medical Council of India and the Indian Nursing Council to relieve doctors and nurses who do not attend work,” Narayan said. “Doctors running away out of fear is wrong. We have a war-like situation in the state and we need to be service-minded. The government will provide all kinds of protection. Instead, it’s wrong to leave patients stranded, by cheating your own profession,” he said.  At present, there are six Covid Care Centres that together have 2,624 beds. The centres need 86 doctors, of whom 61 are available. They need 134 nurses, but only 54 are around. “This is really worrisome. Because people are escaping from duty, the pressure of work is severe on those who are there. This is affecting patients as well,” Narayansaid.  According to Narayan, Covid Care Centres need one doctor and two nurses for every 100 patients. “The Medical Education department should provide us with the personnel,”he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-dycm-warns-docs-nurses-skipping-work-861701.html
15-07-2020||State||DKS talks to patients at Victoria Hosp, says all good||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Wednesday chose to hold a video conference with Covid-19 patients at Victoria Hospital after doctors asked him not to enter the premises.  Shivakumar gave his thumbs-up to the way patients were being treated at the hospital, lauding the efforts of doctors and nurses.  “I tried to go in, but I was requested that I’d have to put myself through a 7-day quarantine. So, I spoke to some 20 patients via video conference. They are strong and I liked the fact that they have been allowed to keep their phones so they can talk to family members. This keeps them mentally strong and it has to be done everywhere in the state,” Shivakumar said. The Congress leader interacted with the hospital administration staff.  “The doctors, nurses and attendants are doing a good job by risking their health,” he said, asking all ministers to also visit hospitals to “boost the morale of the health professionals.”  On Tuesday, Shivakumar had charged that Covid-19 patients were being “treated like dogs” and hit out at the BJP government on the way it has handled thepandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dks-talks-to-patients-at-victoria-hosp-says-all-good-861703.html
15-07-2020||State||Karnataka joins the race for bulk drug, med devices park||Karnataka will have to compete with ten other Indian states to set up a manufacturing park for bulk drugs or medical devices for which the Centre will provide financialassistance.  The Centre has announced the setting up of three parks for bulk drugs and four for medical devices across India. For every bulk drug park, the Centre will give states Rs 1,000 crore and for every medical device park Rs 100 crore.  Setting up of these parks forms a part of the Rs 13,760-crore national package to boost domestic manufacturing of bulk drugs and also incentivising production of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and medicaldevices. “We are willing to grab this opportunity and make all necessary arrangements to get the park set up in the state,” Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar told DH. He said he would reach out to Union Minister for Fertiliser, Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals D V Sadananda Gowda to take this forward.  Shettar expressed confidence that the state government might see success in getting a park sanctioned by citing the exampleof an IIT that was sanctionedat Dharwad.  The Rs 13,760-crore package was announced as the Covid-19 outbreak in China led to a complete stop in the import of bulk drugs and APIs to India.  Ten Indian states have already responded to the package seeking these parks to be set up on their land, Gowda told DH. “There’s competition. We will consider states that offer maximum infrastructure, benefits and a lot of land,” he said.  The Department of Pharmaceuticals has finalised the guidelines for selection of locations of the parks, Gowda said. “The guidelines will be issued in a couple of days.” The Union minister had earlier announced that Raichur would get a mega pharma park. It remains to be seen if Raichur will make the cut as per the guidelines.  Earlier in the week, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal met Gowda and asked for a park to be set up at Bhatinda. Apparently, Punjab has offered 1,350 acres for this purpose and has claimed to have the right ecosystem.  According to sources, there is some anger within the state government over the Centre not reaching out to Karnataka on the setting up of the parks, considering that it is the BJP in power at both places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-joins-the-race-for-bulk-drug-med-devices-park-861711.html
15-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't make it inevitable for police to use force: Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on lockdown||With the state capital along with a few districts under lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said the measure was important to break the chain and people seem to have understood its importance. Appealing for cooperation from the people, he asked them not to make it inevitable for police to use force in implementing the lockdown. "Traffic movement is less, there is a lockdown atmosphere everywhere, I feel that people have understood the importance... cooperation is required. I appeal to the people, if this lockdown has to be effective it has to be voluntary, only then we can control the rapid spread of coronavirus," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said this lockdown is important, last time the infection was not up to this level. "This time areas that have a high number of infections- about five districts and Bengaluru city are going for lockdown. People have understood that this lockdown is to break the chain," he said. "Please don't make it inevitable for police to use force," he added. Bengaluru urban and rural areas are under "complete lockdown" since last night at 8 pm and it will be effective till 5 am on July 22. Following Bengaluru urban and rural, administrations in several districts like Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi (only in Urban areas), Bidar, Raichur (in Raichur city and Sindhanur) and Yadgir too have announced lockdown. Noting that Police have taken all necessary strict measures to enforce lockdown in Bengaluru urban and rural districts by restricting the movement of vehicles and people, Bommai said barricades have been erected at various places and flyovers have been shut. People have been allowed to purchase vegetables and groceries till 12 noon, he said. The government has warned of action in case of any violation of the lockdown rules. As of July 14 evening, cumulatively 44,077 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 842 deaths and 17,390 discharges. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 20,969 infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-make-it-inevitable-for-police-to-use-force-karnataka-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-on-lockdown-861445.html
15-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Only God can save us from Covid-19,' says Karnataka health minister||Bengaluru has been under a lockdown since the 14th of July, a decision the government had to take in the face of rising number of cases in the city. B Sriramulu, Karnataka’s health minister and family welfare minister suggested that only divine intervention could protect the state from the rising number of cases.  “Only God can save us, and we have to bring in caution on our own,” he said regarding the sudden spike in positive cases.  To handle this spike, the state imposed a week down lockdown across Bengaluru (rural and urban).  Karnataka was performing better than other states, until its numbers steadily began to rise after the nationwide unlock began. It now has a larger number of cases than Gujarat.  According to Sriramulu, Covid-19 positive cases in the state can be expected to double within the next month.  The government expects the next two months to be the greatest challenge it has faced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-god-can-save-us-from-covid-19-says-karnataka-health-minister-861655.html
15-07-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Two more persons succumb to Covid-19 in Belagavi ||The swab samples of two patients, who passed away during treatment at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital, came out positive.   The victims include a male aged 77-year-old from Kumaraswamy Layout and another 54-year-old from Angol in the city. They died on Monday night at the designated hospital and their swab sample reports were received on Tuesday night, where they tested positive for Covid-19, according to official sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/two-more-persons-succumb-to-covid-19-in-belagavi-861389.html
15-07-2020||West||Western Railway uses drones to keep vectors, pests away||Keeping pace with modern technology, the Western Railway has added another feather to its cap by adopting drone technology at Lower Parel Workshop for keeping a tab on susceptible areas infested with various vectors and disinfecting such areas, which are beyond the reach of human eyes and hands.  This has helped keep diseases at bay and has ensured a safe and healthy working environment for the staff engaged in the daily maintenance work of coaches at the Lower Parel Workshop, built in 1876.  WR general manager Alok Kansal congratulated Tarun Huria, the chief workshop manager of Lower Parel and his team of co-ordinators consisting deputy chief mechanical engineers DN Gangwar and Arun Kumar Singh, as well as other employees and workers, for this commendable work. According to Sumit Thakur, the WR chief public relations officer, the Lower Parel Workshop is geographically situated in one of the low lying areas of Mumbai and always faces the problem of waterlogging during monsoon season. Hence, a systematic approach every year to maintain cleanliness and hygienic conditions inside the workshop premises, which includes priority work such as cleaning of the rooftop, valley gutters, down take pipes, drainage line and the complete yard, is important. Also, to avoid the accumulation of water, heavy-duty pumps are installed to remove water from pit lines and the materials kept out of the shed are covered with waterproof tarpaulin sheets.  Normally, all shops and sections are disinfected by spraying liquid pesticides and fogging using a hand-operated sprayer. However, it has certain limitations as it does not cover elevated areas such as roof top, etc. In order to overcome this difficulty, in a first-of-its-kind effort, the Carriage Repair Workshop teamed up with BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to carry out large-scale drone disinfection of inaccessible mosquito-breeding spots in the workshop premises, since the last week of June, to eliminate vector-borne diseases such as malaria, dengue and chikungunya.  Speaking about this technology, Huria said that this Aerial Microbial Disinfection is being used for the first time in the railway workshop for the disinfection of mosquito breeding and other vector-borne diseases spreading areas that are usually inaccessible. "Two drones are used for this purpose. The strategy involves employing one drone to carefully survey the inaccessible breeding spots and the other drone to spray the disinfectant," he said. The drones carry out disinfection of the entire workshop premises by flying to the inaccessible places as high as 500 mt, spraying over 15 litres of disinfectant for nearly 12 hours every day. The disinfectants being employed are also effective against 65 strains of viruses, 400 strains of bacteria, and over 100 strains of fungi.  The effort has brought in much-needed relief in the control of mosquito larvae and adult population for the workshop staff and those residing in the vicinity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/western-railway-uses-drones-to-keep-vectors-pests-away-861344.html
15-07-2020||West||Mumbai: Woman spots husband with another woman, chases car and climbs on its bonnet||A domestic row between a couple spilled onto road when a woman stopped her husbands car and climbed on its bonnet, briefly disrupting traffic on the busy Pedder Road in South Mumbai, police said on Wednesday. The incident, which took place on Saturday evening, was recorded by some passersby on their mobile phones and its videos are making rounds on social media. The wife chased the husband's SUV (sports utility vehicle) in her car after she spotted another woman seated next to him in his vehicle. As her husband's SUV stopped at the Pedder Road signal, the wife get down from her car, rushed towards his four-wheeler and started shouting at him, a police official said.  Guess what's happening in the video....This video has two parts. In the video, the woman is seen climbing the bonnet of the SUV, removing her footwear and hitting the vehicle's windshield with it. She is also seen asking the husband's co- passenger to get out of the SUV and shouting for police help. As she stopped her car in the middle of the busy road, one lane got blocked for some time and the traffic police personnel present there tried to ensure movement of other vehicles, the official said. After sometime, the traffic police asked the couple to take their cars near the footpath. By that time, the husband stepped out of his SUV, following which the wife ran towards him and caught him. She even kicked him a couple of times and took him to her car, the video shows. She then again ran towards her husband's SUV, which was parked a few metres away. She opened its driver-side door and lunged at the woman seated in the vehicle, but was stopped by some people who had gathered at the spot, the police official said. Later, the couple and their cars were taken to Gamdevi police station, where the wife refused to lodge a complaint against her husband. A fine was imposed on her for traffic rules violation and abandoning her car in the middle of the road, which caused disruption of vehicular movement, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-woman-spots-husband-with-another-woman-chases-car-and-climbs-on-its-bonnet-861401.html
15-07-2020||West||Sheena Bora murder: Court rejects Indrani Mukerjea's bail plea||A special CBI court here on Wednesday rejected the interim bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case. Mukerjea, who is currently lodged at the Byculla women's jail in Mumbai, filed the plea last month in which she sought temporary release, citing the risk of contracting coronavirus. However, special CBI court Judge J C Jagdale rejected her interim bail plea on Wednesday. The court earlier also rejected her four regular bail applications filed on medical grounds, while another one moved on merits of the case is still pending. In her latest plea, Mukerjea had sought temporary bail for 45 days, citing the coronavirus outbreak and her medical history. She said in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, there is no certainty when the trial or hearing for bail (on merits of case) will begin. The plea also said she has been in judicial custody ever since her arrest in August 2015, and suffering from chronic ischemic changes in her brain arteries. The application also said she suffered from blackouts time and again and has been on medication. Thus, considering her medical history and guidelines issued by the high-powered committee, the court should grant interim bail to her, the application said. Sheena Bora (24) was allegedly strangled in a car by her mother Indrani Mukerjea, her driver Shyamvar Rai and Mukerjea's former husband Sanjeev Khanna in April 2012. Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district. Khanna is a co-accused in the case. Former media baron Peter Mukerjea was also later arrested for allegedly being part of the conspiracy. He is currently out on bail, which was granted by the Bombay High Court earlier this year. His 17-year-old marriage to Indrani Mukerjea ended during the period of incarceration as the two got divorced in October last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sheena-bora-murder-court-rejects-indrani-mukerjeas-bail-plea-861451.html
15-07-2020||West||Fire breaks out at commercial building in Mumbai, no casualty||A fire broke out in a 10-storey commercial building in South Mumbai early Wednesday morning, a fire brigade official said. No casualty was reported, he said. The fire broke out at around 4 am on the first floor of the building located at Maker Chamber-1 in South Mumbai. "The blaze was reported on the first floor of the building's record room, server room and electric wiring," the official said. Five fire engines and as many jumbo tankers were rushed to the spot and the flames were doused after about three hours, he said. The cause of the fire is not yet known, he said. This is the second major blaze reported in the metropolis in less than a week. On Saturday, a fire broke out at a shopping mall in suburban Borivali, but there was no casualty, an official earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-commercial-building-in-mumbai-no-casualty-861452.html
15-07-2020||West||Lonavala, Khandala railway stations to run on clean energy||The journey between the hill stations of Lonavala and Khandala on the Mumbai-Pune route is always an exciting affair. For the Central Railway (CR), the stretch is a "green route" now. With the Indian Railways' mission to make itself carbon-free by 2030, the Mumbai Division of CR has taken a number of initiatives for the use of renewable energy to safeguard the environment and to save several lakhs of rupees. Lonavala and Khandala belt, as a hill station, is one of the most popular tourist spots among Indians and now Lonavala station and its adjoining railway premises will completely run on clean and green energy. This will be a feather in the cap to the already existing green stretch between Lonavala and Khandala, a CR statement said. Lonavala, along with other railway stations, is now among the elite club of railway stations that are harnessing solar power for its operations. The Lonavala Railway Station’s rooftop of Platform no. 2/3 is now installed with solar panels to produce 76 kW power. The energy harnessed from the solar panels to the tune of 68,400 kW power annually will help Lonavala railway station to save on power bills. Two beautiful solar trees are erected to illuminate the garden at the bazaar side of the Lonavala station. It is a cynosure for the eyes of the passengers of Lonavala. One solar-powered water cooler is also provided at Lonavala station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lonavala-khandala-railway-stations-to-run-on-clean-energy-861470.html
15-07-2020||West||Three-day lockdown in Goa from July 17 to curb Covid-19 spread||Planning to head to Goa during the weekend? Consider dropping your plans, even if you have a Covid-19 negative certificate.  Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday imposed a weekend lockdown of the state, in view of the rising tide of Covid-19 cases in the state, which includes 18 deaths over the last few weeks. Sawant also ordered a night curfew starting from Wednesday night to August 10, stating that Goa needed to break the Covid-19 curve which the Chief Minister insists, may have peaked as the monsoon season reached its mid-point in the coastal state. Violators of the curfew would be put behind bars, Sawant said.  "Perhaps we can flatten the curve now, with this effort. The complete lockdown over the weekend will begin from Thursday night till Monday morning. Barring those in essential, medical services and industrial night shift workers, no one would be allowed to step out and nothing would be allowed open," Sawant told a post-cabinet press conference at the State Secretariat on Wednesday.  Sawant also urged people not to indulge in panic buying, saying the complete lockdown would only be in place for this weekend for now.    The Sawant-administration has been under criticism for being unable to check the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Currently, Goa has more than 1000 active Covid-19 cases, while the state has also reported 18 deaths linked to Covid, although according to Sawant, 17 out of the 18 persons who died were suffering from co-morbid conditions. The new lockdown imposition comes closely on the heels of the state opening up for tourism, another decision which has caused anxiety among the local population as well as attracted criticism from the Opposition.  Sawant said that despite the rising number of cases, members of the public continued to flout rules related to social distancing and wearing of masks.  "People should have been more careful. The government has realised that people have not followed norms. 40,000 people have been fined for not wearing masks alone. Looks like people only understand the language of the law," the Chief Minister said, citing it as a reason for announcing a night curfew till August 10.   "The night Janata curfew will last from 8 pm to 6 am, with exceptions for essential services or those working night shifts in industries or medical emergencies. The curfew will be in place till August 10... Violators will be imprisoned," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-day-lockdown-in-goa-from-july-17-to-curb-covid-19-spread-861502.html
15-07-2020||West||Maratha reservation: SC to conduct day to day hearing from July 27 via video conferencing||The Supreme Court said on Wednesday that from July 27 it would commence day to day hearing through video conferencing on a batch of pleas challenging Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. The top court, which refused to pass any interim stay order on the quota, said chances of physical court seem remote due to the persisting Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices L N Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhatt asked the parties said that all parties should sit together and decide on modalities of hearing like who will take how much time and no one shall repeat the arguments. During the hearing, senior advocate Shyam Divan appearing for some of the petitioners said that this type of a case needs to be heard in a physical court. “If we are constrained, then give us the earliest possible date. There is tremendous urgency in the matter. We may also need to revisit the concept of interlocutory relief,” he said, adding that there is a whole group of postgraduate students who have their careers at risk. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal said that there is also an issue of 10 percent reservation for Economically Weaker Section which too needs to be heard. The bench said that if it needs to be heard, then it would consider it. Divan pointed out that there is a huge chunk of 12 to 13 per cent reservation which has been taken away. He said that the High Court is bound by the orders of the Supreme Court and nine-judge bench of the top court had already said that quota should not exceed 50 per cent. The bench said it is listing the matter on July 27. Advocate Shivaji M Jadhav told the bench that virtual hearing is not possible looking at a compilation of 1,000 of pages. The bench asked the counsel as to when does he think Covid-19 will subside and regular courts will start? “Let's start the hearings. But lawyers, please ensure that you don't repeat yourselves,” the bench said. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018 was enacted to grant reservation to people of Maratha community in Maharashtra in jobs and admissions. The Bombay High Court, while upholding the law in June last year, had held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable and said that quota should not exceed 12 percent in employment and 13 percent in admissions. On July 7, some of the lawyers appearing in the matter told the bench that physical hearing was required in the case as the issue might not be adjudicated upon properly in virtual hearing through video-conferencing. The bench had then observed that physical hearing at present may not be possible and it would consider the aspect of interim relief in the matter next week. The apex court is presently hearing matter only through video-conferencing amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The top court had last month sought response from the Maharashtra government on a separate plea of six MBBS doctors, filed through advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, seeking a direction that the state law granting 12 per cent quota to Marathas not be made applicable for admissions in the postgraduate medical and dental courses for the academic year 2020-2021. On February 5, the apex court had refused to stay the high court order upholding the Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. Earlier, the top court had in July last year decided to examine the constitutional validity of the Maharashtra law, but refused to stay the high court order upholding the statute with some modifications. The high court, in its June 27, 2019, order, had said the 50-per cent cap on total reservations imposed by the Supreme Court could be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. It had also accepted the Maharashtra government's argument that the Maratha community was socially and educationally backwards and it was duty-bound to take steps for its progress. The high court had said though the reservation was valid, its quantum -- 16 percent -- was not justifiable and it should be reduced to 12 percent and 13 percent, as recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission. One of the plea filed in the apex court had claimed that the SEBC Act breached the 50 percent ceiling on reservation fixed by the top court in its landmark judgment in the Indira Sahwney case, also known as the 'Mandal verdict'. The framing of the SEBC Act for Marathas was done under "political pressure" and in "full defiance" of the constitutional principles of equality and rule of law, one of the pleas have claimed. According to the 102nd amendment to the Constitution, reservation can be granted only if a particular community is named in the list prepared by the President. On November 30, 2018, the Maharashtra legislature had passed a bill granting 16-percent reservation to Marathas. The report submitted by the State Backward Classes Commission was based on quantifiable and contemporaneous data and was correct in classifying the Maratha community as socially and educationally backward, the high court had said in its verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maratha-reservation-sc-to-conduct-day-to-day-hearing-from-july-27-via-video-conferencing-861511.html
15-07-2020||West||Our Deputy CM was striking deals with BJP, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday launched a sharp attack on rebel leader Sachin Pilot, accusing him of conspiring with the BJP to topple the government while being the Deputy Chief Minister and the President of the party’s state unit. Gehlot’s fresh attack on Pilot came even as Congress said that the party had not shut the door on the rebel leader, amid calls by a section of veteran leaders that the differences could still be sorted out. “Our deputy chief minister and PCC chief was himself conspiring with the BJP to topple the government. He was talking to the BJP, I have proof. Talks were held at 2:00 a.m.. It is good that we got to know of it in time,” the chief minister told reporters in Jaipur. He claimed that money had exchanged hands and the first installment had already been paid. “Some of our colleagues became over ambitious and became a part of horse-trading,” Gehlot said asserting that he enjoyed full majority and will not all the government to come under any threat. Gehlot’s attack came even as Pilot, in media interviews, claimed that he had never spoken against the party and that some Rajasthan leaders were trying to spread rumours that he was joining the BJP. Senior leader Margaret Alva said the differences were not anti-party and have to be sorted out. “Differences are not anti-party. They have to be sorted out and compromise worked out. We have done it over the years.” Alva said. Gehlot also suggested that Pilot got undue attention from a section of the media because of his suave ways. “If some person speaks good English, looks handsome, and has a good lifestyle. This is not everything. Your intention should be good. … you cannot make common cause with persons who have hatred towards Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” the chief minister said. Gehlot said the leaders of his generations had toiled hard and hence were in command even after 40 years. “We love the new generation, the future will be theirs. This new generation, they have become central ministers, state presidents. If they had gone through what we had in our time, they could work more than what we do,” the 69-year-old chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/our-deputy-cm-was-striking-deals-with-bjp-says-ashok-gehlot-861513.html
15-07-2020||West||IMD upgrades warning status for Mumbai and coastal Maharashtra; issues red alert||In the wake of the heavy downpour in Mumbai and coastal Maharashtra, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday upgraded the warning status from orange to red, a special bulletin on the city's rain said on Wednesday. The city has been witnessing heavy rains since Tuesday night, resulting in water logging in many areas. Red alert has been issued for Mumbai, R K Jenamani, scientist with the National Weather Forecasting Centre, said. The bulletin said scattered “heavy to very heavy rainfall” with isolated “extremely heavy falls” are very likely to occur over Mumbai city, Thane, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts during the next 18 hours. The bulletin added that due to the heavy rains, inundation of low-lying areas is expected. The rains could also lead to disruption in electricity and water supply, local traffic and road transport. Until 8.30 am, Dadar had recorded 15.9 centimetres of rainfall; Parel 13.2 cms; Colaba 12.9 cms; Worli 11.7 cms; Santacruz 10.6 cms; Santacruz 6.3 cms; Borivali 10.1 cms, as per the bulletin. From 8.30 am to 11.30 am, Santacruz received 6.3 centimetres of rainfall; Bandra 9.5 cms; Colaba 1.2 cms; Mahalakshmi 5.3 cms; Ram Mandir (western railway) 6.3 cms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/imd-upgrades-warning-status-for-mumbai-and-coastal-maharashtra-issues-red-alert-861538.html
15-07-2020||West||50% tipplers in West Bengal switch over to cheaper brands of liquor due to price hike: Survey||Fifty per cent of tipplers in West Bengal have started preferring liquor of cheaper brands due to a steep rise in prices after the state government imposed 30 per cent sales tax on alcoholic beverages in April, according to a survey of 8,600 individuals conducted by social media-based LocalCirces.  According to it, the respondents said that their preferred brands have become more expensive and they have either reduced consumption or switched over to cheaper substitutes. Nearly 36 per cent of the respondents said that they are ready to step up their purchase if the sales tax is withdrawn, while 51 per cent prefer to buy liquor from e-commerce platforms. The Delhi and Odisha governments had imposed additional levies on alcohol during the lockdown period, but subsequently rolled it back due to a drastic reduction in sales, officials of the survey firm said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/50-tipplers-in-west-bengal-switch-over-to-cheaper-brands-of-liquor-due-to-price-hike-survey-861540.html
15-07-2020||West||IMA asks Maharashtra govt to make blood donation mandatory for recovered Covid-19 patients||Amid rising cases of Covid-19 and reports of cured patients asking huge amounts for blood donation, the Maharashtra chapter of Indian Medical Association has urged the government to make blood donation for plasma therapy mandatory. "In view of a rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 patients daily and scarcity of essential antiviral medicines, the Maharashtra government  should increase the use of plasma therapy," said Dr Avinash Bhondwe,  the president of IMA-Maharashtra. According to him, plasma therapy was thoroughly tested at various government medical colleges and it proved effective as a life saving measure in the patients with hypoxia who need Oxygen and a possible ICU admission. "However, it is not used frequently at various treatment centers in Maharashtra. It is said that one of the main reasons being the non availability of plasma donors in sufficient numbers. Besides, it has been reported the patients who have recovered from Covid-19 are asking huge amounts to donate their blood," he said.  In view of this, the IMA-Maharashtra appealed to government to make it mandatory for all the patients who got cured from the deadly disease, to donate blood for plasma therapy. To facilitate this procedure, a mandatory undertaking can be taken from all the patients to report on the 15th day after the discharge or recovery.  After which they will be tested for fitness for blood donation.  "Separate plasma banks may be formed for the procedure at various places with the help of the blood banks in the public as well as the private sector," said Dr Bhondwe. "We strongly feel that the increased availability of plasma will not only improve the recovery rate of the Covid-19 patients but also reduce the mortality in Maharashtra," said Dr Bhondwe  He also appealed to the citizens that that such compulsion to donate plasma should not be seen as an "autocratic activity" but an obligation towards humanity and commitment to save human lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ima-asks-maharashtra-govt-to-make-blood-donation-mandatory-for-recovered-covid-19-patients-861544.html
15-07-2020||West||Court denies bail to 25 accused in Palghar lynching case||A sessions court on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of 25 persons arrested in connection with the Palghar lynching case in which two monks and their driver were beaten to death by a mob in April. The accused had applied for bail on technical grounds which was rejected by an additional sessions judge in adjoining Palghar district. Special Public Prosecutor Satish Maneshinde had submitted before the court that there were "multiple evidences" against the 25 accused and opposed their bail plea. Examination of mobile phones of the accused revealed their presence at the crime spot, the prosecution had said. Two monks and their driver were lynched by a mob at Gadchinchale village in Palghar district on April 16 when they were travelling in a car to Surat to attend a funeral amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The brutal mob attack took place amid rumours that child-lifters were roaming in the area during the lockdown. More than 100 people have been arrested in connection with the violent incident which is being probed by the Maharashtra police's CID.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/court-denies-bail-to-25-accused-in-palghar-lynching-case-861568.html
15-07-2020||West||Maharashtra HSC results to be declared on July 16||Maharashtra minister Varsha Gaikwad on Wednesday said the results of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education's Class 12 examinations will be announced on Thursday. The Class 12 exams were held in February and March this year, before the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed in the state. "The results will be declared at 1 pm tomorrow. I extend my best wishes to the students and their parents," School Education Minister Gaikwad said in a video message on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-hsc-results-to-be-declared-on-july-16-861579.html
15-07-2020||West||Maharashtra govt says no to railway gauge conversion in Melghat tiger habitat||In a significant development, the Maharashtra government has said no to railway gauge conversion passing through the tiger habitat of Melghat in Vidarbha region. The proposed gauge conversion of Akola-Khandwa railway line is passing through the core critical tiger habitat of Melghat Tiger Reserve. The work was to be undertaken by the South Central Railway. In a letter to Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar and Minister for Railways and Commerce Piyush Goyal, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urged them to look for an alternate alignment and withdraw the present project. In pursuance of the uni-gauge policy, the Centre has submitted seeking permission to start gauge conversion work in the existing meter-gauge line connecting Akola to Khandwa for a total stretch of 176 kms. The proposal includes open cutting of tunnels which involves cutting and blasting of rocks using heavy machinery and explosives. It also involves realignment away from the existing track to ease sharp curves on 23.48 kms out of a total length of 38 kms passing through the core area of tiger reserve.   According to Thackeray, this amounts to realignment and not just gauge conversion along the existing railway track. The Melghat Tiger Reserve is among the first nine tiger reserves of India declared in 1973-74. The tiger reserve is spread over an area of 2,768.52 sq kms and is part of Satpura-Maikal landscape which has the distinction of being one of the global priority tiger conservation landscape. “The Melghat Tiger Reserve is home to around 55 tigers. The decision of the Maharashtra government creates a win-win situation for both, tigers and villagers,” said Kishor Rithe, the founder of Satpuda Foundation, who is also a member of the Maharashtra State Wildlife Board. The proposed gauge conversion will substantially increase the railway traffic in the long run leading to huge disturbance to the core areas of Melghat Tiger Reserve. “Along with increase in the railway traffic, it would also lead to increase in speed of the trains, restrictions on future expansions and modifications and increase in pollution along the track. The core area has been made inviolate by rehabilitating 13 villages and 6 of these are within 10 kms distance of the existing railway line. Due to this wildlife has significantly increased in the area,” said Thackeray The Wildlife Institute of India has also recommended that the best mitigation for the railway line is avoidance of the upgradation through the tiger reserve and opt for alternative alignments.  In the letters, Thackeray also quoted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had said - "conservation of tigers is not a choice but an imperative."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-says-no-to-railway-gauge-conversion-in-melghat-tiger-habitat-861581.html
15-07-2020||West||West Bengal CID arrests man named in 'suicide note' of BJP leader:||The West Bengal CID on Wednesday arrested a man in connection with the death of BJP leader Debendra Nath Roy who was found hanging near his residence in North Dinajpur district two days ago, an official said. Nilay Sinha, named in the purported suicide note of the Hemtabad MLA, was picked up from English Bazar area of Malda on Tuesday by the local police. He was later handed over to the CID. The agency formally arrested him on Wednesday, he said. A Raiganj court remanded Sinha to 10 days in police custody. The CID is still looking for Mahbud Ali, another person named in the note recovered from the shirt pocket of the deceased MLA. "We are questioning Sinha. Our sleuths are in search of the other person and hopefully, we will be able to nab him soon," the IPS officer said. Roy was found hanging in a market near his residence at Hemtabad on Monday. His family members and BJP leaders alleged that it was a "cold-blooded murder by the Trinamool Congress". The ruling party denied the charge and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said it is suspected to be a case of suicide. The BJP had called a 12-hour bandh in North Bengal on Tuesday to protest the "political murder" and demand a CBI probe into it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/west-bengal-cid-arrests-man-named-in-suicide-note-of-bjp-leader-861601.html
15-07-2020||West||Maharashtra adds 7,975 new Covid-19 cases, 233 deaths||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 2,75,640 on Wednesday with the addition of 7,975 new cases, while the death toll inched towards the 11,000-mark, the health department said. With 233 new deaths in a day, the state's fatality count increased to 10,928, the department said. A total of 3,606 patients were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday, taking the number of recovered persons to 1,52,613 the department said in a statement. There are 1,11,801 active cases in the state at present, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-adds-7975-new-covid-19-cases-233-deaths-861621.html
15-07-2020||West||Gujarat govt says Covid-19 death rate down from 6% to 1.5%||Even as the increase in coronavirus cases in Gujarat continues unabated, the state government on Wednesday claimed the situation was improving as the death rate has come down to 1.5 per cent. Speaking to reporters in Gandhinagar, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said the mortality rate, which was 6.5 per cent in March-April, had now fallen to 1.5 per cent. "Against 50 deaths being recorded on a single day earlier, the daily toll has now come down to 15," Patel said. Gujarat on Wednesday reported a new high of 925 new coronavirus cases which took case count to 44,648, the state health department said. With 10 patients succumbing to the viral infection, the death toll reached 2,081, it said. Patel, who handles the health portfolio, however, pointed out that the period during which cases doubled has improved. "People were getting infected very fast earlier. There was a time when the doubling rate was nine days. Now with the government's proactive measures, it has improved to 32 days," he said. Even the recovery rate had improved significantly in Gujarat, the deputy CM said. From the earlier 30 per cent, the recovery rate now stands at 70 per cent, Patel said, adding that 30,550 Covid-19 patients have recovered so far. 42,051 hospital beds were available to treat coronavirus patients, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-says-covid-19-death-rate-down-from-6-to-15-861646.html
15-07-2020||West||Bakri Eid: Maharashtra plans online sale, purchase of goats||The Maharashtra government will set up an online mechanism for the sale and purchase of goats for the upcoming Bakri Eid festival, state minister Aslam Shaikh said on Wednesday. No permission will be given to celebrate any festival in coronavirus containment zones, he said. He said while guidelines for Eid will be framed soon, gathering of people for 'qurbani' (sacrifice) of goats will not be allowed. Markets will be allowed only on open grounds, an official statement quoted the Mumbai city guardian minister as saying. Big markets like Deonar will not be permitted this time, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bakri-eid-maharashtra-plans-online-sale-purchase-of-goats-861663.html
15-07-2020||West||Opposition seeks IAS officer's suspension after Customs grills him||Senior IAS officer M Sivasankar was grilled by the Customs for nearly nine hours in the gold smuggling case in Kerala as the opposition Congress and BJP on Wednesday stepped up their attack on the Left front government and demanded his suspension. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan maintained that a high- level official probe was looking into allegations against Sivasankar, removed as his Principal Secretary and the I-T Secretary, and reiterated that his government would not protect any wrongdoer in the sensational case, also being investigated by the NIA. The bureaucrat, who has gone on one year leave after being eased out of his positions in the government, appeared before the Customs officials around 5.15 pm on Tuesday shortly after being summoned in connection with the investigation. The marathon questioning of Sivasankar continued till 2.15 am Wednesday after which he was escorted back to his home by the Customs officials. Sivasankar was removed from his posts after allegations surfaced that he had links with Swapna Suresh, the prime accused in the case related to the attempt to smuggle gold through diplomatic baggage using the name of a person in the UAE consulate here. As speculations were rife that the officer would be suspended following his questioning, Vijayan told reporters here that the top most official of the state government (the Chief Secretary) was investigating the allegations against Sivasankar and action will be taken as per the probe report, to be filed soon. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Customs department were probing the matter and the state government will not protect any wrongdoers,he said. "The probe being carried by the state chief secretary is related to the activities of the state government official. We are enquiring whether the act of the official was illegal or inappropriate", Vijayan said. On Tuesday, the chief minister had said a panel headed by Chief Secretary Dr Vishwas Mehta was probing the charges against the bureaucrat and action would be taken, if he was found guilty. Opposition Congress-led UDF leader Ramesh Chennithala trained guns on the Chief Minister asking the reason for the hesitation in suspending Sivasankar who had been questioned by the Customs for nearly nine hours. He also alleged thatVijayan was "protecting" those who have indulged in "anti-national activities". "The chief minister is deceiving the public by saying there is no evidence against Sivasankar", he told reporters here. The UDF was alsoplanning to move a resolution in the stat assembly to remove Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, who had inaugurated a shop belonging to one of the accused in the gold smuggling case, Chennithala, the Leader of the Opposition in the House, said. BJP state president K Surendran targeted state Minister K T Jaleel, whose phone records showed he had been in touch with Suresh,alleging that the Minister had links with the accused in the smuggling case. The Minister had on Tuesday explained the circumstances leading to his contact with the woman and said the phone calls were related to the UAE consulate matter. The Customs is probing whether Sivasankar had used his office to provide any help to key accused-- Sarith, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. It had seized the gold, weighing over 30 kg and valued at around Rs 15 crore on July 5. The NIA, which has been entrusted withthe probe into the case by the Centre, has booked four people Sarith, Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Fasil Fareed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. As the case has national and international linkages, and as the initial inquiries have revealed that the proceeds of the smuggled gold could be used for financing terrorism in India, it has taken up the investigation, an NIA official had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-seeks-ias-officers-suspension-after-customs-grills-him-861678.html
15-07-2020||West||Chargesheet filed in Palghar mob lyncing case||Three months after two sadhus and a driver were brutally lynched of Juna Akhada to death in Palghar district near Mumbai, the State-CID filed a chargesheet on Wednesday. The charge sheet against 150-odd persons runs into 12,000 pages. Two sets of charge sheets - running around 6,000 pages were filed before a court in Palghar. Two sadhus, Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj (70 years), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), were brutally lynched to death on the night of 16 April in the Gadchinchale village in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district, nearly 120 kms from downtown Mumbai. For four days before the incident, there were rumours that robbers had come to the village to steal kidneys particularly of children and sell them in the black market. This led to the villagers mounting a round-the-clock vigil. The sadhus and their driver was attacked by villagers suspecting to be kidnappers. The Maharashtra government transferred the probe from the Kasa police station to State-CID. Among other things, the charge sheet says that the mob-lynching incident was the outcome of rumour-mongering and there was no religious angle to the crime.Meanwhile,  Additional Sessions Judge DN  Keluskar rejected the bail pleas by 25 accused in the same case on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chargesheet-filed-in-palghar-mob-lyncing-case-861697.html
