16-07-2020||Comment||The spectre of caste in Silicon Valley||On June 30, California’s Department of Fair Employment and Housing regulators sued Cisco Systems Inc, for discrimination. The cause was not, like most workplace discrimination lawsuits, based on race, gender, age or sexual orientation. It was based on caste. The lawsuit accuses Cisco, a multibillion-dollar tech conglomerate based in San Jose, California, of denying an engineer, who immigrated from India to the United States, professional opportunities, a raise and promotions because he was a from a low caste, or Dalit, background. The lawsuit states that his Indian-American managers, Sundar Iyer and Ramana Kompella, who are described as high-caste Brahmins, harassed the engineer because of their sense of superiority rooted in the Hindu caste system. Many Indian-Americans reacted with disbelief that a giant corporation in Silicon Valley could be mired in caste discrimination. For Dalit Americans like me, it was just another Wednesday. Dalit, which means “oppressed,” is a self-chosen identity for close to 25 percent of India’s population, and it refers to former “untouchables,” the people who suffer the greatest violence, discrimination and disenfranchisement under the centuries-old caste system that structures Hindu society. Caste is the gear that turns every system in India. “If Hindus migrate to other regions on earth, Indian Caste would become a world problem,” BR Ambedkar, the greatest Dalit leader and one of the architects of the India Constitution, wrote in 1916. He was prophetic. Caste prejudice and discrimination is rife within the Indian communities in the United States and other countries. Its chains are even turning the work culture within multibillion-dollar American tech companies, and beyond. The Cisco engineer, whose complaint led to the lawsuit and who identifies himself as a Dalit, has not been named in the lawsuit. From the mid-1990s, American companies, panicking at the feared “millennial meltdown’ of computer systems, were hiring close to 100,000 technology workers a year from India. An overwhelming majority of the Indian information technology professionals who moved to the United States were from “higher castes,” and only a handful were Dalits. Over the Fourth of July weekend, I participated in a video call with about 30 Dalit Indian immigrants. A Dalit information technology professional on the video call spoke about moving to the United States in 2000 and working at Cisco between 2007 and 2013. “A large percentage of the workforce was already Indian," he told us. “They openly discussed their caste and would ask questions to figure out my caste background.” Higher caste Indians use the knowledge of a person’s caste to place him or her on the social hierarchy despite professional qualifications. “I usually ignored these conversations,” the Dalit worker added. “If they knew I was Dalit, it could ruin my career.” According to the lawsuit, Mr. Iyer, one of the Brahmin engineers at Cisco, revealed to his other higher-caste colleagues that the complainant had joined a top engineering school in India through affirmative action. When the Dalit engineer, the lawsuit says, confronted Mr. Iyer and contacted Cisco’s human resources to file a complaint, Mr. Iyer retaliated by taking away the Dalit engineer’s role as lead on two technologies. For two years, the lawsuit says, Mr. Iyer isolated the Dalit engineer, denied him bonuses and raises and stonewalled his promotions. Cisco’s human resources department responded by telling the Dalit engineer that “caste discrimination was not unlawful” and took no immediate corrective action. Mr. Kompella, the other Brahmin manager named in the lawsuit, replaced Mr. Iyer as the Dalit engineer’s manager, and according to the suit, “continued to discriminate, harass, and retaliate against” him. In the backdrop of caste supremacy in the Indian diaspora in the United States, when higher caste Hindus often describe and demonize Dalits as “inherently lazy/ opportunistic/ not talented,” even apparently innocuous practices like peer reviews for promotions (Cisco and several other tech companies operate on this model), can turn into minefields, ending in job losses and visa rejections for Dalits. Almost every Dalit person I spoke to in the United States, after California filed the lawsuit against Cisco, requested to remain anonymous and feared that revealing their identity as a Dalit working in the American tech industry filled with higher-caste Indians would ruin their career. Those words also governed my life till 2016, when I decided to publicly reveal my caste identity and “come out” as Dalit. Growing up “passing” as a dominant caste person in India while hiding my “untouchable,” caste I lived in the same fear that stops most Dalits from articulating their harassment and asserting their identity in India and the United States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-spectre-of-caste-in-silicon-valley-861882.html
16-07-2020||First Edit||States, UGC must resolve exams issue||It is unfortunate that there is no agreement between the University Grants Commission (UGC) and some states on the conduct of examinations for the final semester students of undergraduate courses for the current academic year. The academic year is over and the examinations should have been held by June 30. But the Covid-19 epidemic and the lockdown disrupted the academic programmes of all universities and the attempt now is to ensure that the students emerge with the least damage from a lost semester. The disagreement is over how to do that. The UGC has asked the universities to conduct the final examinations by September 30, and the HRD Ministry is of the same view. It has recommended the cancellation of intermediate semester exams but mandated that the final examinations be held in the interest of academic credibility. It says the evaluation of students is an important milestone and should be done by giving all students a “fair and equal opportunity”.  A number of states, including Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi, West Bengal and Odisha, have opposed the UGC plan on a number of grounds. They hold that it is difficult to hold the exams now, and it will become more difficult to hold them with the Covid-19 situation worsening and likely to peak in the coming weeks. Most of these states are badly affected by the pandemic. The UGC had first recommended the holding of online exams. But when it was pointed out that this would adversely affect many students because of the digital divide in the country, it agreed that the exams may be held offline or as a blend of online and offline tests. But it was pointed out even this would present difficulties because many students have to travel between states and across the country as most universities have students from many states.  The states also argue that there is nothing to test the students on because the semester was washed out. They have proposed the award of marks or credits to the students on the basis of their performance in the previous semesters and internal assessment. The details of the method have varied between the states. They have also pointed out that this is an accepted practice worldwide, and the IITs and the National Law Universities have completed the evaluation of students without tests. The disagreement has assumed a political character involving federal rights because the states which oppose the UGC guidelines are Opposition-ruled states. But the students need to graduate and look for jobs or go for higher education. The UGC and the states should resolve the issue at the earliest in the interest of the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/states-ugc-must-resolve-exams-issue-862157.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Hotels in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi yet to recover from lockdown blow||Even before the current lockdown begins from Thursday, several hotels had suspended both dine-in and takeaway services in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. Many feel that it was not feasible when the business is dull.  The hotels that saw hundreds of customers daily, were having only a handful of them since they were reopened in June. Even after the relaxation of the lockdown, the hotel industry in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada failed to recover from the complete lockdown with shortage of labourers on one hand and few response from customers on the other. Few of the hotels in Mangaluru have remained closed after reopening in June. In Udupi district, only 40% of the hotels have remained open but there is shortage of customers. On one hand, hotels are facing shortage of labourers on other hand, they are unable to bear the maintenance cost. Only a few customers With surge in Covid-19 cases, customers are not turning towards hotels. Several hotels in Mangaluru, Udupi, Manipal are open with only a few customers, said a hotel owner. Two hotels at Bannanje and Karavali Bypass in Udupi were sealed after a cook and an owner tested positive for Covid. As a result, people are scared to visit hotels, said the hotel owner. Udupi district Hotel Owners’ Association president Tallur Shivaram Shetty said, “About 60% of the hotels are yet to open in the district. After the hotels were sealed due to positive cases, even parcel services from hotels too have declined. There is a need to bring in changes in the sealdown rules.” Having unable to bear the cost of the rent, salary of the labourers, cost incurred on the purchase of vegetables, LPG, milk and other maintenance cost, many hotels have remained closed. Threat of closure Only a few restaurants have opened and they are also facing the threat of closure, he added. Further, tourism sector was complementing the hotel industry in the past. Owing to Covid scare and monsoon, the tourists have stopped visiting the destinations. As no ‘sevas’ are held in temples, the devotees too are not visiting temples, said Shetty. At present, only those who are staying in hostels, relatives of patients who have come from other districts visit hotels. Hardly, entire family members visit hotels, lamented a staff at a hotel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-hotels-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-yet-to-recover-from-lockdown-blow-861826.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka II PUC exams: Bhagyasri proves disability no deterrent, scores 467 marks in commerce stream||Bhagyasri, a physically challenged student in Kuriyala of Bantwal taluk has achieved a rare feat of scoring 467 marks in commerce stream in II PUC examinations.  She is suffering from disability from her birth and has no strength below her waist. As a result, she was carried to the school by her mother daily. Later, she started depending on autorickshaw from travelling to school. She uses a stick to climb the stairs in the college and uses a wheelchair inside the classroom.  She is the daughter of Keshava Kulal and Rajivi, who eke out a living from a petty shop.  Bhagyasri is the student of SVS College. Thrilled over her results, she has thanked her teachers, parents and classmates for their support.  Bhagyasri’s mother is her backbone who has been supporting her throughout. She wishes to continue her studies and enrol for BCom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-ii-puc-exams-bhagyasri-proves-disability-no-deterrent-scores-467-marks-in-commerce-stream-861828.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Subhadramma Mansooru brought freshness to Kannada theatre||Reputed Kannada theatre personality and Nadoja Awardee Subhadramma Mansooru died of cardiac arrest on  Wednesday late night. She was 81. She is survived by five children. Last rites will be conducted in Ballari on Thursday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa condoled the death tweeting, "The Kannada threatre has lost a valuable gem. Subhadramma in the roles of Draupadi, Kunti and Gandhari in Raktaratri play became a household name in Karnataka." ಹಿರಿಯ ರಂಗಭೂಮಿ ಕಲಾವಿದೆ ಶ್ರೀಮತಿ ಸುಭದ್ರಮ್ಮ ಮನ್ಸೂರ್‌ ನಿಧನರಾದ ಸುದ್ದಿ ಅತೀವ ದುಃಖ ತಂದಿದೆ. ಸುಮಾರು 5 ದಶಕಗಳ ಕಾಲ ರಂಗಭೂಮಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಕಲಾವಿದರಾಗಿ ಮತ್ತು ಸಂಗೀತಗಾರರಾಗಿ ಅವರ ಸಾಧನೆ ಅನುಪಮವಾದದ್ದು. ಅವರ ಆತ್ಮಕ್ಕೆ ಸದ್ಗತಿಯನ್ನು ಪ್ರಾರ್ಥಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ, ಕುಟುಂಬದವರು ಮತ್ತು ಅಭಿಮಾನಿಗಳಿಗೆ ನನ್ನ ಸಂತಾಪಗಳನ್ನು ವ್ಯಕ್ತಪಡಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ. She combined her singing with acting and emerged as one of the Kannada theatre’s greatest artists. Subhadramma was born in 1939. Her mother Bhagyamma, was a Carnatic classical vocalist. Her father Jwalapathi worked as a mechanic and played the harmonium. She studied Telugu till Class VI and learnt Kannada later. She joined Sumangala Natya Sangha, a drama company, in Bellari as a child artiste when she was 12-year-old. She married Lingaraj Mansooru, the theatre personality (he is related to the famous vocalist Mallikarjun Mansooru). The couple performed in Hubballi, Gadag, Miraj, Sangli and other places. Subhadramma's performance as Draupadi, Kunti and Gandhari was so powerful and appealing that she acted in these roles for years without a break. Her portrayal of Draupadi’s agony in Raktharatri play is considered classic on the Kannada stage.  She rendered the Vachanas of Basavanna, Devara Dasimayya and other Vachana composers.  She acted in Telugu plays like Pallepaduchu and Natanalayam.  Former deputy chief minister M P Prakash invited her to act in the plays directed by him such as 'Ashadada Ondu Dina' and 'Jokumaraswamy' at Huvina Hadagli in Ballari district.  Subhadramma is considered as one of the legends in Rangageete (drama songs) genre in Karnataka. Several organisations, including the Nataka Academy and the Delhi Kannada Sangha have honoured her.  She is the recipient of Gubbi Veeranna Award and Nadoja Award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/subhadramma-mansooru-brought-freshness-to-kannada-theatre-861886.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Railways unearths illegal booking of E-tickets||The Railway Protection Force, Mysuru division, under South Western Railway, has unearthed illegal booking of Indian Railway Catering And Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) E-tickets, by touts. “The railways, in an attempt to restart train services, introduced more than 100 pairs of trains on select routes across the nation, commencing on June 1. Since then, there is a huge demand for tickets on a majority of the routes. Several complaints were received regarding touts using multiple identities to book tickets in these trains. It was complained that they were selling the tickets at a premium,” Divisional Railway Manager Priya Shetty said. A press note states, “On a specific information of touting activities, during the unprecedented time of the global pandemic of Covid-19, the Crime Intelligence Branch of the Railway Protection Force, Mysuru division, launched a drive to identify such illegal activities. The CIB team collected the PNRs, had them analysed through software and then zeroed in on the suspects." "On July 15, on the strength of a search warrant obtained from the Railway Magistrate, Mysuru, Krishnaji Rao, the sub-inspector and his team conducted a search at the Government Fair Price Shop, Hullehalli, Kadur taluk, Chikkmagaluru district, and arrested the accused H G Puttaswamy, 26 years, and recovered 48 E-tickets worth Rs 17,054 and one mobile phone. In this connection, a case has been registered at the RPF outpost at Birur, under Section 143 of the Railways Act, 1989,” the press note states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/railways-unearths-illegal-booking-of-e-tickets-862095.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 patients allege harassment in hospitals||Covid-19 patients, isolated at Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Hospital in the city, complain of harassment and lack of facilities and care. The patientshave released a video, complaining about the poor facilities. A few patients have been demanding the authorities concerned to send them back to home, as there are no proper facilities. According to the patients, there are no sufficient beds. “A few patients slept on the floor, due to shortage of beds. In addition, there is no proper bathroom or toilet facility and as many as 20 patients are kept in a single ward. There are no housekeepers to clean bathrooms and toilets. Only two toilets are available for 20 members. Both the toilets are stinking and it is highly difficult to use them,” alleged a patient in the video. Another patient alleged that the authorities have failed to provide proper care. “There is no drinking water and other facilities,” he said. One more patient said, “The authorities are not providing tablets and claim that the medicines have exhausted. When medicine and treatment in not available, why are we kept in isolation. Send us home. We will take care of ourselves,” he demanded. As the district hospital is filled, a few patients are isolated at the ESI Hospital. As many as 70 patients are in the hospital. However, District Health Officer Dr Venkatesh said that he will look into the matter and visit the spot. “I had no information about this,” the DHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-patients-allege-harassment-in-hospitals-862096.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minister visits SSLC evaluation centres in Mandya||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar visited various schools, where evaluation of SSLC answerscripts are under progress in Mandya on Thursday. He visited Carmel Convent School and St Joseph’s School and inspected for social distancing between evaluators. He directed the officials, to take precautionary measures for the safety of teachers, in the wake of Covid-19. He underwent thermal screening and sanitised his palms, before entering the centres. ZP CEO K Yalakki gowda and DDPI Raghunandan accompanied him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-visits-sslc-evaluation-centres-in-mandya-862099.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan: SDM Ayurveda College turns into CCCs||In an effort to provide treatment to Covid patients, a Covid Care Centre (CCC), with all facilities, has been started at Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara (SDM) College of Ayurveda.   Those who have contracted the virus, but are asymptomatic will be admitted to the CCC. The 300-bed facility is open exclusively at a separate building, on the college premises. The building has separate rooms, clean toilets, rest room for doctors, audio system, and other facilities. The SDM management has allowed its medical students to help the district administration to treat Covid patients. Deputy Commissioner R Girish visited the centre and inspected the facilities. He gathered information about the rooms available, rooms for medical staff, toilet, food arrangement and beds. He gave instructions on measures to be taken at the centre. He directed the taluk health officer to give information if additional facilities and services of expert doctors is required. The DC met the principal and medical superintendent and told them to ensure that the hospital staff cooperate to combat the virus. The DC said, "The CCC has been opened for positive patients, who are asymptomatic. They will be provided treatment and sent home after recovery. If any patient develops complications, they would be shifted to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital, for further treatment." Each room would have either two or three patients. The Health department and the district administration have made arrangements for doctors. The SDM staff would involve themselves in the service, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-sdm-ayurveda-college-turns-into-cccs-862100.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Educationalists, students welcome deferring of JEE, NEET||Educationalists and students, aspiring for medical and engineering seats, have welcomed the Union government’s move to postpone Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains, JEE Advanced and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020. Following the outbreak of Covid-19, the Union Human Resource Department Ministry has postponed JEE Mains, NEET and JEE advanced exams to September, to ensure the safety of students and quality education. NEET 2020 was scheduled for July 26 and JEE Main exam was scheduled from July 18 to 23. Now, the government has rescheduled the examination dates. As per the new dates, JEE Main examination will be held between September 1 and 6, JEE advanced exam is scheduled for September 27 and NEET examination will be held on September 13. G Sridhar, founder of Deeksha said, “The government made a wise decision, by postponing JEE Mains, NEET, and JEE Advanced exams to September. The announcement is necessary in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. While we understand the anxiety of our children, we urge them to continue to use this time available to prepare for the exams.” He advised the students to plan, prepare and work hard and urged them to stay at home, to be safe. For a final year BBA student, H N Vikram, it is the right decision by the government as the number of Covid cases is increasing with every passing day. “Examinations can be conducted at any point of time, but, health is more important than anything else. It is the right decision by the government and it is an opportunity for the students to prepared well for the exams,” Sridhar opined. JEE Main is conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for admission to various undergraduate engineering and architecture courses in NITs, IIITs and other Centrally-Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs), while NEET is an entrance examination for students seeking admission to undergraduate medical courses and dental courses in medical or dental colleges across the country -- both government and private.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/educationalists-students-welcome-deferring-of-jee-neet-862101.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Land laws amendment bigger scam than illegal mining: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday said the BJP government’s decision to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act was “a scam bigger than illegal mining” as farm lands worth Rs 50,000 crore will be lost. Plus, the amendment will have retrospective effect, meaning over 13,000 cases registered over the years for alleged violations in acquiring farm lands will be vacated or dismissed. “There are 13,814 cases across all 30 districts. Let’s assume that each case involves four acres of land. That’s 52,000 acres. These are lands worth Rs 45,000-50,000 crore,” Siddaramaiah told a news conference. “This is a scam bigger than illegal mining. While the mining scam had specific players, here the entire government has fallen for the corporate bodies and real estate lobby.” The illegal mining scam unearthed when the BJP was in power was pegged at Rs 35,000 crore, which became a poll plank for the Congress to come to power in 2013. Calling it a “black” legislation, Siddaramaiah said the amendments to the land reforms law will result in large portions of farm lands becoming real estate. “This will destroy the farming community. They’ll now have to stand at the doors of corporate bodies. Farmers will sell their land and real estate will come. What’ll happen to food production?” he said. The ordinance amends Section 63 and 80 of the Act, while omitting Sections 79A, B and C. “These sections were inserted in 1974 under the D Devaraj Urs government. It was a revolutionary, progressive step to protect farmers and ensure social justice,” Siddaramaiah said. The Congress leader claimed that there was a “biggest conspiracy” behind this. “All this is being driven by the Modi government. They want to privatize more and more so that reservations will go. They want to bring back the zamindari system,” he said, citing the examples of some other recent amendments to other laws. The timing of the ordinance is suspect, he said. “If the Yediyurappa government really wanted to help farmers and had good intentions, they could’ve brought this before the Assembly or placed it for public discussion. Instead, they’ve made use of the lockdown period to promulgate the ordinance,” he said. The Congress will fight the ordinance till it gets withdrawn, Siddaramaiah said. “We will talk to other parties, farmers organisations and Dalit groups to plan protests against the BJP’s hidden agenda and anti-farmer policies,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/land-laws-amendment-bigger-scam-than-illegal-mining-siddaramaiah-861903.html
16-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: Gowda concedes JD(S) failure in protecting interest of loyal leaders was a mistake||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda has admitted that the JD(S)' failure in protecting the interest of its loyal leaders while in power was a "mistake", and it has caused "damage" to the party. The JD(S) patriarch made this admission as he called on the leaders and workers to "revitalise" the party that has "lost shine", in a year's time, in the run-up to the preparation for the next assembly polls that is likely in 2023. In a letter dated July 14 addressed to loyal party leaders, he also appreciated their work and commitment for the organisation, despite differences that had emerged over the leadership's decision to join hands with the Congress during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. "It has been two-and-half years since the assembly election got over (in 2018), election heat will once again begin in a year from now. Bright future for all those who have worked for the party with commitment is my desire," Gowda said. He said, "Unfortunately despite our party being partners in the coalition government and having our own H D Kumaraswamy as the Chief Minister we failed in protecting your interest, and with a clear heart I accept that it was a mistake. As you lost morale because of it- it has caused damage to the party." After the 2018 assembly polls, the Congress and JD(S) decided to join hands to form a coalition government led by H D Kumaraswamy, to keep BJP, the single largest party out of power. However, marred by internal differences, the rout in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which both parties fought in the alliance, and rebellion from within, the coalition government collapsed in July last year. He asked them to get active on social media to engage with people as it is not possible to organise public events due to social distancing. "Organise such programmes that make people feel that you (leaders) and the party are with them during this difficult time of corona," he added. Gowda also called on party men to point out "failures" and "anti-farmer" policies of central and state governments to the people and highlight the relevance of a secular and regional party like the JD(S).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-gowda-concedes-jds-failure-in-protecting-interest-of-loyal-leaders-was-a-mistake-862059.html
16-07-2020||Main Article||Buffer zone or new LAC?||The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA have begun to withdraw from the conflict site in Galwan Valley after mutually agreeing to create a 4-km  buffer zone between them in Ladakh, a second such zone after both sides moved back by two kilometres at PP (Patrolling Point) 14, creating the first buffer zone. The friction point at Pangong Tso appears to be still tense, pending resolution. The declaration and mutual acceptance of buffer zones and temporary suspension of patrols by the two armies is neither permanent nor should it be misconstrued as a new narrative on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This interim arrangement, mainly to de-escalate the crisis, should be viewed as a necessity and situational compulsion. The signals to Beijing that its claims over Galwan Valley remain untenable should be loud and clear. However, there is no denying that India’s acceptance of the hitherto non-existent buffer zones will be seen as a drastic change in its perception of the LAC. The Indian Army’s right to patrol till PP14 is temporarily suspended because of the acceptance of the buffer zone. How long this suspension will last is uncertain. In the absence of ground-level verification of the troop pull-out and clarity on the extent of Chinese intrusion into our side of the LAC as perceived by Delhi, the phased de-escalation process will take time to complete, restricting patrolling by both armies in the area. Whether China will stick to the bargain is inevitably a part of the current enigmatic discourse. While both armies have withdrawn to a safe distance from a position of dangerous proximity to one another, the details of the actual extent of withdrawal are not available. Both armies are tight-lipped, so are the political establishments in Delhi and Beijing. The silence and opacity of the Chinese side is understandable as their top leader is not answerable to his people. The silence on the Indian side wears the cloak of military secrecy and hence information is not forthcoming, which is also understandable in the given circumstances. It is not clear if the PLA has withdrawn by two km from PP15 (Hot Springs). A similar retreat was expected to be completed at PP17 (Gogra) by the Indian Army pulling back proportionately to help de-escalate tensions. PLA soldiers have been noticed in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso. Disengagement by China here is reportedly marginal. The Indian Army is keeping a close watch on the ongoing pullback by the PLA. It is critical to verify every stage of the disengagement process to avoid surprises. The disengagement in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra could set the stage for reducing tensions in the Finger Area and also turn the focus on the Depsang plains, where the PLA’s forward presence is hindering Indian Army’s patrolling patterns. The biggest challenge is to prepare for, and avoid the consequences of, strategic miscalculation by either side. That will depend much on China’s intentions. Delhi has to be on constant alert as the possibility of the PLA reoccupying positions vacated by India cannot be ruled out at any point of time. India will have to insist and ensure that disengagement verification is done to its satisfaction, including by aerial and satellite means.   A great apprehension is that the buffer zones might become the new status quo along the LAC. That would be completely detrimental to India’s national security. The buffer zones are expected to be treated by China as a temporary measure to facilitate the military disengagement process to restore status quo ante. In time, the Indian Army would be able to exercise patrolling rights. Otherwise, the challenges would be far too many for India, arising out of this disproportionate arrangement, and would confirm the view that Delhi still doesn’t have a measure of China’s mind. In battlefields and conflict zones, withdrawal is not necessarily defeat or retreat. It is part of tactics and strategy. There are innumerable instances of conflicting parties agreeing to a ceasefire or withdrawal, only to prepare for a renewed attack. It is important to note that there is no verification of the actual withdrawal that has taken place at the ground level. Since the government is on record as saying that there is no intrusion, the question of withdrawal does not arise. Yet, if the two armies have taken a position on the border and stationed themselves at some given spots, these spots could be interpreted as the new LAC. Much of the missing information will trickle down only when the situation thaws and normalcy returns. The 2017 Doklam crisis was followed by the Modi-Xi informal summit at Wuhan in 2018. The optics was encouraging but, according to some analysts, there was little substance in terms of outcomes. Subsequently, the two countries agreed to work closely on projects to improve economic relations and on regional issues. There were major differences of opinion and disagreements, especially on terrorism emanating from Pakistan. Despite the rough relationship, the second informal summit meeting between the two leaders took place in Mahabalipuram near Chennai, Tamil Nadu. No one would have thought then that the relationship between the two countries would plummet to a new low in just over a year. Xi’s China, determined to emerge as the next superpower, is willing to use military and economic might in its attempt to subjugate the region and grab territories. Needless to say, Beijing did not relish Modi’s comment that the “age of expansionism has ended”. Delhi must prepare a new strategy to deal with an expansionist China. A two-pronged strategy, one that relates bilaterally to China and another to the emerging global coalition against it, will have to be developed into action plans. (Kumar is Professor of Geopolitics and International Relations at Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal; Chari is a member of the BJP’s National Executive and a well-known strategic analyst and political commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/buffer-zone-or-new-lac-862159.html
16-07-2020||National||Congress closes door on rebel Sachin Pilot||The Congress on Wednesday virtually shut the doors on Sachin Pilot, with Rajasthan Assembly Speaker launching disqualification proceedings against the former deputy chief minister and his 18 supporters, while Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot claimed that he had proof of Pilot hobnobbing with the BJP. Though the Congress made four public appeals to Pilot to end the rebellion, the final one after the latter reiterated that he was not joining the BJP, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala put a number of conditions, including an open declaration of loyalty to the Congress and a return to Jaipur. At the same time, the Congress held out no assurance about his demands being met. In Jaipur, the Assembly Speaker asked Pilot and his 18 supporters to explain their absence from the meetings of the Congress Legislature Party held on Sunday and Monday, pushing Pilot into a corner. “We heard Sachin Pilot’s statement on not joining the BJP through the media. If you don't want to go to the BJP, then immediately reject the hospitality of the Haryana BJP government, free our MLAs from the BJP security ring at two hotels. Stop discussions with the BJP,” said party spokesman Surjewala. Gehlot appeared in no mood for compromise and the Congress leadership was finding it difficult to ignore the leader who enjoyed the support of more than 100 MLAs. Additionally, Pilot, too, was not keen on moving out of Rajasthan, where he sees a future for himself. AICC General Secretary Avinash Pande also made an appeal to Pilot’s supporters to return, after Gehlot paraded 104 MLAs and claimed support of five more, a slender majority in the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly. Amid the public appeals from the Congress, Gehlot launched an all-out attack on Pilot, accusing him of hobnobbing with the BJP to topple his government while holding the post of deputy chief minister and the state Congress president. “It would be wrong to say that I am against the new generation of leaders. Rahul Gandhi likes them, Sonia Gandhi likes them, Ashok Gehlot likes them … they can serve the country better than us …. but if they go ahead and indulge in horse-trading themselves, then will they not harm the nation,” Gehlot told reporters in Jaipur. “Our deputy chief minister and PCC chief was himself conspiring with the BJP to topple the government. He was talking to the BJP, I have proof. Talks were held at 2.00 am. It is good that we got to know of it in time,” the chief minister said. Gehlot’s attack came at a time when a section of the Congress felt that a rapprochement with Pilot was still possible. “Differences are not anti-party. They have to be sorted out and compromise worked out. We have done it over the years,” Alva said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-closes-door-on-rebel-sachin-pilot-861722.html
16-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 16||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 10 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 10,00,185 as of July 16 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 25,544   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 5,34,621 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-16-861745.html
16-07-2020||National||DH Podcast | The Lead: The state of Covid-19 pandemic in Bengaluru||In this episode, Ahmed Shariff talks to DH Journalist Suraksha P about the state of the pandemic in Bengaluru.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-podcast-the-lead-the-state-of-covid-19-pandemic-in-bengaluru-861746.html
16-07-2020||National||‘IO of Kanpur police team’s ambush by Dubey men changed’||Kanpur SSP has changed the investigating officer of the cash of ambush of a police team by slain gangsters Vikas Dubey and his accomplices in Chaubeypur police station area in which eight policemen, including a DySP, were killed. SSP Dinesh Kumar P handed over the case to Station House Officer D B Tiwari of Rail Bazar police station after its investigating officer Ramakant Pachauri came in contact with a corona-positive constable and had to be quarantined. New IO Tiwari has been asked to take-up the case file and other related documents and investigate the case properly, an official spokesperson said. He has also been asked to investigate the case in a free and fair manner and file the charge sheet in it at the earliest, he added. Tiwari has taken-up the case diary and other related documents and started the probe, he added. Nawabganj police station SHO Ramakant Pachauri was investigating the case till July 10, the day when the mastermind of Bikru village ambush Vikas Dubey was gunned down by the UP STF and Kanpur police in an encounter when he tried to flee after the police vehicle met with an accident. Dubey was the sixth man to die in a police encounter after the ambush of the Kanpur police team by slain gangster’s accomplices on the night intervening July 2 and 3. One of the constables who was travelling in the vehicle in which Dubey was being brought to Kanpur from Ujjain had tested positive on late Saturday evening after which Pachauri was sent into quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/io-of-kanpur-police-team-s-ambush-by-dubey-men-changed-861748.html
16-07-2020||National||DH Toon | Skill, re-skill & up-skill: PM Narendra Modi's tried and tested mantra for today's youth||Mantra to stay relevant is to improve skills, says PM Narendra Modi The mantra to stay relevant in times of coronavirus is to "skill, re-skill and upskill", Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Addressing a virtual event to mark five years of the Skill India mission, he said skill is timeless and it keeps getting better with time and it makes you different from others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-skill-re-skill-up-skill-pm-narendra-modis-tried-and-tested-mantra-for-todays-youth-861752.html
16-07-2020||National||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly in home quarantine after elder brother Snehasish tests positive for Covid-19||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly on Wednesday went into home quarantine after his elder brother and Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) joint secretary Snehasish Ganguly tested positive for Covid-19. Snehasish, a former Bengal first-class player, has been admitted to the Belle Vue hospital in Kolkata after his COVID report came positive. "He was suffering from fever for the last few days and his test report came positive today. He's been admitted to Belle Vue Hospital," a CAB official told PTI. "The reports arrived late in the evening. As per health protocols, even Sourav will have to be in home quarantine for a stipulated period," a source close to the BCCI President added. Snehasish had shifted to their ancestral house, where Sourav is based, in Behala after his wife and in-laws at his Mominpur residence tested positive for the dreaded virus. The former India captain was, however, unavailable for a comment on the development. "My brother visits our factories everyday and he is more at risk," the former batting star had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bcci-president-sourav-ganguly-in-home-quarantine-after-elder-brother-snehasish-tests-positive-for-covid-19-861753.html
16-07-2020||National||Online classes leave differently-abled students at a disadvantage: Survey||Most of the differently-abled students or parents surveyed did not understand technology, some were averse to using "costly" data for online classes owing to their income constraints and teachers complain that they do not have accessible educational material, suitable for online learning, to help them, the 'Digital Education in India: Will Students with Disabilities Miss the Bus?' report said. A survey of 3,637 differently-abled students, parents and teachers in at least nine states for the report showed that 77% could fall behind in learning due to their inability to access distance learning methods while 56.5% were “struggling yet attending classes” irregularly. Around 77% of students said they would not be able to cope and would fall behind in learning due to their inability to access distance learning methods while 71% said they were finding it difficult to cope with the Covid-19 social and educational scenario, the report by Swabhiman, Disability Legislation Unit of Eastern India and Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) said. Teachers -- 81% of them -- complained they did not have educational material designed for online teaching catering to differently-abled students while 64% of students did not have smartphones or computers at home, unravelling the digital divide. Almost three-fourth of the students said they needed data/WiFi support for educational purposes while 61% expressed a need for scribes, escorts, readers and attendants. Most of them said smartphones were available but only the "father", who is out on work during day time, owned it, the report said, adding 61% of them said buying a new phone was out of the question for them. "Among the users of smartphones, 87.4% said the connection was poor (82% said they could not see or listen to the teacher most often), while 78% of them said their fathers “did not like the concept of online classes as they consumed a lot of costly data (most recharge amounts were 399/599 for 86/54 days with 1.5 to 2GB per day)," the report said. It also brought out the difficulties faced by differently-abled students with 61% of them finding it difficult to be engaged for one hour long on online classes. Close to 39% of students said they were unable to follow the classes with many students talking simultaneously while the absence of sign language interpreters raised trouble for around 44% with hearing disabilities. "All children with disabilities cannot be clubbed as one group as they are persons with different disabilities and therefore different needs. The current pandemic has the potential of leaving students with disability behind. If adequate measures are not taken urgently, they are likely to suffer irrecoverable losses in their quest for education and a life of dignity,” Dr Sruti Mohapatra of Swabhiman said. The report said policy changes are required to ensure that children are supported by suitable curricula in alternate formats suitable for them, and have the hardware and data to make online learning feasible. An investment in special educators and parents to adapt to the changed environment is necessary so that they can support children with disabilities better. It also advocated the need to explore alternatives such as community radio and television for education. "Since children with disabilities relied on mid-day meals for their nutritional well-being, it is important that they continue to get this support," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-classes-leave-differently-abled-students-at-a-disadvantage-survey-861779.html
16-07-2020||National||Two medium-intensity quakes hit Assam, Gujarat||Two medium-intensity earthquakes of magnitude 4.1 and 4.5 hit Assam and Gujarat respectively on Thursday, the National Centre for Seismology said. The epicentre of the quake in Gujarat was Rajkot, and it occurred at a depth of 10 kilometres at 7.40 am. The epicenter of the Assam quake was Karimganj district. It occurred at 7.57 am at a depth of 18 kilometres. There were no immediate reports of any loss of life or damage to property.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-medium-intensity-quakes-hit-assam-gujarat-861800.html
16-07-2020||National||India seeks unconditional access to Kulbhushan Jadhav from Pakistan: Report||India has asked Pakistan to give unconditional access to Kulbhushan Jadhav, according to ANI. India has asked Pakistan to give unconditional access to Kulbhushan Jadhav: Sources Earlier Pakistan had claimed that he had refused to file a review plea. India said that he had been coerced into doing that.   Earlier Pakistan had claimed that he had refused to file a review plea. India said that he had been coerced into doing that. India, on July 9, said it was exploring legal options in the case relating to Indian death-row convict Kulbhushan Jadhav, a day after Pakistan claimed that he refused to file a review petition against his sentence by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seeks-unconditional-access-to-kulbhushan-jadhav-from-pakistan-report-861802.html
16-07-2020||National||India records highest single-day jump of 32,695 Covid-19 cases||Covid-19 cases in India in a day crossed the 30,000 mark for the first time pushing the tally to 9,68,876 on Thursday, while the death toll climbed to 24,915 with 606 people succumbing to the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country saw a record increase of 32,695 cases of coronavirus infections in a day, with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Telangana, West Bengal and Bihar contributing to around 80 per cent of the single-day spike, the data updated at 8 am showed. Maharashtra added 7,975 new cases to the tally, followed by Tamil Nadu 4,496, Karnataka 3,176, Andhra Pradesh 2,432, Uttar Pradesh 1,659, Delhi 1,647, Telangana 1,597, West Bengal 1,589 and Bihar 1,328. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. However, the number of recoveries also saw a steady rise with 6,12,814 people recuperating from the viral disease, leaving 3,31,146 active cases, which is a little more than a third of the country's total Covid-19 tally. "So far, 63.25 per cent of the patients have recovered," the ministry said, adding the number of recovered cases exceed active Covid-19 cases by 2,81,668 as on date.  "Just two states -- Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu -- constitute 48.15 per cent of the country's total active caseload while 10 states contribute to 84.62 per cent of the total active cases," the ministry said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative 1,27,39,490 samples have been tested up to July 15 of which 3,26,826 were tested on Wednesday. Of the 606 deaths reported in 24 hours, 233 are from Maharashtra, 86 from Karnataka, 68 from Tamil Nadu, 44 from Andhra Pradesh, 41 from Delhi, 29 from Uttar Pradesh, 20 from West Bengal, 11 each from Jammu and Kashmir and Telangana, 10 from Gujarat and nine from Madhya Pradesh. Punjab has reported eight fatalities followed by Haryana with seven deaths, Assam and Bihar six each, Rajasthan five, Odisha and Puducherry three each, Jharkhand two, while Chandigarh, Kerala, Tripura and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have registered a fatality each. Of the 24,915 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 10,928 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,487 deaths, Tamil Nadu 2,167, Gujarat 2,079, Uttar Pradesh 1,012, West Bengal 1,000, Karnataka 928, Madhya Pradesh 682 and Rajasthan 530. So far, 452 people have died of Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh, 386 in Telangana, 319 in Haryana, 221 in Punjab, 206 in Jammu and Kashmir, 180 in Bihar, 77 in Odisha, 50 in Uttarakhand, 46 in Assam, 38 in Jharkhand and 35 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 20 deaths, Puducherry 21, Goa 18, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh 11 each, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura three each, Meghalaya and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two each, while Ladakh has reported one fatality. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 2,75,640 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,51,820, Delhi at 1,16,993, Karnataka at 47,253, Gujarat at 44,552, Uttar Pradesh at 41,383 and Telangana at 39,342. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 35,451 in Andhra Pradesh, 34,427 in West Bengal, 26,437 in Rajasthan, 23,306 in Haryana, 20,612 in Bihar and 19,643 in Madhya Pradesh. Assam has instances of 18,666 infections, Odisha 14,898 and Jammu and Kashmir 11,666 cases. Kerala has reported 9,553 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Punjab has 8,799 cases. A total of 4,539 have been infected by the virus in Chhattisgarh, 4,320 in Jharkhand, 3,785 in Uttarakhand, 2,951 in Goa, 2,268 in Tripura, 1,700 in Manipur, 1,596 in Puducherry, 1,341 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,142 in Ladakh. Nagaland has recorded 902 Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh 625 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 539 cases. Arunachal Pradesh reported 462 cases, Meghalaya 346, Mizoram 238, Sikkim has registered 220 infections so far, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has recorded 176 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 1,285 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-single-day-jump-of-32695-covid-19-cases-861827.html
16-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi condoles death of spiritual leader Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the death of spiritual leader of the Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan, Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree, recalling his work to alleviate human sufferings. "We will always remember Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj for his noble service to society. He worked hard to alleviate human suffering and further compassion. He will be remembered by countless people, not only in India but globally," the prime minister tweeted. We will always remember Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj for his noble service to society. He worked hard to alleviate human suffering and further compassion. He will be remembered by countless people, not only in India but globally. He said Swamishree Maharaj was blessed with immense wisdom. "His emphasis on community service, education and women empowerment will always be remembered. I will never forget my many interactions with him. Om Shanti," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-condoles-death-of-spiritual-leader-purushottampriyadasji-swamishree-maharaj-861850.html
16-07-2020||National||Maharashtra State Board Class 12 results declared, overall pass percentage at 90.66%||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, or MSBSHSE declared the results of class 12th board exam on Thursday. The overall pass percentage is 90.66 percent this year. The MSBSHSE Class 12 results are now available on these websites- mahahsscboard.maharashtra.gov.in and mahresult.nic.in, hscresult.mkcl.org.  Over 12 lakh students (12,81,712) have successfully passed in this year's examination in the state. The total pass percentage of the state was recorded at 90.66 percent, which is 4.78 percent higher than last year's pass percentage of 85.88 percent. Girls outshined boys this year as well, as 93.88 percent girls who appeared for exams passed as compared to 88.04 percent of the boys. The science stream has the highest pass percentage with 96.93 percent, followed by Commerce stream with 91.27 percent, Vocational with 86.07 and Arts with 82.63 percent. The Konkan district of the state tops with 95.89 percent of students passing out this year. The Pune division with 92.50 percent bagged the second position. The Aurangabad district secured the lowest pass percentage with 88.18 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-state-board-class-12-results-declared-overall-pass-percentage-at-9066-861851.html
16-07-2020||National||Indian pharma industry capable of producing Covid-19 vaccines for entire world: Bill Gates||India's pharmaceutical industry will be able to produce Covid-19 vaccines not just for the country but also for the entire world, according to Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist Bill Gates. A lot of "very important things have been done" in India and its pharma industry is doing work "to help make the coronavirus vaccine building on other great capacities that they have used for other diseases", said the Co-Chair and Trustee of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Speaking in a documentary -- Covid-19: India's War Against The Virus -- to be premiered on Discovery Plus this (Thursday) evening, Gates said India also faces a huge challenge due to the health crisis because of its gigantic size and urban centres with a lot of population density. Commenting on the strength of India's pharma industry, he said, "India has a lot of capacity there -- with the drug and vaccine companies that are huge suppliers to the entire world. You know, more vaccines are made in India than anywhere-- starting with Serum Institute, that's the largest." He further said, "But (there are) also Bio E, Bharat (Biotech), many others. They are doing work to help make the coronavirus vaccine, building on other great capacities that they have used for other diseases." Stating that India joined Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), which is a group working on a global basis to build vaccines platforms, Gates said, "I am excited that the pharmaceutical industry there will be able to produce not just for India but also for the entire world. (This is) What we need to reduce the deaths and make sure we are immune, which is how we end the epidemic." Gates said Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is also a "partner with the government, particularly with the department of biotechnology, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the office of the principal scientific advisor provide advice and help about getting these tools going". Commenting on the deadly virus breaching India's borders in the documentary which was shot extensively during the period of lockdown, he said, "India is still at the beginning of this, but there's a lot of very important things have been done. “It's a huge challenge with India because you've got a gigantic country. You've got your urban centers with a lot of density-- and so that-- drives the spread. You have people moving around." He, however, added: "Yet people are stepping up... Looking at how we reduce the spread while trying not to reduce food availability, equipment that people need." Highlighting Gates foundation's role, he said it has "worked for the Indian government on health issues like introducing new vaccines over the last decade; and so when Covid-19 came along, we stepped in and said you know where are the gaps, we have been funding work on detection and isolation. “We have been particularly active in UP and Bihar where we have done health delivery in the past." The foundation is also working with the department of personnel and training to take their online training platforms and "are now using that guidance to help their frontline health workers", Gates said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-pharma-industry-capable-of-producing-covid-19-vaccines-for-entire-world-bill-gates-861852.html
16-07-2020||National||COVID-19 pandemic won’t be controlled unless tests are conducted 'at scale': Tata group chief N Chandrasekaran||Stating that for this generation "there is little that compares to the six-month period we have just experienced due to the Covid-19 pandemic", he said working as one, deploying the group's expertise, collaborating to increase capacity, raising national self-reliance, deploying technology for creative solutions and helping people in tough times have been the themes of this extraordinary time. "The past few months have been very challenging, but they have also been a great demonstration of the value of collaboration. I am proud of how we have worked together to battle this disease," the Chairman of Tata Sons -- the holding company and promoter of all Tata Group companies -- said in a group newsletter. Chandrasekaran further said, "Now, as we navigate the uncertain journey into the post-pandemic future, we will need to respond according to our principles of simplicity, synergy and scale and, above all, to foster the mindset of 'One Tata'. “Collaboration has been our watchword, and the pandemic has shown the importance of living by our principles." While sharing several steps taken up by the group, he stressed on the need for increased testing saying, "This pandemic will not be controlled unless we can test at scale." Chandrasekaran said polymerase chain reaction (PCR) kits are a scarce commodity and reagents for testing have to be imported. Sample collection, processing and transport require specialised equipment and trained personnel. "The Tata group has invested in technology to make testing easier, faster and cheaper," he said, adding the conglomerate has completed a research pilot with the help of the country's most eminent scientists that proved the value of a 'Minimum Testing Maximum Intelligence' approach in the Kolar district of Karnataka. This process uncovered evidence of silent transmission among high-risk groups such as health workers and police personnel which enabled us to predict the spread of the disease at a time when Kolar had no confirmed positive Covid-19 cases, he stated. A detailed standard operating procedure of the testing strategy for national scaling was handed over to public health agencies to incorporate in lockdown exit efforts, he said adding that "Currently, the Kolar model is being adopted and refined in Jamshedpur." Chandrasekaran said the group's investments in two novel testing technologies "will not only help the Covid-19 fight but also have a huge potential beyond, for instance, in the diagnosis of other infectious diseases and genetic diseases, as well as in the treatment for cancer. Both technologies are expected to be scaled up within the next quarter." Tata group, under the leadership of Chairman Emeritus Ratan Tata, had committed Rs 1,500 crore to Covid-19 relief, he said adding "Tata employees have, in addition, contributed tens of crores towards various response projects". Group firms Tata Steel, Tata AutoComp Systems and Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) orchestrated a plan to buy large quantities of medical supplies from China, the US, South Korea and domestic sources; and so far over a thousand ventilators and respirators, 4 lakh PPE kits, 35 lakh masks and gloves, and 3.5 lakh testing kits have been procured, he said. Reiterating the significance of having adequate hospital capacity, Chandrasekaran said, "Outbreaks of Covid-19 around the world have shown that if the health system is overwhelmed, the consequences will be higher mortality rates. “India needs many more quarantine and isolation facilities, ICU beds and dedicated Covid-19 treatment centres." Tata Sons, supported by Tata Projects, has helped local governments and municipal corporations expand the number of beds, treatment centres and isolation facilities by leveraging the group's network of real estate assets and hospitals, he added. "Added to this, we are in the process of setting up entirely new Covid-19 treatment facilities. This was made possible by inter-group co-operation: teams from Voltas, Tata Steel and Tata Consulting Engineers, as well as medical experts from Tata Trusts, each providing support and expertise; and group companies like TCS, among others, providing access to leased commercial space. “To date, 2,000 beds have either been added or are currently in progress," Chandrasekaran said. This increase in capacity, if it is pointed in the right direction, will lead to increased self-reliance, he said adding that Tata Motors, Tata AutoComp and Voltas have all brought together their respective expertise in design, manufacturing and procurement, and, in consultation with medical experts from Tata's hospital network and senior government officials, identified products for mass production. "We've also started producing our own PPE kits — with over 9,000 distributed to date — to address immediate shortages," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-won-t-be-controlled-unless-tests-are-conducted-at-scale-tata-group-chief-n-chandrasekaran-861858.html
16-07-2020||National||India, China committed to objective of complete disengagement at LAC: Officials||China and India are committed to "complete disengagement" of troops, and the process is "intricate" that requires "constant verification", the Indian Army said Thursday after the fourth round of marathon military talks for further de-escalation of tension in eastern Ladakh. Separately, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said there is absolutely no change in India’s position on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and any "unilateral attempts" to change the status quo are not acceptable to it. As India and China move to finalise a framework for a complete disengagement at friction points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is scheduled to visit Ladakh on Friday to take stock of India's military preparedness and review the overall situation. At an online media briefing, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA reviewed the progress of implementation of the ongoing disengagement process and discussed further steps to ensure "complete disengagement at the earliest". The process of disengagement along the LAC is "complex", and therefore, unsubstantiated and inaccurate reports need to be avoided, he added without elaborating. The Corps commanders held 15-hour-long negotiations in Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC from 11 AM on Tuesday to 2 AM on Wednesday, covering various aspects of the complex disengagement process including withdrawal of thousands of troops from the rear bases within a specific time frame. "The senior commanders reviewed the progress on implementation of the first phase of disengagement and discussed further steps to ensure complete disengagement," Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said in a statement. "The two sides remain committed to the objective of complete disengagement. This process is intricate and requires constant verification. They are taking it forward through regular meetings at diplomatic and military level," he added. At his briefing, Srivastava said the ongoing disengagement process in eastern Ladakh is specifically aimed at addressing face-off situations and close-up deployments of troops along the LAC. "It is based on an understanding between senior military commanders. Both sides have agreed at specific points to re-deploy towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC," he said. "These are mutually agreed reciprocal actions to be taken by both sides. And as I have already conveyed, it is an ongoing process. This mutual re-deployment should not be misrepresented," Srivastava added. "The two sides remain committed to the objective of complete disengagement and full restoration of peace and tranquility in the India-China border areas. The two sides will continue their diplomatic and military engagements to achieve these outcomes," he said. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tension in the area. Doval and Wang are designated Special Representatives for boundary talks. At the briefing, Srivastava referred to decisions taken at the Doval-Wang talks as well as discussions between the two sides under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination(WMCC) on India-China Border Affairs on July 10. He said the two sides have agreed at these meetings on complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from the border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquility in accordance with bilateral agreements and protocols. On the fourth round of Corps commander-level talks, Col Anand said the engagement was consistent with the consensus reached between the Special Representatives of India and China on July 5 to discuss complete disengagement. The Indian delegation was led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, while the Chinese side was headed by Major General Liu Lin, Commander of the South Xinjiang military region. "Rebuilding mutual trust after the June 15 incident will take time. Therefore, speedy disengagement may be difficult to achieve. More talks at military level would be needed to achieve complete disengagement," a senior official familiar with the details of the negotiations told PTI. The tension in eastern Ladakh escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Government sources on Wednesday said the Indian side conveyed a "very clear" message to the Chinese army during the marathon talks in Chushul that status quo ante must be restored in eastern Ladakh and it will have to follow all mutually agreed protocols for border management to bring back peace and tranquillity. They said the two sides agreed on certain modalities for rolling out the next phase of disengagement and are expected to get in touch with each other soon. A fifth round of Lt General-level talks may take place in the next few days on the next phase of the disengagement process, the sources said. The Phase two of the disengagement will focus largely on further withdrawal of troops from Pangong Tso, they added. China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) has already completed pulling back troops from Galwan Valley, Gogra and Hot Springs and significantly thinned down its presence in the ridgeline of Finger Four in the Pangong Tso area in the last one week as demanded by India. Government sources said India is keeping a hawk eye vigil on all areas along the LAC in Ladakh and will maintain a high-level of alertness to deal with any eventualities. Rajnath Singh will be accompanied by Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane and it will be his first visit to Ladakh after the standoff between the armies of India and China on the LAC began on May 5. His trip comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise visit to Ladakh on July 3 during which he also addressed troops and signalled the country's firmness in dealing with the India-China border row. The sources said Singh will carry out a comprehensive review of the security situation in the region with Gen Naravane, Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Yogesh Kumar Joshi, Commander of the 14 Corps Lt Gen Harinder Singh and other senior Army officials. On Wednesday, NSA Doval, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Gen Naravane and several other senior officials reviewed the situation in eastern Ladakh. The first round of the Lt General talks was held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. The second round of the military talks took place on June 22 and the third round on June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-committed-to-objective-of-complete-disengagement-at-lac-officials-861866.html
16-07-2020||National||BJP activists resigning in Kashmir after killing of party leader, family||The killing of BJP’s Bandipora leader along with his father and brother, has led to a sense of fear among the saffron party functionaries and workers across Kashmir, with several among them resigning in a hurry. Immediately after the Bandipora killings, BJP’s youth wing president of Baramulla district Maroof Bhat announced his resignation on Facebook. “I hereby resign from the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) as a member and from any post I held in BJYM. I thank you for giving me the opportunity to work for the party,” Bhat posted on his Facebook account. BJYM is the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). A social activist from Handwara, Mubeena Bano, who had joined BJP a few months before, Thursday resigned from the party. “I have been working for redress issues of people since 2015. I had joined BJP to resolve the issues of people. But nothing is being done on the ground so I resigned from the BJP,” she was quoted by a local news gathering agency as having said.  On Tuesday, BJP’s vice president for Kupwara Asif Ahmad had also resigned from the party. Earlier on Wednesday, a BJP leader Mehraj ud Din Malla, who was reportedly “abducted” in the morning returned home in the evening. The resignations and the panic among BJP activists followed the killing of the party’s leader Wasim Bari, his brother and father, who were shot dead despite having 10 personal security officers (PSOs) and living nearby a police station.A BJP leader from south Kashmir said they were in a panic after the killing of the Bari family. “We have families and if we are killed, who will take care of them? When militants can kill someone with 10 PSOs along with family, imagine what will be the fate of those who don’t have even security,” he said. He said that BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, who held a meeting with party members on his visit to Kashmir this week, was told bluntly about the lack of security to party workers who have been working under hostile conditions in the Valley. “A number of leaders are without security cover despite being vulnerable. Madhav ji was even told that terrorists have targeted them despite having tight security. He listened keenly. We hope for some outcome that will allay our fears for our lives,” the leader added. The fear among political workers is not new. On 8 June Congress Sarpanch Ajay Pandita was also killed by militants in Anantnag district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-activists-resigning-in-kashmir-after-killing-of-party-leader-family-861889.html
16-07-2020||National||All railway routes will be 100% electrified in the next 3.5 years: Piyush Goyal||Indian Railways will move to 100 per cent electrification in the next 3.5 years, said Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal here on Thursday. “Railways will move to 100 per cent electrification in next 3.5 years & 100 per cent ‘Net Zero’ operator in next 9-10 years. By 2030, each one of us will be a proud citizen, owning the world’s first large ‘Clean Railways’,” the minister said while addressing a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) event through video conferencing. The railways is taking number of steps to net zero carbon emission including electrification, improving energy efficiency of locomotives & trains and fixed installations, green certification for installations/stations, fitting bio-toilets in coaches and switching to renewable energy sources, the Minister said. The railways plans electrification of all routes on Broad Gauge by December 2023 and has already completed electrification of more than 40,000 RKM (route km). As much as 365 km of major connectivity work in electrification has been commissioned during even during the Covid-19 period. “PM has promoted ‘One Sun, One World, One Grid’. India is taking lead role in International Renewable Community. Transitioning into international solar grid is something we are all working on. With PM-KUSUM Yojana we are bringing farmers too in renewable energy fold,” Goyal said. The railway has 51,000 hectares of land potential of installing 20 GW land based solar plants. One project of 1.7 MW at Bina in collaboration with BHEL has already been installed, railways earlier said. The national transporter already completed 100 per cent LED illumination of buildings and stations. A total of 69,000 coaches have been fitted with 2,44,000 bio-toilets in Indian Railways, said a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-railway-routes-will-be-100-electrified-in-the-next-35-years-piyush-goyal-861895.html
16-07-2020||National||India's electricity output recovers further in first half of July||India's electricity generation during the first half of July fell at a slower pace than in June, provisional government data showed, as industries and commercial establishments opened up after further following the gradual easing of lockdowns. Power generation fell 3.1% in the first 15 days of July compared with the same period last year, a Reuters analysis of daily load despatch data from federal grid operator POSOCO showed, compared with a 9.9% fall in June. In the second half of June, electricity generation declined 5.3 percent. While power use has picked up from previous months when India was under a strict lockdown, electricity demand - which is impacted by seasonal changes - is still lower when compared with the same periods from the previous year. Industries and offices account for over half of India's annual power use. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been citing electricity consumption to show there are "green shoots" in the Indian economy. Major industrial states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat in the west and Tamil Nadu in the south continued to witness steep drops in electricity use amid higher incidence of coronavirus cases. However, many states with smaller yet significant industrial profiles saw growth in power demand for the first time since Modi announced a nationwide lockdown in March. The northern state of Uttar Pradesh - India's most populous and home to the largest number of medium and small scale enterprises (MSMEs) in the country - witnessed a 10.1% growth in electricity use. Other states including Bihar, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh - all of which are known for MSMEs - saw an uptick in power demand. Seasonal factors including hot weather could have fuelled higher power demand. The states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have also seen a rise in coronavirus cases in recent days, which could impact power demand. Bihar has also announced a lockdown beginning Thursday and ending July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-electricity-output-recovers-further-in-first-half-of-july-861898.html
16-07-2020||National||Lack of social distancing by other passengers top concern among flyers: IndiGo survey||Lack of social distancing by other passengers is a top concern among flyers, stated a survey by IndiGo on Thursday that was conducted online between June 20 and June 28 among 25,000 travellers. The survey found that air transport is considered the safest form of travel by a wide margin for inter-city travel -- 68 percent of respondents felt air travel is safe. While driving was considered safe by 24 percent of the travellers, rail travel was considered safe by just 8 percent. "Factors such as lack of social distancing by other passengers (62 pc of respondents), quarantine measures by states (55 pc) and sitting in the aircraft with so many people (55 pc) have been identified as key deterrents for air travel," said the survey. Nearly 54 percent respondents said they want to travel in the next 3 months, the survey noted. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, the airlines have been allowed to operate only a maximum of 45 percent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. Occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights have been around 50-60 percent since May 25. IndiGo survey noted, "About 38 pc of customers are considering international travel, while 62 pc will focus solely on domestic travel in near future. 27 pc customers are considering a mix of domestic and international travel and 11 pc focussing solely on international travel." William Boulter, Chief Commercial Officer, IndiGo said, "While it is heartening that about 65 percent travellers trust IndiGo to deliver a clean and safe travel experience, we will continue to introduce new measures, products and services to further strengthen their confidence in air travel and IndiGo."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lack-of-social-distancing-by-other-passengers-top-concern-among-flyers-indigo-survey-861904.html
16-07-2020||National||Coronavirus: NIMHANS releases guidelines for health workers' mental health needs||The NIMHANS has come out with guidelines that define a framework to address the mental health needs of healthcare personnel in Covid-19 treatment settings. The guidelines also aim to provide technical inputs to guide healthcare personnel to help themselves and their colleagues in distress. The guidelines identify the source of anxiety and the indicators that healthcare professionals are facing mental health difficulties at the workplace. "This guidance prepared by the faculty of the Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) defines the framework for administrators and healthcare supervisors to address the mental health needs of healthcare personnel in Covid-19 treatment settings," it said. The sources of anxiety among the healthcare professionals have been identified as fear of exposure to self and transmitting to family, concern regarding personal protection equipment, fear of family welfare if requiring quarantine or isolation, uncertainty of extent of support from organisation, support for personal and family needs with increasing work demands and lack of information and communication. The indicators that healthcare professionals are facing mental health difficulties at the workplace include absenteeism, reduced job performance and productivity, poor memory, restlessness or irritability and drowsiness among others. "These psychological disturbances may be linked to the many psychosocial stressors in the wake of the pandemic. Hence, management strategies primarily need to focus on mitigating the psychosocial stressors to the extent possible," the guidelines said. It lays down ways to assess if a healthcare professional is in distress. The guidelines recommended that all Covid-19 treatment centres must be provided with a designated mental health support network for personnel. "Ideally both psychiatric and counselling services need to be made available," it said. The frontline personnel also need to be made aware of the various possible mental health support systems available locally, if they wish to access help outside their workplace, it said. "A district level helpline for all frontline personnel is helpful. Ready answers for FAQs is a must for running such helplines. They can also be made aware of the currently running state/national level helplines for health care workers," it said. The guidelines also recommended that administrators should promote awareness about mental health and stress. "Team meetings may also be used to discuss common mental health issues that arise out of working under difficult circumstances (stress, burnout, anxiety, fear, etc.) and simple steps for psychological 'self-care'," it said. Ensure a clear protocol for diagnosis and treatment of healthcare personnel. This will help to avoid uncertainty or confusion, the guidelines said. The guidelines also recommend the healthcare professionals to take self care by maintaining a routine, ensuring breaks and adequate sleep, keeping in touch with relatives and friends, carrying out some activities and hobbies unrelated to work, exercising regularly and having a healthy diet and practicing relaxation exercises like yoga among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-nimhans-releases-guidelines-for-health-workers-mental-health-needs-861905.html
16-07-2020||National||Amit Shah condoles demise of spiritual leader of Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday condoled the demise of Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan head Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree and said his divine teachings and selfless contributions towards the welfare of society have no parallels. In a message, the home minister also said the spiritual leader's life was full of values and wisdom and he selflessly devoted himself to the greater cause of humanity and blessed and enlightened millions of lives. Swamishree Maharaj's divine teachings and selfless contributions towards the welfare of society have no parallels, he said. His demise is an irreparable loss, Shah said and prayed for his noble soul to rest in peace and strength to his followers all across the globe. Swamishree Maharaj was the spiritual leader of the Maninagar Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan. He was the fifth heir in the lineage of ascetic acharyas. According to the website of the Ahmedabad-based Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan, Swamishree Maharaj died on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-condoles-demise-of-spiritual-leader-of-shree-swaminarayan-gadi-sansthan-861909.html
16-07-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi High Court transfers minor Malaysian’s case from one JJB to another||The Delhi High Court Thursday transferred the case of a minor Malaysian, who was booked for attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation during Covid-19 allegedly in violation of visa norms, from one Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) to another due to lack of quorum. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani, who was conducting the hearing through video conferencing, directed that the case against the 17-year-old Malaysian national be forthwith transferred from JJB-1 in Kingsway Camp to JJB-4 in Vishwas Nagar here to be dealt with expeditiously in accordance with the law. The high court was informed by the minor’s counsel that like other 121 Malaysian nationals, the juvenile was willing to enter plea bargaining but due to vacancy and lack of quorum, he cannot proceed over. The court was told by Delhi government’s counsel that in JJB-1, presently there is only one Principal Magistrate and there are two vacancies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-delhi-high-court-transfers-minor-malaysian-s-case-from-one-jjb-to-another-861916.html
16-07-2020||National||NGT directs Railways to pay Rs 91.2 lakh fine for causing air pollution in UP||The National Green Tribunal Thursday directed Railways to submit environmental compensation Rs 91.2 lakh for causing air pollution during loading and unloading of goods such as cement at railway siding in Faizabad district of Uttar Pradesh. The NGT said compensation assessed may be deposited within two months failing which it may have to take coercive measures. A siding, in rail terminology, is a low-speed track section distinct from a running line. The tribunal passed the order after UP pollution control board informed it that loading and unloading of cement, fertilizer, grains and other bagged commodities on trucks from wagons causes air pollution and ultimately causing respiratory problems to the habitants of nearby residential areas. "Let the Ministry of Railways take further action in the light of the report of the State PCB. Compensation assessed may be deposited within two months failing which the Tribunal may have to take coercive measures, including stoppage of salary or imprisonment of the concerned erring officer," a bench headed by NGT Chairperson justice A K Goel said. As per the report furnished by the state pollution control board, the railway goods siding in Ayodhya was creating air pollution and for damage to the air quality, compensation of Rs 91.2 lakh was assessed by it. According to the report, the ambient air quality near Railway Goods Siding in Faizabad was monitored and it was found that particulate matter levels were found to be 537.53 microgram per cubic metre, which is beyond the stipulated norms. "Arrangement made by Railways for control of air pollution at Railway Goods Siding, Faizabad is not sufficient for controlling the air pollution arising due to loading and unloading of commodities and movement of vehicles. "Arrangement made by Railways for mitigation of fugitive emission generated from loading/unloading of commodities and movement of vehicles is not technically adequate," the report said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Uttar Pradesh-resident Shivansh Pandey against pollution in and around railway godown in Faizabad during loading and unloading of cement, fertilizers and grains by trucks. The plea alleged that the activity was polluting the air and causing respiratory problems. The UP Pollution Control Board had earlier issued directions to the railways to construct a covered shed and to undertake to sprinkle of water in Faizabad to contain the air pollution, apart from adopting suitable safety norms in the course of loading and unloading.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-railways-to-pay-rs-912-lakh-fine-for-causing-air-pollution-in-up-861919.html
16-07-2020||National||History-sheeter killed, police sub-inspector injured in shootout in UP||A history-sheeter was killed in a gunfight with the police in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut district, in which a sub-inspector was also injured, officials said on Thursday. Deepak Siddhu, who was one of the most wanted criminals of Meerut and carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, was gunned down on Wednesday night, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Ajay Kumar Sahani said. Following an input about loot in the area, the local police were put on alert. Siddhu and one of his accomplices were intercepted but they opened fire on the police personnel, he said. "In the retaliatory fire, Siddhu was injured while his accomplice managed to flee. A sub-inspector also got injured in the cross-firing. They were both taken to a community health centre and then referred to the district hospital, where Siddhu died during treatment," Sahani told reporters. The SSP said that Siddhu was a notorious criminal and the police in various districts of western Uttar Pradesh was on the lookout for him. "He had more than one-and-a-half dozen cases, including those of loot, murder and dacoity, registered against him," the police officer added. The police said they have recovered two illegal firearms from Siddhu's possession and further investigation was underway. The sub-inspector injured in the shootout is still under treatment at the district hospital, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/history-sheeter-killed-police-sub-inspector-injured-in-shootout-in-up-861921.html
16-07-2020||National||Human trials of Covid-19 vaccine candidate important milestone for Atmanirbhar Bharat: DBT||Zydus Cadila's move to begin human trials of its indigenously developed vaccine candidate for Covid-19 is an important milestone for an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', Department of Biotechnology Secretary Renu Swarup said on Thursday.  Zydus Cadila on Wednesday said it has initiated Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate. ZyCoV-D, the plasmid DNA vaccine designed and developed by Zydus, has been partially funded by the Department of Biotechnology under the National Biopharma Mission.  This makes it the first indigenously developed vaccine for coronavirus to be administered in humans in the country, the DBT secretary said in a statement. Swarup said the development is also a big leap forward for the scientific community. “This is an important milestone for Atmanirbhar Bharat as Zydus begins human clinical trials for the indigenously developed vaccine. We hope that the vaccine continues to show positive outcomes as it has done so far in the pre-clinical phase where it was found to be safe, immunogenic and well tolerated,” she said.        The adaptive phase 1 and 2 dose escalation, multi-centric study will assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine, the statement said.  ZyCoV-D and COVAXIN, developed by city-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research, are the only two vaccine candidates to have got a nod from the drug regulatory body to conduct human trials.  “This partnership with Zydus is to serve the country's need for a vaccine to fight the dreaded pandemic which has put a billion people at risk,” Swarup said.  Such research endeavours will help the country develop preventive strategies for future disease outbreaks as well. They exemplify the government's focus on creating an ecosystem that nurtures and encourages new product innovation to make real and measurable changes to issues most relevant to our society, Swarup added.   Zydus Cadila chairperson Pankaj Patel said the commencement of human trials is a very important step in the fight against the pandemic and one that will help the nation combat the healthcare challenge. In the pre-clinical phase, the vaccine was found to elicit a strong immune response in multiple animal species like mice, rats, guinea pigs and rabbits.  The antibodies produced by the vaccine were able to neutralise the wild type virus in virus neutralisation assay indicating the protective potential of the vaccine candidate.  No safety concerns were observed for the vaccine candidate in repeat dose toxicology studies by both intramuscular and intradermal routes of administration. In rabbits, up to three times the intended human dose was found to be safe, well tolerated and immunogenic, the DBT statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/human-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-important-milestone-for-atmanirbhar-bharat-dbt-861926.html
16-07-2020||National||15-year-old girl allegedly raped by guard at PMCH COVID-19 ward||The accused, Mahesh (40), was arrested on Wednesday night after being booked under the POCSO Act and other relevant IPC sections by the Pir Bahore police station, according to Arti Jaiswal, the in-charge of the women's police station here. “The accused is being sent to jail while the victim will be undergoing medical tests on Thursday, as is the norm for all sexual assault survivors," Jaiswal told PTI. The girl had run away from her home in Nalanda district more than a week ago and reached Barh railway station on the outskirts of Patna to catch a train for Kolkata where her father is a daily wage-earner, police said. She was spotted by Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel who informed the child helpline. The child helpline personnel, taking note of the girl’s tender age and her disturbed frame of mind, convinced her not to undertake the journey and brought her to the hospital’s quarantine ward for COVID-19 suspects as a precautionary measure, they said. On the night of July 8, a few hours after the girl's arrival at the hospital, she was caught hold of by the accused inside the bathroom and allegedly raped. The accused also threatened her with dire consequences if she spilt the beans and, as per the FIR, kept harassing her sexually. She finally decided to speak up when another girl, carrying a mobile phone, was similarly brought to the hospital by child helpline a couple of days ago. Using the fellow inmate’s phone, she narrated her ordeal to the helpline personnel who informed the police. “Her Covid-19 test report is negative. After her examination, for the sexual assault, by a six-member medical board is over, she will be sent to a shelter home by the child helpline," Jaiswal said. Meanwhile, state women’s commission chairperson Dilmani Mishra strongly reacted to the incident and said, “We are waiting for the medical reports of the girl. We will ensure that justice is done in the matter.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-year-old-girl-allegedly-raped-by-guard-at-pmch-covid-19-ward-861950.html
16-07-2020||National||ATF price hiked by 1.5%; petrol, diesel rates unchanged||Jet fuel or ATF price on Thursday was hiked by 1.5 per cent, the fourth increase in six weeks, while petrol and diesel rates were unchanged. Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) price was hiked by Rs 635.47 per kilolitre (kl), or 1.5 per cent, to Rs 42,628.28 per kl in the national capital, according to a price notification by state-owned oil marketing companies. This is the fourth straight increase in ATF prices in six months. Rates were hiked by a record 56.6 per cent (Rs 12,126.75 per kl) on June 1, followed by Rs 5,494.5 per kl (16.3 per cent) increase on June 16. Price was hiked by Rs 2,922.94 per kl or 7.48 per cent on July 1. ATF prices are revised on 1st and 16th of every month based on average of benchmark international price and foreign exchange rate in the preceding fortnight. Petrol and diesel prices, which are revised on a daily basis, were kept unchanged on Thursday. Price of petrol has not changed for 17th day in a row. It sells for Rs 80.43 a litre in the national capital since June 29. Diesel on the other hand has seen rates being changed on four occasions since June 29. It currently sells for a record Rs 81.18 per litre in the national capital. Petrol price increased by Rs 9.17 per litre between June 7 and June 29 while diesel rates have increased by Rs 11.79 per litre since June 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atf-price-hiked-by-15-petrol-diesel-rates-unchanged-861952.html
16-07-2020||National||CBI arrests NTPC manager for taking bribe from private firm||The CBI has arrested a manager of NTPC Limited in Jodhpur for allegedly receiving Rs one lakh as bribe for clearing bills and allowing smooth functioning of a firm engaged for the maintenance of a solar plant of the PSU, officials said on Thursday. It is alleged that Manager Om Prakash was arrested while receiving the first tranche of a total bribe of Rs 3.5 lakh from the firm, they said. The agency also carried out searches at the residence of the official in Bhilwara and at his office in Jodhpur, they said. NTPC Limited, earlier known as National Thermal Power Corporation Limited, has given the contract for maintenance of a solar plant at the NTPC Energy Generation Centre in Jodhpur to a private sector power behemoth, they said. Om Prakash, responsible for overseeing the working of the plant, allegedly demanded Rs 3.5 lakh for clearing pending bills of the firm and allowing it to smoothly carry on with its work, they said. Following a complaint from the owner of the firm, the CBI laid a trap and caught Om Prakash red-handed receiving the bribe amount, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-ntpc-manager-for-taking-bribe-from-private-firm-861967.html
16-07-2020||National||India establishes air travel bubbles with US, France, planning similar pact with Germany, UK: Puri||India is set to resume international flights through ‘air bubbles’ beginning Friday, after inking bilateral agreements with the US, France and Germany, as the pandemic reshapes the aviation sector. United Airlines will operate 18 flights between India and the US from July 17 to July 31, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told reporters in New Delhi. As per the agreement reached with France, Air France will operate 28 flights between Paris and Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru from July 18 to August 1, Puri said, adding that ‘air bubbles’ was the way to resume international flights till the aviation sector returns to pre-Covid times. The air bubble concept that allows flights between two countries operates on three sets of principles — adequate demand, laws of respective nations allowing passengers and airlines agreeing to operate flights. Puri said that German air carrier Lufthansa will also be operating flights, while talks are on with the UK to set up an ‘air bubble’. The announcement of air bubbles is also an attempt to address concerns raised by the US on Vande Bharat Mission flights, contending that it amounted to “unfair and discriminatory practice” of running paid flights to evacuate stranded Indian nationals.  Puri said the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases and subsequent restrictions imposed by state governments had led to a slower growth in domestic civil aviation, which is yet to reach 33% of the pre-Covid traffic. “We had expected to reach one lakh passengers daily by July 15, but now we hope to reach that mark by the end of the month,” the minister said, adding that he expected 50%-55% pre-Covid domestic flights by Diwali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-establishes-air-travel-bubbles-with-us-france-planning-similar-pact-with-germany-uk-puri-861978.html
16-07-2020||National||CSC to employ 20 lakh digital cadets in 4 lakh CSCs across the country||Common Service Centre (CSC), Special Purpose Vehicle, under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, will employ 20 lakh digital cadets in 4 lakh CSCs across the country soon, said Dinesh Kumar Tyagi, CEO-CSC here on Thursday. Launching Digital Cadet platform on the occasion of 11th CSC Diwas, he said every CSC will employ five digital cadets who will provide doorstep access to various services to citizens, work as delivery agents for Grameen eStores and Kisan eMart and help CSCs conduct various surveys for the government and other agencies. Now, with the launch of Digital Cadet Platform, VLEs are taking forward the agenda of the government in serving the underserved community, the old, the infirm, handicapped and others unable to visit a Government office /bank/ other institution, especially those living in Rural India.    “Government of India has recently launched guidelines for Telemedicine. In the current scenario, Telemedicine assumes special significance. Digital Cadets will also help in healthcare delivery at home to patients and sick people, ” he said.  The digital cadets will be trained in requisite skills for providing services to citizen especially those from weaker sections of the society. Tyagi also launched the mobile app of Digital Seva Portal so that delivery of services can be done at Home of the Citizen. Now CSC VLEs can provide services through the app. This will also address issues of connectivity in some of the remote and hilly areas. The Common Service Center (CSC) Scheme is “Digital India” initiative of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, to delivery of government services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-to-employ-20-lakh-digital-cadets-in-4-lakh-cscs-across-the-country-861987.html
16-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Nitin Gadkari seeks help to rescue Covid-19-hit economy||Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-nitin-gadkari-seeks-help-to-rescue-covid-19-hit-economy-861995.html
16-07-2020||National||HC thwarts mother-in-law's attempt to keep daughter-in-law out of home citing Covid-19 lockdown||A mother-in-law's attempt to take advantage of Covid-19 lockdown to keep her daughter-in-law out of the matrimonial home and have an upper hand in the property dispute between them surprised the Delhi High Court which thwarted her endeavour saying it was unfortunate that what could not be achieved directly was sought to be achieved indirectly. The daughter-in-law had left her matrimonial home on May 10 to visit her mother and a mere six days later on May 16, the mother-in-law filed an application seeking a direction to her daughter-in-law to remain at her mother's house, till lifting of the lockdown restrictions and to observe home quarantine. Justice C Hari Shankar, who dismissed the plea, said "the basis, for seeking these reliefs, is completely incomprehensible, as it is candidly admitted, by the counsel for the plaintiff (mother-in-law), that neither the first defendant (daughter-in-law), nor her mother, are Covid-19 positive," The judge further said it was "obvious" that the mother-in-law was "seeking to capitalize on the departure of her daughter-in-law" to visit her mother.  "The plaintiff did not even wait for a week, after her departure, before moving this Court, with a prayer to restrain her from returning home. To say the least, this is unfortunate," the high court said in its order of July 2. The judge further said, "Had the first defendant not left, on May 10, 2020, to visit her mother, there is little doubt that the plaintiff could not, at this interlocutory stage, have sought a direction, from this Court, to direct the first defendant not to return to the suit property.  "What could not have been achieved directly is, in my opinion, being sought to be achieved indirectly, by way of this application...In my view, this is totally impermissible, and may teeter perilously on the edge of abuse of the legal process." The judge also observed that in the property row between the two women, a high court order July 10, 2019 was there directing them to maintain status quo and that direction has not been sought to be varied or modified in the present application. The counsel for the mother-in-law had contended that the July 10, 2019 order was not applicable to her and was only applicable to her daughter-in-law. This submission was rejected by the high court which said that a plain reading of the order would show that it was a direction to maintain status quo with regard to the property in dispute and was not intended to operate against either woman individually. "Status quo, regarding title and possession, has been directed to be maintained qua the suit property. Allowing the prayer, in the present application, for a restraint, on the first defendant, from returning to the suit property, would amount to disturbing the status quo..," the high court said. According to the order, the plaintiff's son and his wife started residing with her since 2014, as licensees, and thereafter "acrimony" developed between the two women and the marital relationship of the daughter-in-law and her husband also soured. Thereafter, the daughter-in-law allegedly started filing false complaints against her mother-in-law who in April 2018 terminated her licence to reside in the matrimonial home by a legal notice. "The status of the first defendant in the suit property is, therefore, it is alleged, that of a trespasser as, despite the plaintiff's repeated entreaties to that effect, the first defendant refuses to vacate the suit property. Various alleged incidents of harassment, of the plaintiff by the first defendant, have been adverted to in the plaint," the high court noted. The mother-in-law has contended that the property was initially purchased in her and her husband's name and later he had gifted his share to her and therefore, she was the sole owner of the residence. This contention has been disputed by the daughter-in-law who has claimed that the property in question was in the nature of a joint family property, purchased out of joint family funds.  She has also claimed that consequent to the amendment of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, her minor daughter is also a coparcener in the suit property. She has further contended that the property was her matrimonial home and that she could not, therefore, be legally ousted therefrom.  The mother-in-law, in her response, has contended that in a domestic violence case initiated against her by her daughter-in-law, the latter has admitted that the former is the owner of the property in question. The high court while dismissing the application moved by the mother-in-law, said,"In the present case, the first defendant has squarely questioned the title, of the plaintiff, to the suit property, and has contended that it is joint family property. She has claimed her right, therein, not merely on the ground that it is her matrimonial home, but as the mother of a coparcener to the joint family.  "These disputes required to be adjudicated, in the suit, and no order, interlocutory or otherwise, can be passed on the premise that the plaintiff is right, and the first defendant is wrong."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-thwarts-mother-in-laws-attempt-to-keep-daughter-in-law-out-of-home-citing-covid-19-lockdown-862012.html
16-07-2020||National||GoAir announces quarantine packages for passengers||Budget carrier GoAir on Thursday announced the introduction of various 'quarantine packages' offering a range of hotels from budget to high-end ones in select cities to both domestic and international passengers at a starting price of Rs 1,400 per person per night for the quarantine period. The packages, the first of its kind by an airline in the country amid the coronavirus pandemic, can be availed through GoAir's holiday package website, the Wadia group-promoted airline said in a release. The packages are available for passengers arriving into various cities in India from overseas or within India to ensure the passengers get quarantined easily at the selected hotels, GoAir said. Passengers can choose from a range of hotels, including budget or high-end ones, in Kochi, Kannur, Bengaluru, Delhi and Ahmedabad, the airline said adding that the hotel quarantine packages start from Rs 1,400 (about USD 19) per person per night and goes on to Rs 5,900 (about USD79) per person per night, from their station of origin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goair-announces-quarantine-packages-for-passengers-862026.html
16-07-2020||National||Akhil Gogoi gets bail in 3 cases lodged by Assam Police||Peasant leader Akhil Gogoi was on Thursday granted bail by the Gauhati High Court in three cases lodged by the Assam Police in connection with the violent anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in December last year. However, he will remain in jail for the cases being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Hearing the bail applications in the three cases registered at Chabua police station in Dibrugarh district, Justice Manash Ranjan Pathak granted bail to the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) leader. Gogoi's advocate Santanu Borthakur said: "Now he has got bail in all cases, except the two NIA cases. The hearing in one of these two cases will start in the next few days. We hope the court will grant bail to him." The three cases, for which Gogoi was arrested on May 29 while he was already in jail, were related to burning of a post office, a circle office and a branch of the United Bank of India in Chabua during violent protests against the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act. NIA is investigating two cases, which were initially registered at Chandmari and Chabua police stations, related to the alleged role of Gogoi in the violent protests. In the midst of the intense anti-CAA movement, Gogoi was arrested on December 12 last year from Jorhat as a "preventive measure" in view of the deteriorating law and order situation in the state and his three colleagues were taken into custody the next day. The four leaders were later arrested in a number of old cases registered across different police stations in Assam. They have got bail in most of these cases. The special NIA court had granted bail to Gogoi on March 17 in the Chandmari police station case and subsequently to others after the investigating agency failed to file a charge sheet within the specified period of 90 days. The Gauhati High Court later stayed the bail. On May 29, the NIA filed the charge sheet against Gogoi and three of his colleagues for sedition and terror activities. KMSS leader Bittu Sonowal, who was arrested by NIA along with Gogoi, was granted bail by a special NIA court on Wednesday. On Monday, another KMSS leader Manash Konwar got bail by the special NIA court here and he was released from the jail on Tuesday. The fourth associate, Dhaijya Konwar, has not yet received bail. He along with Gogoi and Sonowal are being treated at GMCH after testing positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhil-gogoi-gets-bail-in-3-cases-lodged-by-assam-police-862028.html
16-07-2020||National||RGCB products for Covid-19 management get manufacturing license||A cost-effective Rapid Antibody Card developed indigenously by the city-based Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), is among the three key products that have obtained manufacturing license, lending a cutting edge to Covid-19 management efforts in the country. The two other products of RGCB, under the central government, which have been granted a license by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSO), are Viral Transport Media (VTM) kit and a viral RNA extraction kit. These products have been developed by RGCB in partnership with Sperogenx Biosciences Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru, and POCT Services, New Delhi, under SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic umbrella. Of these, VTM and RNA kits have already been test-marketed. Sperogenx is the development partner and POCT the commercial partner, a press release said. The other products of RGCBAntigen detection system, ELISA and PCR kits are under various stages of approval from the regulatory authorities in India. RGCB Director Professor M.Radhakrishna Pillai said that these products were a testimony of the commitment made by RGCB to the Central government in its battle against the pandemic. The Rapid Antibody Card will help study the presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies, with 100 percent sensitivity and 98 percent specificity. It has the advantages of being cost-effective, sensitive and rapid. It also facilitates testing of a large number of samples at any level of the clinical setting, public health centres and hospitals. The VTM kit, formulated using raw material from Indian sources as per United States Centre for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines, is suitable for collection, transportation, maintenance and long-term storage of viral specimens. It helps preserve the viability of viruses for up to 72 hours at refrigerated temperatures. The swabs have been designed ergonomically with a pre-moulded breakpoint on their shaft. Though there are similar products available, this kit can be marketed at a price that is 30 to 35 percent less. The RNA kit facilitates fast manual isolation of viral RNA from the swab. It also has the price advantage as it is manufactured using raw material available in India. The RGCB, in collaboration with POCT, is developing the ELISA kit that can be produced at a lower cost. This is affordable and easy-to-use and can be done in a resource-limited setting for a serological assay in multiple analyses at a time. It is also collaborating with Sperogenx to develop a Covid-19 Real-Time Multiplex RT-PCR Kit for the qualitative detection of the novel coronavirus. This is a three-gene system that detects N gene, E gene and RdRP gene of 2019-nCoV and is a fully indigenous product. It has been submitted for final validation to the International Centre for Medical Research and Training (ICMRT). The other initiatives of RGCB include developing/modifying some existing treatment options for Covid-19 patients in India. The products under development in this category include intravenous IgG, isolation and purification of IgG from serum samples of Covid-19 patients and use it intravenously as neutralization antibodies. RGCB is also collaborating with an Australian company having a fixed-dose combination (FDC) to treat Covid-19. Unlike conventional methods, this FDC is considered as a new drug and RGCB has initiated a few bridging bioequivalence and bioavailability studies of this formulation. This will be tested on patients when the regulatory approval is obtained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rgcb-products-for-covid-19-management-get-manufacturing-license-862033.html
16-07-2020||National||First container ship from Kolkata Port to Agartala via Chattogram port flags off||Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday flagged off the first trial container ship from Kolkata to Agartala through Chattogram Port of Bangladesh, in a virtual ceremony. This has been done under the agreement on use of Chattogram and Mongla Ports for movement of India’s transit cargo through Bangladesh. Speaking on the occasion, Mandaviya said that the route will open doors of new opportunities for both the countries. It will provide the alternative and shorter route to connect the North East Region through Bangladesh. "This is a historic move to utilise Chattogram and Mongla Port for movement of India’s transit cargo. It will be a new chapter in India-Bangladesh maritime relations," the Minister added. The consignment of the trial movement includes two TEUs carrying TMT steel bars destined for West Tripura district and two TEUs carrying pulses destined for Karimganj, Assam. After reaching Chattogram, the consignment will move to Agartala on Bangladeshi trucks. The trial runs highlight the efforts that both sides have undertaken to strengthen the connectivity between Bangladesh and the North Eastern states of India, as per the understanding reached between the two countries at the highest level, during the visit of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to India in October 2019, when the Standard Operating Procedures for the use of Chattogram and Mongla ports for movement of goods to and from India, were concluded. It will reduce distance and time taken in transportation of goods for India and is a win-win for both the economies. Job creation, investment in the logistical sector, enhanced business services and revenue generation are advantages that will accrue to Bangladesh. Bangladeshi vessels and trucks will be utilized to move the Indian cargo, statement from the Shipping Ministry said. India and Bangladesh have enhanced cooperation in shipping and inland water trade in the recent years. Under the Protocol on Inland Water Transit and Trade, in addition to the six existing Ports of Call, five more in each country have been added recently. Dredging of inland waterway routes is ongoing under an MoU, signed by the two countries on development of fairway in selected stretches of Bangladesh waterways with the Government of India bearing 80% of the project expenditure and the balance being borne by the Government of Bangladesh. Cruise services have also commenced between the two countries promoting tourism and people to people contacts, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-container-ship-from-kolkata-port-to-agartala-via-chattogram-port-flags-off-862037.html
16-07-2020||National||Our officials have proceeded to meet Kulbhushan Jadhav: India||India on Thursday said its officials have proceeded for a meeting with Indian death row convict Kulbhushan Jadhav in Pakistan and that it will assess the situation following a report from them. "India has been requesting for an unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav. On the basis of assurances provided our officials have proceeded for the meeting on Thursday," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said. He said India will assess the situation after the officials return and send a report. "We will provide our comments thereafter," he said. Earlier, Pakistan said it had provided India consular access Jadhav. The 50-year-old retired Indian Navy officer was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of "espionage and terrorism" in April 2017. Weeks later, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July last year that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/our-officials-have-proceeded-to-meet-kulbhushan-jadhav-india-862050.html
16-07-2020||National||Over 6.87 lakh Indians have returned under Vande Bharat mission: MEA||Over 6.87 lakh Indians have returned from abroad after the government launched the "Vande Bharat" evacuation mission on May 7 in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. The fourth phase of the Vande Bharat mission, which is currently underway, has been augmented with the addition of around 120 flights between July 15-31, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing. "These additional flights will cater to the demand for repatriation from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, Malaysia, Singapore, the UK, Europe, Kyrgyzstan and Ukraine," Srivastava said. With this augmentation, this phase now has 751 international flights catering to 34 airports in India, he said. "If feeder flights to different states are included, there would be a total of 926 flights under the fourth phase. These include around 180 flights by Indian private carriers IndiGo, GoAir and SpiceJet," Srivastava said. "As of 15th July, 6,87,467 Indian nationals have returned. 1,01,014 nationals have returned from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh by land borders. The number of returnees by Indian naval ships from Maldives, Sri Lanka and Iran stands at 3,789," the MEA spokesperson said.  The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Thursday announced that they would be starting bilateral air bubbles between India and the US, Germany, France and the UAE, Srivastava said. This will allow airlines of both sides to carry passengers to each other under defined conditions, he said. Some of these air bubbles have been finalised, while others are under negotiation, he added. "This would help the movement of people between these countries and India till international air travel is restored to normalcy," the MEA spokesperson said. The ministry is in regular contact with India's missions and posts abroad to monitor the demand of repatriation of stranded Indians and for arranging Vande Bharat Mission flights as required, Srivastava said, adding that it was doing this in discussion with the Ministry of Civil Aviation. The first phase of the mission was carried out from May 7 to 15. The second phase of the evacuation mission was scheduled from May 17 to 22. However, the government had extended it till June 10. The third phase of the evacuation exercise was scheduled from June 11 to July 2. Currently, the fourth phase of the evacuation mission is going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-687-lakh-indians-have-returned-under-vande-bharat-mission-mea-862069.html
16-07-2020||National||Covid-19 recovered cases exceed active ones by over 2.81 lakh: Vardhan||Less than two per cent coronavirus patients in the country are admitted in ICUs while the number of recovered cases exceeds that of the active ones by 2,81,668 as on Thursday, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said as India's Covid-19 tally surged to 9.68 lakh while the death toll climbed to 24,915. Vardhan's remarks came after he inaugurated the new block of the Rajkumari Amrit Kaur OPD on Thursday at the AIIMS here along with Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey. "Gradually we are moving in the direction to win the battle against the pandemic. Less than two per cent of the Covid-affected patients are admitted in ICUs," Vardhan said, elaborating on the country's collective efforts against coronavirus, a health ministry statement said.   The lab network has been strengthened significantly from one in January to  1,234 laboratories presently, the statement said.  A cumulative total of 1,27,39,490 samples have been tested up to July 15. A total of 3,26,826 samples were tested on Wednesday, it said.  The testing capacity will be further enhanced to 10 lakh tests per day in the coming 12 weeks, Vardhan said, adding that this was matched with the progressively increasing recovered cases and the steadily increasing gap between recovered and active cases.   "This signifies that the measures taken as part of the graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach under the 'Whole of Government' strategy is showing positive results," he said. Vardhan also asked Director, AIIMS and other officials to expedite the operationalisation of the Mother and Child Block, Elderly Block and Surgery Block so that people can reap health benefits at the earliest, the ministry's statement said. The minister urged officials and heads of departments to undertake detailed and collective brainstorming sessions to assess and analyse the innovative steps that can be taken for ensuring that all the patients who come to AIIMS, New Delhi get the best quality healthcare.  “There must be zero tolerance for poor/substandard quality of care and towards patients' inconvenience," he stressed while urging them to brainstorm and propose patient-friendly reforms.    The ministers inspected the OPDs and interacted with patients to take stock of the facilities. Built-in an area of approximately 6,300 sqm, RAK OPD is the largest known OPD in India. The new RAK OPD Block also has a SMART Lab, built at a cost of Rs 15 crore.  The lab connects the various analyzers and technologies in a single integrated workflow, the statement said, adding that the pre-analytics, analytics and post analytics are all physically connected by a robotic track and are seamlessly integrated by technology.  It has a capacity of expansion for up to two lakh tests per day, with a handling capacity of more than 10,000 patients per day, the statement said. It is one of the largest such track-based laboratory automation installations across the Asia Pacific and has been commissioned in less than one year, it said.  According to a statement issued by AIIMS, the RAK OPD at the south-east of the Masjid Moth campus of the premier hospital has been designed and built with wide circulation spaces and well ventilated waiting areas, adequate to accommodate a footfall of 15,000 patients per day.  The structure has a ground floor, eight other floors and three basements. Each floor of the building covers an area of approximately 6,300 sqm making it the largest known OPD in India.  "It has been made to decongest the working space at AIIMS and to provide faster and seamless service to its patients. This will also make room for the expansion of some services like emergency and nuclear medicine in the main hospital," the statement said. The RAK OPD houses 18 departments -- 16 of them clinical and two diagnostics with 270 consultation rooms, 13 minor OTs and 50 treatment and procedure rooms.  A dialysis facility, day-care for rheumatology and haematology patients, pain clinic, an endoscopic suite, laser and cosmetic surgery OTs for dermatological day care procedures are some of the unique features of this OPD, the AIIMS said.  It has a waiting area for 800-1,000 patients on each floor. Special provisions for elderly and differently-abled i.e. queue preference, toilets, anti-skid tiles have been put in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recovered-cases-exceed-active-ones-by-over-281-lakh-vardhan-862074.html
16-07-2020||National||Pakistan prevents Indian officials from taking Kulbhushan's consent for review petition||Pakistan on Thursday allowed officials of the High Commission of India in Islamabad to meet Kulbhushan Jadhav, but prevented them from obtaining his consent to arrange lawyers to file a petition in the High Court, seeking review of the death sentence awarded to him by a military tribunal in the neighbouring country in April 2017. Jadhav just has four days left to file the review petition in the Islamabad High Court. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to his family and apprised of the outcome of the meeting between him and the officials of the High Commission of India in Islamabad. The HCI officials also found the former Indian Navy officer, who has been in the custody of Pakistan Army at least since March 3, 2016, “visibly under stress”. He, himself, also indicated it clearly during the meeting. “The arrangements did not permit a free conversation between them. The consular officers (of the HCI in Islamabad) could not engage him (Jadhav) on his legal rights and were prevented from obtaining his written consent for arranging his legal representation,” said the MEA spokesperson. “In the light of these circumstances, the Indian consular officers came to the conclusion that the consular access being offered by Pakistan was neither meaningful nor credible. After lodging a protest, they left the venue.” Pakistan on May 20 last promulgated an ordinance called the “International Court of Justice Review and Reconsideration Ordinance 2020”, which mandated that a petition for review and reconsideration of conviction by military tribunal could be made to Islamabad High Court through an application within 60 days from the day it was brought into force. The petition could be filed by Jadav, himself, a legally authorised representative of him or a consular officer of the High Commission of India in Islamabad. The officials of the Pakistan Government had last week claimed that Jadhav had decided against seeking review of the death-sentence awarded to him. New Delhi had then accused the neighbouring country’s government of coercing him to forgo his legal rights. Jadhav is currently on the death row as a military court in the neighbouring country awarded him capital punishment on April 10, 2017. He was accused and convicted of being involved in espionage and sabotage in Pakistan on behalf of an external intelligence agency of India. New Delhi moved the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which on July 17, 2019, concluded that Islamabad had violated the Article 36 of the Vienna Convention of Consular Relations 1963, as it had not informed the Government of India immediately after the Pakistan Army had taken him into custody. The international court found that Pakistan had also flouted the Vienna Convention by declining India's repeated requests for allowing officials of its High Commission in Islamabad to meet him and arrange lawyers to defend him. It also stated that the death sentence awarded to Jadhav by a military court of Pakistan in April 2017 should remain suspended till the review of the conviction. It, however, left it to Pakistan Government to choose the means of reviewing the case and thus rejected New Delhi's argument that Islamabad should be asked to conduct the re-trial in a civilian court of Pakistan. This was the second time Pakistan allowed officials of the High Commission of India in its capital to meet Jadhav. It had earlier on September 2, 2019 allowed India's Deputy High Commissioner to Pakistan, Gaurav Ahluwalia, to meet him. New Delhi had later alleged that Ahluwalia had found Jadhav “under extreme pressure” to “parrot a false narrative”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-prevents-indian-officials-from-taking-kulbhushans-consent-for-review-petition-862077.html
16-07-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on timely disposal of mercy pleas||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued a notice to the Union government on a plea for disposal of mercy petitions by death row convicts in a time-bound manner. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna sought a response from the Centre on a writ petition filed by advocate Subhash Vijayran. The petitioner cited the case of two women, Renuka and Seema, who were convicted and sentenced to the death penalty for the murder of two children. Their matter has been pending before the Bombay High Court, even though their pleas for mercy and clemency have been rejected by the President and the Governor. He also referred to the Nirbhaya case convicts who were executed in a "biased and unfair manner". The court admitted the plea for consideration and tagged it with another petition by advocate Shiv Kumar Tripathi who made a similar plea. Tripathi alleged violation of rights of the victims due to delay in deciding the fate of the mercy petitions. He added that in a few cases, there was a delay in disposal of the mercy petitions, resulting in death sentences being converted into imprisonment for life, making the victims and their families feel cheated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-timely-disposal-of-mercy-pleas-862080.html
16-07-2020||National||TDSAT reserves order on Vodafone-Idea plea||The Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) on Thursday reserved the order on Vodafone Idea plea against the TRAI, asking the telecom firm to put on hold its RedX premium plan, which offers faster data speed and priority services to customers. The tribunal is likely to announce its order in a day or two. The TRAI in its reply said telecom companies in 2017 said that it was not possible to guarantee minimum speed on wireless network. Now telcos are offering 50 per cent extra speed. So the telecom companies' claims need to be verified, the regulator said. The TDSAT order will have also impact Bharti Airtel’s Platinum plan, launched last week for postpaid users. Earlier, Telecom Regulatory Authority of India had blocked Bharti Airtel’s Platinum and Vodafone Idea’s RedX premium plans, which offer faster data speed and priority services to customers. While asking two companies to withhold the two schemes till further order, the TRAI said such a scheme might harm the service quality of mobile users. The regulator, which is studying whether these two offers by the telecom companies violates the net neutrality, also asked telecom firms to clarify in one week whether the customers of these two plans entitled higher 4G speed at the cost of service deterioration to other mobile users. Vodafone Idea had approached the appellate tribunal on Monday seeking interim relief. However, the Tribunal has refused to stay the TRAI order and instead asked the regulator  to submit its reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tdsat-reserves-order-on-vodafone-idea-plea-862081.html
16-07-2020||National||India, US discuss possibility of free trade agreement||India and the US have discussed the possibility of negotiating a free trade agreement (FTA) and have expressed desire to conclude the talks for an initial trade package, the commerce ministry said on Thursday. The issue was discussed during an informal tele-conversation between Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and US Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross on Thursday.   India and the US are negotiating a limited trade deal with a view to iron out differences on trade issues to boost economic ties. "The principals also conversed on the ongoing India-USA trade discussions and appreciated the substantial progress made by both sides on most of the outstanding issues. "There was a desire expressed to conclude this initial limited trade package and recognising the complementarities of the India-USA bilateral trade, discussed the possibility of an FTA," the ministry said in a statement. India is demanding exemption from high duties imposed by the US on some steel and aluminium products, resumption of export benefits to certain domestic products under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), and greater market access for its products from sectors such as agriculture, automobile, automobile components and engineering. On the other hand, the US wants greater market access for its farm and manufacturing products, dairy items and medical devices, apart from cut in import duties on some information and communication technology products. The US has also raised concerns over high trade deficit with India. In the meeting, Goyal also flagged the pending 'US-India Social Security Totalisation Agreement'. While appreciating India's concern, Secretary Ross mentioned that the statutory requirements of the US have to be fulfilled by India in this regard.  He offered to arrange a meeting between US Social Security Administrator and concerned Indian officials to discuss and find a possible solution, the statement said. India has been demanding early conclusion of the totalisation agreement or Social Security Agreement with the US. It aims to protect interests of professionals of Indian-origin who contribute more than USD 1 billion each year to the US social security scheme. Under this pact, professionals of both the countries would be exempted from social security taxes when they go to work for a short period in the other country. Goyal also expressed concern on the US keeping certain Indian products (24 items) under TVPRA (Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act) list and designating them as 'child labour sectors', thereby denying them the opportunity to participate in supply contracts of US government agencies. On this, Ross offered to set up a meeting between the labour department officials of both sides, the ministry's statement said. Further, Goyal raised the issue of US ban on import of wild catch shrimp from India on the premise that fishing practices followed here were non-compliant with US regulations to protect sea turtles.  "He mentioned the various conservation measures taken by Indian maritime states in protecting the sea turtles. Secretary Ross appreciated India's concerns and agreed to facilitate a discussion between the officials of the US state department and Office of Marine Conservation with the Indian Department of Fisheries and Ministry of Forest and Environment, in this regard," it said. The US remained India's top trading partner for the second consecutive fiscal in 2019-20. According to the data of the commerce ministry, in 2019-20, the bilateral trade between the US and India stood at USD 88.75 billion, as against USD 87.96 billion in 2018-19. The US is one of the few countries with which India has a trade surplus. The trade gap between the countries has increased to USD 17.42 billion in 2019-20 from USD 16.86 billion in 2018-19, the data showed. In 2018-19, the US had surpassed China to become India's top trading partner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-discuss-possibility-of-free-trade-agreement-862082.html
16-07-2020||National||55 Air India pilots tested Covid-19 positive; airline proposes 60% salary cut for pilots: unions||Air India has proposed a 60 per cent salary cut for pilots amid the coronavirus pandemic which has infected 55 of its cockpit crew members, said two leading pilot unions of the airline on Thursday. "The proposed cut for pilots is almost 60 per cent of gross emoluments. It is hilarious to note that the top management has proposed a meagre 3.5 per cent cut on its own gross salary," said a joint letter by the Indian Commercial Pilots' Association (ICPA) and Indian Pilots' Guild (IPG) to Air India CMD Rajiv Bansal. "For eg. the Director Personnel takes a minuscule cut of 4 per cent on gross pay while a co-pilot who is paid less than the market is given a cut of 60 per cent. How is this justified? Doesn't this amount to unchecked greed and selfishness?" the unions said in Thursday's letter. While scheduled international flights have been suspended in the country since March 23, Air India has been operating international repatriation flights all around the world under Vande Bharat Mission. Moreover, since scheduled domestic passenger flight operations resumed on May 25, the airline has been operating services domestically too. "As of date, 55 pilots have tested positive for Covid-19.  Is it fair to penalise these pilots by saying that they will be paid on actual flying hours? They are unable to fly as they contracted the coronavirus while on duty. Is this how the MoCA (Ministry of Civil Aviation) wants to honour frontline workers," the unions asked the CMD. The unions said the CMD informed them that the MoCA has given the directions to slash pilots' salary by 60 per cent. "This is nowhere at par with market standards. If this is true, then we would like to humbly submit that we would like to seek an appointment with the Hon'ble Minister of Civil Aviation and return all the appreciation letters given to our pilots by him as well as the Honourable Prime Minister for our service to the nation," they stated. Meanwhile, Air India on Tuesday said it has started the process of identifying employees, based on various factors like efficiency, health and redundancy, who will be sent on compulsory leave without pay (LWP) for up to five years. Equity infusion of Rs 500-600 crore every year is not sustainable and cost-cutting in Air India is necessary, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Thursday, justifying the national carrier's decision to send certain employees on leave without pay for up to five years. The minister's remarks came after TMC MP Derek O'Brien slammed Air India, saying its leave-without-pay scheme violates labour laws and is an 'obvious ploy' to protect the top management and sacrifice other workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/55-air-india-pilots-tested-covid-19-positive-airline-proposes-60-salary-cut-for-pilots-unions-862084.html
16-07-2020||National||Chabahar-Zahedan rail project awaits appointment by Iran of entity to finalise pending issues: MEA||India on Thursday termed as "speculative" the media reports on its involvement in the Chabahar-Zahedan railway project, asserting that the Iranian side was to nominate an authorised entity to finalise the outstanding technical and financial issues related to the venture which was still awaited. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that since 2016, despite the difficulties posed by the sanctions situation, there has been significant progress on the Chabahar port project. His remarks come after media reports claimed that India has been left out of the Chabahar-Zahedan railway project in Iran. "We have seen some speculative reports about Chabahar Port and the Chabahar-Zahedan railway project," he said. "With regard to the port, you are all aware that a longstanding commitment from 2003 was finally operationalised in 2016 during the Prime Minister's visit to Iran. Since then, despite the difficulties posed by the sanctions situation, there has been significant progress on the port project," he said. An Indian company has been operating the port since 2018 and has steadily scaled up the traffic there, Srivastava said. "Since December 2018, 82 vessels have been handled there including 52 in the last 12 months alone. The port handled 12 lakh tonnes of bulk cargo and 8,200 containers," Srivastava said. Proactive measures are currently underway to increase the usage of Chabahar port, both for Afghanistan and Central Asia, he said. "Insofar as the proposed railway line is concerned, IRCON was appointed by the government of India to assess the feasibility of the project. It was working with CDTIC, an Iranian company under their Ministry of Railways in that regard," Srivastava said. IRCON has completed the site inspection and review of the feasibility report, he said. "Detailed discussions were thereafter held on other relevant aspects of the project, which had to take into account the financial challenges that Iran was facing. In December 2019, these issues were reviewed in detail at the 19th India-Iran Joint Commission Meeting in Tehran," Srivastava said. "The Iranian side was to nominate an authorised entity to finalise outstanding technical and financial issues. This is still awaited," he said. Taking note of some reports regarding the Farzad-B Gas field negotiations in which ONGC was involved in the discovery stage, Srivastava said follow-up bilateral cooperation was, however, impacted by policy changes on the Iranian side. "In January 2020, we were informed that in the immediate future, Iran would develop the field on its own and would like to involve India appropriately at a later stage. This matter remains under discussion," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chabahar-zahedan-rail-project-awaits-appointment-by-iran-of-entity-to-finalise-pending-issues-mea-862088.html
16-07-2020||National||Haryana government steps up efforts to control locust swarms||In view of the warning regarding potential intense attacks in several districts after July 22, the Haryana government has stepped up efforts to control locust swarms which cause crop damage, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture Department, Sanjeev Kaushal said here on Thursday. He said that among other measures, arrangements were being made to stock additional quantities of pesticide. Agriculture Minister J P Dalal directed to set up a task force in each district to monitor all the arrangements during the attack. Dalal gave these directions here during a review meeting with the officials regarding preparations made to deal with the locust attack. He said that the locust swarms should be constantly monitored and asked the officers of the Administration and Agriculture department to stay alert. Kaushal said that locust swarms in the region had become resistant to some commonly used pesticide and to prevent homogeneity in use of pesticides during repeated spraying, arrangements are being made to stock 20,000 litres of lambda-cyhalothrin in addition to existing stocks of pesticide. Kaushal said that three drones were being purchased for an aerial spray of pesticide. As many as 66 fire brigade vehicles were available, as well as 3,540 tractor-mounted spray pumps. The state government would also acquire fogging machines being bought by the Centre from the United Kingdom for use on trees, he said. Locust Warning Organisation has warned of more high-intensity attacks in districts Nuh, Rewari, Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri after July 22, after large-scale locust breeding was observed in Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan, he said. “These attacks are likely to be far more severe than the ones that have already occurred over 13,038 acres in Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, Sirsa, Nuh, Rewari, Bhiwani and Narnaul districts between June 26 and July 16,” said Kaushal. Notably, the locusts entered Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Nuh and Mahendragarh districts on Saturday, with some settling in the fields during the night before moving away from Haryana. Kaushal said that the preparatory measures put in place by the officials of the department had prevented significant losses in most districts during these attacks. Farmers in Jhajjar, Palwal and Nuh districts did not report any losses due to damage to crops by locust swarms. While farmers in most districts suffered losses to the tune of five to ten per cent, quick action by officials of the department ensured that those in the worst-hit districts of Rewari and Sirsa did not suffer losses of more than 30 per cent, he said. Kaushal assured that the department was closely monitoring the situation and urged farmers in the affected districts to stay alert and inform the officials if they found locusts anywhere. Three weeks ago, a huge swarm of locusts had reached Rewari from neighbouring Rajasthan. While a part of the swarm settled overnight in the district, the remaining headed towards Gurgaon the next morning and eventually moved towards Uttar Pradesh. Notably, Haryana had issued a high alert over a month ago after locust swarms attacked crops in Rajasthan and a few other states, but the insects had moved away from the state. Locusts, popularly known as ''tiddi dal'', are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour. This insect can eat more than its body weight. One square kilometre of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can eat as much food in a day as 35,000 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-government-steps-up-efforts-to-control-locust-swarms-862091.html
16-07-2020||National||Govt says India-China mutual redeployment of troops on LAC should not be 'misrepresented'||The Government on Thursday sought to justify withdrawal of soldiers from the scenes of the face-offs along India’s disputed boundary with China, stating that it was in accordance with the agreement between senior military commanders of the two nations to re-deploy troops “towards” the “regular posts” on the respective side of the Line of Actual Control. The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) initiated a “disengagement process” early this month to end the eight-week long stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations. The withdrawal of Indian Army troops from the face-off scenes along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to reciprocate to pullback by the Chinese PLA as well as the moratorium on patrolling and creation of a “buffer zone” to avoid flashpoints had prompted several strategic affairs experts to raise questions about the process. The opposition Congress also raised questions over the process, criticising the Government led by Bharatiya Janata Party. “This mutual re-deployment (of troops along the LAC by Indian and Chinese armies) should not be misrepresented,” the MEA spokesperson told journalists on Thursday.   He said that the disengagement process, currently underway in the western sector of India-China disputed boundary, is “specifically aimed at addressing face-off situations and close-up deployments of troops along the LAC”. “It is based on an understanding between senior military commanders.  Both sides have agreed at specific points to re-deploy towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC. These are mutually agreed reciprocal actions to be taken by both sides,” said Srivastava, adding that it is “an ongoing process”. New Delhi also stated that it was “fully committed to observing and respecting” the LAC between India and China and would not accept any unilateral attempt to change the status quo along the line. “The process of disengagement along the LAC is complex and, therefore, unsubstantiated and inaccurate reports need to be avoided.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-says-india-china-mutual-redeployment-of-troops-on-lac-should-not-be-misrepresented-862105.html
16-07-2020||National||India slams Pakistan over construction of dam in PoK||India on Thursday said it has strongly protested with Pakistan against the construction of the Diamer-Bhasha dam in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and condemned Islamabad's continuous attempts to bring about material changes in Indian territories under its illegal occupation. India's strong protest came after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday kicked off construction work at the Diamer-Bhasha dam in Chilas in Gilgit-Baltistan, notwithstanding New Delhi's objection to the China-backed mega project. Asked about the development at the weekly briefing, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India had made its position on it clear earlier and it remains unchanged. "The entire Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and the Union territory of Ladakh, have been, are, and will be an integral and inalienable part of India. We have strongly protested against the construction of this dam to the government of Pakistan," Srivastava said. "This dam will lead to submergence of a large part of the land of the Indian union territories of J&K and Ladakh and we condemn the continuous attempts by Pakistan to bring about material changes in Indian territories under its illegal occupation," he said. India has also consistently conveyed its protest and shared concerns with both China and Pakistan on all such projects in the Indian territories under Pakistan's illegal occupation where it has no locus standi, the MEA spokesperson said. The Pakistan government in May had signed a whopping Rs 442 billion contract with a joint venture of a Chinese state-run firm and a commercial arm of Pakistan's powerful military for the construction of the Diamer-Bhasha dam. Asked about reports of Pakistan allowing Afghan goods to be exported via Wagah, Srivastava said it was another example of Pakistan's creation of a mirage of goodwill. "Let us be clear on this, Pakistan is not allowing Afghan trucks to carry Afghan goods and is seeking monopolistic transport practices. It is not allowing Afghanistan two-way transit rights as committed under article 3 of the Afghanistan–Pakistan Transit Trade Agreement (also known as APTTA)," he said. "So, Pakistan has been following a policy of creating captive markets by denying full transit access to Afghanistan by restricting products from India and other countries. It is failing to fulfil its own commitments under APTTA," Srivastava said. Pakistan has even denied transit of humanitarian grant assistance, including wheat from India, to Afghanistan, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-pakistan-over-construction-of-dam-in-pok-862112.html
16-07-2020||National||45 lakh tap connections provided since Unlock-1 under Jal Jeevan Mission||About 45 lakh tap connections have been provided under the Jal Jeevan Mission since the central government announced ‘Unlock 1’ on June 1 amid the coronavirus pandemic, a statement said on Thursday. The Modi government's ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission aims to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections to every rural household in the country by 2024. Since the launch of the Mission in August 2019 till March 2020, around 84.83 lakh rural households were provided with tap connections, it said. For ensuring transparency, every asset created is being geo-tagged and connections are being linked with the Aadhaar card of the 'head of the household', it said. A special focus is being given to the districts affected with Japanese Encephalitis/Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (JE-AES) which is one of the main reasons behind infant mortality in the affected districts. As on date, there are 3.01 crore households in 61 JE/AES endemic districts of five states of Assam, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, the statement said. Potable water supply to water quality-affected habitations is also a top priority under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) as the ill-effects of fluorosis and arsenicosis are to be reduced. JJM is also a part of the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan (GKRA) wherein efforts are being made to provide employment to migrant labourers by creating public infrastructure. The tentative plan is to take up work in about 25,000 villages spread across six states under implementation, it said. After the Mission came into being, states were requested to undertake a revalidation exercise of baseline data, as per which there are 19.04 crore rural households in the country, out of which, 3.23 crore households are already provided with tap connections. “Thus, the objective is to cover approximately 16 crore households in a time-bound manner while ensuring the functionality of the already provided connections. This means 3.2 crore households to be covered every year, that is, approximately 88,000 tap connections to be provided on a daily basis,” the statement added. Meanwhile, many states and Union territories are working hard to provide tap connections to every rural household. In this endeavour, states like Bihar, Telangana, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh “lead with excellent performance”, the statement said. In 2020-21, a sum of Rs 23,500 crore has been allocated for the implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission. At present, more than Rs 8,000 crore of central funds are available with the states/UTs for the implementation of the Mission, it said. Besides this, in 2020-21, 50 percent of the 15th Finance Commission grants to rural local bodies, that is, Rs 30,375 crore has been earmarked for water supply and sanitation. “50 percent of this amount was released to states on July 15. This will help in better planning, implementation, management, operation and maintenance of drinking water supply systems in villages so that people continue to get potable water on a regular and long-term basis,” the statement added. The Mission is also exploring partnerships with reputed national and international agencies, including the United Nations agencies, NGOs/CBOs, CSR organisations, trusts and foundations. Various states/UTs have also committed to achieving the goal of the Mission well before 2024. “In 2021, Bihar, Goa, Puducherry and Telangana have planned for complete saturation; similarly, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Meghalaya, Punjab, Sikkim and Uttar Pradesh have similar plans by 2022. “Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Chhattisgarh have planned for 100 percent coverage by 2023; while states like Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have planned the same by 2024,” the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/45-lakh-tap-connections-provided-since-unlock-1-under-jal-jeevan-mission-862114.html
16-07-2020||National||Plastic industry should manufacture top quality raw material for medical devices sector: Government||Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday asked the plastic industry to be prepared for manufacturing top quality raw material for the medical devices sector which the government is promoting to reduce import dependence. Addressing a webinar organised by Ficci, Mandaviya said the country should become self-reliant in all critical products such as API (Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient) and medical devices, among others. The government has started working on a long-term and short-term policy to ensure India is not dependent on imports for critical requirements. The recent Rs 14,000 crore pharma package was announced keeping this in mind, he said. Stating that there is a huge opportunity in the medical devices sector, the minister said, "We have come out with a supportive policy to boost investment in this sector. There will be a requirement for quality plastic." When the medical devices manufacturing units come up in India, they should not import key raw material like plastic, he said. "Think about manufacturing top quality plastic in India to meet the demand of the medical devices sector. In this direction, the research should begin. The comprehensive development is part of Atmanirbhar Bharat," he added. Later in a statement, the minister said the plastic industry is playing a crucial role in the hour of need as its products are supporting the efforts of frontline warriors. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 89 million medical masks, 76 million examination gloves and 1.6 million goggles will be needed for Covid-19 response every month while the pandemic lasts, he said. "So, this indicates the need for the industry to rise to the challenge to ensure coronavirus free India. We do not want to fragment the internal market by creating internal barriers or competitive imbalances but come together as one nation and power," Mandaviya said. Speaking on the occasion, Chemicals and Petrochemicals Secretary Rajesh Kumar Chaturvedi said the current Covid-19 pandemic has created a situation for increased use of plastic bags and packaging material as safe and hygienic material for food delivery and household purposes. This pandemic has revealed the true potential of plastics. Its importance has grown manifold during the pandemic due to demand for hazmat suits, N-95 masks, gloves, visors, goggles and shoe covers -- all of which are made of polypropylene/plastics, he said. But in the post-Covid period, there is a need to step up recycling of these products, he added. The secretary also said it is high time the domestic industry should gear up for the challenges, and design and develop quality products as a substitute for imported goods. Currently, the plastic consumption in India is about 11 kg per person, which is one-tenth that of the US. It is estimated that polymer consumption is likely to grow in 2017-22 due to rapid increase in urbanisation, making it an essential material of choice, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plastic-industry-should-manufacture-top-quality-raw-material-for-medical-devices-sector-government-862127.html
16-07-2020||National||EC decides against extending postal ballot facility to voters aged above 65 years||The Election Commission (EC) on Thursday decided to put a hold on its move to extend postal ballot facility for all voters above the age of 65 years during the coming bypolls as well as the state assembly polls in Bihar. The poll-panel cited logistical constraints to modify its earlier decision to extend optional postal ballot facilities to all voters above the age of 65 years in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The commission now decided that it would extend the facility only to the voters aged 80 years and above, people with disabilities and the ones, who are either Covid-19 positive or suspected and quarantined at homes or in the hospitals and other designated places. “Considering all these issues, challenges and constraints and in view of the decision to limit the number of electors at each polling station to 1000, (the) Commission has decided not to issue the notification to extend the facility of postal ballot to the electors above 65 years of age in the coming General Elections in Bihar and bye-elections due in the near future,” the EC stated on Thursday. The EC had recommended extension of optional postal ballot facilities to voters aged above 65 years in order to minimize their vulnerability and exposure at the polling stations and to the Covid-19 positive voters and the voters under quarantine so that they are not deprived of their voting rights. Acting on the recommendation of the EC, the union Ministry of Law and Justice had already notified the amended rules on June 19. The EC, however, put on hold issue of the notification for implementation of the changes in the rule. The opposition Congress, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Trinamool Congress had earlier opposed the EC move to expand the ambit of the postal ballot facility in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress had written to the EC on July 3 last, pointing out that the EC move would “violate secrecy in voting as a large segment of the population is uneducated and they might seek assistance from others at numerous stages, ending up disclosing their preferred candidate”.  The CPI general secretary D. Raja and his counterpart at the CPI (M) Sitaram Yechury too had written to the EC opposing the move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-decides-against-extending-postal-ballot-facility-to-voters-aged-above-65-years-862128.html
16-07-2020||National||Wipro charters flights to bring back hundreds of staff, kin from US||After Infosys and Tech Mahindra, IT major Wipro has chartered special flights to bring home hundreds of its staff and their families from the US. The company is undertaking similar steps for its employees in the UK and Australia. "At Wipro, the paramount concern is the safety, health and well-being of our employees. Earlier this week, Wipro chartered flights to bring back hundreds of employees and their families from the US," Wipro said in response to a query. The company added that employees were also brought home from the UK via the Vande Bharat Mission flight. "These included employees whose visas have either expired or are close to expiry. Plans are afoot to organise charter flights from Australia later this month," the company said. Earlier this month, Infosys executive Sanjeev Bode had written a LinkedIn post saying hundreds of Infosys employees and their families were brought back to India via a chartered flight. According to sources, 206 people were brought back on that flight. The US is the biggest market for Indian IT services firms, accounting for the biggest share of its revenues. For Wipro, the Americas region accounted for over 59 percent of its revenue for the quarter ended in June 2020. Many individuals were stranded in the US after international flights were suspended following the coronavirus virus outbreak and the resultant lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wipro-charters-flights-to-bring-back-hundreds-of-staff-kin-from-us-862135.html
16-07-2020||National||SC to pass verdict on whether life term convicts be released before completing mandatory 14 years jail||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce on Friday its judgement on a legal question - whether a life term convict can be released prematurely before completing minimum 14 years of jail term, in accordance with a policy framed by a state government. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran would deliver the verdict at 10.30 am on July 17. The apex court has framed legal issues including whether a policy could be framed under Article 161 (power of Governor to pardon or grant remission) of the Constitution, which would run counter to the mandate of Section 433A Criminal Procedure Code. The matter arose out of a policy framed by the Haryana government wherein on the occasion of Independence Day i.e. August 15, 2019, the Governor, in exercise of the powers (of remission, pardon etc) under Article 161 of the Constitution, granted special remission to prisoners who were undergoing sentence as a result of their conviction by the courts in the state.  According to the policy, those entitled to get relief included convicts, who have been sentenced for life and are 75 years or above in case of male and of 65 years or above in case of female as on August 15, 2019 and have completed eight years of actual sentence in case of male convicts and six years of actual sentence in case of female convicts including undertrial period and excluding parole period. The conduct of such prisoners has to remain satisfactory during confinement and they must not have committed any major jail offence in the last two years. As the matter reached the apex court, it said, "Prima facie the policy appears to be in conflict with Section 433A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. This provision restricted power of remission on life term convicts, unless they completed at least 14 years of jail. The Haryana government, for its part, maintained that the policy has been framed pursuant to the power conferred upon the Governor of the State under Article 161 of the Constitution and, as such, would not be hit by the principles emanating from Section 433A of the Code. During the hearing, the court has also sought to know whether all individual cases in which policy benefit was granted were placed before the Governor and whether facts of individual cases were considered by the authority before granting benefit of remission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pass-verdict-on-whether-life-term-convicts-be-released-before-completing-mandatory-14-years-jail-862138.html
16-07-2020||National||Disengagement task requires constant verification, says Army on India-China clash in Ladakh||In what may be an indication of a roadblock in a mutually agreed troop reduction exercise by India and China in eastern Ladakh, Indian Army on Thursday said that the “disengagement process is intricate and requires constant verification,” which may happen through more rounds of discussions between the two neighbouring nations. The official statement follows a 15-hour long meeting between senior military commanders at Chushul on Tuesday in which the two armies discussed the second and the trickiest part of disengagement in Pangong Tso and Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie sectors in Ladakh. In the first round, both had pulled back their troops at Galwan, Hot Springs and Gogra post. “The two sides remain committed to the objective of complete disengagement. This process is intricate and requires constant verification. They are taking it forward through regular meetings at a diplomatic and military level,” Indian Army spokesperson Col Aman Anand said. As the Indian side insisted on “total restoration” of status quo in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the stand-off began following a clash between the troops of the two countries, it is the Pangong lake areas, where the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) heavily fortified its positions, and Depsang bulge, where it had cut into Indian Army’s traditional patrolling routes, have emerged as two major challenges. “The senior commanders reviewed the progress on implementation of the first phase of disengagement and discussed further steps to ensure complete disengagement. The engagement was consistent with the consensus reached between the Special Representatives of India and China earlier, on July 5, to discuss complete disengagement,” Col Anand said. An air of mistrust complicates the negotiation. For instance, the Indian Army traditionally patrolled up to Finger 8 on the northern banks of the Pangong Lake but was stopped at Finger 4 in May when the stand-off began. In the first phase of the disengagement, the PLA withdrew most its soldiers from Finger 4 and brought them to Finger 5 on the east, but kept few soldiers on the ridgelines to keep an eye on the Indians. As a quid pro quo, India too had to withdraw its soldiers from its base at Finger 4 and moved backwards on the west. At Depsang, the PLA had blocked the patrolling point 10, PP-11, PP-12 and PP-13. If the Chinese troops get an upper hand in the Depsang, it would compromise India’s strategic Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road that connects DBO and Sub Sector North with Leh. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will be travelling to Leh on Friday for an on-the-spot appraisal by the senior Indian Army officers. He would also travel to a forward post. On Wednesday, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane and Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi briefed the China Study Group – the government’s highest policy-making body on China, headed by the National Security Advisor Ajit Doval – on the outcome of the talk||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disengagement-task-requires-constant-verification-says-army-on-india-china-clash-in-ladakh-862150.html
16-07-2020||National||India crosses 10 lakh Covid-19 cases||India on Thursday crossed the grim landmark of 10 lakh Covid-19 cases as the disease has spread rapidly in states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Andra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan. India is the third country after the US and Brazil to report more than 10 lakh Covid-19 cases and the eighth country to report more than 25,000 deaths. The infection was spreading faster in Maharashtra which has been reporting more than 8000 cases every day with Pune alone adding 2000 patients everyday. Tamil Nadu was reporting approximately 4,500 new cases daily, while Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh were adding more than 3000 and 2000 new patients every day respectively. Infections have also been spreading rapidly in Uttar Pradesh which has been reporting a daily increase of more than 1,600 cases, while Telangana and West Bengal have been adding more than 1,500 cases daily. States such as Goa, Kerala which had controlled the spread of the infections earlier, have been reporting a surge since the ‘Unlock’ phase began last month. However, the Health Ministry stated only one-third of the total cases of Covid-19 were under active medical supervision and nearly two-third patients had already recovered and discharged from healthcare facilities. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said India had ramped up testing capabilities since the coronavirus infection was first reported in January. “As on date, we are testing more than 3.2 lakh samples every day,” the minister said adding that the Centre is going to ramp up testing capabilities further to test 10 lakh samples per day in the coming 12 weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-crosses-10-lakh-covid-19-cases-862151.html
16-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Crisis: Disqualification notice to Sachin Pilot, 18 MLAs brings issue of Speaker's power to fore again||The issue of Speakers' power under the Constitution to entertain pleas seeking disqualification of MLAs has come to the fore again amid the political crisis in Rajasthan where the Assembly speaker has entertained such a plea by the ruling Congress party and sought responses of sacked Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs within three days. The apex court, in a plethora of verdicts, has given varying judicial opinions on Speakers' powers ranging from refusing to intervene in the matter to assuming the role of the Speaker itself and going to the extent of disqualifying lawmakers under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The 2011 verdict of the Supreme Court in the Karnataka case may strengthen the case of the 19 MLAs, including Pilot, in the matter of Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C P Joshi's show cause notice. The top court had set aside the disqualification of 11 BJP MLAs, who were opposed to the then Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, by the Speaker. The high court had endorsed their disqualification. “Merely because these MLAs expressed lack of confidence in Yeddyurappa would not mean that the Speaker was empowered to take action against them,” a bench headed by the then Chief Justice Altamas Kabir had held. It had then taken note of the assertion of the 11 MLAs that they were part of the BJP and would support any other leader in the party, and held this rebellion did not require action under 10th schedule (which deals Speaker's power to deal with defection) of the Constitution. “Rajasthan Speaker's notice to Pilot and others with him is patently illegal and beyond the scope of tenth schedule of the Constitution. They have not joined or expressed a wish to join or support BJP," senior lawyer and Constitutional law expert Rakesh Dwivedi said. "Protesting against CM and asking for change or pressuring High Command of the Congress to change CM does not amount to leaving the party,” he said. In response to a question whether a political party can issue a legally tenable whip to its MLAs for activities outside the Assembly, the senior lawyer said, “No. Whips are issued for activities in the House. “Not attending meetings of the Congress legislature party is pressure tactic and an intra-party activity. Speaker has erred and notice is against the Yedurappa case of Supreme Court”. He said however that the party can take disciplinary action against Pilot. Dwivedi added there were no media reports that Pilot indulged in any anti-party activities and met leaders of rival political parties to topple the government; rather there have been reports of police probe against the Deputy Chief Minister for offences like sedition. There have been contrary views as well, holding that the Speaker has ample and wide powers under the 10th schedule to deal with anti-defection activities of the lawmakers. “Being the head of the House, the Speaker is well within his right to issue the (disqualification) notice,” another senior advocate Ajit Sinha said, adding that the action of suspension or disqualification can always be challenged. “As far as the notice is concerned, the Speaker has the right. Those who have been issued notice can claim that the speaker cannot disqualify for the activities done outside the house, but the issuance of notice at the first place cannot be called illegal,” he said. The apex court and the high courts have been very cautious in intervening with the role of Speaker in the matters of disqualification. The Constitution gives exclusive jurisdiction to the Speaker to rule on disqualifications for defection. In the recent Karnataka crisis, the top court had said that 15 rebel Congress-JD(S) MLAs in Karnataka "ought not" to be compelled to participate in the proceedings of the ongoing session of the state Assembly and an option should be given to them as to whether they wanted to take part or stay out of it. However, the apex court had also said that the Assembly Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar will decide on the resignation of the 15 MLAs within “such time-frame as considered appropriate by him”. But, there have also been instances where the top court has assumed the role of the Speaker to itself after taking note of the delay on the part of the Speaker in deciding such pleas. In a rare move, the Supreme Court had invoked its plenary powers and ordered forthwith removal of BJP lawmaker and Manipur Forest Cabinet Minister T H Shyamkumar, restraining him from entering the Assembly till further orders. Shyamkumar had won the Assembly polls in 2017 as a Congress candidate but later joined the BJP government. The plea of his disqualification was pending with the Speaker. Recently, the top court has sought response of the Speaker of Tamil Nadu Assembly on a plea of DMK seeking a direction to "forthwith" decide its pending plea for disqualification of 11 AIADMK lawmakers who had voted against Chief Minister K Palaniswami during the 2017 confidence vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-crisis-disqualification-notice-to-sachin-pilot-18-mlas-brings-issue-of-speakers-power-to-fore-again-861877.html
16-07-2020||National Politics||Sachin Pilot camp moves high court, challenges Speaker's disqualification notice||A division bench of the Rajasthan High Court will hear Thursday evening a petition filed by Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident leaders, challenging notices from the Speaker over a Congress move to disqualify them from the state assembly. A two-judge bench is expected to hear the amended petition at 7.30 pm. The petition first came up Justice Satish Chandra Sharma at 3 pm. But advocate Harish Salve sought time to file a fresh petition. The matter was heard again at about 5 pm when the judge referred it to a division bench. Earlier, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, who had written to the Speaker seeking the MLAs' disqualification, also approached the court, asking to be heard before it passes any order. The 19 MLAs were sent notices Tuesday by the Speaker after the Congress complained that they had defied a party whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party meetings. The Pilot camp, however, argues that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sachin-pilot-camp-moves-high-court-challenges-speakers-disqualification-notice-861880.html
16-07-2020||National Politics||Sachin Pilot camp moves Rajasthan High Court, challenges Speaker's disqualification notice||Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident leaders on Thursday moved the high court, challenging the notices from the Rajasthan Speaker over a Congress move to disqualify them from the state assembly. But as the matter was taken up for hearing by Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, their advocate Harish sought time to file a fresh petition. The judge granted them time to draft a new petition. The matter will now be heard by a larger, division bench. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, who had written to the Speaker seeking the MLAs' disqualification, also approached the court, asking to be heard before it passes any order. The 19 MLAs were sent notices Tuesday by the Speaker after the Congress complained that they had defied a party whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party meetings. The Pilot camp, however, argues that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session. In its complaint to the Speaker C P Joshi, the Congress sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they “voluntarily” give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House. The Congress said in the letter to Speaker C P Joshi that the Supreme Court has “unequivocally held” in the past that the provision comes into effect when the conduct of an MLA leads to this inference. In court, advocate Harish Salve argued that the MLAs wanted to challenge the constitutional validity of the notices and needed some time to file it afresh. Among those sent notices are Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, who were sacked along with Pilot from the state cabinet after their rebellion against Ashok Gehlot. Others include Deepender Singh Shekhawat, Bhanwar Lal Sharma and Harish Chandra Meena, who had also given statements to the media challenging the Gehlot government. Sachin Pilot has been upset since the Congress picked Ashok Gehlot for the chief minister’s post after the 2018 assembly polls. His supporters said he deserved credit for the party winning the election after a campaigned helmed by him as the state unit chief. The notices were issued by the Assembly secretariat on Tuesday, and the MLAs had time till Friday to reply to them. The Speaker was to take a decision on their disqualification after getting their replies. Their disqualification would reduce the current strength of the state assembly to 181, slashing the half-way mark to 91 and seemingly making it easier for Gehlot to retain majority support. In the 200-member assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs and the BJP 72. In the past, the ruling party has claimed the support of 13 independents, two MLAs each from the CPM and the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP), and one from the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sachin-pilot-camp-moves-rajasthan-high-court-challenges-speakers-disqualification-notice-861884.html
16-07-2020||National Politics||Man buried alive as retaining wall collapses in Himachal Pradesh||A man was buried alive and another injured after a retaining wall collapsed in Himachal Pradesh's Shimla on Thursday, police said. The incident took place in the Boileauganj police station area, they said. “Pyare Lal Sharma (48) of Mandolghat village in Sunni tehsil was buried alive under the debris of the retaining wall near old barrier in Boileauganj police station area,” Shimla Superintendent of Police Omapati Jamwal said. Prem Lal (58) of Baleri village sustained injuries in the incident, the officer said, adding that he is undergoing treatment at IGMC hospital. The police have initiated proceedings under Section 144 (banning unlawful assembly of people) of the Criminal Procedure Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/man-buried-alive-as-retaining-wall-collapses-in-himachal-pradesh-861983.html
16-07-2020||National Politics||With steady decline, active Covid-19 cases now constitute a third of total tally: Health Ministry||India has 3,31,146 active Covid-19 cases, which is around a third of the country's total tally that rose to 9.68 lakh on Thursday, the Union Health ministry said and credited targeted measures for the steady decline in active caseload. As the country witnessed a record single-day increase of 32,695 cases on Thursday, the ministry said the recovery rate rose to 50 per cent mid-June and thereafter there has been a steady rise in recoveries and a decline in the number of active cases. "Of the total Covid-19 cases, 63.25 per cent have recovered so far. Simultaneously, there has been a steady dip in the number of active cases, from around 45 per cent in mid-June to around 34.18 per cent as of now," the ministry. A total of 20,783 people have recuperated in the past 24 hours, the highest number of recoveries in a day, taking the total number of recovered cases to 6,12,814. According to the health ministry's data updated at 8 am, the number of recoveries exceeds active cases by 2,81,668. The ministry said the actual caseload of Covid-19 has remained limited and manageable due to proactive containment measures such as house-to-house survey, perimeter control activities, timely contact tracing, aggressive testing and timely diagnosis, and effective clinical management of moderate and severe cases through a well-implemented standard of care protocol increasing their chances of recovery. Hospital infrastructure includes 1,381 Dedicated Covid Hospitals, 3,100 Dedicated Covid Healthcare Centres and 10,367 Covid Care Centres with a total of 46,666 ICU beds. "Collaborative strategy among the Centre and states has also ensured that the growth of Covid-19 cases in restricted to certain pockets of the country," the ministry said in a statement. Just two states -- Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu -- constitute 48.15 per cent of country's total active caseload. Ten states constitute 84.62 per cent of the total active caseload, it said, adding the Centre continues to handhold these states in matters of containment and effective clinical management. Joint efforts by the Centre, states and Union Territories to increase testing capacity, ramping up health infrastructure, prioritising surveillance in SARI/ILI cases, and ensuring mapping of the aged population and those with comorbidities have led to continuous improvement in recovery rates across India, the ministry added.  India's Covid -19 tally rose to 9,68,876 on Thursday, while the death toll climbed to 24,915 with 606 people succumbing to the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-steady-decline-active-covid-19-cases-now-constitute-a-third-of-total-tally-health-ministry-861986.html
16-07-2020||National Politics||Congress on ventilator, selling MLAs to BJP: AAP's Raghav Chadha||Placing itself as an alternative, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday attacked the Congress, claiming it is on death bed and selling votes and MLAs to the BJP, betraying the trust placed by people on it. Referring to the political developments in Rajasthan where Congress leader Sachin Pilot raised a rebellion, the AAP said both the Congress and the BJP were indulging in "dirty politics" at a time the country should be fighting unitedly against the Covid-19 pandemic. AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, "one party is selling its votes and MLAs while the other is buying them. We are witnessing immoral politics. Congress has become old. It is on a ventilator. It is counting the breaths. No plasma therapy, no hydroxychloroquine, no Remdesivir can save it." Chadha said people voted for Congress with hope in Goa, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh but accused it of selling votes and MLAs. "There is no future for Congress or it can provide a future for the country. You vote for Congress and be rest assured that your vote is sold," he told a press conference. Chadha said the situation provides the AAP with responsibility and whether the question is whether his party will understand it.  "Time will tell whether we can take up the responsibility. But one thing is that even in places where AAP does not have a big organisational structure, people look up to AAP as an alternative. Congress is walking towards doom," he said. He said AAP has no option but to fill the gap to take up the responsibility.  AAP’s attack on the Congress came at a time Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot is facing rebellion from Pilot and his supporters. Gehlot has accused Pilot of trying to overthrow his government with the help of BJP.  Congress has also lost governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh after a section of Congress MLAs defected to the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-on-ventilator-selling-mlas-to-bjp-aaps-raghav-chadha-861991.html
16-07-2020||National Politics||Gold smuggling case in Kerala being used to destabilize state government: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) has alleged that the gold smuggling case in Kerala is being used by the BJP and the Congress-led UDF to destabilise the LDF government in the state and the issue is being used to target Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. IAS officer M Sivasankar, sacked principal secretary of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, was earlier summoned by the Customs as part of the ongoing investigation into the gold smuggling case where gold, weighing over 30 kg and valued at around Rs 15 crore, was seized. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has been entrusted with the probe into the case by the Centre. "The gold smuggling case in Kerala is being used by the Congress-led UDF and the BJP to tarnish the image of the LDF government and (is) a joint effort to destabilise the government headed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan," said the latest editorial of the CPI(M) mouthpiece People's Democracy published on Wednesday. The Congress and the UDF have demanded the resignation of the chief minister and have launched a "struggle" to achieve the same. The BJP is also conducting protests with the same demand. The UDF had announced that it will move a no-confidence motion against the government in the assembly. Around Rs 100 crore worth of gold was seized by the Customs authorities in Kerala's three airports in the past six months, the editorial said. But the contraband gold sought to be smuggled in through Thiruvananthapuram airport on June 30 was significant for the method adopted and the size of the consignment – it was through diplomatic baggage and weighed 30 kilograms, it said. "The state police is not the investigating authority nor has it the power to file cases in such matters. It falls in the jurisdiction of the Customs Department which is under the Centre. The state police can only have an ancillary role,¨ it said. It said that as soon as the ramifications of the case became known, the chief minister wrote to the prime minister asking for an effective investigation by any of the central agencies concerned so that the whole chain of the smuggling operation from its source and the end beneficiaries can be found out and brought to book. "The gold smuggling case is, thus, being used to make an all-out effort to target the chief minister and the LDF government. In doing so, the Congress leadership is even ignoring the fact that one of the accused, Sandeep Nair, has links with the BJP. It is more intent on seeking to harness the Modi government in its fight against the LDF government. "The Congress knows very well that the BJP government is misusing the central agencies for its political purposes and hopes that they will do so in this case too," it said. The editorial also alleged that the Congress party is proving its political and ideological bankruptcy in Kerala by adopting a disruptive stance over the issue. "It has no qualms whatsoever in ganging up with the BJP to target the Left. It is also a sad commentary on the state of the party as a whole as the recent events in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan show. "The BJP is going all-out to destabilise Congress state governments using money power and other unscrupulous methods. But the Congress party riven by factions and power-hungry leaders is facilitating the BJP's nefarious designs. In Kerala, this type of politics and power games will be met with a stinging rebuff from the people," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gold-smuggling-case-in-kerala-being-used-to-destabilize-state-government-cpim-862068.html
16-07-2020||National Politics||MGNREGA pulling poor out of pit of economic slump dug by PM Modi: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying it is MGNREGA that is pulling the poor out of the pit of economic slump that has been dug by the PM. "Modi ji had said that people are made to just dig pits under MGNREGA. But the truth is that it is MGNREGA that is pulling out the poor from the pit of economic slump that has been dug by Modi," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Without MGNREGA, not poverty, but the poor will be finished, the former Congress chief said. He also shared a graph showing the slump in jobs and the rising MGNREGA demand during the coronavirus crisis. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) is a social security measure that aims to guarantee the 'right to work'. This act was passed in September 2005 under the UPA government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mgnrega-pulling-poor-out-of-pit-of-economic-slump-dug-by-pm-modi-rahul-gandhi-862094.html
16-07-2020||National Politics||Ashok Gehlot camp releases 'audio proof' against Sachin Pilot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s camp on Thursday night released audio recordings of purported conversations between a representative of a Union minister and an MLA supporting rebel leader Sachin Pilot. DH could not establish the veracity of the recordings. The recordings were released by the Gehlot camp, a day after the chief minister claimed that he had proof of Pilot hobnobbing with BJP leaders to topple the Rajasthan government. Meanwhile, in a related development, BJP ally in Rajasthan Hanuman Beniwal on Thursday alleged that former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje was helping Gehlot save his government. “Former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje has called up Congress MLAs close to her and asked them to support Ashok Gehlot. She has called each and every Jat MLA in Sikar and Nagaur and asked them to keep distance from Sachin Pilot, I have proof of this,” Beniwal, who represents Nagaur in Lok Sabha sais. BJP rushed into damage control mode with Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia saying that Beniwal has been advised against making such statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ashok-gehlot-camp-releases-audio-proof-against-sachin-pilot-862173.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||With 11 more deaths Covid-19 toll crosses 200 in J&K||With eleven more Covid-19 deaths reported in Jammu and Kashmir between Tuesday evening and Wednesday evening, the death toll in the Union Territory has reached 206. All the 11 fresh deaths took place in Kashmir. Officials said that nine deaths were reported at tertiary care SKIMS hospital while one each was reported at Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar and GMC Anantnag. While 10 among those who died were over 60, one was 53-year-old. Srinagar district, with 50 deaths, has the highest fatalities followed by Baramulla (41), Kulgam (22), Shopian (17), Anantnag (16), Budgam (14), 11 each in Jammu and Kupwara, Pulwama (7), Bandipora (3), Ganderbal (4) and Doda (2) while one death each has been reported from Poonch, Udhampur, Rajouri and Kathua. From 18 March, when the first case was reported from Kashmir, till June 8 when Unlock-I started, the valley had reported 3,363 Covid-19 positive cases. Just over a month later, on July 14, the number of cases in Kashmir had crossed 11,100. With 206 deaths, 95 of them in the past two weeks, the Covid-19 situation in the UT has become grim. Covid-19, as per health department advisories, can prove lethal to people aged over 60, pregnant women, those with hypertension, diabetes, and other comorbid conditions. However, official data from J&K has shown that about 20 per cent of deaths have taken place in people who had no underlying disease or condition. Many of them were young individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-11-more-deaths-covid-19-toll-crosses-200-in-jk-861719.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Jammu and Kashmir High Court asks SASB to decide on holding Amarnath yatra||Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) was on Wednesday directed by the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to take an urgent decision on holding the annual pilgrimage this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic while ensuring that the right to health of every person is at the highest pedestal. Passing an order on a 'Court on its Own Motion', a division bench headed by Chief Justice Gita Mittal directed the SASB headed by the Lt Governor to inform the court about the decision through its amicus curiae Monika Kohli. The pilgrimage is held annually for 45 days and ends on "Raksha Bandhan" with the 'Charri Mubarak' (holy mace) reaching the abode of Lord Shiva in the South Kashmir Himalayan cave located at an altitude of 3,888 metres. The court quoted a submission made by Kohli who urged that efforts of the authorities to make arrangements for the pilgrimage must have been impeded on account of the Covid-19 containment. Kohli pointed out about a government report which highlighted the pandemic situation, the physical condition of the route and said if these were not addressed would lead "to devastating consequences". The counsels submitted that the overburdened fragile state of healthcare facilities in the Union Territory would not be able to cope with the additional pressures on account of the pilgrims coming into Jammu and Kashmir. The 23-page order issued by the bench also comprising justice Sanjay Dhar directed the Jammu and Kashmir administration to place the July 10 status report on holding Amarnath Yatra this year and other relevant material before the SASB for its consideration. "The Shri Amarnath Shrine Board and the respondents (JK government) shall urgently take all decisions regarding the yatra while complying" with the order of the Supreme Court of July 13" and the several concerns pointed out by the amicus curiae and the petitioner before the court. The court also directed that while taking a final call they should ensure compliance of all healthcare protocols, standard operating protocols notified by the Centre as well as by the Union Territory, and guided by the principle laid down by the apex court of India that the right to health of every person has to be placed at the highest pedestal. The decision should also address concerns of the health of security personnel, healthcare personnel, priests, the pilgrims and of the officials who would be involved in the arrangements and conduct of the yatra, besides the residents of Jammu and Kashmir. While making the decision, the board shall ensure consideration of the welfare and support of all people, especially members of the communities which provide porterage/ pithoos, palkis, mules and horses and who provide services during the pilgrimage. Consideration would also need to be accorded to the welfare of the animals and measures needed for the same. The court also took note of the fact that the administration of the union territory had not provided details about how the quarantine and social distancing would be maintained during the pilgrimage. In its July 10 status report, the counsel representing the UT administration had said there was a serious concern about the stress on the medical system because of the pilgrimage as nine out of 10 districts in Kashmir are red zones and the medical system is fully stretched in handling the challenge. No doctors would be available from outside Jammu and Kashmir for the pilgrimage this year due to the pandemic. "Isolation facilities will have to be created to ensure any Covid-19 challenges are addressed on an emergent basis at the holy cave and the base camp itself which is very challenging. "Also, Covid and high altitude sickness symptoms are quite similar and all cases will have to be treated as deemed Covid positive in case of an emergency. Further, special arrangements will have to be made for handling bodies," the report had said. The status report said that it was equally pertinent to place on record, the data and statistical record of the Union Territory with regard to coronavirus cases and that the entire administrative machinery with its healthcare personnel is involved in the fight against the pandemic. The court observed that the UT administration was clearly unable to provide the requisite healthcare, with no means to isolate suspected or infected Covid-19 cases during the pilgrimage or at the cave, and certainly have no means of evacuation and no method of removal of a body. In the order, the court also pointed out the submission made by Kohli regarding an April 22 order passed by the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board cancelling the pilgrimage which was subsequently recalled. It appears that the pilgrimage was cancelled because there were 77 hot spots or red zones in Kashmir along with the route through which the yatra passes, Kohli said, and also informed the court that langars, camp establishments and medical facilities were not set up and even snow clearance was not complete.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-jammu-and-kashmir-high-court-asks-sasb-to-decide-on-holding-amarnath-yatra-861750.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Chattisgarh govt hurriedly made appointments of Cong MLAs: B Agrawal||Senior BJP MLA in Chhattisgarh, Brijmohan Agrawal, on Wednesday took a dig at the ruling Congress in the state saying that it has "hurriedly' appointed its party legislators as parliamentary secretaries out of fear amid the political crisis in Rajasthan. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday appointed 15 Congress MLAs as parliamentary secretaries and assigned them to assist 12 cabinet ministers in the state. "There is a huge discontent among Congress legislators in the state. Therefore, the ruling party decided in a hurry to appoint parliamentary secretaries while it has also intensified the process to appoint chairpersons of corporations, commissions and boards in the state. All these developments are the impact of what happened in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan," Agrawal said. "Congress fears that what happened in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan may get replicated in Chhattisgarh," the former minister said. Replying to his statement, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijay Singh, who reached Raipur this evening, asked whether the BJP and Brijmohan Agrawal were conducting the auction of MLAs. When asked about political turmoil in Rajasthan, Singh said that he was not (the party's) in-charge for Rajasthan and hasn't been to Jaipur so he is unaware about it. In the 90-member state assembly, the Congress has 69 MLAs, while the BJP has 14. Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) have 4 and 2 members, respectively, in the assembly. Marwahi assembly seat is lying vacant after the death of former Chief Minister and JCC (J) MLA Ajit Jogi in May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chattisgarh-govt-hurriedly-made-appointments-of-cong-mlas-b-agrawal-861755.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||No talks held between Pilot, BJP: Shekhawat||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday said that no talk has been held between Sachin Pilot and the BJP, comments that came after rebel Congress leader noted that he would not be joining the saffron party. In a statement, Shekhawat said his remarks on Tuesday that it would be a matter of happiness if anybody with a mass base joins the BJP, should not be interpreted to suggest that the party has rolled out a carpet to welcome him. "I had said it is a matter of happiness if anybody with a mass base joins our ideological platform. Our state (Rajasthan) president and any other senior leader would have spoken with similar intentions. But this should not be interpreted to suggest that we are welcoming somebody with open arms or waiting for him eagerly by rolling out a carpet," he said. The senior BJP leader from Rajasthan also denied that his party leaders have held talks with Pilot. Shekhawat noted that the Congress leader has himself said that he was not in touch with anybody. The BJP leader also slammed Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and said people are waiting for his government's departure. Only time will tell how many days it is going to remain in power, he said. Gehlot's attack on Pilot on Wednesday makes it clear that he is working to remove him from the Congress, he said. Earlier in the day, Gehlot alleged that Pilot was involved in horse-trading with the BJP to topple his government. Pilot was removed from the posts of Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the state Congress president on Tuesday amid a tussle for power with Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-talks-held-between-pilot-bjp-shekhawat-861761.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi University to hold final year exams in August||The Delhi University will conduct the online open book examinations for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students from August 10 to August 31, it said on Wednesday. However, DU said, students unable to appear in the exams in August will get another chance. The varsity had informed the Delhi High Court last week that it has decided to postpone the Open Book Examinations (OBE), scheduled from July 10, for final year undergraduate courses to next month. In a notification issued on Wednesday, DU said it will conduct the examinations for the final semester/term/year students of all undergraduate and postgraduate courses, including in School of Open Learning and Non-Collegiate Women's Education Board, from August 10 onwards in the OBE mode remotely. The final datesheets for undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be available on the official website of the university by July 16 and July 22, respectively. "For those students who for any reason are not able to appear in the examinations in OBE mode remotely, the university has decided to conduct an additional phase of examinations in OBE mode through online/offline/blended mechanism," the notification said. This special dispensation is being made as a one-time measure for the convenience of such students who are unable to participate in the examination scheduled to begin from August 10, it said. The examinations will be conducted after about two weeks from the date of conclusion of the OBE mode tests. The students under the PWD category, including the visually impaired students who have appeared for the OBE remotely, and who wish to improve their grades will be given an opportunity in these examinations. The best marks secured by the PWD students based on these two examinations will be taken into consideration for the preparation of results. Mock tests will be held ahead of the scheduled final exams in two phases so that students can familiarise themselves with the exam system. The first phase will be held between July 27 and July 29, while the second phase from August 1 to August 4. The Delhi University had last month postponed the online open book exams for final-year students, which were scheduled to begin from July 1, by 10 days in view of the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-to-hold-final-year-exams-in-august-861765.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Toll plaza employee thrashed in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida, 2 arrested||An employee at a toll plaza on a national expressway in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar was allegedly thrashed by over half-a-dozen men angry about being asked to pay the tax, police said on Wednesday. An FIR has been lodged and two of the accused arrested for their involvement in the incident that took place on Tuesday at the toll plaza on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Greater Noida's Dadri area, they said.  A video of the violence that surfaced on social media purportedly shows seven men alighting from an SUV and walking towards the toll counter. They were soon joined by two men who came on a scooter, apparently travelling in the wrong direction on the other side of the highway. The men dragged a toll plaza staffer out on the road and thrashed him. Some landed slaps and elbows on his body while the others kicked the man when he fell on the ground, the video showed. As seen in the video, there were only three to four vehicles at the toll plaza at the time of the incident while a man who was already standing there fled from the spot upon seeing the violence, as did two other men who came on a two-wheeler but took a u-turn immediately. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Vishal Pandey said the police have filed an FIR of the incident and strict action will be taken against the culprits. "The incident took place over some dispute regarding the collection of toll tax from the accused by the plaza official. An FIR has been registered in the case and strict action will be taken against the guilty," he said. On Wednesday night, the district police said they have arrested two of the accused involved in the violence and also impounded the SUV and the scooter used by the men. Those held have been identified as Rahul and Akash Bhati, both residents of Dadri area, the police said.  The FIR was lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 147 (rioting), 323 (causing hurt), 427 (mischief), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), the police added. According to officials, the toll plaza employee was admitted at a local government hospital. The Eastern Peripheral Express also known as the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal Expressway is a 135-km-long six-lane road connecting Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. It passes through Gautam Buddh Nagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toll-plaza-employee-thrashed-in-uttar-pradeshs-greater-noida-2-arrested-861769.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||In just 15-days, Covid-19 deaths double in J&K; Govt bars hospitals from issuing coronavirus info to media||The Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc in Jammu and Kashmir in July as the deadly virus has claimed 108 lives in the Union Territory in the last fortnight. In the first 115 days (from March 8-June 30), 101 Covid-19 deaths were witnessed in J&K, that included 89 from Kashmir and 12 from Jammu. However, from 1 July to 15 July, 108 more deaths were recorded in the UT out of which 102 were reported from Kashmir and six from Jammu. The deaths more than doubling in just two weeks, reveals a high mortality of patients. While doctors believe that the rise in the number of deaths was reflective of the “actual number of cases” in the community, hospitals are grappling to accommodate moderately and critically sick COVID19 patients. On Wednesday J&K witnessed the second highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, with 493 persons testing positive for the deadly virus. The total number of cases reached 11,666. While 9221 cases are from Kashmir 2445 are from Jammu. The share of Kashmir in total positive cases is 78.62% while 21.37% are from Jammu, according to the official figures.  Medical experts in Kashmir believe that the actual number of Covid-19 deaths in the valley is higher than what is reported as many deaths go unreported because people deliberately don't go for testing. Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) President, Dr Nisar Ul Hassan said the official count of Covid-19 deaths in the valley is an understatement and only provides a snapshot of the actual death toll virus has taken. Meanwhile, the J&K administration has barred hospitals from issuing any Covid-19 related information to the media “to avoid confusion.”  An order issued by Financial Commissioner Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulooo, on Wednesday ordered healthcare institutions – SKIMS Soura, GMC Srinagar/Jammu, SKIMS Bemina and directorates of health in Jammu and Kashmir to desist from issuing information to media on “COVID19 related activities”. The reason for issuing this order, the document says, is to avoid confusion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-just-15-days-covid-19-deaths-double-in-jk-govt-bars-hospitals-from-issuing-coronavirus-info-to-media-861810.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Former UP minister Ghoora Ram dies from Covid-19||Former minister and Samajwadi party leader Ghoora Ram died of coronavirus early Thursday morning at the King George's Medical University in Lucknow, his family said. According to the SP leader's son Santosh Kumar, he was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday after he complained of a cough and difficulty in breathing. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, Kumar said, adding that his condition deteriorated in the evening. Ghoora Ram, confidant of BSP founder Kashi Ram, was elected from the Rasra (reserved) assembly seat in 1993, 2002 and 2007, and was also health minister in the Mayawati government. Recently, he had joined the Samajwadi Party and was made a member of the national working committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-up-minister-ghoora-ram-dies-from-covid-19-861838.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Man who invested Abu Salem and Khan Mubarak's money in Delhi-NCR nabbed: UP STF||A key aide of 1993 Mumbai blasts case convict Abu Salem who worked in his illegal property business in NCT of Delhi has been arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) of the Uttar Pradesh police, officials said on Thursday. Gajendra Singh, who was also close to gangster Khan Mubarak, was nabbed in Mumbai late Wednesday night by the Noida unit of the STF, they said. "Gajendra Singh had taken Rs 1.80 crore from a Delhi-based businessman in 2014 in a property-related case. When he was pressured to return the money, Singh had Khan Mubarak's shooters open fire at the businessman in sector 18 of Noida," Additional Superintendent of Police, STF, Raj Kumar Mishra said. The businessman was in his car when the attack took place, and he narrowly escaped, the officials said. Mishra said Singh had paid the shooters Rs 10 lakh, and the agency has cracked the money trail of the transaction. "Gajendra Singh also invested Abu Salem and Khan Mubarak's money into properties in Delhi-NCR," the officer added. Singh was wanted in a couple of cases registered at a police station in Noida where he has been lodged now for further proceedings, the STF said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-who-invested-abu-salem-and-khan-mubaraks-money-in-delhi-ncr-nabbed-up-stf-861839.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Are legislators vacationing in Haryana? Kapil Sibal takes a dig at Sachin Pilot||Taking a swipe at Sachin Pilot over his claim that he is not joining the BJP, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday asked what happens to his ‘ghar wapsi’ and whether Rajasthan's dissident legislators are vacationing in Haryana under the “watchful eye” of the saffron party. Pilot has been sacked by the party as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and PCC chief after he openly revolted against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. As speculation mounted about his next steps, Pilot said he is not joining the BJP. "False rumours spread to malign. Pilot: 'I am not joining BJP'. I guess then legislators at a hotel in Manesar is merely a vacation in Haryana's comfort zone under BJP's watchful eye. What about 'ghar wapsi'," Sibal asked on Twitter. Sibal had earlier said he was worried for the party and asked the party leadership if it will wake up after the horses have bolted. "Worried for our party. Will we wake up only after the horses have bolted from our stables," he had asked. Sibal's remarks about 'ghar wapsi' come after the Congress once again said the dissident MLAs can still return to the Congress fold. AICC general secretary for Rajasthan Avinash Pande and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala have urged Pilot and other dissident legislators to return to the Congress fold if they are not joining the BJP. The offer comes at the instance of Rahul Gandhi, who wants to give Pilot another chance, party insiders said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/are-legislators-vacationing-in-haryana-kapil-sibal-takes-a-dig-at-sachin-pilot-861847.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||SC seeks Centre, J&K admin reply on 4G network contempt plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought a response from the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration on a contempt plea alleging no special committee was formed to decide on the restoration of the 4G network, in terms of the top court's judgement, within the Union Territory. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai gave one weeks time to both the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration, for the purpose. Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, maintained that no contempt was made out as the special committee was formed to take a considered decision in the matter. He said the judgement was delivered on May 11 and the same date, the high-powered panel was formed for the continuance of 2G services only. Similar orders were passed afterwards even after filing of the contempt petition before the court. Venugopal said the minutes of the meetings would be out before the court which disclosed the startling situation, showing a high incidence of terror attacks in Jammu and Kashmir. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Jammu and Kashmir administration, supported the submission made by Venugopal. The bench, however, asked him why the decision was not made public. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for NGO Foundation for Media Professionals, said they were not responding to our representations for making public those decisions on reviewing the situation on restoring 4G network. He also claimed that the people over there continued to suffer with online classes and medical facilities being seriously affected, which was in violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. The plea filed in the court sought contempt action against top officers for "willful failure" to comply with June 8 order for setting up a special committee “immediately" to determine the necessity of continued restriction of mobile internet speeds in Jammu and Kashmir to 2G only.  The petition sought action against Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs and Chief Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir also for violating the judgement on May 11, 2020. The contempt petition was drafted with assistance by advocates Vrinda Bhandari and Apar Gupta and Devdutta Mukhopadhaya of the Internet Freedom Foundation. They pointed out the special committee, separate from the review committee, prescribed under the Telecom Suspension Rules, had to consider the alternatives and determine whether 3G or 4G internet could be provided to certain regions in Jammu and Kashmir on a trial basis. "Despite the directions of the court, no such committee seems to have been constituted, and no order has been published by them, reviewing the orders on continued 2G restrictions," the plea said.  The FMP claimed that it had sent two representations but it did not receive any response or acknowledgement. The petitioner also filed a separate application for bringing on record subsequent orders issued by the Jammu and Kashmir administration under the Temporary Telecom Suspension Rules 2017 after the Supreme Court delivered its judgement on May 11, 2020.  "Even after the Supreme Court's clarification that restrictions on internet access must be temporally and territorially limited to what is absolutely necessary, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has directed internet service providers to slow down mobile internet speed to 2G in all districts without providing any specific reasons," it said.  The petitioner also questioned the government's assertion that internet speed restrictions have not hindered Covid-19 control measures and access to online resources. Besides, it said, "Restoration of 4G internet services is a broad-based demand which has been endorsed by Ram Madhav, National General Secretary of BJP as well, and a statement by Amit Shah, Minister of Home Affairs about Jammu and Kashmir experiencing lowest incidents of terrorism since 1990 after the abrogation of Article 370." The petitioner sought a direction to notify the special committee within three working days and for the special committee to determine the issue in three working days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-seeks-centre-jk-admin-reply-on-4g-network-contempt-plea-861848.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi flays assault on Dalits in Madhya Pradesh's Guna||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday condemned the attack on Dalits by policemen in Madhya Pradesh's Guna district, saying "our fight is against this injustice". A purported video of the incident on social media showed the police hitting a Dalit man mercilessly with batons and his wife and others trying to save him. Sharing the video of the assault on Twitter, Gandhi said, "Our fight is against this mindset and injustice". Officials had said that a Dalit couple, who were being removed from a plot of government land allotted for a college in Guna city, consumed pesticide in protest on Tuesday. "The (farm) land was reserved for a government model college. Rajkumar Ahirwar (38) and his wife Savitri (35) were working on the land. Gabbu Pardi, who had encroached on the land, had given them work," District Collector S Vishwanathan had said. When officials asked them to vacate the field, they protested and drank pesticide at the behest of those who had encroached on the land, he had claimed. The two also refused to go to hospital so the police had to use force to take them to hospital, the collector had claimed. Taking serious view of the incident, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had ordered transfer of the collector and Superintendent of Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-flays-assault-on-dalits-in-madhya-pradeshs-guna-861859.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Shooting's national camp to resume from August 1, attendance compulsory||The Olympic core group of 34 Indian shooters will return to camp training from August 1, the National Rifles Association of India (NRAI) announced on Thursday, making attendance compulsory as it aims for a "cautious and phased recommencement of activities from next month". In a detailed statement, the NRAI said the decision to restart training was taken at a meeting of its Governing Body, after carefully weighing the Covid-19 threat. The camp will be organised at the Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range (DKSSR) in the national capital, which has recorded over 1 lakh positive cases. The NRAI has appointed High-Performance Manager and former India shooter Ronak Pandit as the Nodal Officer in charge of overall co-ordination for hygiene and medical protocols of the camp. "Attendance shall be compulsory for this camp as the unprecedented circumstances found globally with the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic dictates, that NRAI's options at being accommodating are virtually zero," the body said in a statement. "Therefore, currently the option of choice and personal interests, must necessarily, be put on the back-burner by all in the national interest, it was decided," it added. The Karni Singh range was reopened for use on July 8. the shooters have been training at their respective bases ever since the pandemic forced a closure of facilities. "...utmost and most meticulous planning needs to be placed above all in the very strictest and most sterile conditions that we must now assure," NRAI President Raninder Singh said. "The health and safety of the players and coaches being paramount, we cannot afford any loose ends. NRAI can today say that it is fully prepared to resume a cautious and phased recommencement of National Shooting activities from next month," he added. A total of 15 Indian shooters have qualified for the Olympic Games, postponed to next year due to the raging pandemic. The Manav Rachna University campus, which is an International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF) training academy and located close to the DKSSR, will house the core group, coaches and its support staff during the camp. NRAI would also arrange transport to and from the venue. Pandit's responsibility will be to ensure that all necessary safety precautions and guidelines related to Covid-19 are followed and implemented by all those involved in the camp. "...the NRAI shall be issuing its own and additional protocols that shall be strictly implemented in addition to those issued by SAI India, and naturally shall also be adhered to," the governing body's statement read. All the campers -- athletes, officials, coaches and support staff -- will be segregated and kept under the "strictest of quarantine-type conditions". They will be be required to submit a "valid and recent Covid-19 test result from their home locations and only then shall they be permitted to join the camp". The NRAI Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) manual will be released a week before the start of the camp. The NRAI is also planning to start segregated camps for its core group of athletes, both in the senior and junior categories. "This is a very important necessity as a year has been lost effectively and 2022 shall see qualifications coming for the Paris Olympiad and the NRAI cannot ignore the preparations of its bench strength to go out then and maximise the quotas for Paris." The NRAI is also working on organising "bilateral engagements for its Olympic squad" subject to approval of the government and the Sports Authority of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shootings-national-camp-to-resume-from-august-1-attendance-compulsory-861876.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Only 20 persons allowed at weddings, funerals in Indore||In an attempt to contain the spread of Covid-19, the district administration in Indore has prohibited the gathering of more than 20 people at weddings and funerals, an official said on Thursday. As per an order issued by district collector Manish Singh, which is effective immediately, not more than 20 people can take part in weddings and funeral processions. Similarly, not more than 10 people can attend home weddings and birthday celebrations, the official said, adding that religious functions and public ceremonies have been banned in the run-up to the festive season. Meanwhile, at least 136 persons tested positive for coronavirus in Indore in the last 24 hours, taking the tally here to 5,632, chief medical and health officer Praveen Jadia said. While 280 persons have died in the district so far, 4,087 have recovered from the deadly infection, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-only-20-persons-allowed-at-weddings-funerals-in-indore-861890.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||SC dismisses plea against TN CM for defending accused in custodial death case||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a plea to restrain the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister from holding the home portfolio till completion of investigation and trial in Sathankulam twin custodial death case.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna declined to consider the petition filed by advocate A Rajarajan. The petitioner also sought a direction to investigate the role of the Chief Minister in screening and safeguarding the accused police persons at the initial stage by giving an open press statement on June 24.  He claimed prima facie it appeared that Chief Minister E K Palaniswamy, acting in contrary to law and acting in derogation to the constitutional post he held, indulged in saving the persons accused of custodial torture which resulted in a twin death. On June 22, 2020, at around 9 pm, a person namely Bennicks, aged around 31 years, died in Kovilpatti Government Hospital and on next date, at around 5.40 am victim's father Jeyaraj, aged around 63 years, also died in the same hospital. Family members of the deceased persons alleged that the victims were subjected to severe physical torture by the police personnel belonging to Sathankulam police station in Tuticorin before remanding them in a criminal case. The CBCID had arrested five police personnel on July 2. The CM, however, gave a public statement in the press meet that the deceased persons had died due to illness and thereby ruled out foul play. The statement was "highly improper, condemnable and contrary to law" because the investigation was still pending. The petitioner claimed the purpose of his statement was to "safeguard the accused persons and prevent any adverse remark about his government since the accused police personnel were coming under the ministry held by the chief minister. "The chief minister may also be charged under provisions of IPC offences since he was actively involved in screening and safeguarding the accused persons involved in Section 302 IPC by using his official capacity. A free and fair investigation is not at all possible under his administrative leadership," the petitioner claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-dismisses-plea-against-tn-cm-for-defending-accused-in-custodial-death-case-861896.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court seeks Air India’s reply on pilot’s plea to accept request to withdraw resignation||The Delhi High Court has sought response of Air India on a plea by one of its pilots, who has flown several evacuations and relief flights to different countries during the Covid-19 pandemic, seeking direction to the carrier to accept his request for withdrawing his resignation. The petitioner, who was serving as a Pilot Commander, had tendered his resignation on February 6 this year due to non-payment of certain allowances and arrears and gave a notice period of six months under the Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR). However, soon after, he withdrew his resignation on March 19. He approached the court saying that no decision has been taken by the employer on the application withdrawing the resignation tendered earlier, despite the passage of several months. He sought a direction to Air India Ltd to accept the request for withdrawal and permit him to continue beyond August 6. Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to Air India and directed it to file its response within 10 days and listed the matter for further hearing on August 4. The counsel for the pilot submitted it is settled law that an employee can withdraw the resignation tendered by him before it takes effect. Under CAR, the mandatory requirement is to give a six months’ notice, if a pilot desires to resign. Petitioner had given six months’ notice, but before the resignation takes effect and the period expires, he has withdrawn the same, the counsel said. He added that till now the authorities have not taken any steps to find a replacement or substitute pilot to replace the petitioner. In fact, the crew daily roster would show that the petitioner has flown several evacuation and relief flights to different countries during the Covid-19 pandemic and as recently as on July 13, he was on duty, the counsel said. The advocate representing Air India submitted that the petition is premature as so far no decision has been taken on the request of the pilot to withdraw his resignation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-seeks-air-india-s-reply-on-pilot-s-plea-to-accept-request-to-withdraw-resignation-861901.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Mayawati asks govt to take action against those involved in assault of Dalits in Guna||BSP president Mayawati on Thursday termed as "cruel and shameful" the attack on Dalits in Madhya Pradesh, saying incidents of Dalits being "uprooted" under the BJP regime are as common as during the Congress rule. A purported video of the incident on social media showed the police hitting a Dalit man mercilessly with batons and his wife and others trying to save him. Officials had said that a Dalit couple, who were being removed from a plot of government land allotted for a college in Guna city, consumed pesticide in protest on Tuesday. In a tweet, the BSP supremo said, "To force a couple to attempt suicide by damaging their crop sown by taking debt with the help of JCB machine, in the name of encroachment, is most cruel and shameful. Nationwide condemnation of the incident is natural. Government should take strict action." "On the one hand, the BJP and its government blows its trumpet on settling Dalits, while on the other hand, incidents of uprooting them are as common as they were during the Congress rule, then what is the difference between the two. Dalits should specially think about this," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said. Officials in Madhya Pradesh had said the (farm) land was reserved for a government model college. Rajkumar Ahirwar (38) and his wife Savitri (35) were working on the land. When officials asked them to vacate the field, they protested and drank pesticide at the behest of those who had encroached on the land, they claimed. The two also refused to go to hospital so the police had to use force to take them to hospital, they claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-asks-govt-to-take-action-against-those-involved-in-assault-of-dalits-in-guna-861914.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Police brutality in Jyotiraditya Scindia's bastion triggers row||Police brutality against a Dalit couple that consumed poison to protest forcible eviction from their land in Guna district has snowballed into a massive political row in the run up to by elections for 25 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh. A video showing police brutally beating up a Dalit family and their kids crying as their parents lay on the ground after drinking poison, went viral on Wednesday. The video shows cops raining lathis on the couple and a policewoman kicking them. In the melee, two of them drank poison and fell down on the ground, and their children sat wailing beside them. The nationwide outrage triggered by the video forced chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to order a high-level probe into “the unfortunate incident” and remove the Guna district collector and the superintendent of police. However, the Congress is not satisfied with the government action. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday condemned the attack, saying "our fight is against this injustice". Former chief minister Kamal Nath has indicated that the police brutality could be a major election plank in the forthcoming by elections. Significantly, the Guna district where the incident happened, is considered Jyotiraditya Scindia’s area of political influence . He has represented the Guna Lok Sabha seat four times and lost to BJP candidate in the 2019 election. Out of the 25 seats, which are slated to go to polls in September, 17 are in Gwalior-Chambal region of which Guna is a part. Scheduled castes and scheduled tribes account for over 40% of the total votes in the region. The incident of police brutality, which occurred on Tuesday, might have gone unnoticed had it not been shot on video and gone viral.  Guna SP Tarun Nayak had earlier denied that force was used. “Only when some people obstructed police from taking the duo to hospital that police used force. Our priority was to protect the lives of those who had taken poison. They are out of danger now, only because they were brought to hospital.” The Guna district administration sought to pass the incident off as “action against land mafia”. According to the district administration, Rajkumar Ahirwar and his wife had taken poison after being “instigated by some people”. The 45-bigha government land in Jaganpur Chak was allotted to a set up a college but was encroached upon by ‘land mafia’ Gappu Pardhi, said a government tweet. He had ‘rented’ it out to Rajkumar Ahirwar, who was farming on it. On Tuesday, when revenue officials and police went to clear the encroachment, the Dalit family opposed the eviction, saying they had finished sowing the farm after taking loans from locals, according to government’s version. However, after the video went viral triggering nationwide outrage, the chief minister decided to punish the Guna collector S Vishwanathan and SP Tarun Nayak . They were removed in an order on Wednesday night. BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia also called the incident unfortunate. He spoke to Shivraj Singh Chouhan and called for strong action against the insensitive officers. Home minister Narottam Mishra said, “A team of senior officials has been sent to Guna to probe the circumstances under which the incident took place, who is responsible for it and what action should be taken against them."  After the video went viral, former CM Kamal Nath tweeted: “Where is the Shivraj government taking this state? How can innocent children be beaten up so mercilessly? If there’s any dispute on the land, it can be solved through legal means, not by taking the law in one’s hand and beating up a family, children and their relatives. Were they beaten up because they were Dalits and poor farmers?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-brutality-in-jyotiraditya-scindias-bastion-triggers-row-861936.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Gang rape victim, mother 'crushed to death' by one of the accused||In a shocking incident, a gang-rape victim and her mother were 'crushed to death' under a tractor driven allegedly by one of the accused in Uttar Pradesh's Kasganj district, about 400 kilometres from here. According to the police sources here, the victim and her mother, residents of Amapur area in the district, were returning home from the market, when the accused, identified as Yashveer Rajput, crushed them under the tractor he was driving. Both the victim and her mother died on the spot, sources said adding that the residents of the area blocked traffic on the Etah-Shavar road in protest against the incident and demanded the arrest of the culprit, who managed to escape from thereafter perpetrating the crime. Police had a tough time getting the blockade lifted. Police said that the families of the victim and Yashveer had an old enmity. Yashveer's father had allegedly been killed by the family members of the victim around four years back. Two members of the victim's family were arrested and were in jail currently. A few months back a case of kidnapping and gang rape had been lodged by the victim's mother against Yashveer and his two friends. They were arrested but were later released on bail.  Seething with rage, Yashveer perpetrated the crime on Wednesday apparently to take revenge for his father's killing and to avoid prosecution in the gang-rape case. A hunt was launched to nab the culprits, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gang-rape-victim-mother-crushed-to-death-by-one-of-the-accused-861968.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi court grants bail to 92 Indonesians||Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur granted the relief to the foreigners on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each. The accused will file their plea bargaining applications on Friday, said advocates Ashima Mandla, Mandakini Singh and Fahim Khan, appearing for them. Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence, praying for a lesser punishment. The Criminal Procedure of Code allows for plea bargaining in cases where the maximum punishment is seven-year imprisonment; offences don't affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and the offence is not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years. These foreigners had attended the event in March, following which in April Covid-19 cases across the country spiked after hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event, tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-92-indonesians-861984.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||J&K administration recovers Rs 39.69 lakh from senior IAS officer he acquired illegally: Sources||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has recovered Rs 39.69 lakh from a senior IAS officer he allegedly took from an organisation and recommended a probe into his alleged “illegal” monetary benefits, sources said on Thursday. The Lt Governor administration put a notice to the senior IAS officer for allegedly getting illegal monetary benefits from the organisation and asked him to remit the amount worth several lakhs to it, they said. The officer remitted an amount of Rs 39,69,359 back to the organisation recently, the sources said. The officer further submitted that Rs 20,86,120 has been deducted as TDS and deposited with the Income Tax department, they added. A senior officer of the administration has recommended a probe against the IAS officer as per the government rules before imposing any penalty, the sources said. He has also recommended issuance of warning letter to the officer and closure of the case without informing the matter to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), they said However, Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu has refused to close the case before a probe by the DoPT, the sources said. The Lt Governor administration has taken a serious note for “hiding” the issue from the DoPT and instructed for ordering a probe into it. Earlier in June, the administration had written to the DoPT to take action against an IAS officer who allegedly tried to prevent the Amarnath Shrine Board officials from undertaking "pratham pooja" (first prayer) for Amarnath yatra. This was for the first time in many years that the Jammu and Kashmir administration has made a complaint to the DoPT against a bureaucrat, sources had said then. The sources said that the Jammu and Kashmir administration is yet to receive any formal reply on action taken by the DoPT over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-administration-recovers-rs-3969-lakh-from-senior-ias-officer-he-acquired-illegally-sources-862000.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots were planned and targeted, there was deliberate inaction by police: Report||It also said the violence started immediately after BJP leader Kapil Mishra in which he openly called for forcefully removing the anti-CAA protesters at Jafrabad but the police failed to take the "first and foremost immediate preventive step" needed to avoid violence by arresting him. Delhi Police did not respond to the committee's notices. At least 55 people were killed in the riots in north-east Delhi between February 23 and 26.  According to the report, different groups, mobs quickly fanned out to local areas after Mishra's speech carrying weapons and arms like petrol bombs, iron rods, gas cylinders, stones and firearms.  "Despite the open display of weapons and firearms, sufficient actions were not taken by the district administration or police to protect life and property," the report by the ten-member committee headed by senior Supreme Court lawyer M R Shamshad said. It said that violence followed an "organised and systematic pattern" as mobs chanted pro-Hindutva slogans and "selectively attacked" Muslims, houses, shops, vehicles, mosques and other property. Victims told the panel that they could identify locals as well as outsiders among the perpetrators and some of them even made their way into their localities prior to the violence. "The perpetrators positioned themselves strategically in the residential areas. This points to no 'spontaneity' as in the case of a riot. The testimonies reveal that the violence was planned and targeted," it said adding, in response Muslim youths pelted stones on the mobs in some places to "defend community and family members". "Barring one incident, there have not been reports of Muslims being armed with weapons other than stones," it said.  Quoting testimonies, the report said police did not act even as violence unfolded and refused to intervene when approached citing that they do not have orders to do so. "This suggests that the failure to prevent violence was not due to individual or sporadic breaches, but was a pattern of deliberate inaction over several days," it said. The report accused the police of not enforcing prohibitory orders and did not exercise powers to disperse unlawful assemblies or to take measures to apprehend, arrest and detain those perpetrating violence. "Police were also complicit and abetted attacks. Where police did act, victims state that police stopped their colleagues when they attempted to disperse the crowd (do not stop them). In some cases, they merely stood as onlookers while the mobs engaged in violence. In others, they explicitly gave a go ahead to the perpetrators to continue with rampage (do what you want)," it said. The report also said that Muslim women faced attacks on the basis of their religion and their hijabs and burqas were pulled off. "While the slogans of 'Azadi' (a cry for freedom from the discriminatory laws and practices) were used by the protesters, the police used the same chants of 'Azadi' to sexually harass women and attack them, including at least one incident of a police officer flashing his genitals in front of women protesters," it said. (ENDS)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-were-planned-and-targeted-there-was-deliberate-inaction-by-police-report-862032.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Kamal Nath to become Leader of the Opposition in Madhya Pradesh Assembly||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath is set to become the Leader of the Opposition (LoP) when the monsoon session of the state Assembly begins from July 20. "We have sent a letter to the Assembly secretariat stating that our leader in the House is going to be Nath," said Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta on Thursday. Nath was elected as leader of the Congress Legislative Party after the 2018 elections when the party came to power in the state, Gupta said. Nath had to resign as chief minister in March this year after the Congress government lost majority with the exit of 22 MLAs who joined the BJP along with senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia. With 91 MLAs, the Congress would be the main opposition party in the house. Assembly principal secretary A P Singh said he had learnt about the letter sent by the Congress. "I have not received it yet. It might be with our Dak (postal) section right now," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kamal-nath-to-become-leader-of-the-opposition-in-madhya-pradesh-assembly-862071.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Committee set up on restoration of 4G service, no contempt made: Centre, Jammu and Kashmir to Supreme Court||The Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration told the Supreme Court on Thursday that a special committee has been set up as per the court's directive to consider the issue of restoration of 4G internet services in the Union Territory. Attorney General K K Venugopal, while claiming that incidents of terrorism are on the rise there, told a bench headed by Justice N V Ramana that no contempt is made out against the authorities as they have complied with the directives of the apex court. On May 11, the top court had ordered setting up of a "special committee" headed by the Union Home Secretary to consider pleas for restoration of 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, saying national security and human rights need to be balanced in view of the fact that the UT has been "plagued with militancy". High-speed internet in Jammu and Kashmir has been suspended since August last year when the Centre had announced the revocation of its special status and bifurcation of the state into two UTs -- Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. During the hearing on Thursday, the bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and B R Gavai, asked the Centre and the Jammu and Kashmir administration to file affidavits within a week detailing the setting up of the committee and also decisions are taken by it in reviewing the orders restricting 4G internet services there. "Attorney General for India undertakes to file reply affidavit to the contempt petition within a week's time. He is permitted to do so. List the matters after one week,” the bench said in its order. The apex court was hearing a plea seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the Union Home Secretary and Chief Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir for their alleged "wilful disobedience" in complying with the court's May 11 order. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for the petitioner, claimed that the order has not been complied with and the authorities were not responding to the representations filed against the suspension of 4G internet services. He said since orders passed by the authorities are not being published, nobody can challenge them before the court. To this, the bench observed the orders passed by the committee should be put in the public domain. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, said that orders suspending 4G internet services have been passed after due application of mind. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Jammu and Kashmir administration, also told the bench that the special committee has already been set up. Ahmadi told the apex court that the absence of 4G internet speed has affected the people there, including in online classes for students, medical facilities, e-commerce and online shopping. Referring to an earlier statement of the Union Home Minister, Ahmadi argued he had said that terrorism is at the lowest since 1990 in Kashmir. The contempt plea, filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, has alleged that the concerned authorities have not yet constituted the special committee in line with the top court's order. It has alleged that authorities were duty-bound to implement the court's direction but they have failed to notify and facilitate the functioning of the special committee. "The directions of this court have been summarily ignored and the Respondents have wilfully disobeyed their duty to implement this court's directions, which they were bound to and had undertaken to implement, and therefore must be held in contempt of this court," the plea claimed. It has also urged the apex court to summon the Union Home Secretary and Chief Secretary of UT of Jammu and Kashmir to explain their position with respect to the alleged non-compliance of the court's directions. It said that Jammu and Kashmir administration had on May 27 passed an order continuing the restriction on mobile internet speeds to 2G in all districts throughout the UT without any restriction by time or region. It said the petitioner had sent a representation to the special committee regarding the May 27 order but they have not yet received any acknowledgement of its receipt. Besides the contempt plea, the petitioner has also filed an application seeking directions to the authorities to notify the constitution of the special committee within three working days. The application has sought an interim direction to the authority to restore 4G mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, pending disposal of the plea and also the decision by the special committee. The court had earlier taken note of the submissions of the Centre that continuous infiltration, foreign influence, violent extremism and issues of national integrity are prevalent in Jammu and Kashmir. The apex court's the May 11 order had come on the pleas filed by Foundation for Media Professionals and others seeking restoration of 4G services in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/committee-set-up-on-restoration-of-4g-service-no-contempt-made-centre-jammu-and-kashmir-to-supreme-court-862079.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||History-sheeter killed, cop injured in shootout in UP's Meerut||A gangster was killed in a gunfight with the police in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut district, in which a sub-inspector too was injured, officials said on Thursday. Deepak Siddhu, who was one of the most wanted criminals of Meerut and carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, was gunned down on Wednesday night, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Ajay Kumar Sahani said. The police were alerted about some loot by locals near Lohargarh flyover in Sardhana area of the district around 9.30 pm. When officials reached the spot it turned out there were two people, including Siddhu, on a motorcycle but when they were asked to stop, they opened fire on the police personnel, he said. "In the retaliatory fire, Siddhu was injured while his accomplice managed to flee. A sub-inspector also got injured in the cross-firing. They were both taken to a community health centre and then referred to the district hospital, where Siddhu died during treatment," Sahani told reporters. The SSP said Siddhu was a notorious criminal figuring within top 10 in Meerut and the police in various districts of the western Uttar Pradesh were on the lookout for him. "He had more than one-and-a-half dozen cases, including those of loot, murder and dacoity, registered against him," the police officer said, adding, he was also booked under the Gangsters Act as well as the Arms Act, even as there were some cases lodged against him in Haryana also. Siddhu, who worked for gangster Yogesh Bhadoda, was involved in the abduction and killing of a man named Vijay Tyagi in Sardhana in 2014 and was wanted in the recent murder of Ankur Bharadwaj too, he said. The police said they have recovered two illegal firearms from Siddhu's possession and further investigation was underway. Sub-inspector Anuj Malik who was injured in the shootout is still under treatment at the district hospital, the police said. The police said a search is on for Siddhu’s absconding accomplice and combing operation has been launched in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/history-sheeter-killed-cop-injured-in-shootout-in-ups-meerut-862098.html
16-07-2020||North and Central||Child rights body rescues children working in service centre, eateries in Delhi||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) rescued five child labourers from Okhla, an official statement said on Thursday. A team of the DCPCR headed by its member Roop Sudesh Vimal on Wednesday found three children working at a bike service centre, one at an eatery and one at a sweet shop in the city, it said. The children were not wearing masks and were found working in unhygienic conditions. Anurag Kundu, the chairman of the DCPCR, said this rescue operation is indicative of the commission's deep commitment to free Delhi from the menace of child labour. They were rescued by the team successfully and provided with masks and sanitisers, the statement said. It said the commission conducted the rescue operation in close coordination with the Kalkaji sub-divisional magistrate, the Okhla station house officer, the chief district medical officer (CDMO) and Childline and Mission Mukti Foundation. Raids were also conducted in a few factories suspected to be having child labourers working in their premises. "These rescues are merely beginning of a comprehensive, coordinated and concerted strategy to make Delhi child labour free by 2023," Kundu said. The rescued children underwent a medical examination by the CDMO. They were produced before a Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and would be placed in a child care institution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/child-rights-body-rescues-children-working-in-service-centre-eateries-in-delhi-862137.html
16-07-2020||Oasis||That’s a wrap on gift-wrapping||We humans have an inherent love for things that come in pretty packages. The rolls of shiny gift-wrapper beside checkout counters dazzle us all. One can see the merit of packaging and repackaging more than just gifts. Many times, based on the intended audience, our stories too, need to be framed and arranged. Making the greatest impact often requires strategic storytelling. Sometimes, this impulse to repackage turns inward. We tend to present the most acceptable and likable parts of ourselves to the world. We even come before god this way – presenting pieces of ourselves in neat little boxes. Presenting our greatest merits, the strength of our faith or the steadfastness of our hope, making our best case. C S Lewis once wrote, “god doesn’t want something from us, He simply wants us.” Truth is, there is no need for repackaging. Before god, complete vulnerability equals freedom. His deep love is not limited to our best traits, but equally extends to the inconvenient, difficult-to-digest, impractical and inexpressible. When we present these undesirable, hidden parts of ourselves before a god who loves us wholly, shame ends in that moment, and living as a new creation begins. For new life, endless love and unconditional acceptance are at the heart of Christ’s gospel. Our very beings have been knit together by a god who looks beyond appearances and straight into the heart. Nothing can really be hidden. Yet, even in the light of an all-knowing creator, making the choice to be uninhibited before him demonstrates our heartfelt trust in who we believe he is–a good father who is kind, compassionate, and loving beyond measure, through our failures and misgivings. As the psalmist writes, the Lord truly is close to all who call on him in truth. We must, therefore, approach the throne of grace with confidence, with our defences down, and our hearts true. Because despite its shimmering beauty, here’s the thing about all gift-wrapping: no matter how pretty the paper, no matter how impressive the outside, it must always be torn off and kept aside in order to reveal and revel in the beauty of the gift within.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/that-s-a-wrap-on-gift-wrapping-862166.html
16-07-2020||Opinion||The rise of ‘emocracy’, and the death of debate||We are living in a peculiarly paradoxical age. A time when it has never been easier to have access to free speech, and yet, simultaneously, a time when it has never been easier to be abused, sidelined, and “cancelled” for speaking one’s mind. British historian Niall Ferguson has diagnosed today’s paradox by identifying the rise of the “emocracy” – a culture where “feelings matter more than reason”. Ostensibly democratic, but lacking purposeful dialogue, discourse, and debate, the modern public sphere has come to be shaped by three phenomena that are fast eroding the bases of civil conversations, mass engagement, and the intellectual playground of ideas. The first of these phenomena is the rapid intrusion of political correctness into the main forums of discussion, chiefly the portals of social media. Originally meant to increase sensitivity and create awareness about unconscious bias, political correctness has now devolved into a toxic brand of ideological convenience where offence and outrage reign supreme. Take for example, the case of J K Rowling, who was recently ripped to shreds by the guardians of online morality for voicing controversial statements about sexual identity and menstruation. There is little doubt that Rowling’s observations were ignorant and insensitive, but instead of catalysing a broader conversation around biological sex – is it a binary or a continuum? – the residents of the ‘emocracy’ went all guns blazing in shaming Rowling publicly, and, of course, promising to dissociate from their previously unbridled Harry Potter fandom. The biggest problem with political correctness and its concomitant brand of moral policing is that it engenders an attitude where individuals start taking offence on behalf of groups. Not only does this practice go against the basic notions of classical liberalism – where personal identity trumps groupthink – it also encourages a deeply patronising behaviour that is rooted in the misconception that those who choose to be offended have attained a normative zenith from where they can be appropriate adjudicators of what constitutes right and wrong, what can be excused as clumsy and what must be expunged as atrocious. The second ingredient of the ‘emocracy’ is the polarisation of society into distinct silos and compartments. In the Indian context, this would mean being branded as either a “sickular” or a “bhakt”, something that manifests itself in its crudest version on the comments section of virtual platforms like Facebook and Twitter. In the “real world”, if you happen to be a distinguished political spokesman like Sanjay Jha, you get removed from the Indian National Congress simply for suggesting a framework to revitalise the party, for any form of dissent is out of bounds. The underpinning of polarisation revolves around the false choice of ‘us versus them’ – the misplaced view that people can be categorised into “good” and “bad” and that there is no need to actively invite opinions from the other side. This paves the way for social interactions in which confirmation bias dictates what is said or not said, as the insistence on stamping out diametrically opposite views leads to the silent murder of the freedom of speech. Today’s polarised polity has forgotten that the freedom to speak is a freedom we uphold not only when we hear echoes of our own stances, but also (more importantly) when we listen to that which we find unacceptable, repellant, or both. Clamping down on “inappropriate” content – be it in the realm of politics, arts, or other forms of civic participation – ensures a double violation, as enunciated in John Stuart Mill’s iconic essay, On Liberty. Not only do we trample upon the hard-earned right of the speaker to say what they want, but we also deprive a potential audience from being exposed to the concerned content. Such exposure is crucial to provoke us into asking why we know what we know. But in an ‘emocracy’, any challenge to our calibrated knowledge is received with indignation and seen as a licence to unleash ad hominem insults that appeal solely to emotions instead of furthering the intellect. The third, and perhaps most pernicious, constituent of the ‘emocracy’ is the inexorable trend of cancel culture, wherein individuals and institutions are removed and isolated from civil society because they have been pronounced as inexcusable transgressors of the contemporary zeitgeist. Evident in the “statue activism” across the world to the resignation of company chiefs on account of “misguided” opinions shared decades ago to the call for modern thinkers (like Steven Pinker) and renowned philosophers (like Alexis de Tocqueville) to be airbrushed from the annals of intellectual activity, cancel culture is everywhere. But even as we proceed to cancel people by precluding any reasonable appreciation of complexity, subtlety, and historicity, we fail to ask the most pertinent question: What happens to those that get cancelled? In the case of historical figures like Winston Churchill or George Washington, their ambivalent legacies are reduced to monolithic impressions that see them either as unparalleled patriots (for those blindly supporting them) or glorified racists (for the cancel brigade), without arriving at the middle ground of a comprehensive analysis. In the case of individuals living amidst us, cancelling them merely amplifies their position as outliers, exacerbating self-loathing (among the disgruntled), apathetic indifference (among the defiant) and the impossibility of rehabilitation (among those who breed genuinely dangerous ideas, such as the denial of the holocaust or homosexuality). By cancelling others for things they had done years, decades, and sometimes centuries ago, an ‘emocracy’ retroactively imposes moral standards that have themselves evolved across time. Such an imposition pays no heed to context, argumentation, or the possibility of alteration. The slippery slope of cancel culture means that once we set off on it, there is potentially no stopping. Should we also proceed to cancel Immanuel Kant because he may have disparagingly used the n-word in his polemics? Should we also cancel Mahatma Gandhi because some of his utterances display racial insensitivity, in the early part of his South Africa stint? Since the overwhelming assumption is that everyone is accountable for everything at everytime, should we, eventually, cancel each other because all of us have, at some time or another, said or done something problematic? It is undeniable that there are people who deserve to be called out for misusing their privilege or position, but where is the threshold that separates sloppiness from malice and ignorance from evil? Where is the nuance that locates the intricate axis of the moral spectrum instead of falling prey to a sanctimonious, know-it-all reductionism? Transforming or reversing one’s ideas, beliefs, and opinions across time does not make one a hypocrite, it simply makes one human. That is precisely the message that some of the world’s leading intellectuals – including Noam Chomsky, Salman Rushdie, and Margaret Atwood – sought to impart in an open letter published in Harper’s Magazine on July 7, which denounced a “vogue for public shaming and ostracism” and the stifling of debate on the basis of a “blinding moral certainty”. Feelings and emotions, as vital as they are to our identities, cannot be the be all and end all of the public sphere. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture, and sport. He is also a published poet who can be found sampling new cuisines, debating and cheering for FC Barcelona when he's not writing) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-rise-of-emocracy-and-the-death-of-debate-861930.html
16-07-2020||Opinion||Think through rail privatisation||In all this tumult about Covid-19, one almost missed a major announcement -- the privatisation of Indian Railways. In its 167-year history, this is possibly the first time Railways has come this far on the route to privatisation. True, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), a Railways subsidiary, had introduced the Lucknow-Delhi Tejas Express last year and currently operates two other trains, but the recent announcement targets private players, not Indian Railways’ subsidiaries Railways has invited ‘Request for Qualifications’ from private entities to operate train services on existing rail infrastructure. Train operations are for 109 origin–destination (OD) pairs of routes using 151 modern trains in 12 clusters and 5% of the Railway’s Mail and Express services. They have to bring in investment in new-generation trains and compete with existing train operations -- requirements set by an Indian Railways known for creaking infrastructure, over­run stations, habitual delays and inability to support India’s traveling population. Undoubtedly, privatisation will be a structural change for Railways. With a route length of 67,415 kilometers, one of the world’s four largest rail networks, it is now facing acute competition, with passengers and freight shifting to other modes of travel. With a steady growth of road infrastructure, Railways’ share will decline steadily in the future. From a passenger perspective, there is a need for more train services, particularly between big cities, with the Railway Board claiming that 50 million passengers could not be accommodated during 2019-20 for want of capacity, with a 13.3% travel demand in excess of supply during summer and festival seasons.   Private sector investment is indeed welcome. Even before Covid-19 came into the picture, earnings from both passenger fares and cargo were way behind budget projections. Now, due to the lockdown, Railways will end this fiscal year with a whopping deficit. Its Operations Ratio is under severe stress, its biggest expenditure being on pensions, salaries and on getting stations cleaned, with outsourcing of cleaning operations necessitating huge expenditure, requiring  further budgetary allocation to cover operating costs. This is apart from capital expenditure requirements for track renewal, electrification and ongoing projects. But why should passengers, who have by now got used to traveling by aircraft and air-conditioned buses travel by a privately run train and that too paying a premium fare? It is not as if the train will run faster than a Shatabdi or a Gatimaan Express on the same route, nor will private trains have precedence  and the first right of way, for whether private or government, trains will run as per railway guidelines. Will the private operators be able to raise their level of offering to justify these higher fares? If higher fares are needed to cover costs, wouldn’t it bring them in direct competition with airlines, pricing them out of the market? Given these conditions, will suitable private operators come forward to run trains? How will you make sure private players, realising how difficult it is to work with the Railways, not abandon their routes midway? How will private players compete and find financially viable routes when the Railways cross-subsidises passenger fares through freight revenue? Privatisation will create class ­divisions among passengers. Just like the private and government hospitals, the Railways-run train will become the poor man’s train and the private trains -- with better seating, cleanliness, more facilities for a  higher fare -- will become the rich man’s train. What about the chaos and confusion when you have two types of fares and two types of trains between the same origin–destination pair of cities? How will these fares be fixed? An independent regulator will need to be appointed as an advisory body to fix tariffs. The existing network currently gives very little time for track maintenance or the opportunity to better a dismal safety record, it badly needs decongestion to prevent bottlenecks and crowding. After all, the government builds roads but does not own and operate every vehicle that uses the facility. Ultimately, Railways should build tracks and infrastructure and let private operators run trains to promote competition, efficiency and to protect consumer interest. Despite the concern over two classes of trains, while private operators take care of the premium segment, Railways can provide more services to the common man. Private train operators will be required to share Railways’ burden of future train obligations. But the measly 5% of the total Mail and Express trains being privatised right now is akin to a pilot project that will only lead to confusion over  fare structures and right of way. Instead, Railways must go in for full-fledged unbundling of a single  geographical entity – one or two complete zones of the 18, for instance, with Railways providing infrastructure and the private operator   focusing on revenue. Yes, India’s railway does need privatisation, but only reform for the sake of reform is not justified. (The writer is a former director on the Board of BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/think-through-rail-privatisation-862158.html
16-07-2020||Panorama||What will the liberalised farmland market in Karnataka mean?||One of the last remnants of the era of land reforms in India is all set to disappear as the Karnataka Government recently decided to lift certain restrictions on the purchase of agricultural land, by amending its Land Reforms Act. While other states have removed similar regulations over the years, Karnataka has used the time of Covid-19 crisis to fall in line, triggering a debate about its possible consequences. Post-Independence land reforms in India saw the imposition of three broad types of restrictions on the ownership of agricultural land. Some states like Karnataka expressly banned purchase of farmland by non-agriculturists, while a few other states such as Maharashtra allowed only those from within the state to buy it. Almost all states also imposed a ceiling on the quantum of privately-owned farmland. Karnataka made these regulations more stringent by mandating that even an agriculturist cannot buy more agricultural land in case his family income from non-agricultural sources exceeded a prescribed limit. Similarly, Gujarat until 1995 did not allow farmers to buy land beyond an 8-km radius of their place of residence. These restrictions aimed at (i) retaining farmland with farmers and preventing small farmers from falling prey to the lure of big money (ii) preserving agricultural land for agriculture to achieve food self-sufficiency, and (iii) preventing the concentration of land in the hands of a few. While land redistribution and agricultural development dictated land policies in the era of land reforms, the post-1991 liberalisation policies shifted priorities gradually toward real estate and industries as economically competitive use of land. In agriculture, this new imagination of development, which caught the fancy of all state governments cutting across party affiliation, sidestepped the redistributive concerns of the yesteryears, and prioritised large-scale mechanised farming by corporates and high-volume land transactions. This prompted the states to lift the ban on the purchase of farmland by non-agriculturists. The domicile clause was the next to go, along with other barriers such as income limit. Only ceiling restrictions continue to hold the old land reforms legacy, and India’s farmland market stands more deregulated now than ever before. Karnataka’s amendments, too, seek to retain land ceiling but at a relatively higher level. The state has thus swung from being the most regulated to the most liberalised regime for farmland transactions. Although the government has asserted that it will restrict the purchase of agricultural land by non-agriculturists for only agricultural and allied purposes, the exact legal position about this is not clear. It is also not clear how the state is going to prevent speculative buying of farmland, which will result in such land falling fallow. A fresh boom in agriculture, which the government thinks is now possible with a shift of urban professionals to farming, seems naive. Farmers who anyway do not cultivate their land may take advantage of the new policy to dispose of their land. The resulting buoyancy in farmland market can push the land prices up, making it difficult for the existing small farmers to buy more land. Similarly, since the move in Karnataka comes at a time when a large number of migrant workers from cities have returned to villages in the aftermath of Covid-19, those among them who own some land may resort to distress selling. Effective relief measures for the returned migrants is essential to prevent this. As the amendments primarily intend to provide for fresh consolidation of holdings to facilitate large-scale farming and unhindered land transactions in rural areas, a gradual transformation in the land holding patterns and land-use practices is bound to take place. Many observers fear that the emerging land holding patterns will result in a widespread deprivation of land among poor farmers in Karnataka. While this seems plausible, no clearly documented evidence about such a consequence is available from other states, which adopted similar policies earlier. The regulatory gaze of the government should now focus on the damage that the land-use changes that the new policy would trigger can cause to ecological balance. That at least is the lesson from Kerala where the absence of any regulation on farmland market had resulted in a massive diversion of paddy land and wetland for commercial crops and real-estate projects. When this threatened the fragile ecology and food security of the coastal state, the government had to adopt a restrictive land use policy. Karnataka has nine of its districts in the eco-sensitive Western Ghats region. In many other parts of the state, the groundwater table is fast depleting. Commercial cultivation of cash crops on mega farms that the amendments seek to promote may further threaten the state’s local ecosystems. Apart from ecological concerns, that the Indian farming has been scale-neutral and that it still absorbs the maximum labour force must also inform these neo-liberal policy shifts. Small-scale farming in India is known for both productivity efficiency and conservation of agrobiodiversity. In a social and farming context similar to that in India, redistributive reforms and small farms in East Asia have demonstrated higher and more sustainable agricultural growth. Large-scale corporate farming that amendments to land reform laws seek to achieve, thus, need not be the best available solution to the problems in agriculture. (Choudhury is founder and coordinator of NRMC Centre for Land Governance, New Delhi; Narayana teaches Public Policy at Azim Premji University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-will-the-liberalised-farmland-market-in-karnataka-mean-862162.html
16-07-2020||Panorama||What’s with all the Covid-death shaming?||I’ve made a few condolence calls during the past few months. None of the people I called to condole about had died of Covid-19. I was always given another reason. It started with the death of an uncle two months ago. I called to condole with my cousin. We had not spoken in more than a decade. My uncle was in his 80s, and I thought it’d be a life-well-lived type of conversation, but soon it turned into a detailed and uncalled-for denial: My dad, your uncle, didn’t die of Covid-19, my cousin said. My uncle had tested negative; he died of a heart attack, I was told. I hadn’t even mentioned the C-word. I managed to get in my life-well-lived bit and hung up. Since then I have seen a pattern: I have made a half-dozen calls, the subject of my condolences were five men and one woman, between the ages of 31 and 82, and without my ever mentioning the subject, I was told, “It wasn’t what you think.” There was one exception: A friend’s father died and my friend told me his father had died of Covid-19 but that the family was trying to cover that up. My friend is a doctor who has lived and worked in the United States for the past three decades. When I called him, he told me about the circumstances of his father’s death: His father was in his late 70s and like many, many Pakistanis had chosen to believe that either the new coronavirus is a hoax or it would shy away from good Muslims. My friend’s father had been socializing in his neighbourhood of Karachi and offering his prayers in public, going into the mosque through the back door when, for a time, people his age were banned from visiting. He fell sick, was hospitalized, tested positive for the virus and died a couple of days later. This was in early May, around the time that the funerals of people who were dying of Covid-19 were being managed by the local authorities rather than relatives, because some members of the medical community believed then that the dead could infect the living. My friend’s relatives had to bribe the police to get the body, and although initially, they tried to hide the cause of death, the news leaked. “There were people coming to condole,” my friend said, “but others were coming to complain: ‘If your father had Covid, why did you let him mingle with our elders? What if he has infected us all?’” The family denied vehemently that he had died of Covid-19. “We have lived on that street for generations. I can understand why my brothers did it.” In Karachi, I called up a doctor to ask why people were hiding Covid-19 deaths. “People don’t want to see some dead body and the police arrive at their homes at the same time,” I was told. Another doctor said to me: “There is fear and shame and stigma attached to death by Covid, as if you got infected by this virus by doing something immoral or filthy, rather than by touching a doorknob.” And what if nobody will come to your loved one’s funeral? What if nobody comes to condole? What if people think that because you are related to the deceased you might pass the disease on to them and their children? It’s best to just deny what happened. Weren’t people dying before this virus anyway? What’s the harm in slightly shifting the cause of death? Even when someone dies of Covid-19 they don’t really, really die of Covid-19; they die of the complications caused by Covid-19. And so you lie and move on. After all, 98% of people who get infected do survive. The longest condolence conversation I’ve had was with a close friend of mine whose sister passed away at the beginning of the month. She had been suffering from some unknown illness and was admitted to a private hospital in Lahore. When her condition worsened, the family was asked to take her to Services Hospital, a major government facility with a designated ward for Covid-19 patients. My friend insisted that his sister had tested negative for the coronavirus, but when they arrived at the hospital a doctor-directed them to the Covid section. “If we had let her into that ward, they wouldn’t even have given us the body,” my friend said. Some of the myths around the virus have been propagated by the very people who were supposed to guide us through this crisis. Prime Minister Imran Khan has said that 90% of Covid-19 cases were like a “normal flu” and you don’t go to the hospital when you have the flu. In early May, Asad Umar, the federal minister for planning, development and special initiatives and the man in charge of handling the coronavirus crisis, gave a briefing about how many more people in Pakistan die in traffic accidents than they do because of Covid-19 and yet, he said, “we still allow cars on roads, because their necessity is greater than the danger of those accidents.” The prime minister’s health adviser, Zafar Mirza, said early this month that the coming monsoon season would wash away the coronavirus. “But it’s too early to tell,” he added. As the first rains fell a few days later news came that Dr. Mirza had tested positive for the virus. In late March, during the early weeks of the pandemic’s spread in Pakistan, a telephone call between Nadeem Afzal Chan, one of the prime minister’s advisers and spokesmen, and a political lieutenant of Chan’s was leaked on social media. Chan is heard telling his aide, in rather colorful language, to forget about political campaigning, go home and stay there with his kids. After a Punjabi invective that can’t be translated here, Chan said: “Thousands are dying, but the government is hiding it.” Later, Chan admitted that the conversation was genuine but said he had exaggerated the facts because his lieutenant, a friend, wasn’t taking the threat seriously. “Political workers like him still want to campaign, inaugurate roads, hold rallies.” Chan was lying to save a friend from maybe dying, and now people around me are lying because they don’t want their friends to abandon them while they bury their dead. I called up a doctor friend who has lost two colleagues during the past month, both of them because of Covid-19. Why are people still lying about this? I asked, again. “I am, too,” he said. “On all the death certificates I issue I write ‘cardiac pulmonary failure’ as the cause of death. That saves them the embarrassment.” And maybe then at least some people will be around when the last spade of earth is shovelled into those graves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-s-with-all-the-covid-death-shaming-862163.html
16-07-2020||Panorama||How to revive tourism in India||There is no doubt that the social distancing pandemic has most affected the tourism sector. By now it is also established that the revival of tourism sector will take longer than expected. For an industry which accounts for 6.8% of the GDP and supports 8% of total employment (World Travel & Tourism Council), it is about time that India has a strategy in place for reviving the ailing tourism sector that also has strong linkages with the MSME and informal sectors. India, which ranks 34th (of 140 countries) in the Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index (TTCI) 2019 by the World Economic Forum, should have a two-pronged strategy for reviving its tourism sector–a near-term and a medium-term strategy. While defining these strategies policymakers may bear in mind that recovery in the near-term would be a revival in domestic tourism and medium-term would be in the international tourism space. In this regard, the promotion of local tourism (including farm or village tourism), experiential domestic travel in rural areas, day tours, among others, have begun in India and are on the rise.  Before the pandemic, foreign tourist arrivals (FTA) in India grew at an annual average of 8.7% during 2014-15 to 2018-19. In 2019-20, however, growth moderated to 3.2%. Travel bans across the world, that commenced by February this year, have opened its doors to virtual tourism.  In India, the use of virtual technologies in the tourism and hospitality industry,  though increasing, is limited. It has been used by the larger players, mainly in the hotel industry, and merely as a marketing tool. This could be a stepping stone to the near-term strategy for promoting international tourism in Covid times. India has already taken steps in this direction, by having virtual tours, webinars, among others.  India’s rich civilizational and cultural heritage, makes it the sixth-largest globally in terms of World Heritage Sites identified by UNESCO. In fact, the 30 sites (of the total 38 sites in India) under the cultural category are testimony to this. The Ministry of Tourism through its “Dekho Apna Desh” webinars has started to offer virtual tourism, as well as virtual safaris, tours of museums and art galleries, and exhibitions so far. The next step for virtual tourism could thus be partnering with international universities, particularly departments of history and architecture. India may also tap the live virtual religious tourism avenue for international pilgrims who are unable to travel due to these travel bans. As an example, the Bodh Gaya in Bihar – an important Buddhist pilgrimage site – attracts a vast number of tourists every year. Live streaming the daily rituals of such significant pilgrimage destinations may be considered. Further, this will also lay the foundation for the medium-term, when international tourism opens up. Something similar to Switzerland’s ‘Dream Now Travel Later’. Establishing confidence among tourists is clearly a challenge, particularly for India. In due course, when international travel opens, India may consider having ‘travel bubbles’ as an option for post-lockdown tourism. Travel bubbles, where countries with low or manageable coronavirus cases are agreeing to open up tourism, is something which has been explored by Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, and Australia,  New Zealand. India may also consider having such travel bubbles at the micro-level, where Indian states with low or manageable coronavirus cases may have travel bubbles with countries with low cases. India’s focus may be more into eco-tourism, with small controlled groups to begin with.   Apart from these, stimulus measures to support the tourism sector, through reduction or waiver of GST, collateral-free borrowing, and or government guarantees on tourism sector borrowing, may be considered.  For all of these, advertising and disseminating information is critical. India may consider having a Swachh Bharat Ranking for its tourists in terms of hygiene standards taking into account the concerns that arise from the pandemic; taking its annual ‘Swachh Survekshan’ survey a step further.      Infusing confidence among tourists is key for revival of the tourism sector, additional measures for training on safety and hygiene may also be provided through web-based platforms in the interim period before international travel picks up.  (The writer is an economist with Export-Import Bank of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-to-revive-tourism-in-india-862165.html
16-07-2020||Right in the Middle||In the jungle||In 2002, I was appointed head of communications of a newly born Karnataka public sector power corporation. The perks included a car, a Maruti Omni. My work required me to travel across nine districts. Once, in Shimoga after day-long interactions with the district authorities and the media, I decided to stay back, knowing full well it was not prudent to travel at night through 80 km of jungle terrain. I set out at 5 AM from Shimoga with my driver Sripada Bhatt. A brief stop at Agumbe (of Malgudi Days fame) for idli and vada was the only break. We passed by many wildlife sanctuaries with dense tree cover.  As the driver slowed down into the ghat section between Agumbe and Udupi, two things were apparent-- few took that road and the road had huge potholes. When we reached the top of the mountain, the view was magnificent, but just as we were about to take a right turn, the front wheel of the car got stuck in a deep hole. The vehicle whirred to the left. I had to sit in one corner of the car so that it would not topple over. After balancing it, a visibly troubled Sripada pressed the accelerator gradually, all the time fearing the car would topple and crash into a valley 3,000 feet deep.  After a harrowing 10 minutes, we were able to wriggle out of the hole. We heaved a sigh of relief. It was life gifted back to us, we thought.  After 10 km in the thick, green and eerie terrain, the car stalled. The engine had heated up and the carburettor required water. We stood by the car, amid dark shadows and pin-drop silence. Sripada opened the boot and got a can out. He went to a thicket with an undergrowth of dark green, beautiful grass. We could see a sparkling spring in the distance, with the sun’s rays filtering through the leaves. As he walked towards the spring, we saw two heads pop out. A cry emanated from them and reverberated across the forest. The men had mistaken us for policemen since we were in a government car. They were either calling for reinforcements or sending out a warning signal. Sripada flung the can away and came running to me, shouting, “Sir, Naxalites bandru, Naxalites bandru.” In trepidation, we pushed the car down a mountainous road and hopped on, driving at minimal speed. Sripada said he had seen two men holding something like guns. What he hadn’t noticed was that they were as scared of us as we had been of them. We finally reached a village, got water for the engine, and continued our journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/in-the-jungle-862160.html
16-07-2020||Second Edit||Is Tehran moving into China orbit?||An agreement that China and Iran are reported to be on the verge of signing has the potential to dramatically reshape regional and global geopolitics. The deal, which provides for a comprehensive military and trade partnership, is expected to draw about $400 billion in Chinese investment in key Iranian sectors, including energy and infrastructure, over the next 25 years. Stronger military ties will see the two sides engage in joint training, shared weapons development and intelligence-sharing. Both sides are poised to benefit. For Iran, the agreement is a veritable lifeline. Struggling under the weight of US-led sanctions, Iran has been starved of foreign investment; its infrastructure, especially in the oil and gas sector, is badly in need of upgradation. Chinese investment will radically transform the health of its economy. Of course, it could push Iran into a debt trap. As for China, it will receive heavily discounted Iranian oil for the next 25 years. This would stabilise its economic growth and boost energy security. American officials say that the deal could even pave the way for Chinese military bases in Iran. The Sino-Iranian agreement has significant implications for the world. Not only will it reduce Iran’s vulnerability to American bullying but also, it has the potential to change the current regional strategic balance to favour Iran. Importantly, it could set in motion the decline of American military domination of the Persian Gulf. Already, China has a military base in Djibouti and is operating Gwadar port on Pakistan’s Makran coast. The agreement with Iran envisages a Chinese role in the Chabahar port and duty-free zone. It will also build a port at Jask at the mouth of the Persian Gulf. Heightened Chinese presence at the mouth of a waterway through which a significant proportion of the world’s ship-borne oil is carried will alter global geopolitics significantly. The proposed Sino-Iranian agreement, recently announced by the Iranian foreign minister in parliament, has implications for India. For one, increasing Chinese presence in and around Chabahar port, built and operated by India, could hurt India’s economic, energy and strategic interests in Iran and the region beyond. For another, it will draw Iran, along with Russia and Pakistan – with Afghanistan squeezed in between -- ever deeper into China’s Belt and Road Initiative. Fearing American sanctions and struggling with self-doubt, India has for years been reluctant to give a greater push to its economic ties with Iran. It thus failed to act on an opportunity that had for long existed in Iran. China, confident that it is able to defy Washington, may well have grabbed that opportunity now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/is-tehran-moving-into-china-orbit-862156.html
16-07-2020||South||Results of Class XII exams in Tamil Nadu declared; girls outperform boys||The results for Class XII exams in Tamil Nadu that were held in March were declared on Thursday, with 92.3 percent students clearing them and girls outshining boys by a margin of over five percent. The Higher Secondary examinations were held from March 2-24, 2020. A total of 7,79,931 students had appeared for the exams through schools. Tirupur topped the charts among the districts, scoring a 97.12 pass percentage, according to the statistics released by the Directorate of Government Examinations (DGE). The overall pass percentage was better than last year, which stood at 91.3 percent. This year too, girls put up a better show than boys, with 94.80 percent of the 4,24,285 candidates clearing the exams. The pass percentage of boys was 89.41 percent. The difference in pass percentage between girls and boys stood at 5.39 percent. Besides Tirupur, Erode (96.99 percent) and Coimbatore with 96.39 percent shared the top honours vis-a-vis pass percentage. Further, 62 prison inmates also appeared for the exams and 50 of them passed, the DGE said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/results-of-class-xii-exams-in-tamil-nadu-declared-girls-outperform-boys-861844.html
16-07-2020||South||Kerala HC bans agitations, processions in state till July 31||The Kerala High Court has banned all gatherings, specifically demonstrations, processions and agitations in the state till July 31, except the ones permitted under the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) last month. Considering a plea seeking to prevent public protests and huge gatherings throughout the state, violating Covid-19 protocols, a Division Bench of the High Court has directed the state government to take all preventive measures to ensure there shall not be any processions/agitations violating the guidelines issued by the NDMA dated June 29. In its order on Wednesday, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly said the Chief Secretary of Kerala and state police chief should ensure that no political party violates the guidelines and orders of the court. "Public gatherings not permitted under the orders of the National Disaster Management Authority shall not also be allowed. So long as the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority is in force up to July 31 or for subsequent period, depending upon the situation, police have to ensure strict action against all those, who violate the guidelines," the court said. The court also directed political parties to rise to the occasion and restrain themselves from conducting any activities in violation of the orders issued by the NDMA. The High Court on Tuesday had directed the government to take preventive measures to ensure that no political party or association violates the directives issued by the governments and judgements of the Supreme Court. In the plea, a practising lawyer had alleged that the political parties and its associated organisations in Kerala were conducting mass protests throughout the state, violating the guidelines to prevent spread of novel coronavirus. The court on Tuesday had said the directives issued by the Central as well as the state governments make it clear that the guidelines are intended to be strictly adhered to by all citizens, political parties and associations, the violation of which is punishable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-bans-agitations-processions-in-state-till-july-31-861869.html
16-07-2020||South||Nine-month old succumbs to Covid-19 in Puducherry; single day high of 147 cases takes tally to 1,743||A nine-month old boy died of Covid-19 in Puducherry on Thursday, taking the toll to 22, while a single-day high of 147 fresh cases pushed the overall tally to 1,743. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar told reporters through video mode that the child was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government Women and Child hospital here with complaints of diarrhea yesterday and tested positive for the virus and died. The Health Department has stepped up efforts to trace the source of infection for the baby. The union territory recorded a single-day high of 147 cases during the last 24 hours, of which 128 were in Puducherry, 12 in Karaikal and seven in Yanam region. The total number of coronavirus cases in Puducherry so far is 1,743 of whom 774 are active cases. Total patients recovered and discharged so far were 947 and fatalities were 22. The 147 new cases were identified at the end of testing of 1,079 samples during the last 24 hours, Mohan Kumar said. As many as 58 patients were discharged after recovery, he added. The death of the child indicated that age not is a factor to reckon with for the patients falling victim to the dreaded infection, he said. The Health Department Director appealed to people to adhere to safety norms so that the spread of the infection could be controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nine-month-old-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-puducherry-single-day-high-of-147-cases-takes-tally-to-1743-861937.html
16-07-2020||South||SC seeks Kerala govt's reply on plea against law prohibiting animal sacrifice||The Supreme Court Thursday asked the Kerala government to respond to an appeal against the high court decision upholding the Constitutional validity of the state's law which prohibits animal or bird sacrifice for propitiating a deity. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna issued notice on the appeal filed by one P E Gopalakrishnan, claiming that animal sacrifice was an integral part of his religious practice. The plea said the high court order violates his fundamental right under Article 25(1) of the Constitution. On June 16, the Kerala High Court dismissed the PIL challenging the validity of the Kerala Animals and Bird Sacrifices Prohibition Act on the ground that no material was brought on record to establish that the practice was essential to the religion. The petitioners have contended before the high court that provisions of Prevention of Cruelty Act, 1960, permit sacrifice for the purpose of religious practice. The high court had observed that Prevention of Cruelty Act does not have the word “sacrifice” for the purpose of religion. In the appeal before the top court, the petitioner has contended that the high court dismissed the PIL without considering the contentions raised in his impleadment application. He argued that animal sacrifice is an integral practice of ‘Shakthi’ worship and due to the law he was not able to make the offering. The petitioner has further contended that the Act criminalises animal sacrifice to the exclusion of identical practices by other religious communities, without the same being based on any intelligible differentia. "The impugned Act criminalises the intent behind the animal sacrifice, and not animal sacrifice per se. If the sacrifice is not for propitiating any deity but for personal consumption even in the precincts of temple, it is not forbidden. "This arbitrary classification is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-seeks-kerala-govts-reply-on-plea-against-law-prohibiting-animal-sacrifice-861941.html
16-07-2020||South||Driver "sleeps," car hits tree; 6 killed in Tamil Nadu||Five people belonging to a family and a car driver were killed while two children sustained injuries after the vehicle they were travelling in hit a tree near here on Thursday, police said. The accident occurred during the wee hours today at Pathiri village near Tindivanam, about 38 km from here and all the six bodies have been brought to the government medical college hospital here for autopsy. The two injured children were being treated at the same facility, the official said. An eight-year-old girl also died and two other children aged four and nine were injured. "It appears the driver slept moments before the mishap at about 5:15 am when the vehicle was on the highway in the periphery of Pathiri village," a police official at the jurisdictional police station told PTI quoting an eye-witness account. As soon as the vehicle hit the tree, the driver lost control, he said. The family, belonging to a village in Tirunelveli district were on their way to Kancheepuram where they own a business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/driver-sleeps-car-hits-tree-6-killed-in-tamil-nadu-861996.html
16-07-2020||South||PM Narendra Modi urges youth to read Tamil classic 'Tirukkural'||Describing Tamil classic 'Tirukkural' as a treasure of rich thoughts and noble ideals, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hoped that the youth across the country read it to take inspiration. In a series of tweets in Tamil and English, the prime minister said the Tirukkural is extremely inspiring. "It is a treasure of rich thoughts, noble ideals and great motivation. The words of respected Thiruvalluvar have the power to spread hope and brightness," he said. I hope, Modi said, more youngsters across India read it. He also shared pictures of an article in Tamil which referred to the prime minister quoting the Tamil classic on multiple occasions, including in his address to soldiers in Leh earlier this month. The prime minister has often quoted from the Tirukkural, which offers guidance to people from all walks of life. Addressing the soldiers during his surprise visit to Ladakh on July 3, Modi had quoted 'Tirukkural' to reinforce that the Indian armed forces have always followed the time-honoured traditions of valour and honour. The prime minister had quoted saint poet Thiruvalluvar's couplet "Maramanam manda vazhichelavu thetram yena nangey yemam padaikku". "That is, the tradition and credibility of valour, honour, dignified behavior, these four qualities are the reflection of the army of any country. Indian forces have always followed this path," he had said. Tirukkural is a revered classic work in Tamil and the ancient treatise deals with several subjects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-narendra-modi-urges-youth-to-read-tamil-classic-tirukkural-862001.html
16-07-2020||South||Notice seeking removal of Kerala Assembly Speaker||The Indian Union Muslim League MLA, M Ummer, on Thursday served a notice to the Kerala Assembly Secretary seeking removal of Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan from the post for his alleged links with the accused in the gold smuggling case. The IUML legislator, who is part of the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), in his notice, alleged that the Speaker had inaugurated a shop belonging to one of the accused in the case. "The conduct of the Speaker, who has alleged links with the accused in the gold smuggling matter, which is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), was not in accordance with the decorum of the House," the notice said. It sought to remove Sreeramakrishnan from the post of Speaker as "he failed to keep the dignity of the post." The Speaker was under criticism from the Opposition for inaugurating the shop of one of the accused in the gold smuggling case, Sandeep Nair, months ago. The notice has been served to the Assembly Secretary under Article 179 (C) of the Indian Constitution which deals with the removal of the speaker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/notice-seeking-removal-of-kerala-assembly-speaker-862004.html
16-07-2020||South||VIT cancels engineering entrance exam due to Covid-19||Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) has announced cancellation of entrance examinations for admission to various engineering programmes offered in its Vellore, Chennai, Amaravati, and Bhopal campuses, owing to the Covid-19 lockdown. The admissions will now be based on the 12th standard marks scored by students. The prestigious institution has four campuses in the country – Vellore and Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh, and Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh. It conducts VIT Engineering Entrance Examination (VITEEE) every year for admitting students into various engineering courses. “Conducting VITEEE-2020 in various cities with rising infections has become risky and dangerous. To keep the student and parent community safe, VITEEE-2020 stands cancelled. The admission will be based on +2 / Pre-University marks in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics/ Biology,” the institute said in a statement. “Applicants are requested to kindly update their VITEEE applications at the earliest. In case the results of the Board Examination taken are not declared, they may upload the marks as soon as the results are available,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vit-cancels-engineering-entrance-exam-due-to-covid-19-862035.html
16-07-2020||South||IIT-M incubated start-up develops mobile hospital units to treat Covid-19 patients||With the prevalence of coronavirus increasing exponentially in India leading to overcrowding at most hospitals, a start-up incubated by the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M) has developed portable hospital units that can be installed anywhere within eight hours.  Two mobile units known as ‘MediCAB’ have already been installed in Wayanad district of Kerala and in Chengalpattu district of Tamil Nadu for treating Covid-19 patients. While the unit at Wayanad district is already functional, the one in Tamil Nadu will become operational next week. Developed by Modulus Housing, a start-up incubated by the IIT-M, the mobile units come in three sizes – 200, 400 and 800 sq. ft – and can be easily assembled as per the needs of the customers. The mobile units can serve as an extension of a hospital as well as stand-alone treatment centres in rural areas. The mobile units are foldable and are composed of four zones – a doctor's room, an isolation room, a medical room/ward, and a twin-bed ICU, maintained at negative pressure. “The units can be installed in just eight hours by four men. The units can be installed at the car parking or at the terrace of the hospital according to the needs or availability of space at the facility. These units can function within hours of installation. These units can help decongesting hospitals which currently turn away a lot of patients,” Shreeram Ravichandran, CEO, Modulus Housing, told DH. The unit at Wayanad has been set up with grant funds from Habitat for Humanity’s Terwilliger Center for Innovation in Shelter, while the start-up collaborated with Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) on the certifications and customizations necessary for the project. Ravichandran said besides functioning as an extension of hospitals, most of which have run out of beds due to increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the units can be installed at rural areas for treatment of patients who cannot come to cities. The mobile units can be of real help to the rural masses as constructing a new facility or converting an existing facility is a time-consuming process. “As the rural population density is relatively low, more micro hospitals like our units would help greatly in tackling COVID-19 cases,” Ravichandran added. India currently has nearly 1 million Covid-19 cases, including recoveries and deaths. Most hospitals in cities that have prevalence of the virus are over-crowded. Since the collapsible cabins are reduced five-fold when folded, it is easy to carry them. Ravichandran said the mobile units will be delivered within two weeks of placing the order. “The response so far has been good. We have been receiving queries from several companies and we are in the process of finalising a few orders in the next few days,” Ravichandran added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-incubated-start-up-develops-mobile-hospital-units-to-treat-covid-19-patients-862038.html
16-07-2020||South||Kerala's Malappuram shows the way in plasma donation||Many people who have recovered from Covid-19 in north Kerala's Malappuram district are now actively engaged in plasma donation and counselling of new patients. While 22 persons donated plasma last week, 15 more would be turning up on Friday and around 200 have already expressed willingness to donate. The initiative by health officials of Malappuram is also becoming a blessing for Covid-19 patients in other districts with three patients in other districts already benefitting from plasma collected in Malappuram. It was a Whatsapp group of Covid-19 patients of Manjeri Government Medical College Hospital in Malappuram district that has now turned out to be a platform for the ex-patients to extend help to the fresh ones. Dr. Shinaz Babu, Malappuram district's nodal officer of Covid care, told DH that the response from the ex-patients in the district to help the fresh patients has been overwhelming especially since many other districts were finding it difficult to get plasma donors. Two patients from Alappuzha district and one from Kozhikode had already benefited from the plasma collected in Malappuram. The district also hoped to have a plasma bank for Covid care especially since the Covid cases were increasing alarmingly. Several patients in Kerala, including four in Malappuram district, have successfully been treated using plasma therapy. All the fresh patients in the district have been added to Whatsapp groups maintained by the district health department to provide information and for coordination purposes. Even after being discharged, the patients were retained in the groups and that's how the ex-patients could extending counselling services to fresh patients using the group as a platform. As of now, there were around 750 members across three such groups.  Dr. Babu said that many ex-patients who were involved in the plasma donation, as well as counselling services, said that they were just returning the love and care they received while undergoing their Covid treatment. For Covid treatment, plasma needs to be taken from a recovered person within 14 days to four months and it could be preserved for up to one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-malappuram-shows-the-way-in-plasma-donation-862057.html
16-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh: 140 Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams staff test positive for coronavirus||The temple was re-opened on that date due to the coronavirus lockdown, a top functionary of TTD said. Speaking to reporters, TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy said 14 'archakas' (assistant priests), 16 workers in laddu-making kitchens and 56 security personnel were among the infected. Of the 140 affected, 70 were discharged and the rest being provided treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-140-tirumala-tirupati-devasthanams-staff-test-positive-for-coronavirus-862085.html
16-07-2020||South||Covid-19 scare in Thiruvananthapuram as hypermarket staff, doctors test positive||While Kerala's Covid-19 tally crossed the 10,000-mark on Thursday, the capital city of Thiruvananthapuram is on a high alert as a major chunk of the 1,279 cases reported in the district have been due to local spread.  Of the 722 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Thursday, 481 got infected through local contacts, of which 34 cases couldn't be traced back to their source. Two persons who returned from other states died due to Covid-19, taking the death toll in Kerala to 37. In Thiruvananthapuram, 339 fresh cases were reported, of which 301 were through local sources, 16 of which couldn't be traced back to their source. The district also has the highest number of cases in Kerala at 1,279. With around 80 staff of a hypermarket in the city testing positive so far, there was a high risk that many customers have already been infected. Four doctors of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital also tested Covid-19 positive following which many from the medical staff were quarantined.  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a total of 84 Covid-19 clusters, including ten large clusters, were already found in Kerala. He also said in view of the escalating number of infections through local spread, the people should take utmost care, especially by maintaining social distancing. The total Covid-19 cases in Kerala reached 10,275, of which 5372 were now under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-scare-in-thiruvananthapuram-as-hypermarket-staff-doctors-test-positive-862117.html
16-07-2020||South||No plan to denotify sanctuary area until nod: Tamil Nadu government to High Court||The Madras High Court was on Thursday informed by the Tamil Nadu government that it has only sent a proposal to the central wildlife board to denotify a portion of Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary for commercial and industrial development. It would not proceed with the denotification without the approval of the board, the government said in its submission on public interest litigation challenging the move to benefit commercial and industrial development. Recording the submission, the First Bench of Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the petitioner to approach the central board for any relief and disposed of the plea. According to Petitioner S Stalin Raja, the move has been made to benefit commercial and industrial development, including that of Sun Pharmaceuticals which has operations bordering the sanctuary, located about 75 km from here. "While the state and its forest department is duty-bound to protect all wildlife sanctuaries in its jurisdiction, the Tamil Nadu government is trying to give away a portion of the 72-acre irrigation tank preserved by the local villagers as a heronry and bird sanctuary since the year 1790 for private industrial development, he had said. Since 1998, the Vedanthangal tank and the area within 5 km of its boundary have been a part of the sanctuary with full protection of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. But on January 23, 2020, the Tamil Nadu government, relying on notes put up by the principal chief conservator of forest and chief wildlife warden, tabled a proposal with the state wildlife board to de-notify an area within three km of the tank, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-plan-to-denotify-sanctuary-area-until-nod-tamil-nadu-government-to-high-court-862131.html
16-07-2020||State||Notices to 2 medical colleges politically motivated, says former Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister G Parameshwara||Going tough on 25 medical colleges across Karnataka for refusing to set up Covid testing labs, the government's decision to serve show cause notice only to two colleges -- Devraj Urs Medical College, Kolar and Sri Siddartha Medical College, Tumkuru has whipped up a fresh political controversy as these two colleges belong to two top leaders of Karnataka Congress -- RL Jalappa and Dr G Parameshwara. While Sri Devaraj Urs Academy of Higher Education and Research, Kolar, is controlled by the family members of the minister RL Jalappa, the Siddartha Medical College is managed by the family of senior Congress leader and former DCM G Parameshwara. Senior Congress leader and former Deputy CM Dr G Parameshwara in a series of tweets on Wednesday night said, "Here to inform all that a testing lab for Covid-19 is being set up at Sri Siddhartha Medical College. The process began right after receiving an order on 16th June. The lab will be ready in a few days. Covid care centres with 100 beds each are operational in both the hospitals."   "However, I question the move to send notice to only two private colleges. Why not the rest? Request the Government to not play petty political tricks amidst the pandemic. We are complying with all orders. And will continue to serve the public as we always have." When DH contacted Parameshwara, he said, "Space has been identified in both colleges and an agreement has been signed with Genesis to set up the lab. They are in the process of procuring equipment. The lab will be operational in less than ten days. Why has the notice been issued only to two private medical colleges and not the rest?" The Medical Council of India (MCI) had issued a circular as early as April 10 asking all medical colleges to set up Covid testing facilities. After more than three months, 25 managements out of the 52 private medical colleges in Karnataka have still not set up a lab or if they have, have not started testing.  Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar clarified that he is an alumnus of Sri Siddhartha Medical College and that this wasn't politically motivated. "I have graduated from Sri Siddhartha Medical College and Dr Parameshwara is a father figure to me. I am close to him and I have sent the notice as a minister not because the college is run by a Congress leader. While the rest of the 23 colleges have produced purchase orders of equipment, Siddhartha has not even produced purchase orders. They don't even attend meetings called by a minister. Even today, Sidhartha's management did not attend the VC." As far as Kolar's Devaraj Urs College is concerned, the college had not been testing samples sent by the government though they had set up a lab, Sudhakar said. "The MCI has made it clear that if they do not test Covid samples, their affiliations will be withdrawn. What is political in this?" Sudhakar questioned.  In an e-mailed response to DH, Sri Devaraj Urs Medical College Pro Chancellor Air Marshal (Dr) CK Ranjan said, "Sri Devaraj Urs Medical College, has not received any notice from MCI regarding non-compliance of setting up of RTPCR laboratory at RL Jalappa Hospital and Research Centre, our teaching hospital. Our RTPCR viral (Covid-19) testing laboratory had started functioning on June 18 which is about one month prior to the Medical Education Minister’s statement." He further went on to explain that one microbiologist and two technicians were deputed for training in Covid-19 testing at NIMHANS in April. They have increased their testing capacity to about 200 samples per day and have invested an additional Rs.32 lakh for an automated RNA extractor and TrueNAT equipment.  RL Jalappa Hospital and Research Centre since the beginning of pandemic have tested 450 Covid-19 suspects, out of which 140 turned out to be positive. In all, 8500 suspects have been screened at their fever clinic. All inpatients and OPD patients of their hospital requiring Covid-19 testing are being tested at their own laboratory.  Samples from District Government Hospital (SNR Hospital, Kolar) are also being tested at their hospital. It is offering its facility for training of government doctors, police, technicians and health care workers. It has posted one microbiologist to SNR Hospital to strengthen its Covid-19 testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/notices-to-2-medical-colleges-politically-motivated-says-former-karnataka-deputy-chief-minister-g-parameshwara-861716.html
16-07-2020||State||Rains make lockdown in Hubballi more effective||As Hubballi city woke up to mild showers on Thursday morning, and the rains got heavier till afternoon, very less people ventured out, making the second day of the lockdown more effective. By the time rains started receding, time relaxation given for shops selling essentials like groceries, vegetables, fruits, milk, bakery items and meat (upto 12:00 noon) was over. Drizzling continued with some intervals till evening, and even police personnel on duty at junctions and main roads had to search for nearby cover. Unlike the first day (Wednesday) of the 10-day lockdown in Dharwad district, first half of the day did not see much movement of people on Thursday. Vehicular traffic was very less. Bus service of both NWKRTC and BRTS remained suspended. Some hotels were open, with parcel service. Medical shops and hospitals worked as usual. Banks, government offices, and petrol pumps were open, but with very less customers and staff also. The second day of the lockdown in the district was almost total in Hubballi city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rains-make-lockdown-in-hubballi-more-effective-861981.html
16-07-2020||State||HC tells govt to modify circular on beds in pvt hospitals||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the state government to modify its circular dated July 15 addressing the issue of allocation of beds at private hospitals. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka asked the state to also implement the directions of the Supreme Court in its June 19 order. The bench was hearing a batch of petitions on Covid-19 issues. Additional Government Advocate informed the court that a notification was issued on July 15, making it mandatory for all hospitals to display at the reception counter. He further submitted that grievances related to denial of beds can also be sent on email at - 1912covid19helpline@gmail.com or WhatsApp on 9480812450. "...Continuation of large number of grievances regarding monitoring of allocation of beds in private hospitals, it is appropriate that the state modifies its circular dated July 15, 2020 by incorporating a direction to set out a specific telephone number on which a patient or relative can lodge grievance while admitting in a particular hospital. It is necessary for the state to invoke various provisions of Disaster Management Act by issuing directions to all private hospitals. If such directions are issued action including penal can be taken against defying hospitals,’’ the bench said. It also directed the government to form an expert team of doctors for supervision of Covid-19 hospitals as per SC orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-tells-govt-to-modify-circular-on-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-862139.html
16-07-2020||State||State's maternal mortality rate highest in south||Karnataka’s Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) is the highest among the five southern states. This was revealed when maternal deaths over a three period was assessed from 2016 to 2018. The MMR is a significant indicator that defines the public health of a State. On the bright side, the state’s MMR has declined from 108 per lakh live births in 2014-16 to 97 per lakh live births in 2016-17 to a further low of 92 per lakh live births in 2016-18, indicating that the number of women dying during childbirth has come down significantly, according to the latest Sample Registration System (SRS) 2016-18 bulletin for Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) released by the Registrar General of India on Thursday. It is still the highest compared to neighbouring states of Andhra Pradesh (65), Telangana (63), Tamil Nadu (60) and Kerala (43). But the state fares better than the national average of 113.  Dr Rajkumar N, Maternal health programme officer, Karnataka, said, “Let us be positive. The state’s MMR has improved by five points. On the contrary, Kerala has worsened by one point.What is important is progress achieved from the year 2000. Karnataka’s MMR is behind the other southern states, but improving.” Explaining the challenges faced in providing maternal and child health services (MCH), he said that all obstetricians, paediatricians and anaesthetists working in government hospitals should be made available 24/7 for rendering MCH services by turn. Currently, they are diverted to render their services in areas not concerning theirspecialty. “Presently, many of these specialists are made to attend causality and emergency services which is not related to their speciality. They work the entire day and night, and are not available for the next day, denying MCH services for both days. When this happens in taluk hospitals where there are one or two obstetricians, the case gets referred to higher hospitals, thereby being denied immediate maternity care,” Dr Rajkumar said. Dr Hema Divakar, FOGSI (Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India) ambassador to FIGO (International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics) and former president FOGSI said, “Karnataka’s MMR has been highest among southern states for a while now. Quality care in private sector hospitals is the urgent need since 60% of pregnant women are seeking care there. Starting next month, FOGSI Manyata certification programme will be implemented by the Asian Research and Training Institute for skill transfer in collaboration with Rajiv Gandhi Institute of HealthSciences.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/states-maternal-mortality-rate-highest-in-south-862140.html
16-07-2020||State||Won't withdraw ordinance, says DyCM||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Thursday asserted that the government will not withdraw the ordinance amending the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. "This is a progressive move and I'm surprised that Siddaramaiah is opposing it. The entire country had one law and we had another. It was causing problems for farmers and others. All this time, the law had been misused leading to corruption. It caused enough losses to the state," Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wont-withdraw-ordinance-says-dycm-862141.html
16-07-2020||State||Gowda says JD(S) failed to take care of leaders||The JD(S) failed to take care of its party leaders which led to severe disillusionment among its cadre, JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda has said in a candid letter to his party colleagues. In the emotional note, Gowda acknowledged that in spite of H D Kumaraswamy being the chief minister in the Congress-JD(S) coalition, the party was unable to cater to the interests of its workers. “I acknowledge that we have failed in this,” Gowda said. Owing to this, there has been disillusionment among the party workers. This has to be rectified by restrengthening the party, he said.  While the party wanted to organize a meeting of all its leaders, it has been unable to do so owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “I request all the party workers to be active at the grassroots-level at least in the constituency from where you contested the 2018 Assembly elections,” he advised. Not just that, the ruling party has been taking anti-poor and anti-farmer decisions. The party workers must make the public aware about this, by upholding the values of secularism and social justice, he added.  Gowda’s letter comes at a time when the party has seen several of its members express discontentment in the recent past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gowda-says-jds-failed-to-take-care-of-leaders-862143.html
16-07-2020||State||Only God can save us: Sriramulu clarifies, Cong bays for his scalp||Health Minister B Sriramulu found himself at the centre of attacks from the Opposition Congress for seeking divine intervention during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Thursday demanded Sriramulu’s resignation.  “By saying only God can help without taking any measures to control Covid-19, Sriramulu has lost the moral right to continue as a minister,” Siddaramaiah said in a statement. “It’s okay to go to God if all your efforts have failed to yield results. But the government, despite having money and power, is not even trying.” Shivakumar said Sriramulu’s statement had shocked the entire state. “It wasn’t Sriramulu speaking, but it was the entire government. So, they should all resign and there should be Governor’s rule,” he said. “I’m not saying one shouldn’t believe in God, but if you can’t do what you are supposed to, then you should leave.”  Sriramulu clarified that his words had been “misinterpreted and misunderstood”. In a series of tweets, the minister said: “While responding to claims of the opposition that the government’s negligence, irresponsibility and the lack of coordination among ministers are responsible for the rise in cases in the state, I stated that these accusations are far from the truth. People need to be aware and cautious to avoid the spread of the virus. This plays a vital role in controlling the pandemic. If we fail at this crucial step the situation can get complicated. And if things go worse, then only God can save us. These were the words used out of caution. There’s no need to create panic in thepublic.” He added that the B S Yediyurappa-led government was working round-the-clock and “we all are doing our best for the people of our state to win the battle against this pandemic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/only-god-can-save-us-sriramulu-clarifies-cong-bays-for-his-scalp-862144.html
16-07-2020||State||Notices to two pvt medical colleges politically motivated: ex-DyCM||The state government’s decision to serve notices on only two of 25 private medical colleges over the delay in setting up Covid labs, has whipped up a political controversy. The notices were served on Devraj Urs Medical College in Kolar and Sri Siddhartha Medical College, Tumakuru. While the Sri Devaraj Urs Academy of Higher Education and Research is managed by the family members of the former Union minister R L Jalappa, the Siddhartha Medical College is managed by senior Congress leader and former DyCM G Parameshwara’s family. In a series of tweets on Wednesday night, Parameshwara said, “Here to inform all that a testing lab for Covid-19 is being set up at Sri Siddhartha Medical College.  However, I question the move to send notice to only two private colleges. Why not the rest? Request the Government to not play petty political tricks amidst the pandemic. We are complying with all orders.” Speaking to DH, Parameshwara said, “Space has been identified in both the colleges and an agreement has been signed with Genesis to set up the lab. The lab will be operational in less than 10 days. Why did the government issue notice to only two private medical colleges, and not the rest,” he sought to know. The Medical Council of India (MCI) had issued a circular as early as April 10 asking all medical colleges to set up Covid testing facilities. Three months on, Only 27 of the 52 private medical colleges in the state have set up Covid testing facility.  Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar clarified, “I have graduated from Sri Siddhartha Medical College and Dr Parameshwara is a father figure to me. I am close to him and I have sent the notice as a minister, not because the college is run by a Congress leader.” “While the rest of the 23 colleges have produced purchase orders of equipment, Siddhartha has not even produced purchase orders. They don’t even attend meetings convened by the ministers.” On Devaraj Urs Medical College, the minister said the college had not been testing samples sent by the government though they had set up a lab. However, Dr Pradeep Kumar, Vice Chancellor, Devaraj Urs Medical College, said that 57.30% of the samples that the college had processed were from the government. Meanwhile, Dr CK Ranjan, Pro Chancellor, Devaraj Urs Medical College, told DH, “The college has not received any notice from MCI regarding setting up of a lab at R L Jalappa Hospital, our teaching hospital. Our RTPCR viral (Covid-19) testing laboratory had started functioning on June 18 which is about one month prior to the minister’sstatement.” “The MCI has made it clear that if they do not test Covid samples their affiliations will be withdrawn. What is political in this,” Sudhakarquestioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/notices-to-two-pvt-medical-colleges-politically-motivated-ex-dycm-862145.html
16-07-2020||State||Govt school teachers to work from home||Teachers in government schools have been asked to work from home up to July 31. A reminder issued by department of public instruction directed all teachers and non-teaching staff, except those who have been deputed for SSLC evaluation and Covid-19 related work, to work from home and not to leave the central working place until further orders from the department. The teachers have been asked to leave their contact details and e-mail address with school principals and in case of online teaching, they should be ready to take classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-school-teachers-to-work-from-home-862146.html
16-07-2020||State||Land Act amendment bigger than mining scam: ex-CM||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday said the BJP government’s decision to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act was ‘a scam bigger than illegal mining’ as he claimed that farm lands worth Rs 50,000 crore will be lost.  On July 13, the government promulgated an ordinance to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, allowing non-agriculturists to buy agricultural lands while also increasing the cap on the extent of such land a person or a familycan hold.  Plus, the amendment will have retrospective effect, meaning over 13,000 cases registered over the years for alleged violations in acquiring farm lands will be vacated or dismissed.  “There are 13,814 cases across all 30 districts. Let’s assume that each case involves four acres of land. That’s 52,000 acres. These are lands worth Rs 45,000-50,000 crore,” Siddaramaiah told a news conference. “This is a scam bigger than illegal mining. While the mining scam had specific persons, here the entire government has fallen for the corporate bodies and real estate lobby.”  The illegal mining scam unearthed when the BJP was in power (2008-13) was pegged at Rs 35,000 crore, which became a poll plank for the Congress to come to powerin 2013.  Calling it a ‘black’ legislation, Siddaramaiah said the amendments will result in large portions of farm lands becoming real estate. “This will destroy the farming community. Farmers will have to stand at the doors of corporates. They’ll sell their land and real estate will come. What’ll happen to food production?”  The ordinance amends Section 63 and 80 of the Act, while omitting Sections 79 A, B and C. “These sections were inserted in 1974 under the D Devaraj Urs government. It was a revolutionary, progressive step that benefited over 25 lakh tenants and their families under the ‘land-to-the-tiller’ policy,” Siddaramaiah said.  The Congress leader claimed that there was a ‘bigger conspiracy’ behind this. “All this is being driven by the Modi government. They want to privatise more and more so that reservations will go. They want to bring back the zamindari system,” he said, citing the examples of some recent amendments to other laws. “If the Yediyurappa government really wanted to help farmers and had good intentions, they could’ve brought this before the Assembly or placed it for public discussion. Instead, they’ve made use of the lockdown period to promulgate the ordinance,”he said.  The Congress will fight the ordinance till it gets withdrawn, Siddaramaiah said. “We’ll talk to other parties, farmers organisations and Dalit groups to protest the BJP’s hidden agenda and anti-farmer policies.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/land-act-amendment-bigger-than-mining-scam-ex-cm-862148.html
16-07-2020||State||Huvina Hadagali MLA Parmeshwar Naik contracts virus||Congress MLA from Huvina Hadagali constituency, P T Parameshwar Naik, on Thursday joined the growing list of people’s representatives from the state to test positive for Covid-19. Parameshwar Naik had developed symptoms a few days back. He was subjected to Covid-19 test at a hospital in Harapanahalli. On Thursday, his report came back positive. Naik’s house at Harapanahalli has been sealed. He’s undergoing treatment at a hospital in Bengaluru. Here’s the list of legislators from the state to contract coronavirus: MLAs C T Ravi (Chikmaglur) Bharat Shetty (Mangalore North), Ranganath (Kunigal), Sharath Bachegowda (Hoskote) Rajkumar Patil Telkur (Sedam) Ajay Singh (Jewargi) Prasad Abbayya (Hubballi-Dharwad East) MLCs Bhojegowda and M K Pranesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/huvina-hadagali-mla-parmeshwar-naik-contracts-virus-862164.html
16-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Single-day Covid-19 cases cross 3,000-mark in Karnataka||Karnataka on Wednesday reported its highest single-day surge of 3,176 Covid-19 cases, with Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar attributing the meteoric rise to a "milestone" in testing. The state also recorded 87 deaths for the second consecutive day, 60 of which were from Bengaluru. The city also accounted for a majority of the cases, with 1,975 new infections. Karnataka is now reporting more cases than Delhi, where active cases are on the decline. The state's total cases are doubling in nine days as opposed to the national average of 21 days. With Wednesday's cases, the total number of active cases has shot up to 27,853.   The state's recovery rate is 39.45% while the mortality rate is 1.94%.   The deaths reported on Wednesday had occurred over a period of 20 days, from June 24 to July 14. The youngest of the fatalities was a 26-year-old man, a case of influenza-like illness (ILI) who had fever and chronic kidney disease. He died at home on July 9. There has been no explanation from the health department on the inordinate delay in reporting Covid fatalities. "The state conducted 22,204 tests on Wednesday alone. This is a new milestone, which coincides with another achievement of detecting more than 3,000 cases in a single day," Minister Sudhakar said.  In Bengaluru, 1,095 antigen tests were conducted on Wednesday out of which 148 tested positive. "In the next 15 days, 58 medical colleges together will be able to test about 25,000 to 30,000 samples every day. Private hospitals and labs together will test another 10,000 samples. Together, the testing capacity will be stepped up to 40,000 to 50,000 per day," he said.  To make effective use of the weeklong lockdown in containing Covid-19, every booth level task force, in all 8,154 teams, will cover 300-400 households and conduct door-to-door survey to identify vulnerable people, including senior citizens, people with comorbidities, ILI and SARI.  Plasma donors to get Rs 5,000   Sudhakar appealed to recovered Covid patients to donate plasma and save lives. An incentive of Rs 5000 will henceforth be provided to every donor as a mark of appreciation. In all, 18,466 people have recovered from the disease in the state, out of which 5,455 are in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/single-day-covid-19-cases-cross-3000-mark-in-karnataka-861720.html
16-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Eminent theatre personality Dr Subhadramma Mansooru passes away||Reputed Kannada theatre personality and Nadoja Awardee Subhadramma Mansooru died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday late night. She was 81. She is survived by five children. Last rites will be conducted in Ballari on Thursday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa condoled the death and tweeted, "The Kannada theatre has lost a valuable gem. Subhadramma in the roles of Draupadi, Kunti and Gandhari in Raktaratri play became a household name in Karnataka." She combined her singing with acting and emerged as one of the Kannada theatre’s greatest artistes. Subhadramma was born in 1939. Her mother Bhagyamma, was a Carnatic classical vocalist. Her father Jwalapathi worked as a mechanic and played the harmonium. She studied Telugu till Class VI and learnt Kannada later. She joined Sumangala Natya Sangha, a drama company, in Bellari as a child artiste when she was 12-year-old. She married Lingaraj Mansooru, the theatre personality who is related to the famous vocalist Mallikarjun Mansooru. The couple has performed in Hubballi, Gadag, Miraj, Sangli and other places.  Subhadramma's performance as Draupadi, Kunti and Gandhari was so powerful and appealing that she acted in these roles for years without a break. Her portrayal of Draupadi’s agony in Raktharatri play is considered a classic on the Kannada stage.  She rendered the Vachanas of Basavanna, Devara Dasimayya and other Vachana composers.  She acted in Telugu plays like Pallepaduchu and Natanalayam.  Former deputy chief minister M P Prakash invited her to act in the plays directed by him such as 'Ashadada Ondu Dina' and 'Jokumaraswamy' at Huvina Hadagli in Ballari district.  Subhadramma is considered as one of the legends in Rangageete (drama songs) genre in Karnataka. Several organisations, including the Nataka Academy and the Delhi Kannada Sangha, have honoured her. She is the recipient of Gubbi Veeranna Award and Nadoja Award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/eminent-theatre-personality-dr-subhadramma-mansooru-passes-away-861820.html
16-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's maternal mortality ratio highest among southern states||Karnataka's Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) is the highest among the five southern states. This was revealed when maternal deaths over a three-year period were assessed from 2016 to 2018. The MMR is a significant indicator that defines the public health of a state. On the bright side, the state's MMR has declined from 108 per lakh live births in 2014-16 to 97 per lakh live births in 2016-17 to a further new low to 92 per lakh live births in 2016-18, indicating that the number of women dying during childbirth has come down significantly, according to the latest Sample Registration System (SRS) 2016-18 bulletin for Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) released by the Registrar General of India on Thursday.  It is still the highest compared to neighbouring twin states of Andhra Pradesh (65) and Telangana (63), Tamil Nadu (60), and Kerala (43).  Dr Rajkumar N, Maternal Health programme officer, Karnataka, said, "Let us be positive. The state's MMR has improved by five points. On the contrary, Kerala has worsened by one point. What is important is the progress achieved from the year 2000. Karnataka's MMR is behind the other southern states but improving." Explaining the challenges faced in providing maternal and child health services (MCH), he said that all obstetricians, paediatricians and anaesthetists working in government hospitals should be made available 24*7 for rendering MCH services by turns. Currently, they are diverted to render their services in areas not concerning their speciality.  "Presently, many of these specialists are made to attend causality and emergency services which are not related to their speciality. They work the entire day and night, and are not available for the next day denying MCH services for both the days. When this happens in Taluk hospitals, where there are one or two obstetricians, the case gets referred to higher hospitals thereby denying immediate maternity care," Dr Rajkumar said. Dr Hema Divakar, Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) ambassador to FIGO (International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics) and former president FOGSI said, "Karnataka's MMR has been highest among southern states for a while now. Quality care in private sector hospitals is the urgent need since 60% of pregnant women are seeking care there. Starting next month, FOGSI Manyata certification programme will be implemented by the Asian Research and Training Institute for skill transfer in collaboration with Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Health Sciences." The state's maternal health schemes include Thayi Bhagya, Thayi Bhagya Plus, Prasuthi Araike, Janani Suraksha Yojana, and Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakrama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-maternal-mortality-ratio-highest-among-southern-states-861832.html
16-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CBSE class 10 results: B'luru region bags 3rd position||Students from schools in Karnataka who appeared for class 10 CBSE examinations have performed well, making Bengaluru region secure the third position in the results announced on Wednesday, with overall pass percentage of 98.23. The Bengaluru region was created this year. Earlier, it was with Chennai region. Over 56,226 students appeared for the exams from 871 schools across the state, of which 55,230 have managed to clear the exams. Trivandrum region topped the country with 99.28%, followed by Chennai with overall pass percentage of 98.95. In Bengaluru region, the examination was conducted at 208 examinations centres.  Continuing with the trend, girls fared better than boys this year too, with pass percentage of 93.31 as against 90.14 for boys. Even in Bengaluru region, girls outshone boys with pass percentage of 98.94, whereas boys scored 97.66.  In Bengaluru region, students from government institutions secured 100% results, the score was 98.06 for independent institutions, 99.6 in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas and 99.59 in Kendriya Vidyalayas.  Children with special needs performed well in the exams. Of the 276 students who appeared for the exams, 264 cleared it (overall pass percentage 95.65). Shikha Rai from Delhi Public School (DPS), Bengaluru South, scored 520 out of 600. She is the youngest roller-skater of India. Shikha represented India at the World Roller Games held in Barcelona, Spain and she was one of the youngest participants in the age group of 15-19 years (junior speed age group).  “I was left with only two months to prepare for my exams after I returned from the international and national championships. Thanks to my parents for all the support,” she said. Soumya Verma, a student of Delhi Public School East in Bengaluru, has secured 89.8% in the class 10 exams.  Soumya was part of the Karnataka U-16 women’s cricket team in 2018-19. She has been a part of Women’s Karnataka Premier League (KPL) and WCL. Apart from cricket, she played  state and national-level Taekwondo||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cbse-class-10-results-bluru-region-bags-3rd-position-861842.html
16-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||With 4,169 new cases, Karnataka records highest spike; tally above 50,000||Karnataka recorded its highest ever number of Covid-19 cases and deaths with 4,169 cases and 104 deaths reported on Thursday. The death toll crossed 1,000-mark. 2,344 cases (56.22%) were reported in Bengaluru alone indicating that the city's lockdown was a measure taken too late. 70 Covid-19 patients died in the state capital.  The state's tally is more than 50,000 now with the cumulative figures reaching 51,422. Karnataka is fourth worst affected by Covid-19 in the country, only behind Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi in the total number of positive cases.  The number of active cases also breached the 30,000 mark with 30,655 active cases. There have been 1,032 deaths in the state apart from six Covid-19 patients dying due to non-Covid-19 reasons. There have been 19,729 discharges so far. 539 patients are in the ICU with Bengaluru alone accounting for 317 patients needing intensive care. Bengaluru's positivity rate is 12.37 per cent. Apart from Bengaluru's four digit rise in new cases, seven districts reported cases in triple figures -- Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Udupi, and Raichur. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, the special officer of the BBMP Covid-19 war room, explained that one reason for the surge in cases is the increased testing. The state tested 23,451 samples on Thursday. "Our testing base has increased in the last fortnight, that is, testing of primary contacts and ILI/SARI cases. Also, the cases are not a reflection of the samples tested on that particular day as it takes days to collect sample, test and update the data. "We have field level teams who have been continuously screening and testing ILI and SARI cases, first with ASHAs and then with the booth level teams constituted now. Largescale testing is a major factor for increased number of cases," Korlapati told DH. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said testing will further be ramped up in the coming days and added, "We conducted 23,451 tests in a single day today and 9,25,477 tests in the state so far. In the next seven to ten days, testing capacity will be enhanced to conduct 40,000 to 50,000 tests per day." Mortality rate crosses 2% Even as the central team that had visited Karnataka a few days back urged the state to bring down the mortality rate to below 1%, the state's mortality rate crossed 2 per cent in Bengaluru (2.01%) and is 2 per cent in Karnataka. Among the 104 deaths that were reported in the bulletin on Thursday, the earliest death occured on June 26. As many as 12 patients died at their homes who got no chance of recovery as they never got to a hospital before becoming severely ill. One patient was brought dead. Dr CN Manjunath, state's nodal officer for lab testing told DH, "We are in discussion with intensivists to introduce drugs like Remdesvir in the treatment protocol that will bring down mortality rate. 30 per cent of Covid-19 patients, who have died, had no comorbidities but the inflammation is intense. There is widespread clot formation in the lungs and heart. We are giving clot dissolving medicines and dexamethasone as per international protocol. Many patients have been given Remdesvir also. We are also now indicating the amount of viral load in the test reports indicating that they need to be monitored closely. Some people with high viral load have no symptoms surprisingly." At least those who have symptoms and high viral load should be hospitalised and get intensive care. Many of these patients deteriorate in a mere 48-hour time period, Manjunath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-4169-new-cases-karnataka-records-highest-spike-tally-above-50000-862125.html
16-07-2020||West||Maharashtra's top former bureaucrat dies of Covid-19||An IAS officer of the 1972 batch, she served the bureaucracy for 42 years and retired as Additional Chief Secretary.  Besides, she was a prolific writer, singer, music director who had composed scores of Marathi songs. She held prominent positions in the fields of revenue, home, forest, social, information and publicity, medical, rural development and other departments of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-top-former-bureaucrat-dies-of-covid-19-861811.html
16-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Part of building collapses in Thane, no injuries reported||A portion of a three-storey residential building, which was classified as 'very dangerous', collapsed in Maharashtra's Thane city on Thursday morning after heavy overnight rains, a civic official said. No casualties were reported, according to Thane civic body's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam. The balcony of an apartment on the third floor of 'Gayatri' building located in Kopri area collapsed around 8.30 am, the official said. The 35-year-old building was classified as 'very dangerous' by the city civic body and was vacated last year and sealed, he said. After a portion of it collapsed on Thursday, local firemen and a team of the disaster management cell rushed to the spot and removed the debris, he said. A team of engineers will take a call on whether to demolish dangerous portions of the building, he added. As many as 79 buildings in the city are under the C1 category (which means very dangerous and need to be vacated immediately), while 123 buildings fall under the C2 category, Thane Municipal Commissioner Vipin Sharma said on Sunday. Residents of all buildings classified as 'very dangerous' have been evacuated in view of the ongoing monsoon season, another official said. The C2A buildings are those that can be structurally repaired after which residents can reoccupy it, while C2B are those that can be repaired without residents having to evacuate it. The buildings under the C3 category are those that require minor repairs. A team of the National Disaster Response Force is stationed in Thane since Wednesday to deal with any issues arising due to the heavy rains lashing the city, Kadam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-part-of-building-collapses-in-thane-no-injuries-reported-861831.html
16-07-2020||West||Heavy showers in Mumbai, more rains likely: Indian Meteorological Department||Heavy rains lashed Mumbai overnight with some parts receiving extremely heavy showers, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Areas like Bandra and Mahalaxmi in the city received 201 mm and 129 mm rainfall, respectively, between 8.30 am on Wednesday and 6.30 am on Thursday, IMD Mumbai's Deputy Director General K S Hosalikar said. Heavy rainfall is likely in the city on Thursday, he said. According to the IMD, the Santacruz weather bureau, representative of Mumbai's suburbs, reported 191.2 mm rainfall during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Thursday, while the Colaba weather station in South Mumbai recorded 156.4 mm rainfall in the same time span. Rains in Mumbai throughout the night, leading to extremely heavy falls at isolated places, Hosalikar tweeted. "Heavy showers are likely in Mumbai on Thursday, the official added.   The Harnai weather station in coastal Ratnagiri district reported 127.2 mm rainfall during the 24-hour period, while the Ratnagiri observatory recorded 97.5 mm rains during the period. Nanded and Osmanabad districts in Marathwada region of the state received 96.4 mm and 25.8 mm rains, respectively. The Thane Belapur Industries Association weather station recorded 58.8 mm rains, the IMD said. Jalgaon district in North Maharashtra received 53 mm rains, while Matheran and Alibaug in Raigad district reported 48 mm and 41.6 mm rainfall, respectively. Besides, Solapur district in western Maharashtra received 35 mm rain, while Dahanu observatory in Palghar district recorded 21.1 mm rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-showers-in-mumbai-more-rains-likely-indian-meteorological-department-861835.html
16-07-2020||West||Zydus Cadila gets USFDA nod for manufacturing Doxycycline Injection at Vadodara||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Thursday said it has received approval from the US health regulator for manufacturing Doxycycline Injection at its Jarod facility, in Gujarat. Doxycycline Injection is used to treat or prevent bacterial infections, including pneumonia and other respiratory tract infections. "Zydus Cadila has received approval for its supplemental abbreviated new drug application (SANDA) for Doxycycline Injection USP, 100 mg/Vial from the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA)," Zydus Cadila said in a statement. The product will be manufactured at Cadila Healthcare Ltd's injectable facility at Jarod, Vadodara (formerly known as Liva Pharmaceuticals Ltd), it added. The company said the Jarod facility in Gujarat is an important one for Zydus' US injectable portfolio as five abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs) have been approved from this facility and another six have been filed, awaiting approval. "Zydus has plans to file further ANDAs and NDAs from this facility. This approval will also help ramp up site transfer approvals from the Moraiya facility (Ahmedabad) to this facility," the company added. The Zydus Group now has 293 approvals and has so far filed over 390 abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs) since the commencement of the filing process in 2003-04, the company said. Shares of Cadila Healthcare, the listed entity of the group, were trading at Rs 355.60 apiece on BSE, up 0.37 percent against their previous close.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/zydus-cadila-gets-usfda-nod-for-manufacturing-doxycycline-injection-at-vadodara-861873.html
16-07-2020||West||Child-lifting rumours led to Palghar lynching: CID chargesheet||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Thursday reiterated that the brutal mob lynching incident in Palghar district was a result of rumours and there was no communal angle in it. Two sadhus,  Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj (70) and  Sushil Giri Maharaj (35), who were from the famous Shri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhada of Varanasi, and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), were lynched to death on the night of April 16 in the Gadchinchale village in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district,  nearly 120 kms from downtown Mumbai. They were travelling towards Surat in a Maruti Eeco Van, during the Covid-19 lockdown. While a huge mob attacked the trio, the policemen, belonging to the Kasa police station, could not prevent the lynching. “It was only because of rumour mongering,” state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. The statement comes a day after the Pune-headquartered State-CID filed two separate chargesheets running into 12,000 pages. “Some political parties tried to give a communal angle by saying that it was because of a Hindu-Muslim issue, Hindi-Christian issue…the Maharashtra government had handed over the probe to the State-CID which has filed its chargesheet. There is no communal angle in it. It was because of rumours. There has been rumours of child kidnapping gangs being active in the area, before the incident happened,” Deshmukh said. Meanwhile, state BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam came down heavily on the government. “When the incident took place, even before completing the investigations, the government could claim that the triple-lynchings were an outcome of rumour-mongering. The police are echoing the views expressed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh soon after the incident in April… We reiterate our demand that the case should be handed over to the CBI for probe,” Kadam demanded. After the chargesheet was filed, the State-CID said: “Two sadhus and their driver were travelling on April 16 in a Maruti Eeco Van from Mumbai to Gujarat, they were accosted and fatally attacked near a Forest Check Naka at village Gadchinchle, Taluka Dahanu,  Palghar, by a violent mob of locals .Three different offences were registered at Kasa police station, Palghar vide C.R Nos. 76,77 and 78/2020 and investigated by the Palghar Police until the State Government transferred all these cases for investigation to the CID Crime, Maharashtra.” On April 21, the CID took over the investigation and assigned the same to its Kokan Bhavan Unit headed by Superintendent of Police, Maruti Jagtap. Additional Director General of Police (CID), Atulchandra Kulkarni, deployed additional manpower including Superintendent of Police (CID) Nasik, Ajay Deore, and several other officers of different ranks. The entire team led by Special Inspector General of Police (West) CID, Pravin Salunke camped at KASA throughout the period of investigation. “During the most challenging times of the pandemic, investigation in the crimes was most difficult as scores of people had to be called in for questioning; teams had to camp, fan out in the area to collect intelligence, nab the accused and undertake searche, seizures,” CID officials said. The CID team examined 808 suspects and 118 witnesses to collect strong evidence against the accused.  In all, 154 persons were arrested and 11 juveniles in conflict with law, were detained. None of the accused has been released on bail so far. The chargesheets were filed by Deputy Superintendents of Police Vijay Pawar and Irfan Shaikh, who are the investigating officers of the case. The CID has invoked Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Maharashtra Police Act and Maharashtra Damage to Public Property (Amendment) Act, with charges pertaining to murder, armed rioting, using criminal force to prevent a public servant from discharging his duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/child-lifting-rumours-led-to-palghar-lynching-cid-chargesheet-861906.html
16-07-2020||West||Maharashtra to get more clean energy through mega solar power projects||The Maharashtra government will be implementing solar mega power projects for clean and renewable energy with an aim to protect the environment. State Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut said this while addressing a review meeting on the proposed solar power projects by Maharashtra State Power Generation Co Ltd (Mahagenco) under EPC mode and the Ultra Mega Renewable Energy solar park scheme at Mantralaya on Tuesday. The meeting was presided over by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar who is the Finance and Planning Minister.During the meeting, Pawar and Dr Raut issued directives to the Mahagenco for implementation of various solar power projects of 602 MW capacity under Engineering Procuring Commissioning (EPC) on the lands owned by the company at various locations in the state. Accordingly, these projects will be developed in three stages. As a part of the first stage, a total of 187 MW capacity solar projects at Kaudgaon (50 MW), Latur (60 MW), Thermal Power Station land at Bhusawal, Koradi, Parli, Nashik (52 MW) and Sakri (25 MW) will be developed through the balance loan of KFW Bank and equity which was approved earlier by the Government of Maharashtra. The proposal for cabinet approval of these projects will be submitted immediately. As a part of the second stage, a total of 390 MW capacity solar projects at Washim (170 MW), Yavatmal (75 MW) and Kachrala in Chandrapur district (145 MW) will be developed through a fresh KFW Bank loan and equity infusion by the Government of Maharashtra. The proposal for cabinet approval and equity sanction of these projects will be submitted shortly. During the third stage, 25 MW capacity Sakri –II project would be developed by using domestic loan of the lowest rate of interest and equity infusion by the Government of Maharashtra. In accordance with the Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Solar Park Scheme, solar parks of 2500 MW capacity would be developed in the state through the Joint Venture Company (JVC) of NTPC and  Mahagenco. Solar projects will be developed by individual companies as per their share in the Joint Venture Company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-get-more-clean-energy-through-mega-solar-power-projects-861934.html
16-07-2020||West||Gujarat govt makes labour law flexible for industries with less than 300 workmen to 'hire and fire' without permission||Claiming to maintain a "striking balance" between industries and workmen, the Gujarat government has amended a labour law giving flexibility to industrial units, having 300 or less employees, to "hire and fire" their employees. The new provision has given power to employers for retrenchment, lay-off or closing down their units without seeking prior permission from the government. Earlier, this cap was restricted to 100 as prescribed under section 25K of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The state government has amended section 25K of the act by way of an ordinance which has been assented by the President of India and subsequently by governor Acharya Devvrat. Additional Chief Secretary to state government Vipul Mitra while confirming the development told DH that the amended act has been notified for implementation. He said that there has been a demand from the industries and also suggested by former finance secretary Hansmukh Adhia panel for economic revival in view of lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. Existing provision of section 25K of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 provides for applicability of Chapter VB to such industrial establishment (not being an establishment of a seasonal character or in which work is performed only intermittently) in which not less than one hundred workmen were employed on an average per working day for the preceding twelve months. In such establishments, prior permission of the State Government is to be required for the employer before effecting lay off, retrenchment or closure. The state government has amended this section on the ground that "It is considered necessary to have provision which would help and encourage the employers to employ more number of workers in the establishment and therefore, said section 25K is amended so as to increase the number of workmen from one hundred to three hundred." Section 5N of the act has also been modified that has provision of three months' notice or wages for the notice period. The government has done away with wage for the notice period. The ordinance states, "To provide additional financial security to the workman affected by such retrenchment, it considered necessary to amend sub-section (9) to the effect that in addition of that compensation, as prescribed in the said sub-section, the workman is paid an amount equivalent to his last three months average pay." This decision is going to benefit nearly 40 to 50% of the industrial units, a senior official said while adding that there are over 40,000 units in the state. A statement in the ordinance claims that since inception Gujarat has been an "industrially progressive state" and in the "last decade, it has become an industrial hub and growth engine of the country." It says that the state has a record of "cordial relations" between industry and workers and there have been "hard any occasion of strikes or lock-outs." It goes on to say that since "more and more industries are being established, the state government has considered it necessary to strike the balance of interests between the industries and the workers and create an environment which is conducive to both, the industry and the workers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-makes-labour-law-flexible-for-industries-with-less-than-300-workmen-to-hire-and-fire-without-permission-861935.html
16-07-2020||West||AAP launches campaign against high electricity bills in Maharashtra||The Aam Aadmi Party's Maharashtra unit has launched a website to campaign against high power bills in the state, where consumers can also send their complaints to the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Council (MERC), an official said on Thursday. The party has launched 'Hisaab Do', a website where consumers can file their complaints about high electricity bills and compare them with the power tariffs under the Delhi government, a release issued by the party stated. "In Maharashtra, we have had some of the highest tariffs in the country, coupled with the issue of load shedding in rural areas. Such high power bills are unacceptable," the party said in the statement. The party demanded that power consumption of up to 200 units be made free for domestic consumers and asked for rationalisation of tariffs across the board by the MERC, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aap-launches-campaign-against-high-electricity-bills-in-maharashtra-861943.html
16-07-2020||West||'Make Pulse Oximeter compulsorily in housing complex societies'||With the Covid-19 cases inching towards the 10-lakh mark, the Microbiologists Society- India (MSI) has called for making Pulse Oximeter compulsory in housing society complexes and workplaces. This could emerge as an answer to the re-imposition of lockdown measures,  feels the MSI. According to Dr A M Deshmukh, President of MSI, this will aid in detection of Covid-19 cases. "We suggest that the use of Pulse Oximeters should be made mandatory for housing Societies, offices and public places. Further, testing by Pulse Oximeters should be made accessible at every municipal ward and public health centre," Dr Deshmukh said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. According to MSI,  the wide use of Pulse Oximeters will help in early detection of Covid-19 infection - before the virus damages vital body organs - and eventually, control the number of deaths due to the virus. This is particularly important given that Covid-19 induced ‘Happy hypoxia’ is currently one of the major causes of the deaths, Dr Deshmukh added. The MSI chief said the Covid-19 infections are spreading rapidly across India has led to an atmosphere of fear and panic among the people.  "As a result, the people are putting pressure on government authorities for re-implementing the lockdown. They have a misconceived notion that further extending the lockdown can significantly stop the spread of the virus. Consequently, many states and districts across India are re-implementing lockdown/curfew," he said. "However, as microbiologists, we believe that re-implementing the lockdown is not going to help us in tackling the current crisis. It may facilitate in bringing the number of cases down in a particular region for some time, but it is extremely difficult to keep it that way in the long run. In fact, India has entered the community transmission stage and thus the infection rate and numbers are going to increase exponentially from here. There is no fail-safe approach that can be employed to prevent this spread. Moreover, if we  continue with the lockdown strategy, the Covid-19 crisis will likely linger on for a long time," added Dr Deshmukh. He said frequent lockdowns could also severely affect the nation’s economy in the long run, and along with it, the future of the nation’s youth. Plasma Therapy is proving to be one of the most promising treatments for the disease,  he said,  adding that now India has a substantial number of recovered patients across India who could donate blood and contribute towards Plasma Therapy. "Nevertheless, the treatment is still not being employed as extensively as desired at all levels. We request you to kindly look into this and encourage and facilitate the use of Plasma Therapy for every critical patient," added Dr Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/make-pulse-oximeter-compulsorily-in-housing-complex-societies-861946.html
16-07-2020||West||Over 650 Kolkata Police personnel diagnosed with Covid-19 so far: Senior cop||More than 650 Kolkata Police personnel have been diagnosed with Covid-19 over the past four months, of which around 512 have recovered and several others are undergoing treatment at hospitals, a senior officer said. A few of them have been advised home isolation, the officer said on Thursday. At least two have succumbed to the disease so far. Sixteen personnel of the Kolkata Police traffic department had on Wednesday tested positive for the disease - some of them posted at its headquarters in Lalbazar, and others at Charu Market and Entally police stations, the officer said. The offices of the traffic department have been shut down for sanitisation, he said. All 16 have been hospitalised, the officer said. "We have asked our officers and staff members to maintain physical distance and follow safety precautions," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-650-kolkata-police-personnel-diagnosed-with-covid-19-so-far-senior-cop-861955.html
16-07-2020||West||Two buildings collapse in Mumbai, four die||At least, four persons were killed and over two dozen rescued in two incidents of building collapses in Mumbai as heavy rains continued to pound India’s financial capital for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday. The search and rescue operations are still underway, when last reports came in. While a building collapsed in around noon at Plot No. 8 B at Malvani Gate No 5 in Malad East in the northern suburbs, another five-storeyed Bhanushali Building broke down near the General Post Office in Fort area of south Mumbai. Teams of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) rushed into action. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the situation and drove to the Fort collapse site. Thackeray was accompanied by Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal and Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. While two died in the Malvani incident, two succumbed to injuries in the Fort incident. The two, who died in Malvani incident, were identified as Faizal Wahid Sayyad (18) and Anjum Shahabuddin Shaikh (23). “13 others were treated and discharged,” a MFB official said. Mumbai South MP Arvind Sawant also reached to the accident site in Fort. “It was an old building. It has crashed, fire bridge and BMC teams are here,” he said, adding that it was a cessed building and redevelopment is delayed. “We will take strict action against the owners if they are found in conflict with law and they would be booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder,” said Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar. The identity of the two died in Fort is yet to be established. One of those injured is critical. “I am saved because of God’s grace,” said a senior citizen, who was a resident of the third floor of the building. According to him, the building is 125 years old.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-buildings-collapse-in-mumbai-four-die-861999.html
16-07-2020||West||Varavara Rao tests Covid-19 positive||Jailed and ailing renowned poet, P Varavara Rao has tested positive for Covid-19. Rao was arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case – that has now been taken over by the NIA from the Pune police. Last week, the family members and friends of Varavara Rao had raised concerns over the health of the 81-year-old Left wing activist. Varavara Rao's family members - wife P Hemalatha, and daughters P Sahaja, P Anala, P Pavana - issued a public statement from Hyderabad, urging the government to provide necessary medical attention to him. Amid mounting pressure, various tests were conducted including Covid-19, in which he had tested positive. While Varavara Rao’s friends have told DH that he had tested Covid-19 positive, jail officials are yet to comment. Varavara Rao is lodged in the Taloja jail – while he was taken to the Sir JJ Hospital in Mumbai for various tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/varavara-rao-tests-covid-19-positive-862003.html
16-07-2020||West||Has Mumbai Congress merged with Shiv Sena? Asks Sanjay Nirupam||In what to take a serious turn, veteran Congressman Sanjay Nirupam on Thursday wanted to know whether his party’s Mumbai unit has merged with the Shiv Sena. Over the past few months, Nirupam, a Shiv Sainik-turned-Congressman, had been targeting the Shiv Sena, Maha Vikas Aghadi government and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Last week, Nirupam has sought an investigation into the land deal inked by Thackeray for his bungalow Matoshree 2. Nirupam has claimed that while Thackeray bought the plot for Rs 5 crore, it is worth much more. Thackeray lives in a bungalow which was built by his father Balasaheb Thackeray in Kalanagar area of Bandra in Mumbai. The bungalow is known as Matoshree and is revered by Shiv Sena workers like a shrine since the death of Bal Thackeray. A few years ago, another building, now called Matoshree 2, was built right opposite the existing family home. Nirupam wants this land deal to be investigated by ED and CBI. On Thursday, to a tweet by a media house that Nirupam could be expelled for anti-party activities, Nirupam tagged it and tweeted: “As per this report, Mumbai Congress leaders have demanded action against me. Because, I wanted a probe into Shiv Sena leaders’ land scam, who happens to be CM of the state.  Is speaking against Shiv Sena an anti party activity? Is Mumbai Congress merged into Shiv Sena?” Nirupam posted an government advertisement on employment generation programme which has photographs of Thackeray, Industries Minister Subhash Desai (of Shiv Sena) and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Labour Minister Dilip Walse-Patil, Skill Development Minister Nawab Malik (all from NCP). ‘’Hope you have heard Congress is part of the government. Where is Congress in the government advertisement to provide jobs . I want to tell the Congress leaders who have fallen in love with the Shiv Sena , instead of prostrating before the Shiv Sena, fight it , otherwise the Congress will be finished,’’ he said and tagged the advertisement in the tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/has-mumbai-congress-merged-with-shiv-sena-asks-sanjay-nirupam-862020.html
16-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Deaf and mute man held for stealing mobile phones||A 30-year-old man, suffering from speech and hearing impairment, was arrested for allegedly breaking into an electronics showroom and stealing mobile phones in Thane city of Maharashtra, police said on Thursday. At least four out of eight stolen mobile phones have been recovered from the accused identified only as Tusar, said senior inspector Data Dhole of the Wagle Estate police station. The accused had allegedly broken into an electronic store on June 30 and stolen eight mobile phones valued at Rs 2.28 lakh, the official said. The man was identified based on the CCTV footage from the area and apprehended on July 11, he said. A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of the IPC at Wagle Estate police station, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-deaf-and-mute-man-held-for-stealing-mobile-phones-862021.html
16-07-2020||West||Goa Governor blames 'error of judgment' for Covid-19 situation||Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik on Thursday blamed the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state on an "error of judgment" by the state government, and said it let down its guard prematurely. Goa "got satisfied" about the virus situation too early, Malik said. He was speaking to the media after attending a meeting with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane and officials to review the Covid-19 situation ahead of a three-day lockdown which will start in the state from Friday. "As far as tests are concerned, Goa is doing good. Covid care management is also good," he said. "But we got satisfied when we should not have got satisfied. We withdrew the lockdown then and we are doing the (fresh) lockdown (when cases have increased)," Malik said. When people of Vasco town demanded lockdown to contain the virus spread, the government did not pay heed, due to which the number of cases in that area increased, he said. He described entire sequence of decisions as an "error of judgment" on the part of the BJP-led state government. "Lockdown should have been imposed when there was demand," Malik said . During the meeting, a lot of issues were discussed and he praised the government wherever it had done a good job and also pointed out the lapses, he said. On chief minister Sawant's statement that the governor blamed the media during the meeting for putting out wrong information about the coronavirus outbreak, Malik denied it. "It is wrong to say that I blamed the media. There was no issue about media. I have never criticized the press. The press is our strength which give us feedback. CM should not have said that. I never said that," he said. He also asked the state government to address issues such as the quality of food and hygiene at Covid Care Centres, the governor said. It was decided that one Covid Care Centre should be set up in each tehsil, he informed. On COVID-19 deaths, Malik said that they are being attributed to co-morbid conditions of patients. "I told them that you should treat the patients with comorbid conditions. You are only treating corona, what will happen to the rest of the ailments they are facing? There should be total treatment," he said. With its biggest single-day spike of 198 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, Goa's tally of patients grew to 2,951. 18 coronavirus patients have died in the coastal state so far as per the health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-governor-blames-error-of-judgment-for-covid-19-situation-862030.html
16-07-2020||West||Three teens nabbed for stealing two-wheelers in Mumbai||Three teenage boys, including a minor, who were allegedly involved in theft and sale of two-wheelers, have been nabbed from suburban Malad, police said on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off, unit 11 of the Mumbai police's crime branch laid a trap in Malad west on Wednesday, where two persons were planning to sell a two-wheeler stolen from Sahar area, he said. The police nabbed the two suspects and during interrogation, it came to light that the accused, along with a few of their aides, had stolen over four two-wheelers and had sold one of them, he said. The police have arrested 19-year-olds, he said, adding that Andale, a student of hotel management, is the gang leader and has no criminal record. A 16-year-old member of the gang has been detained in connection with the thefts, he said. The arrested accused would steal two-wheelers, change their number plates and sell them to college students, he said. The gang has been involved in the thefts for the last two years and the police are looking for a few other members, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-teens-nabbed-for-stealing-two-wheelers-in-mumbai-862046.html
16-07-2020||West||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar acting more dangerously than BJP mouthpiece, says CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was acting "more dangerously" than a BJP mouthpiece and it doesn't suit someone holding a constitutional post, hours after he criticised the state's education system. Dismissing Dhankhar's charge against the government of being incommunicado, Banerjee said it seemed "we are servants". "We are in regular touch with the governor. I have spoken to him four times on Wednesday... It's as if we are servants and work taking salaries and we will have to answer (him) every moment. What will the (state) government do -- tackle Covid or continue answering his queries?" Banerjee said at a press conference in state secretariat 'Nabanna'. The chief minister also assured the vice-chancellors of state-run universities that they do not have to worry after Dhankhar warned of action for skipping a meet he had called. "The vice-chancellor should not worry. All of them are respected and they will continue to work in the manner they have been working. We are with them. They have our 100 per cent support," she said. Banerjee's comments came hours after the governor said the education system in West Bengal is "politically caged". The chief minister also criticised the governor for his claim that the death of BJP leader and Hemtabad MLA Debendra Nath Roy was a political murder. "I will wait till the probe is over. I do not agree with him. I think he either have to prove that it's a political murder or he has no credibility to stay in the chair. I think the governor is acting more dangerously than a BJP mouthpiece," she said. Further, the chief minister questioned Air India's move to send certain employees on leave without pay for up to five years. "What's happening? I've never heard of this. Will not the Constitution come into play in this case," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/west-bengal-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-acting-more-dangerously-than-bjp-mouthpiece-says-cm-mamata-banerjee-862067.html
16-07-2020||West||Father-son duo 'thrashed' inside Gujarat police station; 4 suspended||A father-son duo was allegedly thrashed inside a police station for not wearing mask here in Gujarat, prompting authorities to suspend four policemen, said officials on Thursday. A head constable and three constables were suspended following the alleged incident, they said. On the other hand, the duo, Ghanshyam Udeshi and his son Nishant, who are hospitalised, were booked for allegedly assaulting policemen, said the officials. The alleged incident took place inside a police station in Kalavad town of Jamnagar district on Tuesday. It came close on the heels of custodial death of a father-son duo in Tamil Nadu following alleged torture by policemen inside a police station. "I have already ordered suspension of one head constable and three constables involved in the incident. "The father-son duo is in the hospital. An FIR has been lodged against them," said Jamnagar District Superintendent of Police Sharad Singhal. The Udeshis were booked under IPC sections 186 (obstructing public servant), 332 (causing hurt to public servant), 353 (use of force against public servant) and 506-2 (criminal intimidation), police said. The duo also lodged an FIR against the policemen of the Kalavad police station. It is alleged that police spotted Nishant Udeshi sitting in his shop on Tuesday without wearing a mask, a violation of coronavirus guidelines and punishable offence. After some arguments, policemen took both Nishant Udeshi and his father to the police station and allegedly thrashed them, the victims have claimed in their complaint. In the counter FIR against the duo, police claimed that both of them attacked policemen for doing their duty and even damaged a computer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/father-son-duo-thrashed-inside-gujarat-police-station-4-suspended-862089.html
16-07-2020||West||Pakistan moves Gujarat High Court for custody of citizen; seeks Rs 20 lakh compensation for 'illegal detention'||The Pakistan High Commission has filed a habeas corpus petition in Gujarat High Court seeking custody of a 28-year-old Pakistani resident who is "stuck" in Surat after his arrest in a fake currency case in 2016. The commission has sought a compensation of Rs 20 lakh for the "illegal detention" of the man despite his acquittal. The commission has said in the petition that "the life and liberty of the illegal detainee are in danger at the hands of Respondents (state government) and the future uncertain as he faces darkness around him, with denial of any hearing, by any authority." The strongly worded petition, filed by Muni Akhtar Satti, an employee of the commission in Delhi, says that Sajjad Burhanuddin Vora, a Karachi student, is in "illegal detention by the people, who are responsible for human right protection and are guardians of law....because tolerance of such illegal detention, would amount to acceptance of systematic subversion and erosion of rule of law...because the illegal detention of the illegal detainee is the worst kind of crime in a civilized society...because it is the negation of rule of law. It tarnishes the image of the Nation..." Before this petition, Vora had approached the high court seeking permission to be allowed to go back and this continues to be pending.  The division bench of Justices Sonia Gokani and NV Anjari allowed the petition of Vora to be joined as party respondent. Earlier, on Tuesday the bench asked the lawyer representing the Commission to file an affidavit "as to in what capacity he (Satti) is permitted to espouse the cause of the corpus (Vora) and that he is authorised by the Pakistan High Commission."   "Vora is in illegal custody in Surat as he is not allowed to leave the country despite his acquittal by the trial court which was confirmed by the high court," said Vora's lawyer Aum Kotwal. In November 2016, Vora, belonging to the Dawoodi Bohra community, had come to India to participate in religious functions in Surat and Mumbai where his relatives also live. In December, he was arrested by the Surat Railway Police with fake currency. He was tried by a sessions court which acquitted him in August 2018. The state government challenged the order in the high court which passed an order in July 2019 upholding the lower court's order.  Vora made representations to local police and Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) requesting for an exit permit. FRRO sought a No Objection Certificate from local police which has not responded to Vora's letters since September 2019. "My client has been running from pillar to post to get an exit permit but to no avail. Finally, we filed a petition in the high court where the state government stated that it is going to challenge the acquittal in Supreme Court but even after a year nothing has been done and therefore, the court has sought paper-trail from the government in the next hearing on July 21," said  Kotwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pakistan-moves-gujarat-high-court-for-custody-of-citizen-seeks-rs-20-lakh-compensation-for-illegal-detention-862142.html
