17-07-2020||First Edit||Ashok Lavasa’s departure will weaken Election Commission||The proposed moving of Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa to multilateral lender Asian Development Bank (ADB) as a vice-president has come as a surprise because members of the Election Commission (EC) have rarely relinquished their positions in the past. In the history of the Commission, only once has a member quit to take up another office. It is a constitutional body with high status and power and is among the top unelected offices in the country. Lavasa’s departure is all the more surprising because he is in line to become the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) in April 2021 when the incumbent Sunil Arora completes his term, if the government follows the convention of appointing the senior-most commissioner to the top post. While the ADB has made the announcement about his appointment, Lavasa has not yet confirmed it and it is not known when he would take up the position.  The significance of Lavasa’s departure may lie in the impact of his likely absence on the working of the Commission. He is known for having opposed the clean chits given by the Election Commission to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah over alleged violations of the model code of conduct during the campaign for last year's Lok Sabha elections. He was widely admired for taking the right position when the Commission seemed to be lenient to Modi and Shah in the matter. He also abstained from the EC’s meetings when his dissent was not recorded. Members of his family, including his wife, son and sister were later investigated by government agencies over matters related to violation of tax laws. This was considered to be a vindictive response from the government, and Lavasa himself seemed to hint at this when he wrote in an article that “it is naïve to expect those that have been opposed by the honest to meekly accept the ascendance of the meek’’ and that “they strike back’’.   Senior-level appointments in the ADB are made with the concurrence of the governments of member countries and at their request. If the government did not propose Lavasa’s name, it must have at least concurred with the proposal. It will now be free to appoint a person of its choice to the position vacated by him. It is unfortunate that the Commission is set to lose a member who is independent and committed to its constitutional mandate. As Chief Election Commissioner, Lavasa would have had the responsibility to conduct some important elections like those to be held in West Bengal and UP. His departure from the EC is not good news when many constitutional institutions and other important offices are under pressure to toe the government’s line.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/ashok-lavasa-s-departure-will-weaken-election-commission-862551.html
17-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||At least 100 Covid warriors infected in Dharwad||At least 100 corona warriors have been infected with the virus so far in Dharwad district. Of them, one Assistant Sub-inspector attached to Gantikeri Police station has succumbed to the virus. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said the district administration does not have a consolidated list regarding the total number of corona warriors, including doctors, police officials, ASHA workers and pourakarmikas, who have been affected with Covid-19. Information provided by various departments say that at least 100 of them have been infected so far. According to Arun Kumar, Medical Superintendent of Karnataka Medical Science, Hubballi, the district's Covid-19 centre, 45 medical staff including 10 doctors, 10 nurses, 10 post graduate students, 10 interns and house surgeons, and five group C-D employees have been infected with coronavirus while on duty. Of the 10 doctors infected, eight are still recovering. Doctors getting infected with the virus is adversely affecting the medical care at KIMS, as increase in the number of cases is adding additional burden on the already stressed staff here. The chances of virus spreading from these doctors to visiting patients is also high. “Every day we need a minimum of 60 doctors to take care of Covid-19 patients at KIMS. With several of our medical staff, including doctors in quarantine, providing treatment is becoming challenging,” said Arun Kumar. A senior doctor at KIMS, who did not wish to be named, said earlier that after every seven days of Covid-19 duty we used to take 14 days of self-isolation. However, with several doctors infected many doctors are not even getting their weekly offs. KIMS sources also confirmed that the management has done away with sealing down of departments after a doctor in the department gets infected as it would have adverse impact on treatment. “The infected section/ward is sanitised and treatment goes on,” said the doctor.    ASI dead As many as 44 police personnel attached to Hubballi-Dharwad police commissionerate, have been infected with the virus so far. Of this one 55-year-old ASI, with previous medical history succumbed to the virus. However, his death has been so far not reported in the state medical bulletin. Of the 44 affected, nearly eight police personnel have been discharged from institutional quarantine.Speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner of Police (L&O) P Krishnakant said as of now no police stations are seal down, but each one of them is being sanitised every alternative day. With several police personnel either being quarantined or in isolation; this is impacting the implementation of the complete lockdown in Dharwad district. The district administration does not have exact numbers on the number of ASHA workers, pourakarmikas and others affected by Covid-19. Sources said that at least 31 ‘healthcare’ workers are affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/at-least-100-covid-warriors-infected-in-dharwad-862511.html
17-07-2020||In Perspective||Triumph of marks over mettle||“Marks are stark reminders of India’s slavish colonial past and a pointer to being an academically third-world country.”                                                                                                          - Nirad C Chaudhary, Thy Hand, Great Anarch!, 1987   Toppers in CBSE/ICSE class X and class XII exams have been regularly getting 500/500 or 600/600 in the past few years! While congratulating them on their performance, one is bound to ask: Is it really possible to get full marks in all subjects? Last year, two ISC (Indian School Certificate) toppers broke that final ceiling as well and got 400/400! This year, Divyanshi Jain of Lucknow has got 600/600 in CBSE. How can a student, however brilliant, get 100/100 in descriptive papers like History, English, Political Science, Psychology, etc., subjects in which there may be more than one interpretation, thus more than one answer to a question? This new trend of over-generous marking is now troubling serious educationists and the general public alike. Have students become “more brilliant” all of a sudden? Or, have the syllabuses and exams been reduced to ridiculous levels? Whatever the reason, this trend of extremely high scores even in Humanities subjects is alarming. This further encourages rote-learning and cramming. The real objective of education is lost in the vortex of marks and grades. Since everyone cannot get 500, 499 or 498 out of 500, even those getting over 90% marks are feeling left out. Cut-offs for admissions are ridiculously high and even very brilliant students are not getting admission into the colleges and streams of their choice. This charade must end. Our education has become either marks-oriented or caste-based. The decision to pass all students has resulted in awarding unthinkably high marks to everyone.  As a research scholar visiting colleges and varsities in India, I’ve had many opportunities to interact with the ‘brightest’ students who have broken all previous records in marks. But, I’m afraid, I’ve seldom come across truly brilliant students whose brilliance justifies the very high marks they’ve got in their Board exams. Examiners are perhaps helpless as they get orders from their superiors to award marks liberally, but such exceedingly high marks are becoming an albatross around the necks of the students at an impressionable age. This is dangerous. It fosters both a level of complacency and a superiority complex among students. If this trend goes on, there’ll be no way to determine the true mettle of most of the students. We’re actually playing ducks and drakes with the future of our young students by snowing them under the avalanche of marks. Marks are never the criteria to judge a student’s intelligence, abilities and his/her true worth. It’s time to revamp the whole education system for the collective benefit of all students.  Years ago, Prashant Chandra Mahalanobis, the father of modern Indian statistics, curtly told his friend and the Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru that if the marks system, a legacy of Thomas Macaulay’s colonial education system, wasn’t abolished, India would soon have a crowd of ‘toppers’ sans skills to survive in a competitive world. So very true. Many ‘toppers,’ reckoned only by marks, fade into oblivion. A famous educationist observed once that “brilliant students with incredibly high marks are often marked out of the race of life, but the so-called ‘sluggish’ ones shine in all spheres of life.”  You’ve examples of renowned journalists like the late Vinod Mehta and Pritish Nandy. The former barely scraped through his BA exams with a third-class degree and the latter is not even a graduate! But they are doyens of English journalism in India. Vinod Mehta once tellingly wrote in The Outlook, the magazine he founded, “I always make it a point not to take a copy editor on his/her high marks in English literature because I myself didn’t get good marks in English at any level, but I ‘reached’ somewhere!” This amply speaks of the abysmal marks-based education system and the products it churns out in droves every year. The rigmarole of marks, antediluvian syllabuses in all varsities and the rotten system do not let a student blossom in India. Yours truly could not pursue an MA in English literature from any Indian university because he never formally studied English literature till his graduation! He studied Persian, Arabic, Turkish and Sanskrit, considered anathemas to the ‘experts’ in UGC. The erudite Rahul Sankrityayan, considered the ‘father of Indian travelogue literature’, was never considered fit to teach at any university in India because he didn’t even finish his matriculation, whereas the University of Leningrad appointed him Professor of Indology and neighbouring Sri Lanka appointed him Professor Emeritus at Colombo University and Permanent Head of the Faculty of Buddhism and Pali. It was Nehru who intervened and bent all rules for the polyglot and polymath. Nehru himself was a pass-class graduate in History from Trinity College, Cambridge, but wrote English like a dream. The point is, one’s abilities and talents are not dependent on marks. Judging a student on the basis of his or her marks will produce a chain of mediocre individuals. We should also collectively understand the futility of marks and get rid of our inveterate obsession with useless grades. Only then can we have individuals with true mettle and not with untrue marks. When Edward W Said, a founder of the academic branch of post-colonial studies, visited India in 1997, he exhorted students at Delhi University: “Let your intellect guide you through life’s journey, not marks. Marks stifle your cerebral growth and turn you into lifeless robots.”  (The writer is a scholar of Sanskrit and Semitic languages, civilizations and literature.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/triumph-of-marks-over-mettle-862556.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Incessant rain continues to lash Dakshina Kannada||Incessant rain continued to lash Flagons Kannada on Friday. IMD forecast heavy rain for the next five days in the district.  The showers in Mangaluru left a number of roadsides at Kottari, Pumpwell, Bejai,  K S Rao Road and other places with puddles of stagnant water. As high waves in the range of 3 to 3.3 meters were forecast along the coast from Mangaluru to Karwar,  fishermen have been advised not to venture into sea.  Further, three families were shifted to safer locations after a hillock at Halekote in Ullal area caved in on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/incessant-rain-continues-to-lash-dakshina-kannada-862332.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Someshwara TMC starts helpline centre||Someshwara TMC has started a helpline centre for the benefit of Covid-19 infected in its jurisdiction. The doctors will advise and give guidance to the infected who are in home isolation via video call. Someshwara TMC Chief Officer Vani V Alva said 10 infected are in home isolation in the jurisdiction of the TMC. The TMC officials, health officials are in constant touch with them by giving them advice on the health conditions. On Thursday, Kotekar PHC doctor Dr Ashmiya and Dr Sharan spoke to the infected via video call. On Friday, a team of doctors from Yenepoya Hospital interacted with the patients who are in home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-someshwara-tmc-starts-helpline-centre-862338.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain maroons low-lying areas in Udupi||With heavy rain lashing Udupi, the areas surrounding Moodanidambooru have been marooned. Water has entered several houses in the vicinity.  Artificial flood has inundated houses in Bannanje, Matadabettu and surrounding areas as well.  The Kalsanka rivulet is overflowing and water has entered houses in the vicinity. The parking area of Rajangana in Krishna Mutt has turned into a pool with stagnant water. The intensity of the rain has increased in Kundapura, Baindoor, Karkala, Hebri, Kaup and Brahmavar as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-maroons-low-lying-areas-in-udupi-862362.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Low-lying areas marooned in Udupi||With heavy rain lashing Udupi, the areas surrounding Moodanidambooru have been marooned. Water had entered many houses in the vicinity. An artificial flood had inundated houses in Bannanje, Matadabettu and surrounding areas as well. Kalsanka rivulet was overflowing and water had entered houses in the vicinity. The parking area of Rajangana in Krishna Mutt was turned into a pool of stagnant water. The intensity of the rain has increased in Kundapura, Baindoor, Karkala, Hebri, Kaup and Brahmavar as well. An electricity pole uprooted and fell near Inna Primary Health Centre in Karkala and damaged a parked scooter parked on the road. Sea erosion had intensified at Padubidri and damaged the concrete retaining wall, interlock near Sagar Vidyamandira. The sea erosion also intensified at Kadipatna, Ucchila and Yermal areas. A huge Peepal tree uprooted and fell near Sannabasavanakallu in Kota Moodugiliyaru. An artificial flood in Brahmavar inconvenienced the residents. In the past 24 hours, Udupi district had received 9 cm rainfall. A house belonging to Mukund Nayak at Melgangolli was damaged in the rain. All the inmates of the house had a miraculous escape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/low-lying-areas-marooned-in-udupi-862481.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Incessant rain continues to lash Dakshina Kannada||With rain lashing across the Dakshina Kannada district, the water level in rivers Nethravathi, Kumaradhara and Phalguni increased on Friday. The IMD had forecast heavy rain for the next five days in the district.  The showers in Mangaluru created puddles of stagnant water at Kottari, Pumpwell,  Bejai, K S Rao Road and other places. As high waves in the range of 3 to 3.3 meters were predicted along the coast from Mangaluru to Karwar, fishermen were advised not to venture into the sea.  Two houses were damaged fully at Bondathila and Jalsur, while a compound wall collapsed at Kalavar village in Bajpe. Further, three families were shifted to safer locations after a hillock at Halekote in Ullal caved in on Thursday. The rain for the past few days had led to the caving in of a hillock near Mithakodi in Mudipu. A portion of the petrol bunk building was damaged. On the other hand, Chelyadka bridge submerged for the third time during this monsoon on Friday. The bridge provides connectivity to Panaje from Puttur. As a result, vehicle users for office work had to take a detour and travel via Hantyar- Renja. With the rain intensifying in Belthangady taluk, rivers were flowing in spate at Didupe and Kukkavu, which had experienced flash flood last year. The rise in water level in River Kumaradhara in Subrahmanya has led to the threat of inundation of low-lying areas in and around Subrahmanya. With the Western Ghats area receiving heavy rain, the water level in the river has increased drastically. Following an increase in the inflow of water, the vented dam and an old bridge at Subrahmanya are facing the threat being submerged. The residents have expressed displeasure at the authorities for not removing the silt from the river. They said that the accumulation of silt will result in an artificial flood. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) predicted widespread light to moderate rain and at isolated places heavy to very heavy rain very likely over coastal districts and adjoining parts of Malnad districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/incessant-rain-continues-to-lash-dakshina-kannada-862483.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||DC Annies Kanmani Joy directs officials to allocate sites to flood victims||Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy has issued orders to allocate sites in Arekadu village, to the people dwelling on the river banks who lost their houses owing to floods. The district administration had cleared the encroachment of land in Arekadu village which was earmarked for the houses meant for flood victims in Nelyahudikeri limits. But, there were confusions regarding the road which passes through private land. Following the same, the deputy commissioner visited the site and summoning the officials, held a talk with the authorities of Tata company on Thursday and resolved the issue. Speaking on the occasion, she said there was a minor issue regarding the road that connects to the rehabilitation site. "The marking of the site will be done in the next 15 days. The ACF has given permission to fell the trees on the site. After felling of trees is complete, the rest of the works will be carried out by Taluk Panchayat executive officer," she added. ZP member Sunitha Manjunath, Taluk Panchayat member Shuhad, local Gram Panchayat former vice president Safiya, district assistant commissioner Javaregowda, Somwarpet tahsildar Govindaraju, Horata Samiti leader P R Bharat, Tata company general manager M B Ganapathy, legal manager Vijay Karnad and deputy general manager K P Appaiah were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-annies-kanmani-joy-directs-officials-to-allocate-sites-to-flood-victims-862487.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Harangi dam near full; 5,500 cuses water released||Following copious rains across Kodagu district, the Harangi reservoir is almost full and 5,500 cusecs of water was released from the dam on Friday. The dam is five feet short of reaching its maximum level of 2,859 feet. Normally, Harangi reservoir is filled in the first week of July and this year there is a delay of one week. This reservoir is the main source of water to  Krishnarajasagara dam in Mandya district. Irrigation department Executive Engineer Rajegowda said that water from the reservoir was now being released into the river. “After a meeting, water will be released into irrigation canals after July 25.”  Harangi dam provides irrigation facility to 1.34 lakh acres of farmland in Kodagu district, Periyapattana, Hunsur and KR Nagara of Mysuru district, Hunsur and Arkalgud taluk of Hassan district.  People dwelling on river banks have been told to move to safer locations, as a precautionary measure. Fishermen have been asked not toventure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/harangi-dam-near-full-5500-cuses-water-released-862531.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Davangere girl, who lost her battle with blood cancer, scored 100 in mathematics in II PUC exam||Anusha B, a II PUC student of Sri Siddaganga PU College in the city, scored a centum (100) in mathematics and managed an average of 92 marks in four other subjects. But before she could appear for the remaining one paper, she lost her battle to blood cancer. There were mixed emotions at the college, after the result was announced, not knowing whether to celebrate her feat or mourn her loss. Speaking to DH, Siddaganga PU Science College Director Jayanth D S said, “The untimely death of Anusha, one of the bright students of the college, is a great loss not only for the college, her family but also for the society.” Anusha stayed at the college hostel. After writing five papers, she left for her native Talikatte in Holalkere taluk, Chitradurga district as the final paper (English subject) was put off indefinitely due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. A few days later, Anusha complained of stomach ache. She was taken to Shivamogga for treatment, where she was diagnosed with blood cancer, he said. Not willing to give up, Anusha attended online classes conducted by the college while undergoing  treatment at KMC Hospital in Manipal, the Siddaganga PU college director added. Anusha’s father Basavarajappa told DH that she used to get common cold on regular basis and was treated in the college for the same. She had complained of stomach ache when she was just eight years old. But doctor said she was fine. Since then, she had no symptoms of cancer. She had scored 604 out of 625 marks in SSLC. She had the desire to become a doctor and was preparing for NEET exam. Her wish remained unfulfilled, said the teary-eyed father.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-girl-who-lost-her-battle-with-blood-cancer-scored-100-in-mathematics-in-ii-puc-exam-862533.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Recruitment freeze will hit Kalyana Karnataka||Withholding all fresh recruitment in the current fiscal could adversely affect the backward Kalyana Karnataka region, critics say. A case in point was of 1,203 PU lecturers for government colleges on the verge of appointment this year, though vacancies were notified six years ago. Candidates allege that those who won’t be appointed this year will face discrepancies in service benefits, seniority and others. Opposition leaders say that appointments to administrative posts should be prioritised over airports, statues and other unnecessary expenditure during the year. Speaking to DH, Mamatha, one of the PU lecturers awaiting appointment orders said that though notification for both PU and degree lecturers was issued at the same time in 2014, degree lecturers started working three years ago. “However, government withdrew its decision of counselling candidates via video conference from July 8, soon after the Finance department order,” she said. Another candidate, Amaresh Devaral, said that most of the candidates were from Kalyana Karnataka region with several candidates past their 40s. “Putting appointments on hold for a year would be detrimental. We had hoped that the government would put an end to our six-year ordeal at least this year,” he said. Finance department, in an order issued July 6 put direct recruitment on hold as an “economy” measure to cut costs. Direct recruitment to all posts, including backlogs and the Kalyana Karnataka cadre for the 2020-21 financial year were put on hold until further orders. Former MLC Ramesh Babu has written to the government urging to exempt these appointments from the Finance department order as selection of PU lecturers belonged to 2015-16 fiscal. Congress MLA Priyank Kharge alleged that the most of the appointments withheld were of Kalyana Karnataka region. More than half the posts sanctioned for the region are vacant, and freezing appointments for a year would adversely affect administration of the region. “Karnataka government has sanctioned new airports and statues, despite being under severe financial duress. Though airports are essential, it should have prioritized appointments to administrative and other key posts,”he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/recruitment-freeze-will-hit-kalyana-karnataka-862535.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government plans Aadhaar-based tech way to simplify farm loans||Karnataka is working on an Aadhaar-based system to help farmers get bank loans quicker, while at the same time making sure they do not borrow multiple times by pledging the same piece of land.  The Agriculture department has proposed integration of software that will give banks full access to the farmers’ land records, based on which credit decisions can be made. This will not only prevent farmers from running pillar-to-post and submit multiple documents, but also inform banks of any existing encumbrances. Farmers depend on credit. In the 2019-20 fiscal, banks in the state disbursed agricultural loans worth Rs 91,537 crore.  But getting a bank loan can be quite tedious for a farmer, Agriculture Commissioner Brijesh Kumar Dikshit said. “If you are applying for a loan, the bank needs to know if the land belongs to you. Then, if there is already some outstanding loan on it. Lastly, it needs address verification. The farmer needs to submit all this and also get a letter from other banks in the vicinity saying there are no outstanding loans,” he said. “What we’ve proposed is that the farmer should give just his Aadhaar, with which the bank can access details such as address, identity and land ownership,” Dikshit said. “The bank need not ask for any documents.”  Banks will be given login access on the K-KISAN portal where a farmer’s Aadhaar can be entered to view address and land details. Banks can also download a farmer’s record of rights, tenancy and crops (RTC) that will contain encumbrances.  As part of this, banks can see the Farmer Registration & Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS) ID of a farmer once a loan account number is entered. Since the FRUITS ID is unique to a farmer and is linked with Aadhaar, multiple borrowings can be avoided. “What farmers do is, they take their land to get a loan from a district cooperative central bank and the same land will be used to get a loan from a commercial bank,” Dikshit said.  This will require integration of the K-KISAN portal with the core banking system (CBS) of the banks. The Agriculture department is talking to banks about this. “I want to show people at the loan sanctioning level that it’s simple. If this comes through, the only document a farmer will have to provide is the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) application,” Dikshit said. “This will empower farmers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-plans-aadhaar-based-tech-way-to-simplify-farm-loans-862537.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka HC asks government to act against influential violators||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the state government to take action against people, including the influential, who violate social distancing norms. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka cited the examples provided by the petitioner of political leaders violating rules, and asked the state to submit an action-taken report. It was hearing a PIL on implementation of provisions under the Disaster Management Act (DMA). Appearing through an application, city-based advocate G R Mohan submitted photographs of events where norms were violated. He said social distancing norms were violated at a wedding held by a politician, while laying the foundation stone for a statue at the international airport and also during a political protest rally. "Our attention is invited to an event on June 27 to erect a 108-ft statue of Kempegowda at the airport where norms of social distancing and wearing of masks have been thrown to the wind," the bench said, asking the state government to act against the violators under the provisions of DMA. "It is time for the state to take action against persons, however influential he/she may be, when he/she commits any violation of the orders passed under DMA," it said, directing the government to submit its response by July 24. The state will also file on record a summary of action taken against all those who violated guidelines/provisions under DMA, with special reference to action against people not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing,’ the bench directed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-hc-asks-government-to-act-against-influential-violators-862564.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shanivarasanthe girl beats blindness, scores 90% in II PUC||N S Lakshmi is visually impaired from birth, but this did not deter her from working towards her goals. She has successfully excelled 2nd PU exam with 90 % marks in the Arts stream. A student of Vighneshwara Girls’ PU College, she is the daughter of Physical Education teacher N S Shivanna of Nidtha Government High School. She studied at the Blind School in Mysuru till class 10. Lakshmi said the PU department had supplied her books in Braille script and thanked the college management, principal, lecturers and her friends for helping her ace in the exam. She wishes to write KPSC exam in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shanivarasanthe-girl-beats-blindness-scores-90-in-ii-puc-862568.html
17-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka conducting 297 tests per day per million population: Minister||Karnataka was conducting 297 tests per day per million people, which is more than double the World Health Organisations's recommendation, state Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. He also claimed that Karnataka was among the top 10 states and union territories in conducting tests. His statement comes against the backdrop of allegations levelled by the Congress against the government over its 'failure' to curb coronavirus spread in the state. In a tweet, the minister said, "WHO recommends 140 tests/day/million population. Karnataka is conducting 297 tests/day/million & is among top 10 states/UTs conducting 140 tests or more." So far, more than 9.25 lakh tests have been conducted and all of them are Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests that provide accurate results, he added. The state government said it has enhanced the capacity substantially to conduct 25,000 tests a day. On Thursday alone, 23,451 tests were conducted in the state of which 4,169 were found positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-conducting-297-tests-per-day-per-million-population-minister-862506.html
17-07-2020||Main Article||When will we apologise?||Whether or not it is any real consolation for those who suffered extensive and intensive brutalisation through the centuries, the world has at least and at last woken up to the realisation that centuries of cruelty, exploitation, discrimination and dehumanisation let loose by the colonial powers over their subject nations was wrong. Just think about it. The entire industrial revolution of the British and the Americans would not have been possible without slave labour. Equally, the economic development of the North Americas, and even Australia and New Zealand, etc., were greatly aided by the wealth created in plantations using slave labour. European economic expansion was almost entirely the result of slave labour from Africa, not to mention the colonial exploitation and indentured labour (a euphemism for slavery) of South Asia and Far Eastern Asia. North America was colonised by virtually decimating the native human population. As were Australia and New Zealand. It hardly takes any deep deliberation to realise that it is no coincidence that all the exploiting nations of yore are prosperous today, called developed economies, while all the exploited are among the developing or under-developed. As a matter of fact, if much of the Western hemisphere is rich today, it is purely, exclusively and only at the cost of much of the Eastern hemisphere. And the dehumanising and ruthless exploitation of nations lasted centuries, crippling the colonies even as the colonisers continued to nurture their own interests at the cost of those colonised, to a point from where aspiring for economic development is extremely difficult, if not impossible. Sadly, the former colonial masters have almost never been duly, sufficiently or properly reflective or repentant about their past injustices heaped upon over half of humanity, choosing instead to look down variously upon their long noses at the teaming billions of the developing world in Africa and Asia, as if they are the children of lesser gods. However, some correction to this attitude, albeit very minor, has been in the offing. Some realisation is at last setting in that whether slavery, racism, decimation of the natives, or exploitation of continents and their people for their raw materials and other riches -- they were all fundamentally wrong. In some cases, token gestures of moral restitution, if not economic recompense, are on the way -- whether it is France returning 24 skulls of Algerian resistance fighters from 170 years ago or Americans bringing down statues of the former Confederate “heroes” who were slavers, or removal of the sculpture of the Belgian King Leopold II, who brutalised and dehumanised Congo, in Antwerp. In many countries, the tokenism has taken the shape of replacing names of places and institutions which were originally named after colonial heroes to the names of native ones. In yet other parts of the world, the symbolism has taken the shape of returning a handful of artefacts from the European museums to the original countries from where a lot more was stolen in the first place. Slow as the Western nations may have been to seek absolution for their sins, however perfunctory, here is something for us, the people of India, to reflect upon. The practice of casteism has been a tragic and historical blot on our society for millennia. Casteism, which included and includes untouchability, rank exploitation in near-slave conditions, separate and special set of social and legal codes, inaccessibility to wells, temples, punishment for riding a horse or wearing shoes, and more, is well and alive in much of rural India even today. There may be many amongst us who elevate casteism to some uplifting religious philosophy of Manu and do not blame casteism per se, but at best only the form of its practice today. Well, one can only say, casteism may have been justified in Manu’s times as much as slavery was justified a few centuries ago amongst some. Whatever the history and social place of casteism in the India of 2,000 years ago, one can hardly get away from the fact that its practice has dehumanised a large proportion of our own brothers and sisters and the practice has kept development, whether economic or social, systematically away from them. Very often, the hurt, insult and psychological trauma we may be causing to a segment of the population may be entirely unthinking and continued due to social inertia. Take, for instance, the use of the terms ‘Bhangi’ and ‘Jamadar’ (for cleaners), which are as much in the government’s official lexicon as a form of abuse amongst many. Not too long ago, an anchor, who fancies himself very funny, in the Hindi version of one of the episodes of ‘Science of Stupid’ on National Geographic channel, used the phrase, “Oy, tu banda hai ki nai.” I complained to NG by mail that ‘banda’ in Punjabi means man, and ‘nai’ means barber. Now, this particular phraseology “banda hai ki nai” in Punjab harks back to the times of a casteist society when barbers were considered untouchable and lesser humans. Much as I hold the works of NG in high esteem, sadly, I never heard from them and. At least, when the same episode was telecast again, I did not see the offensive reference removed. ‘Chamar’ is another caste name that is frequently used as abuse. Of course, one may say the name ‘Shoemacher’ in the West and ‘Chamar’ in India have identical meanings. Yes, but certainly not the same connotations. Finally, while we expect the West to apologise for their inhuman persecutions of the people they brutalised for centuries, have we, as a people, come together to apologise to the castes that we singled out for inhuman treatment through the millennia in this country? This is what we need to reflect upon. (The writer is Director, Schulich School of Business, India Programme)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/when-will-we-apologise-862557.html
17-07-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus: DC orders partial lockdown of Mysuru||Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar has ordered a partial lockdown of Mysuru due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city. The DC ordered lockdown from July 17, 6 am to July 24, 6 am at N R, Udayagiri, Lashkar and Mandi Mohalla Police limits in the city. In addition, it has decided to lockdown 400 meters from the house where Covid-19 patients have died. In the first phase, Muneshwarnagar, KHB colony, Udayagiri, Rajeevnagar, Beedi colony and Sathgalli will be lockdown. The essential shops like milk parlors, vegetable shops, are allowed to open from 6 am to 10 am. Except, government employees and workers, the entry and exit of others from the area is banned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-dc-orders-partial-lockdown-of-mysuru-862304.html
17-07-2020||National||Scotch-Brite vows to change ‘gendered’ logo||American conglomerate 3M sells abrasive products under the banner of Scotch-Brite. The brand was launched in India in the 1990s and has a woman with a bindi as its logo. The logo is available on most of its popular products like the scrub, toilet brush, etc.   “Scotch-Brite products are enormously useful and I love the 3M brand. But it does look like this addition is indicative of 3M’s assumptions of who is likely to use the product. The gender marker is clear when you see that the lint roller, which has a man’s coat in the product pack, doesn’t have it,” he pointed out in the post.  Soon, the Head of Marketing of consumer business at 3M India, Atul Mathur, responded to Srinivasan’s post with the promise of letting go of the now memorable logo. He also brought to light one of Scotch-Brite’s older ad campaigns which called for the sharing of household chores.  “I am pleased to inform you that you will see the logo change in a few months down the line,” he said.  Recently, Unilever dropped the word “fair” from it’s line of skin-lightening products, “Fair & Lovely”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scotch-brite-vows-to-change-gendered-logo-862190.html
17-07-2020||National||If Air India packs up, nobody will get job, says Puri||Centre on Thursday said there was no option but to go in for privatisation of Air India and that the national airline was working on a series of measures to cut costs. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said steps such as reducing staffing costs were necessary for Air India to survive and if the airline “packs up, nobody will get a job” as the civil aviation sector world over was going through stress. Air India Chairman-cum-Managing Director Rajiv Bansal said he was working to steadily increase revenues and contain costs by reducing debt, aircraft lease rentals, as well as staffing and operating expenses. Bansal said the airline had laid off employees who had already retired, but were re-employed and was in negotiation with pilots and cabin crew, besides re-negotiating rentals with hotels and transporters. Bansal said Air India also wanted to reduce its dependence on the exchequer for funds. Air India’s decision to ask employees to opt for leave without pay ranging from six months to five years kicked off a controversy, with opposition dubbing it as “match-fixing” to make the airline attractive for prospective buyers. “Leave airline operations to those who know how to run airlines,” Puri said adding that measures such as cutting down costs were necessary for Air India to survive. The Centre had started the process for 100% sale of stake in Air India in January. The last date for submitting expressions of interest has been extended to August 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-air-india-packs-up-nobody-will-get-job-says-puri-862213.html
17-07-2020||National||Admit Varavara Rao to super speciality hospital, demands Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday demanded that jailed poet and activist Varavara Rao be released immediately and admitted to a super speciality hospital. Rao's health is a matter of grave concern, Chidambaram said. The 80-year-old, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, has tested positive for Covid-19. He is lodged at the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai under judicial custody and was admitted to the Maharashtra government-run JJ Hospital in Mumbai earlier this week. "The condition of Shri Varavara Rao as described by his family is a matter of grave concern. It is beyond belief that the State, the police and the prison authorities can behave in such an inhuman manner under the watch of the NHRC," Chidambaram said on Twitter. The condition of Shri Varavara Rao as described by his family is a matter of grave concern. It is beyond belief that the State, the police and the prison authorities can behave in such an inhuman manner under the watch of the NHRC. "Shri Varavara Rao should be released immediately and admitted to a super speciality hospital that will treat him properly," he demanded. Rao has been in jail for about 22 months and had earlier approached the special NIA court, seeking bail on medical grounds and the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Rao and nine other activists have been arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, which was initially probed by Pune Police and later transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The case is related to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/admit-varavara-rao-to-super-speciality-hospital-demands-chidambaram-862214.html
17-07-2020||National||Pak consular access to Jadhav eyewash, says his friend||Pakistan's move of providing consular access to former Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav on Thursday was just a show-off by the neighbouring country, his close friend said here. Tulsidas Pawar, a childhood friend of Jadhav, said Pakistan was doing all this just to impress the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which was approached by India last year. Jadhav, the 50-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of "espionage and terrorism" in April 2017. India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July last year that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. Miffed with Pakistan's behaviour, Pawar said Islamabad, by providing consular access to Jadhav, wants to show that it has done something in the matter. It was just a show-off by the neighbouring country, he said. Pakistan did not obey ICJs orders passed a year ago, he said, adding Government of India should again raise this matter before the ICJ. They did not give proper treatment to Jadhav's mother and wife when they visited him in jail, Pawar said. Pakistan officials were present during the meeting and they even recorded their conversation, he said. Pakistan is also torturing Jadhav, Pawar alleged. Recently, Pakistan claimed that Jadhav had refused to file a review petition against his sentence. This indicated the Indian prisoner is being tortured by Pakistan, he said. "India should not entertain falsehood of Pakistan and take stern action to ensure safe release of our friend," Pawar said. Kulbhushan Jadhav is the son of Sudhir Jadhav, a retired Assistant Commissioner of Police in Mumbai, and spent his childhood in the Parel area of the metropolis. On Thursday, Pakistan Foreign Office claimed that two consular officers of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad were provided "unimpeded and uninterrupted" consular access to Jadhav. Tough Pakistan Foreign ministry had assured India that the consular access would be unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional, it turned out that the arrangements of the meeting were not in accordance with the assurances made by Islamabad, the MEA spokesperson said in New Delhi. Pakistan claims that its security forces arrested Jadhav from the restive Balochistan province on March 3, 2016 after he reportedly entered from Iran. India maintains that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he had business interests after retiring from the Navy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-consular-access-to-jadhav-eyewash-says-his-friend-862219.html
17-07-2020||National||South China Sea part of global commons: India||India on Thursday said the South China Sea is a "part of global commons" and it firmly stands for the freedom of navigation and overflight in these international waterways, an assertion that comes days after the US rejected most of China's maritime claims in the region. India's assertion comes after the Trump administration, in a major policy decision, categorically rejected the territorial claims made by Beijing in the South China Sea, stating that it has no legal grounds to unilaterally impose its will on the region. Asked about the US' assertion, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India has articulated its position on the South China Sea on several occasions in the past and most recently on May 21, 2020. "Our position on this issue has been clear and consistent. South China Sea is a part of global commons and India has an abiding interest in peace and stability in the region," he said. "We firmly stand for the freedom of navigation and overflight and unimpeded lawful commerce in these international waterways, in accordance with international law, notably UNCLOS (United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea)," Srivastava said. India also believes that any differences be resolved peacefully by respecting the legal and diplomatic processes and without resorting to threat or use of force, he said. The MEA spokesperson's remarks come after US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Monday categorically rejected the territorial claims made by Beijing in the South China Sea, and asserted that the "Chinese predatory world view" has no place in the 21st century. "The world will not allow Beijing to treat the South China Sea as its maritime empire. America stands with our Southeast Asian allies and partners in protecting their sovereign rights to offshore resources, consistent with their rights and obligations under international law," Pompeo had said in a major policy announcement. The United States, he had said, stands with the international community in the defence of freedom of the seas and respect for sovereignty and rejects any push to impose "might makes right" in the South China Sea or the wider region. Beijing claims almost all of the 1.3 million square mile South China Sea as its sovereign territory. China has been building military bases on artificial islands in the region also claimed by Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam. China has impeded commercial activity like fishing or mineral exploration by countries like Vietnam and the Philippines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south-china-sea-part-of-global-commons-india-862223.html
17-07-2020||National||DH Podcast | The Lead: Revisiting cartoons amidst the pandemic||In this episode, DH journalists Varsha Gowda, Sandeep Menon, Ahmed Shariff and Manasi Pawar revisit their favourite cartoons.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-podcast-the-lead-revisiting-cartoons-amidst-the-pandemic-862228.html
17-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 17||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 10 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.    On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 10,28,071 as of July 17 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 26,217   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 5,34,621 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-17-862230.html
17-07-2020||National||India-China border tensions: Rajnath Singh arrives in Leh to carry out security review||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh arrived in Leh on Friday on a day-long visit to carry out a comprehensive review of the security scenario in the region in wake of the border row with China. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army chief Gen M M Naravane are accompanying Singh on the visit. Singh is set to visit Stakna and Lukung forward areas. His trip comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise visit to Ladakh on July 3 during which he also addressed troops and signalled the country's firmness in dealing with the India-China border row. Singh was originally scheduled to visit Ladakh on July 3 but the trip was deferred. Indian and Chinese troops were locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for over eight weeks since May 5. The tension escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. However, following a series of diplomatic and military talks, the two sides began a mutual disengagement process on July 6 and withdrew troops from most of the friction points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-tensions-rajnath-singh-arrives-in-leh-to-carry-out-security-review-862256.html
17-07-2020||National||Sanskrit news weekly on AIR FM to feature Union minister, school children||The third edition of weekly news magazine 'Sanskrit Saptahiki' will air on All India Radio FM News channel on Saturday, featuring glimpses of verses from Panchatantra, Geeta and a rendition of popular folklore in Sanskrit by school children. Minister of State for Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Pratap Chandra Sarangi, will also feature in the Sanskrit programme broadcast on radio, an official statement said. "The edition will present the glimpses of verses from Panchatantra, Geeta and an amazing rendition of popular folklore in Sanskrit by little school children from Sangli in Maharashtra," the statement said. Under the 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat' segment, commonly used words will be translated from Sanskrit to Hindi and then to Punjabi language, it said. The first edition of the Sanskrit news magazine was broadcast on July 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sanskrit-news-weekly-on-air-fm-to-feature-union-minister-school-children-862275.html
17-07-2020||National||Record single-day surge of nearly 35,000 Covid-19 cases, total tally crosses 10 lakh: Govt||day when the cases increased by more than 28,000.   According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,30,72,718 samples have been tested up to July 16 with 3,33,228 samples being tested on Thursday. India ranks 106th with 658 cases per million. Cases per million population in India are 4 to 8 times less than European countries.  COVID-19 cases per million in Russia and US are 8 and 16 times respectively the corresponding figure in India, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control till July 15, the ministry said in a tweet.  Of the 687 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 266 are from Maharashtra, 104 from Karnataka, 69 from Tamil Nadu, 58 from Delhi, 40 from Andhra Pradesh, 34 from Uttar Pradesh, 23 from West Bengal, 17 from Bihar, 16 from Jammu and Kashmir, 10 each from Telangana and Gujarat and nine from Punjab. Rajasthan has reported eight fatalities followed by Madhya Pradesh with seven deaths, Jharkhand four, Haryana three, Assam, Kerala and Odisha two each, while Chhattisgarh, Goa and Puducherry have registered a fatality each. Of the total 25,602 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 11,194 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,545 deaths, Tamil Nadu 2,236, Gujarat 2,089, Uttar Pradesh 1,046, Karnataka 1,032, West Bengal 1,023, Madhya Pradesh 689 and Rajasthan 538. So far 492 people have died of COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh, 396 in Telangana, 322 in Haryana, 230 in Punjab, 222 in Jammu and Kashmir, 197 in Bihar, 79 in Odisha, 50 in Uttarakhand, 48 in Assam, 42 in Jharkhand and 37 in Kerala. Puducherry has registered 22 deaths, Chhattisgarh 21, Goa 19, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh 11 each, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura three each, Meghalaya and, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two each, while Ladakh has reported one fatality. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 2,84,281 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,56,369, Delhi at 1,18,645, Karnataka at 51,422, Gujarat at 45,481, Uttar Pradesh at 43,441 and Telangana at 41,018. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 38,044 in Andhra Pradesh, 36,117 in West Bengal, 27,174 in Rajasthan, 24,002 in Haryana, 21,764 in Bihar and 20,378 in Madhya Pradesh. Assam has instances of 19,754 infections, Odisha 15,392 and Jammu and Kashmir 12,156 cases. Kerala has reported 10,275 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Punjab has 9,094 cases. A total of 4,732 people have been infected by the virus in Chhattisgarh, 4,624 in Jharkhand, 3,982 in Uttarakhand, 3,108 in Goa, 2,283 in Tripura, 1,764 in Manipur, 1,743 in Puducherry, 1,377 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,147 in Ladakh. Nagaland has recorded 916 COVID-19 cases, Chandigarh 651 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 552 cases. Arunachal Pradesh reported 543 cases, Meghalaya 377, Mizoram 272, Sikkim has registered 243 infections so far, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has recorded 180 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 531 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-single-day-surge-of-nearly-35000-covid-19-cases-total-tally-crosses-10-lakh-govt-862289.html
17-07-2020||National||India, US collaborating closely during COVID-19 pandemic: Ambassador Sandhu||India and the US are working together on combating the coronavirus and collaboration is underway for co-development of a Covid-19 vaccine and a partnership between the two countries in health, life sciences and technology sectors can bring benefits to the entire world, the Indian envoy here has said. During a virtual interaction with the eminent members of the Indian-American community from the Mid-Western parts of the US, India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu said, "During the pandemic, India and the United States have been collaborating closely. Our network of scientific institutions, in India and the United States, are in touch with each other, on a real-time basis.” The deadly coronavirus that first emerged in China's Wuhan city has drastically spread around the world, infecting 13,767,548 people and causing 589,192 deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins coronavirus tracker. “Our pharmaceutical companies are working closely together, for co-development of a vaccine. There are at least three, such collaborations. Gilead has entered into an agreement, with seven Indian pharmaceutical companies, to manufacture and distribute Remdesivir, which has been authorised for treating Covid-19,” he said. India has been a reliable partner, during the crisis, and stepped up to supply medicines, and equipment, to over 150 countries including the United States, he said. Closer cooperation in health, life sciences, technology, will be the way forward, he said, adding that the partnership between India and the United States can bring benefits to the entire world. Noting that the pandemic has created a new normal, he said an early lockdown helped India delay the spread of the virus. Restrictions have now largely been lifted in the country. Except for containment zones, where the number of active cases are still high. Economic activity is coming back to normal in other parts. The recovery rate in the country which is over 65 per cent is high and a low death rate. “We have put in a system to face the pandemic and are well-prepared to deal with the situation,” he told the members of the Indian American community. During the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the Indian Ambassador has been regularly having virtual meetings with different sections of the Indian American community. This was his sixth such interaction. Last week, he had virtual interaction with members of the Sikh Americans. These interactions are in addition to the various virtual meetings he had with various business and professional groups and think tanks during this pandemic. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government has taken historic decisions, to address the long-standing issues, he said. “As a democracy, our commitment to the welfare of our people, ‘sabka saath sabka vikas sabka vishwas’ remains central to our governance. Prime Minister Modi has given the call for, Aatma Nirbhar Bharat,” he said. “We want to build a self-reliant India and one that is integrated to the global economy. We want to seize opportunities to become part of the global value chain,” Sandhu said. As the oldest and largest democracies in the world, India and US are natural allies, he said asserting the relationship has enjoyed bipartisan support over the years. “President of the United States' visit to India in February this year, elevated our relationship to a global comprehensive strategic partnership. This reflects the desire of both countries to work closely together, on a range of areas,” Sandhu said. “The relations between India and the United States are underpinned by the shared values of democracy, freedom of speech, and rule of law. The India-US relationship has also enjoyed bipartisan support over the years. The Indian diaspora has played an important role, of projecting a positive image of India, as a vibrant, democratic, and pluralistic society and a valuable partner, for the United States,” said the Indian Ambassador.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-collaborating-closely-during-covid-19-pandemic-ambassador-sandhu-862305.html
17-07-2020||National||Covid-19: IndiGo introduces option to book two seats for single passenger||IndiGo launched a scheme on Friday that allows a passenger to book two seats for himself or herself to ensure additional safety amid the coronavirus pandemic. "The charges for the extra seat will be effectively up to 25% of the original booking cost. This offer is effective travel starting July 24, 2020," the airline said in a statement. The low-cost carrier said the "6E double seat" scheme will not be available through travel portals, IndiGo call centre or airport counters. The scheme can only be availed using IndiGo's website. Lack of social distancing by other passengers is a top concern among flyers, according to a survey by IndiGo that was conducted online between June 20 and June 28 among 25,000 travellers. "Factors such as lack of social distancing by other passengers (62% of respondents), quarantine measures by states (55%) and sitting in the aircraft with so many people (55%) have been identified as key deterrents for air travel," the survey said. On Friday, IndiGo's chief strategy and revenue officer Sanjay Kumar said, "Even though air travel is the safest mode of travel at this point, we understand the customers' emotional need for safety." "We had been receiving such requests and are happy to introduce the option to book two seats for a single passenger to ensure additional safety," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indigo-introduces-option-to-book-two-seats-for-single-passenger-862306.html
17-07-2020||National||At 273 million people, India records largest reduction in number of people living in poverty: UN||About 273 million Indians moved out of multidimensional poverty between 2005-6 and 2015-16, according to a UN report, which noted that India has recorded the largest reduction in the number of people living in this category. The data, released by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI), shows that 65 out of 75 countries studied significantly reduced their multidimensional poverty levels between 2000 and 2019. Multidimensional poverty encompasses the various deprivations experienced by poor people in their daily lives – such as poor health, lack of education, inadequate living standards, poor quality of work, the threat of violence, and living in areas that are environmentally hazardous, among others. Of the 65 countries that reduced their Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) value, 50 also reduced the number of people living in poverty. “The largest reduction was in India, where approximately 273 million people moved out of multidimensional poverty over 10 years,” the report said. The report said that four countries—Armenia (2010–2015/2016), India (2005/2006–2015/2016), Nicaragua (2001–2011/2012) and North Macedonia (2005/2006–2011) halved their global MPIT value and did so in 5.5–10.5 years. “These countries show what is possible for countries with very different initial poverty levels. They account for roughly a fifth of the world’s population, mostly because of India’s large population,” the report said. MPIT is the Multidimensional Poverty Index estimate that is based on harmonized indicator definitions for strict comparability over time. “Four countries halved their MPI value. India (2005/2006–2015/2016) did so nationally and among children and had the biggest reduction in the number of multidimensionally poor people (273 million),” it said. The report noted that India saw the most people moving out of multidimensional poverty – some 270 million people between 2005/06 and 2015/16. In a footnote related to the number of 273 million people moving out of poverty, the report said that the number of people living in multidimensional poverty in India is based on population data from United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA) (2019), which imply a larger number of multidimensionally poor people in 2006; previous estimates were based on UNDESA (2017). The report additionally notes that India and Nicaragua’s time periods cover 10 and 10.5 years respectively, and during that time both countries halved their MPIT values among children. “So decisive change for children is possible but requires conscious policy efforts,” it said. Fourteen countries reduced multidimensional poverty in all their subnational regions: Bangladesh, Bolivia, the Kingdom of Eswatini, Gabon, Gambia, Guyana, India, Liberia, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nicaragua, Nepal and Rwanda. The report stressed that while the new figures released show that before the COVID-19 pandemic hit, progress was being made in tackling multidimensional poverty, that progress is at risk. “COVID-19 is having a profound impact on the development landscape. But this data - from before the pandemic - is a message of hope. Past success stories on how to tackle the many ways people experience poverty in their daily lives, can show how to build back better and improve the lives of millions,” Director of OPHI at the University of Oxford Sabina Alkire said. While data is not yet available to measure the rise of global multidimensional poverty after the pandemic, simulations for 70 countries in the developing world, based on the anticipated impacts of the virus on just two components of the global MPI – nutrition and school attendance – suggests how much impact the crisis could have unless it is addressed. In three scenarios of varying deterioration in which 10, 25 and 50 per cent of people who are multidimensionally poor or vulnerable become undernourished, and half of primary school-aged children no longer attend school, poverty levels could be set back 8 to 10 years. "But even if we look only at the impact on nutrition, if anticipated increases in undernutrition are not prevented or swiftly reversed, the setback could range between 3–6 years," it said. “COVID-19 is the latest crisis to hit the globe, and climate change all but guarantees more will follow soon. Each will affect the poor in multiple ways. More than ever, we need to work on tackling poverty – and vulnerability to poverty - in all its forms," Director of the Human Development Report Office at UNDP Pedro Conçeicão said. The data shows that across 107 developing countries, 1.3 billion people—22 per cent—live in multidimensional poverty. The data also reveals that the burden of multidimensional poverty disproportionately falls on children. Half of the 1.3 billion poor (644 million) have not yet turned 18, while 107 million are 60 or older, a particularly important figure during the COVID-19 pandemic. About 84.3 per cent of multidimensionally poor people live in Sub-Saharan Africa. The report also said that 10 countries account for 60 per cent of unvaccinated children, and 40 per cent of children unvaccinated for DTP3 live in just four countries: Nigeria, India, Pakistan and Indonesia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-273-million-people-india-records-largest-reduction-in-number-of-people-living-in-poverty-un-862310.html
17-07-2020||National||Earthquake of 4.8 magnitude hits Andaman and Nicobar Islands||An earthquake of 4.8 magnitude hits the Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Friday morning, officials said. There were no immediate reports of any loss of life or damage to property, they said. The earthquake occurred at 10.31 am and the epicentre was 250-km east of Port Blair, the capital of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, according to the National Centre for Seismology. The depth of the earthquake was 10-km, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/earthquake-of-48-magnitude-hits-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-862313.html
17-07-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, 7 other states most vulnerable to Covid-19||Districts in Madhya Pradesh may be the most vulnerable to the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, followed by those in Bihar and Telangana, according to a study in The Lancet journal which assessed several key indicators like housing, hygiene, and the health system in these states. According to scientists, including Rajib Acharya from the Population Council, New Delhi, vulnerability in the research means the risk of consequences of infection, including spread, morbidity, mortality, and social and economic effects of the pandemic. The study noted that nine of 30 large states -- Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Telangana, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, and Gujarat -- have high vulnerability to be impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. It rated the vulnerabilities of the states to the pandemic on a scale from zero to one, measured using 15 indicators across five domains -- socioeconomic, demographic, housing and hygiene, epidemiological, and health system. "Our index aims to help planners and policy makers effectively prioritise regions for resource allocation and adopt risk mitigation strategies for better preparedness and responses to the Covid-19 epidemic," the scientists, including Rajib Acharya from Population Council, New Delhi, noted in the study. They identified a number of vulnerable districts in India, which currently do not have large numbers of Covid-19 cases but could be strongly impacted by the pandemic. They said a number of districts in the nine large states -- Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, and Gujarat -- located in every region of the country except the northeast, had high overall vulnerability. According to the researchers, these states also had high vulnerability with respect to most of the five domains. Madhya Pradesh had an overall vulnerability score of one, with Sikkim on the other end with a score of zero, making it the least vulnerable. Arunachal Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh were two other states on the lower overall vulnerability end of the scale. "Although our intention was not to predict the risk of infection for a district or a state, we observed similarities between vulnerability and the current concentration of Covid-19 cases at the state level," they wrote in the study. However, the researchers said this relationship was not clear for districts, adding that better data collection at this regional level can help make more refined evaluations of vulnerability in their respective states. They also added that data used in the study are two to five years old and might not have captured vulnerability well in districts in which rapid changes have occurred up to the present day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-bihar-7-other-states-most-vulnerable-to-covid-19-862322.html
17-07-2020||National||Pakistan offers third consular access to India for Kulbhushan Jadhav||Pakistan on Friday once again offered India consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, who has been on the death row in a prison in the neighbouring country since April 2017. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government sent a note verbale to the High Commission of India (HCI) in Islamabad, offering the third consular access to Jadhav – after the first on September 2, 2019, and the second on Thursday. New Delhi has not responded to Islamabad’s latest offer till late in the evening. “They (India) raised objection over the presence of security officials during the meeting (on Thursday), we are willing even to withdraw the officials. If India wants another access, then our offer is open. If they (officials of HCI Islamabad) want to meet him tonight or tomorrow, we are ready,” Pakistan’s Foreign Minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, told a TV channel in the neighbouring country.   The offer for the third consular access came a day after New Delhi lodged a strong protest over the presence of two Pakistan government officials with “intimidating demeanour” during the second meeting between Jadhav and the officials of the HCI in Islamabad. New Delhi also alleged that the meeting was being recorded. Jadhav, himself, was visibly under stress, the officials of the HCI in Islamabad reported to New Delhi. The presence of the camera and the officials of the Pakistan Government was contrary to what Islamabad had promised New Delhi and prevented the HCI officials from engaging the former Indian Navy officer on his legal rights and from obtaining his written consent for arranging lawyers for him to file a petition in the High Court in the neighbouring country seeking review of the death sentence awarded to him by a military tribunal three years ago.   Pakistan on May 20 last promulgated an ordinance called the “International Court of Justice Review and Reconsideration Ordinance 2020”, which mandated that a petition for review and reconsideration of conviction by military tribunal could be made to Islamabad High Court through an application within 60 days from the day it was brought into force. The petition could be filed by Jadav, himself, a legally authorised representative of him or a consular officer of the High Commission of India in Islamabad. The officials of the Pakistan Government had last week claimed that Jadhav had decided against seeking a review of the death sentence awarded to him. New Delhi had then accused the neighbouring country’s government of coercing him to forgo his legal rights. Jadhav was accused and convicted of being involved in espionage and sabotage in Pakistan on behalf of an external intelligence agency of India. New Delhi moved the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which on July 17, 2019, concluded that Islamabad had violated the Article 36 of the Vienna Convention of Consular Relations 1963, as it had not informed the Government of India immediately after the Pakistan Army had taken him into custody. The international court found that Pakistan had also flouted the Vienna Convention by declining India's repeated requests for allowing officials of its High Commission in Islamabad to meet him and arrange lawyers to defend him. It also stated that the death sentence awarded to Jadhav by a military court of Pakistan in April 2017 should remain suspended till the review of the conviction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-offers-third-consular-access-to-india-for-kulbhushan-jadhav-862326.html
17-07-2020||National||India-China border tensions: No power in the world can touch even an inch of India's land, says Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said even though discussions were going on between India and China to resolve the ongoing crisis at eastern Ladakh, he could not put a timeline on when the talks would culminate and what would be its outcome. “Talks are underway to resolve the standoff in eastern Ladakh. To what extent it will be resolved I can't guarantee. But it's best if the problems are sorted out through the talks,” Singh said addressing the troops at a place near Leh The site where the Defence Minister spoke to the soldiers is Lukung on the west bank of the Pangong Tso. Jointly held by the Indian Army and Indo Tibetan Border Police, the post is 43 km away from the Finger 4, the flashpoint on the northern bank of the lake "I can assure you that India is not a weak country. No power in the world can touch even an inch of India's land," the minister asserted, countering the critics who claim that by its aggressive action China forced a change in the perception of the Line of Actual Control – the disputed boundary between the two countries. However, Singh's speech, sources said, was a tacit admission of a roadblock in the negotiation process on the withdrawal of troops from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. It comes a day after the Army says the disengagement mechanism is an “intricate one that requires constant verifications” while the Ministry of External Affairs termed it as a “complex process”. In the first round, the two countries had pulled back their troops at Galwan, Hot Springs and Gogra post creating a buffer zone, which is not being patrolled by either side at the moment. The minister visited Ladakh days after a 15-hour long meeting on Tuesday between senior military commanders at Chushul, the fourth between the two officers in the last 45 days, in which the two armies discussed the second - and the trickiest – part of disengagement in Pangong Tso and Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie sectors in Ladakh. A section of strategic affairs experts claim that by changing the perception of the LAC, the Chinese People's Liberation Army pushed India on a back foot on the negotiation table. The Ministry of External Affairs, however, disagreed with such a view. While the Indian side insisted on the restoration of the status quo in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to May 5 when the standoff began following a clash at Pangong Tso, the PLA had shifted marginally to Finger 5 while still keeping its troops on the ridgeline at Finger 4. India on its part vacated its post at Finger 4 and moved backward on the west. A decision on the next round of talks between the military commanders will depend on further disengagement at the Pangong area. Singh arrived in Leh on a daylong visit, accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen MM Naravane. Before he reached the lake area, Singh witnessed a battle drill at Stakna by the troops of the Ladakh Scouts. He also received a briefing on the actual position of the troops from both sides. The troops also carried out para dropping and slithering exercises. The minister reached Srinagar in the afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-tensions-no-power-in-the-world-can-touch-even-an-inch-of-indias-land-says-rajnath-singh-862340.html
17-07-2020||National||Ensure ban on petcoke, furnace oil; use cleaner fuels, NGT directs Central Pollution Control Board||The National Green Tribunal Friday directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to ensure that states and union territories (UTs) ban the use of petcoke and furnace oil as fuels in industries and switch to cleaner alternatives. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel after perusing a report filed by CPCB noted that some of states and UTs are not complying with the orders. The Supreme Court has banned the use of petroleum coke or petcoke -- solid-carbon, coal-like material which results from oil refining -- and furnace oil in the National Capital Region (NCR) and suggested similar steps in other states. The green panel said that orders of the tribunal be given effect and the CPCB ensure compliance by issuing such direction as may be necessary in exercise of its statutory power. It directed the CPCB to file an action taken report within four months and posted the matter for next hearing on January 15, 2021. The tribunal was hearing pleas filed by Sumit Kumar and Amarjeet Kumar seeking a ban on the use of all forms of petcoke, as it emits fine particulate matter (PM) which is harmful to human health. According to the plea, the objection to the use of petcoke and furnace oil, which has already been banned in certain states, is causing of huge emission of sulphur dioxide and other pollutants. Earlier a report filed by CPCB said that use of petcoke and furnace oil can be allowed only in industries/ processes either as feedstock (Calcined petcoke units, Aluminum industries) or where they get absorbed along with the product in the manufacturing process (cement, Lime Kiln, calcium carbide industries).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-ban-on-petcoke-furnace-oil-use-cleaner-fuels-ngt-directs-central-pollution-control-board-862341.html
17-07-2020||National||States' market borrowings skyrocket 76% to Rs 1.93 lakh cr so far this fiscal: Report||The states, reeling from massive revenue losses due to coronavirus lockdowns, have front-loaded their borrowings by a whopping 76 per cent so far this fiscal to Rs 1.93 lakh crore, says a report. Front-loading of market loans has been on the back of the Centre relaxing the ways and means advances norms to manage cash-flow mismatches due to the pandemic, says a report by Care Ratings. In addition, the Centre has also relaxed the fiscal deficit target from 3 to 5 per cent. "Between April 1 and July 14, the states' market borrowings have jumped to Rs 1.93 lakh crore, which is 76 per cent higher than the corresponding period last fiscal year,” says the report. The aggressive borrowings will further shoot up the outstanding debt of all the states which has more than doubled to Rs 52.6 lakh crore in FY20, growing at an annual rate of 14.3 per cent between FY15 and FY20, notes the report. The outstanding debt has almost doubled in the last five years to Rs 52.6 lakh crore and the annual spike rate is much faster than the Centre's outstanding internal debt which clipped at 10 per cent during the same period. Outstanding debt of the states includes market borrowings, power sector-specific Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY) bonds, funds borrowed from the National Social Security Fund, banks, and other financial institutions, ways and means advances, loans from the Centre, provident funds, reserve funds and other contingency funds. The ratio of states' outstanding debt to total internal debt, which is the combined debt of the Centre and the states has increased from 30.9 per cent in FY15 to 35.1 per cent in FY20, says the agency's chief economist Madan Sabnavis. States are facing a dual challenge of addressing the current health crisis and simultaneously managing their finances amidst the pandemic as the nationwide lockdowns and the extended state-level lockdowns have adversely impacted their revenues, he said without quantifying how much is the revenue loss. "The cumulative effect of this is likely to increase the overall outstanding debt of all the states which stood at Rs 52.6 lakh crore in FY20,” he warned. There was a steep double-digit growth of 19 per cent in FY16 followed by 18.4 per cent in FY17 and this can be ascribed to funds raised by a few states through the UDAY bonds, which was applicable during FY16 and FY17, along with the aggressive borrowing to the tune of over 40 per cent from banks and financial institutions, according to the agency. That apart they also borrowed 20 per cent more from the markets in FY16 and FY17, it said. However, better revenue collection in FY18 and FY19 helped the states arrest the growth in their outstanding debt to 12.7 per cent and 9.8 per cent respectively but again picked up speed to 11.5 per cent in FY20, as they borrowed more from the Centre and markets, the report said. Of the total debt, as much as 72 per cent is with the  top 10 states. The list is led by Uttar Pradesh with an outstanding debt of Rs 6 lakh crore in FY20, accounting for 11 per cent of total debt of all the states, it said. At the second slot is Maharashtra with an outstanding debt of Rs 5 lakh crore, accounting for 10 per cent of total debt of all states, followed by Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Andhra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala and MP. However, despite having a high debt burden, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka have a debt to GSDP ratio of under 25 per cent for the past many years, as stipulated by the 14th Finance Commission. On the other hand, UP, Bengal, Rajasthan, Andhra, and Kerala have high debt levels and also the debt-GSDP ratio above the stipulated norms, the report said. In case of MP, the debt to GSDP ratio was below 25 per cent until FY19 but has slightly exceeded the 25 per cent target in FY20, the agency said. As many as 18 states have a debt-GSDP ratio of over 25, and of them 12 have it over 30, it said. While Punjab, ranking 11th in terms of absolute debt, ranks first when it comes to the debt-GSDP ratio at 38.5, while Andhra, Bengal and Rajasthan have it above 30 and Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, Karnataka, Assam and Delhi and Puducherry have it below 20, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-market-borrowings-skyrocket-76-to-rs-193-lakh-cr-so-far-this-fiscal-report-862357.html
17-07-2020||National||Consider reopening registration for CM’s advocate welfare scheme: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the AAP government to consider reopening registration for two-weeks for lawyers, who are voters in the national capital and could not sign up for the Rs 50 crore Chief Minister’s Advocates Welfare Scheme which includes medical and life insurance cover. The court asked the Delhi government to complete the process of receiving financial bids by insurance companies and award the contract to the successful bidder so that the firm can start issuing policy to those who have registered for the scheme. The premium of those insurance policies will be paid by the Delhi government, it noted, adding that "there is no need to delay the process for lawyers who have already registered under the scheme". Justice Prathiba M Singh was informed by senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Delhi government, that he be given some time to look into the issue as to whether the benefit of the scheme can be extended to NCR lawyers and he will hold discussion with all the stakeholders to try to resolve the issue. Regarding the issue of including NCR-based lawyers in the welfare scheme, the court said that if a decision is not taken till the next date, it will hear the submission in this regard and pass an appropriate order. It asked the Delhi government to consider opening a fresh window for two weeks for the Delhi lawyers who could not register under the scheme within the deadline in April due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation. The court, which was holding the hearing through video conferencing, listed the matter for further proceedings of August 28. During the hearing, Justice Singh observed that these are hard times and young lawyers are facing difficulties as regular functioning of courts has been suspended and only urgent matters are being taken up. The court was informed by Delhi government lawyer Satyakam that bids have been received from various insurance companies and the process in going on. The court was hearing a batch of petitions, including a plea by Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) seeking grant of mediclaim and term insurance for 29,098 advocates registered with it. The court had earlier directed the AAP government to invite tenders for providing mediclaim and term insurance to lawyers registered with BCD under the welfare scheme. According to the BCD’s plea, moved through its chairman K C Mittal, there are 37,135 lawyers who are registered voters in Delhi and of these 29,098 are on the BCD's rolls and have been verified by it. It has said that vide cabinet decision of December 17, 2019, Delhi government decided to provide medical insurance of Rs 5 lakh and term insurance of Rs 10 lakh to lawyers, who are residents of the national capital, under the Chief Minister Advocates Welfare Scheme. The petition contended that no scheme was made available in 2019-20 and even during Covid crisis nothing was done. The court also heard another plea by advocate Govind Swaroop Chaturvedi seeking direction to extend the benefit of the welfare scheme to all those enrolled with the BCD irrespective of whether their names appear in the voters list of the national capital or not. He said he is enrolled with the BCD and has membership of Delhi High Court Bar Association and is practicing in courts here but does not reside in the national capital now and claimed that the notification is discriminatory and illegal and unreasonable and the discrimination on the basis of name on the voters’ list in Delhi is not based on any reasonableness. The pleas have sought to quash or modify the government’s March 17 notification to the extent of deleting the eligibility condition on the basis of name in the voters' list of Delhi, for extending the welfare benefits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consider-reopening-registration-for-cm-s-advocate-welfare-scheme-hc-to-delhi-govt-862359.html
17-07-2020||National||PM Modi's 'indiscretions' weakened India, left it vulnerable: Rahul Gandhi on border standoff||Disruptions in India’s relationships with the world and a weak economy under the Modi government gave China the confidence to transgress into Indian territory, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said. In a short video, the former Congress President explained the reasons for Chinese intrusions in eastern Ladakh which led to a violent face-off leading to the killing of 20 Indian soldiers along the Line of Actual Control last month. "Since 2014, the PM's constant blunders and indiscretions have fundamentally weakened India and left us vulnerable. Empty words don't suffice in the world of geopolitics," he said in a tweet along with the video message. Since 2014, the PM's constant blunders and indiscretions have fundamentally weakened India and left us vulnerable. “Today, you have a country which is economically in trouble, in trouble as far as foreign policy is concerned, in trouble with its neighbours and that is why the Chinese have decided that this is possibly the best time to act,” Rahul said. The 3.38 minute video is Rahul’s attempt to de-mystify complex issues covering current affairs, history, philosophy, economics, politics for everyone. Congress hopes that the brief videos would help sharing the message on social networking platforms such as WhatsApp. The release of the first video, originally scheduled for Tuesday, was delayed as the political crisis in Rajasthan assumed centre-stage and the party had to indulge in a massive fire-fighting exercise to save its government in the state. Rahul said that the countries were protected not in a particular way, but by a confluence of systems of foreign relationships, neighbourhood, economy and the feeling and vision of its people. “And what has happened over the last six years that all those areas that India has been disturbed and disrupted,” he said “Our relationship with the outside world used to be with multiple countries. We had a relationship with the US, strategic partnership with the US, I will say and that is very important. We had relationships with Russia and Europe and these countries used to manoeuvre in the world,” Rahul said. The former Congress President said India’s relationship with the world has now become transactional and it has also angered neighbours who looked towards it as a partner. Gandhi said one has to go into multiple spaces, including India's economy and ties with neighbours and other countries, to understand why the Chinese chose this particular time to move against India and violate the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and what gave them the confidence to turn so aggressive. "Today, you have a country which is economically in trouble; in trouble as far as foreign policy is concerned; in trouble with its neighbours; and that's why the Chinese have decided that this is possibly the best time to act and that is why they have acted," he alleged. Noting that countries are protected by a "confluence of forces and systems", he said, "a country is protected by its foreign relationships, it is protected by its neighbourhood, by its economy, by the feeling that its people have and the vision that its people have." Gandhi has attacked the prime minister and the government over the India-China border conflict in Ladakh in the past as well and alleged their "failure" in handling the issue. Hitting back at Gandhi, the BJP said he was trying to "divide the nation" and "demoralise" the country's armed forces by questioning the handling of the border situation. On India's foreign policy, Gandhi said the country had relationships with multiple countries and it used to share a strategic partnership with the US. India also had a relationship with Russia and Europe and they used to help it manoeuvre in the world, he said. "Today...we have a transactional relationship with the United States. We have disturbed our relationship with the Russians. We have a transactional relationship with Europe," he alleged. He claimed that in the neighbourhood, all countries, other than Pakistan, had been working with India and partnered with it in the past. Gandhi alleged that today Nepalese are angry, Sri Lankans have given a port to the Chinese, the Maldives is disturbed and so is Bhutan. "So we have disrupted our foreign partners, we've disrupted our neighbourhood," he alleged. On the economic front, he said, the economy was India's pride and it used to go to the rest of the world and boast about it. "But, India has seen the worst economic growth in 50 years and there is no end in sight," he said. Alleging that unemployment rate was the highest in 40-50 years, he said, "Our strengths have suddenly become our weaknesses." "We told the government that look, please realise that we are becoming vulnerable. All these things are connected, they're not separate," he said. Congress wanted money to be injected into the economy and protection for small and medium businesses, "but, they (government) refused to do it," he said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-indiscretions-weakened-india-left-it-vulnerable-rahul-gandhi-on-border-standoff-862365.html
17-07-2020||National||West Bengal guv pays tribute to soldier killed in Ladakh clash, hands over Rs 11-lakh cheque to family||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday visited Birbhum district to pay tributes to Army jawan Rajesh Orang, killed in the June 15 clash with Chinese troops in Eastern Ladakh, and said his supreme sacrifice has made his hometown a "land of brave heroes". Accompanied by wife Sudesh Dhankhar and General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Command, Lt General Anil Chauhan, the governor paid floral tributes to the portrait of Orang and handed over a cheque for Rs 11 lakh to the bereaved family members. "Rajesh made a supreme sacrifice for the nation. He has made this Birbhum a land of the brave heroes. Rajesh Orang has given us one message -- nation first," he said after paying tributes to the fallen soldier at Belgoria village in the district. Orang was among the 20 Indian soldiers and one of the two from West Bengal who were killed in the clash with the Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan Valley last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-guv-pays-tribute-to-soldier-killed-in-ladakh-clash-hands-over-rs-11-lakh-cheque-to-family-862377.html
17-07-2020||National||Management of archaeological sites taken to commoners ||The management of archaeological sites is a complex and technical job involving multiple streams. However, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and stress on government exchequer,  the role of commoners is going to be important in the area of heritage management. In view of that, the Mumbai-based India Study Centre Trust (Instucen Trust) has launched an online course on 'Introduction to Heritage Studies and Management'.  "We have to take such subjects to people," says Mugdha Karnik, Managing Trustee, Instucen Trust. Dr Leora Pezarkar is the lead instructor for the course that would be held between August 31-September 5. The series would include a brief introduction to heritage, its definition and meaning in local Indian languages besides introduction to different segments in heritage.  There would be presentation on heritage at different levels - city, heritage complex and monuments. International and national categories of built heritage and laws/ policies around it will also be covered.  One of the key aspects is the Intangible Cultural Heritage (ICH) Theories and what it includes, international charters and its evolution. Different forms of ICH with focus on crafts, livelihood skills, performing arts/ music.  Indigenous Knowledge systems (IKS) as a concept will also be touched upon. Dr Tejas Garge, Director, Directorate of Archaeology & Musuems, Government of Maharashtra, will give perspective on archeological sites and its management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/management-of-archaeological-sites-taken-to-commoners-862379.html
17-07-2020||National||HC asks govt about compensation for kin of deceased frontline staff||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the Maharashtra government to state its position on a petition seeking compensation for families of frontline workers who died after contracting Covid-19 infection on duty. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai was hearing a petition filed by social worker Ketan Tirodkar. The petitioner had sought a direction to the state government to declare frontline workers, including doctors, police personnel and others, who died after contracting the deadly infection on duty, as martyrs and to give their families compensation. In its response to the petition last week, the state government had said insurance cover is being provided to all healthcare workers in private and government-run hospitals under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package - Insurance Scheme for Health Workers. The bench on Friday, however, noted that the state government's affidavit was both "cryptic and casual". "We want to know what the state government's stand is on the plea. Is there any law or policy in place?" Chief Justice Datta asked. The court posted the petition for further hearing after two weeks and directed the state government to clarify its stand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-govt-about-compensation-for-kin-of-deceased-frontline-staff-862382.html
17-07-2020||National||Nine successive quarters of economic decline: Chidambaram attacks govt||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram Friday attacked the NDA government over its handling of the economy, alleging the BJP-led dispensation has caused nine successive quarters of economic decline and an impending recession in 2020-21. "Those who scoff at the UPA's record must know that economists are laughing at their ignorance and ineptitude," the former finance minister wrote on Twitter. He asked as to what the NDA government has done since 2015. "Only caused a decline in economic growth for 9 successive quarters and an impending recession in 2020-21.” The Rajya Sabha MP claimed that the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI) Study finds that 270 million Indians were lifted out of poverty during 2005-2015. This, he said, was the period of UPA-1 and UPA-2, which he described as the "golden period" of India's economic growth. The UPA ruled the country from 2004-14. Chidambaram was the union finance minister from May 2004 to November 2008 and again from August 2012 to May 2014. Chidambaram has been attacking the government over its handling of the economy which he alleged has taken a downturn during the NDA regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-successive-quarters-of-economic-decline-chidambaram-attacks-govt-862383.html
17-07-2020||National||Bihar oppn parties want EC to assure that assembly polls won't trigger fresh spike in Covid-19 cases||Several opposition parties of Bihar on Friday urged the Election Commission to assure voters that the upcoming assembly polls do not become a "super spreader event" amid the coronavirus pandemic. Ahead of their virtual meeting with the Commission top brass this evening, the parties submitted a memorandum to the poll panel drawing its attention to the coronavirus situation in the state. "The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the state badly. In the capital city, Patna, as many as 89 containment zones and over 16 districts have been put under lockdown for another fifteen days with effect from 16th July," the memorandum said. The opposition parties, including the Rashtriya Janata Dal, CPI, CPI-M and Hindustan Awam Morcha, wondered how the poll panel will ensure physical distancing of at least two yards in a state with a population of around 13 crore and the electorate of 7.5 crore. "People need explicit clarity so that wholesome participation of the majority of voters is not adversely impacted. People also expect the commission to ensure and satisfy the people that entire poll exercise does not become a super spreader event," the memorandum said. The term of the Bihar assembly ends on November 29 and a new assembly has to be constituted before that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-oppn-parties-want-ec-to-assure-that-assembly-polls-wont-trigger-fresh-spike-in-covid-19-cases-862387.html
17-07-2020||National||Bengaluru Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao home quarantined||Bengaluru police commissioner, Bhaskar Rao has decided to remain home quarantined for next four days as his driver has been tested Covid-19 positive on Friday morning. The infected driver is from Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) deployed as driver to Rao. The driver didn't have any symptoms of Covid-19, but had developed chest pain and he went to a private hospital and got himself thoroughly checked.   The doctors asked him to rest and had given treatment for his chest pain. However, the doctors had taken collected a swab sample and asked him to be under isolation. On Friday morning Rao attended to work as usual and worked for couple of hours after which he attended a meeting and after lunch he decided to be under home quarantine for four days. Rao confirmed his quarantine and said he will undergo a Covid-19 test on Monday and once the result is out he will get back to duty.  Rao also tweeted about the same stating "My driver is tested Corona positive, I have home quarantined myself for 4 days and will get myself tested again on Monday for the (5) fifth time since 3 months. I had to be in numerous inadvertent interactions with positive cases. Seek your good wishes, am not yet positive !!" My driver is tested Corona positive, I have home quarantined myself for 4 days and will get myself tested again on Monday for the (5) fifth time since 3 months. I had to be in numerous inadvertent interactions with positive cases. Seek your good wishes, am not yet positive !! Anyone who wants to meet him in case of any emergency, will have to wait till Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-police-commissioner-bhaskar-rao-home-quarantined-862393.html
17-07-2020||National||In a first, newly elected MPs to take oath inside Rajya Sabha during inter-session on July 22||For the first time, newly elected Rajya Sabha MPs will be taking oath in the Chamber when the House is not in session on July 22. Sixty-one members were recently elected to the Rajya Sabha from 20 states. This was decided by Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, keeping in view the resumption of meetings by department-related Parliamentary Standing Committees of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha and the keen interest expressed by the new members to participate in such meetings. Newly elected members cannot participate in the committee meetings without taking the oath. Some of the newly elected or re-elected members of Rajya Sabha like Dr K. Keshava Rao and Tiruchi Siva are the Chairman of Parliamentary Committees, who, without being administered oath or affirmation, cannot convene the meetings of respective committees, officials said. Subscribing to oath or affirmation is usually done either during the session or in the chamber of the Chairman of Rajya Sabha, if the House is not in session. "Only one family member or guest will be allowed to accompany each member for witnessing oath-taking and they will be accommodated in the galleries of Rajya Sabha as per the social distancing norm. The Rajya Sabha gallery accommodates 67 members as per the social distancing norm," the official said. Rajya Sabha Secretary General Desh Deepak Verma wrote to all the newly elected MPs informing them of the oath-taking. Those who fail to turn up will be administered oath or affirmation during the ensuing monsoon session. Making/subscribing to oath or affirmation by the new members planned earlier had to be deferred in view of the concerns expressed by some of them over travelling to Delhi due to the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-newly-elected-mps-to-take-oath-inside-rajya-sabha-during-inter-session-on-july-22-862392.html
17-07-2020||National||Bengaluru Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao home quarantined||Bengaluru police commissioner, Bhaskar Rao has decided to remain home quarantined for next four days as his driver has been tested Covid-19 positive on Friday morning. The infected driver is from Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) deployed as driver to Rao. The driver didn't have any symptoms of Covid-19, but had developed chest pain and he went to a private hospital and got himself thoroughly checked.   The doctors asked him to rest and had given treatment for his chest pain. However, the doctors had taken collected a swab sample and asked him to be under isolation. On Friday morning Rao attended to work as usual and worked for couple of hours after which he attended a meeting and after lunch he decided to be under home quarantine for four days. Rao confirmed his quarantine and said he will undergo a Covid-19 test on Monday and once the result is out he will get back to duty.  Rao also tweeted about the same stating "My driver is tested Corona positive, I have home quarantined myself for 4 days and will get myself tested again on Monday for the (5) fifth time since 3 months. I had to be in numerous inadvertent interactions with positive cases. Seek your good wishes, am not yet positive !!" My driver is tested Corona positive, I have home quarantined myself for 4 days and will get myself tested again on Monday for the (5) fifth time since 3 months. I had to be in numerous inadvertent interactions with positive cases. Seek your good wishes, am not yet positive !! Anyone who wants to meet him in case of any emergency, will have to wait till Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-police-commissioner-bhaskar-rao-home-quarantined-862394.html
17-07-2020||National||UP sees record one-day jump of 38 coronavirus deaths||Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 38 deaths, its highest single-day spike in coronavirus fatalities, raising the toll to 1,084 while 1,919 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 45,363, officials said. Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said the state now has 16,445 active Covid-19 cases, while 27,634 patients have so far been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. Prasad said a record 54,207 coronavirus samples were tested on Thursday and the number would be increased further. "In the past 24 hours (since 3 pm Thursday), 1,919 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 38 deaths were reported, pushing the total number of cases to 45,363 and deaths to 1,084," the health department said. About the home isolation facility, Prasad said it was not deliberately provided in the state as asymptomatic patient spread the virus in family and others.  In an important decision, the state government, Prasad said, has decided to provide isolation facility in hotels in Lucknow and Ghaziabad. "The district administration of Lucknow and Ghaziabad will acquire hotel and the facility of isolation for asymptomatic patients will be provided thereon a double occupancy basis at a charge of Rs 2,000 per day. The medical facility will be provided to them by the health department at a one-time payment of Rs 2,000," he said. Additional Chief Secretary, Home and Information, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said that during the weekend lockdown, directives have been issued to all districts to use drone cameras to keep an eye on the movement of traffic and cleanliness work. "Drones will be used in all districts in the next two days," Awasthi said. Prasad said around 1.75 lakh people with novel coronavirus-like symptoms were found during the surveillance campaign conducted in the entire state till July 15. "The health department is now testing all of them," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-sees-record-one-day-jump-of-38-coronavirus-deaths-862396.html
17-07-2020||National||Lockdown in India may have saved 630 lives, $690 million, says study||The Covid-19 lockdown-led reduction in air pollution levels across five Indian cities, including Delhi and Mumbai, may have prevented about 630 premature deaths, and saved USD 690 million in health costs in the country, according to a new study. Scientists, including those from the University of Surrey in the UK, assessed the levels of harmful fine particulate matter (PM2.5) from vehicles and other sources in five Indian cities -- Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Hyderabad -- since the beginning of the lockdown period. The study, published in the journal Sustainable Cities and Society, compared these lockdown PM2.5 figures from 25 March up until 11 May, with those from similar periods of the preceding five years, and found that the measure reduced pollution levels in all these places. According to the scientists, during this period, the levels of these harmful air pollutants reduced by 10 per cent in Mumbai, and by up to 54 per cent in Delhi. "The percentage reduction for the other cities ranged from 24 to 32 per cent, which was slightly smaller than the measured values for Delhi and Mumbai," the scientists noted in the study.  "While the reduction in PM2.5 pollution may not be surprising, the size of the reduction should make us all take notice of the impact we have been having on the planet," said Prashant Kumar, a co-author of the study from the University of Surrey. The scientists said these reductions in PM2.5 were comparable to those reported in other cities across the world, such as in Austria's capital Vienna (60 per cent), and Shanghai (42 per cent) in China. They also calculated the monetary value of the reduced mortality due to air pollution and found that the lowered levels of PM2.5 may have saved 630 people from premature death, and USD 690 million in health costs in India. According to the researchers, the present lockdown situation offers observational opportunities regarding potential control systems and regulations for improved urban air quality. They said an integrated approach might help in understanding the overall impacts of Covid-19 lockdown-style interventions and support the implementation of relevant policy frameworks. "This is an opportunity for us all to discuss and debate what the 'new normal' should look like - particularly when it comes to the quality of the air we breathe," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-in-india-may-have-saved-630-lives-690-million-says-study-862401.html
17-07-2020||National||Covid-19 medication shortage creates panic in Kolkata: Report||The drugs Actemra and Tocilizumab can hardly be found in Kolkata.  A young woman named Rinku Banerjee travelled from Delhi to Kolkata with the hopes of finding Actemra for her father. The doctor had prescribed administering it immediately.  She spent over four days before coming close to finding the medication, according to the report.   One man had to carry vials of Tocilizumab for his father from Delhi to Patna. Consignments of the Cipla drug were allegedly monopolised by a state government with large Covid-19 numbers, says the publication.  Remdisivir, an American drug, is being brought in from Bangladesh and sold at several times the price markup of Rs. 5,000 Bangladeshi Takas. The Indian versions, Cipremi from Cipla and Covifor from Hetero, which are both in short supply. People are buying drugs in the black market at inflated prices for the well-being of their family, said the report.  According to the report, the shortage could be rooted in the Center's decision to make medication available directly to hospitals (both public and private) from the manufacturer. Therefore, there is no stock of Covid-19 medication in pharmacies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-medication-shortage-creates-panic-in-kolkata-report-862415.html
17-07-2020||National||Covid-19: 31.6 lakh people in quarantine across India||A whopping 31.6 lakh people are currently in quarantine across the country as authorities made concerted efforts to check the spread of the novel coronavirus which has infected over 10 lakh people so far, officials said on Friday. Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of people in quarantine among states, followed by Maharashtra, they said. According to the latest available official estimate, more than 11 lakh people are in quarantine in Uttar Pradesh, 7.27 lakh in Maharashtra, 3.25 lakh in Gujarat and 2.4 lakh in Odisha. A total of 31.6 lakh people are currently in institutional and home quarantine across India, a Union Home Ministry official told PTI. Suspected Covid-19 patients, asymptomatic and mild positive cases, and high-risk contacts of infected people are being kept in quarantine to curb the virus spread, officials said. Some states such as Uttar Pradesh and Assam don't allow home quarantine.  In Delhi, mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients are allowed home quarantine and they are being constantly monitored by experts through telephone or video calls. As many as 49,907 people are in quarantine in Haryana, 46,969 in Tamil Nadu, 41,0621 in Chhattisgarh and 25,307 in Punjab. According to the estimate, 24,497 people are quarantined in Jharkhand, 17,858 in Karnataka, 14,596 in Delhi and 8,799 in Assam. The Home Ministry officials said states and union territories which are showing positive trends in terms of controlling the spread of the novel virus are Delhi, Kerala, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The states where worrying trends continue are Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Karnataka, another official said. The total coronavirus cases in the country surged to 10,03,832, while death toll mounted to 25,602 as on Friday. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of positive Covid-19 cases at 2,84,281 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,56,369, Delhi at 1,18,645, Karnataka at 51,422, Gujarat at 45,481, Uttar Pradesh at 43,441 and Telangana at 41,018. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 38,044 in Andhra Pradesh, 36,117 in West Bengal, 27,174 in Rajasthan, 24,002 in Haryana, 21,764 in Bihar and 20,378 in Madhya Pradesh. Assam has recorded 19,754 infections, Odisha 15,392 and Jammu and Kashmir 12,156 cases. Kerala has reported 10,275 coronavirus infections so far, while Punjab has 9,094 cases. Of the total 25,602 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 11,194 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,545 deaths, Tamil Nadu 2,236, Gujarat 2,089, Uttar Pradesh 1,046, Karnataka 1,032, West Bengal 1,023, Madhya Pradesh 689 and Rajasthan 538. So far 492 people have died of Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh, 396 in Telangana, 322 in Haryana, 230 in Punjab, 222 in Jammu and Kashmir, 197 in Bihar, 79 in Odisha, 50 in Uttarakhand, 48 in Assam, 42 in Jharkhand and 37 in Kerala. India has seen a steady decline in active caseload and officials have attributed the positive development to targeted and proactive measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-316-lakh-people-in-quarantine-across-india-862425.html
17-07-2020||National||Audio 'manufactured', Congress acting in frustration: BJP||The BJP on Friday dismissed as "manufactured" some audio clips, which the Congress has cited to accuse it of trying to topple the Rajasthan government, and said the rival party was in frustration over its "inability" to keep its house in order. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra noted that Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala had said soon after the rebellion by Sachin Pilot that if there are many utensils in a house, then they collide and make noise at times.  "The Congress is now trying to suppress this noise through manufactured audio," Patra said. The Congress is blaming the BJP to deflect criticism for its inability to keep its house in order, but the truth is clear before the masses, he added. The Congress on Friday demanded the arrest of union minister and BJP leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma after two audio clips surfaced pertaining to an alleged conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala targeted the central government and alleged that it is busy toppling Congress governments during the coronavirus pandemic. Union minister Shekhawat refuted the charge, saying his voice is not in those recordings and that he was ready to face any probe. "This is not my voice... Let there be an investigation. I am ready to face any probe," the senior BJP leader from the state told reporters here after the Congress demanded his arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/audio-manufactured-congress-acting-in-frustration-bjp-862426.html
17-07-2020||National||“Air Bubbles” may allow international travel soon again. What do they mean?||Air-bubbles are bilateral agreements that India signed with France and the United States, that would allow international air travel to resume with certain limitations.  “The whole idea of an air bubble is that you are at a stage short of normal civil aviation activities, which depend on several factors like the virus, demand situation, and the number of flights that are being allowed to operate by major cities,” said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri.  “Air-bubbles” are international flights between India and France and the United States. These flights would be more relaxed than the repatriation flights but will not be the same as normal aviation once was.  “We will carry as many people as we can through these air bubbles. But it will not be free. There will be some checks and balances and the foreign countries are also imposing restrictions. So even if you have a visa and all, special permission will be required,” he added.  International flights to and fro India were suspended on March 23rd and international movement had remained closed as countries across the world were in a state of either partial or total lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  India’s flag carrier airline, Air India, began the Vande Bharat mission, a programme aimed at bringing back Indian citizens stuck across the world. Prices in this evacuation process were predetermined and flights were booked via embassies.  Indian carriers like Vistara and SpiceJet are expected to resume international flights soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-bubbles-may-allow-international-travel-soon-again-what-do-they-mean-862428.html
17-07-2020||National||Can life term convicts be released before completing 14 years in jail? SC to decide||The Supreme Court on Friday favoured a Constitution bench to decide a legal question whether a life term convict can be released prematurely before completing minimum 14 years of jail term, in accordance with a policy framed by a state government. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran wanted the larger bench to determine if a policy can be framed under Article 161 (Power of Governor to pardon and grant remission) of the Constitution to grant release of convicts without putting facts of each case before him. The apex court has framed legal issues including whether such policy would run counter to the mandate of Section 433A Criminal Procedure Code. This provision restricted the power of remission on life term convicts unless they completed at least 14 years of jail. In a series of cases namely Maru Ram vs Union of India and others (1981), the court has held that failure to put relevant materials before the Governor may lead to the quashing of remission orders, the bench pointed out. "The question that arises is whether, in exercise of power under Article 161, a policy could be laid down setting out certain norms or postulates, on the satisfaction of which the benefit could thereafter be conferred upon or granted to the convicts by the executive without even placing the individual facts and material pertaining to the case of the convict, before the Governor," the bench said. The matter arose out of a policy framed by the Haryana government. On the occasion of Independence Day i.e. August 15, 2019, the Governor, in the exercise of the powers granted special remission to prisoners, who have been sentenced for life. Such convicts were required to be 75 years or above in case of male and of 65 years or above in case of the female as on August 15, 2019. A convict, Pyare Lal whose appeal was pending before the top court, was also released in terms of the policy. The court then sought to know the details of the policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-life-term-convicts-be-released-before-completing-14-years-in-jail-sc-to-decide-862430.html
17-07-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Rajnath Singh says India is not weak; BBMP calls for lockdown extension||In today’s episode, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh says that India is not a weak country and no power in the world can touch even an inch of its land, Rahul slams Modi government and BBMP requests extension of the lockdown in Bengaluru.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rajnath-singh-says-india-is-not-weak-bbmp-calls-for-lockdown-extension-862433.html
17-07-2020||National||19.84 lakh passengers flew domestically in June, load factor of airlines remained low: DGCA||A total of 19.84 lakh passengers travelled domestically in June this year, which is 83.5 per cent lower than the figures of the corresponding period last year, the DGCA said on Friday. Moreover, the occupancy rate or load factor for five out of six major Indian airliners was between 50 and 60 per cent in June 2020, it said. "The passenger load factor in the month of June 2020 has shown a sharp decline due to limited air operations because of the Covid-19 outbreak," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. The occupancy rate in SpiceJet was 68 per cent in June this year. However, the occupancy rate for other major airlines -- IndiGo, GoAir, Vistara, AirAsia India and Air India -- in the month of June stood at 60.7 per cent, 57.9 per cent, 56.6 per cent, 56.5 per cent and 56.5 per cent, respectively, as per the DGCA. India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months amid the coronavirus pandemic. Indian airlines are allowed to operate a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. A total of 2.81 lakh air passengers had travelled domestically between May 25 and May 31, the DGCA had said last month. The DGCA data mentioned that Vistara had the best on-time performance at four metro airports - Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai - at 96.1 per cent in June. IndiGo and AirAsia India were at number two and three at these four airports with 95.5 per cent and 94.7 per cent on-time performance, respectively, the regulator said. In June, IndiGo carried 11.89 lakh domestic passengers, which is 52.5 per cent share of the total domestic market, the DGCA data noted. At number two, SpiceJet carried 3.82 lakh domestic passengers in June, indicating a 16.9 per cent share of the total market. Air India, AirAsia India, Vistara and GoAir carried 2.9 lakh, 1.62 lakh, 1.3 lakh and 89,000 domestic passengers respectively in June, the DGCA noted. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firings of employees in order to conserve cash flow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1984-lakh-passengers-flew-domestically-in-june-load-factor-of-airlines-remained-low-dgca-862436.html
17-07-2020||National||Love knows no boundaries but Zishan couldn't cross the border||Love knows no boundaries or borders, so goes the adage but for a 20-year-old from Maharashtra, the Indo-Pak border acted as a barrier to meet his heartthrob in Karachi. Dehydration and a BSF team appeared to have stood between Mohd Zishan Siddiqui from covering 1.5 km to the border in Rann of Kutch in Gujarat, as the love-lorn youth used Google Maps to navigate his way to his lover he met on Facebook. The BSF team searching for him following information from Gujarat and Maharashtra Police found Siddiqui unconscious in Rann of Kutch on Thursday night, a senior BSF official said. His family, who resides in Khawaja Nagar in Osmanabad, had approached Maharashtra Police soon after he went missing, indicating that he is out to meet his girlfriend. The Maharashtra Police immediately informed Gujarat Police about Zishan's apparent plans following which BSF was informed. Investigators, meanwhile, tracked down his mobile phone to be in and around Dholavira and an intensive search led to the discovery of Zishan's motorcycle near Fossil Park in the afternoon. He had ridden the motorcycle from his home-town and abandoned it before leaving to the border. Around 9 PM, a BSF team found Zishan, some 1.5 km from the border, unconscious. Found in a dehydrated condition, officials said, Zishan told them that he had gone unconscious for around two hours. He was travelling with his PAN, Aadhaar and ATM cards. He told the BSF team that he fell in love with one Samra, who resides in Shah Faisal town in Karachi on Facebook and both used to be in touch through Facebook and WhatsApp. Zishan wanted to go to Pakistan to meet her and had used Google Maps for navigation. He was later handed over to local police||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/love-knows-no-boundaries-but-zishan-couldnt-cross-the-border-862439.html
17-07-2020||National||TDSAT stays TRAI direction to Vodafone Idea on withholding priority plan||Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT ) on Friday stayed the TRAI interim order asking Vodafone Idea to withhold its RedX premium plan, which offers faster data speed and priority services to customers. The tribunal in its order said that it would be open for Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to proceed with the inquiry and pass final orders in accordance with law at the earliest after ensuring that requirements of natural justice are satisfied and VIL is given opportunity to explain any alleged contravention of extant directions of the authority. "Hence, the interim direction in paragraph 2 of the impugned letter dated 11.07.2020 stays until further orders," the order said.  The tribunal decision brought temporary relief to Vodafone Idea and it can continue to sell this plan to customers. The tribunal order may also bring relief to Bharti Airtel as the telecom company had also launched a similar plan.  Earlier, the TRAI has blocked Bharti Airtel’s Platinum and Vodafone Idea’s RedX premium plans which offer faster data speed and priority services to customers. While asking two companies to withhold the two schemes till further order, the TRAI  also asked telecom firms to clarify in one week whether the customers of these two plans entitled higher 4G speeds at the cost of service deterioration to other mobile users.   Vodafone Idea had approached the appellate tribunal on Monday challenging the TRAI order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tdsat-stays-trai-direction-to-vodafone-idea-on-withholding-priority-plan-862440.html
17-07-2020||National||Happy World Emoji Day! Say less, emote more||An emoji is worth a thousand emotions if not words. Ever since texting has become the norm, emojis too have become valid forms of expression. It often conveys a message more succinctly than a long text would.   July 17 being the World Emoji Day, a number of organisations took the opportunity to convey messages ranging from social distancing to social inequality through emojis on Twitter.  Pandemic themed emojis are making rounds on Twitter. Google India tweeted a mask covered emoji captioned, “When you need to send a safe air hug.” When a ghost emoji by Google India expressed the situation of people squeezing in household chores between work from home better than words could.  What does this emoji remind you of? “When bartan duty comes back to haunt you, every morning. #worldemojiday” Amul’s ‘Utterly butterly delicious’ girl posted a cartoon on Twitter, punning on the song ‘Wahan kaun hai ter’. United Nation Women posted a strong message saying, “Happy #Worldemojiday! Here are 6 women's issues that you should know about explained in emojis.” Netizens celebrated the day by tweeting threads like “Your first SIX emojis explains your life right now”, “Comment your favourite emoji of all times” and comparing emojis to the expressions of their favourite actors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/happy-world-emoji-day-say-less-emote-more-862441.html
17-07-2020||National||Less than 1.94% of active Covid-19 patients in ICU; recovery rate at 63.33%: Ministry of Health||The Union health ministry said on Friday that less than 1.94 per cent of the 3.42 lakh active Covid-19-19 cases in India are in ICU, 0.35 per cent on ventilator support and 2.81 per cent are being given oxygen, while the recovery rate has improved to 63.33 per cent. It said the actual caseload of Covid-19-19 cases in the country as on date is 3,42,756, while more than 6.35 lakhs patients have recuperated from the disease. India, the second-most populous country in the world with 1.35 billion people, has 727.4 cases per million population, which is four to eight times lower than some European nations, the ministry said. Also, according to it, the country's case fatality rate at 18.6 deaths per million is one of the lowest in the world. "It is also notable that less than 1.94 per cent of the cases are in ICU, 0.35 per cent cases are on ventilators and 2.81 per cent cases are on oxygen beds," the ministry said, adding that 63.33 per cent of the total cases have recovered. On Thursday, the recovery rate was 63.25 per cent. The collaborative efforts of all states and Union Territories in house-to-house survey, contact tracing, surveillance of containment and buffer zones, perimeter control activities, aggressive testing and timely diagnosis have resulted in early identification of the infected persons. This has helped in early treatment too, the ministry said. India has followed a standard of care protocol for differentiated categorisation of Covid-19-19 patients -- mild, moderate and severe -- as clearly formulated in the Clinical Management Protocol of the health ministry. Effective clinical management strategies have shown to yield positive results. Almost 80 per cent of the asymptomatic and mild cases have been advised home isolation under medical supervision, the ministry said. Moderate and severe patients are being treated at either Dedicated Covid-19 Hospitals or Dedicated Covid-19 Health Centres. "The strategy of home-isolation for mild and asymptomatic patients has ensured to keep the hospitals unburdened, where the focus has been on treatment of severe cases and reduction of fatality," the health ministry said. Medical infrastructure to ensure quality treatment of admitted patients is being continuously augmented across the country. As a result of concerted efforts, hospital infrastructure for treating Covid-19-19patients is stronger today, it said The country has 1,383 Dedicated Covid-19 Hospitals, 3,107 Dedicated Covid-19 Healthcare Centres, and 10,382 Covid-19 Care Centres with a total of 46,673 ICU beds. As many as 21,848 ventilators are deployed in hospitals of all states and UTs, according to the health ministry statement. The ministry also stressed that there is no shortage of N95 masks and personal protective equipment kits. The Centre has supplied 235.58 lakh N95 masks and 124.26 lakh PPE kits to state, UTs and Central institutions, it said. With a record single-day surge of 34,956 cases, India's Covid-19-19 tally zoomed past 10 lakh on Friday, just three days after it crossed the nine-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total tally of coronavirus cases in the country surged to 10,03,832, while death toll mounted to 25,602 with the highest number of 687 fatalities recorded in a day, the data updated at 8 am on Friday showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-194-of-active-covid-19-patients-in-icu-recovery-rate-at-6333-ministry-of-health-862445.html
17-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Will Biocon's Itolizumab pass the test?||Amidst slow-proceeding clinical trials, Biocon’s Itolizumab has sparked a controversy between medical professionals. Itolizumab was approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on July 11 to treat moderate to severe cases of Covid-19 cases. It would treat cytokine release syndrome (inflammatory syndrome causing fever or multiple organ dysfunction) in acute respiratory distress syndrome caused by Covid-19. What is Itolizumab? Itolizumab is a re-purposed drug that was used to treat psoriasis. It was touted as an affordable alternative of Tocilizumba, an IL-6 inhibitor marketed by Cipla and Roche, which is also used to treat Covid-19 patients, a Moneycontrol article reported.  “The drug hasn’t been approved by the US’s Food and Drug Administration or the European Medicines Agency as Biocon hasn’t applied for such marketing authorisation,” Dr Jammi Nagaraj Rao, an epidemiologist and public health physician based in, UK wrote in The Wire. What is the controversy? After DCGI approved the drug, Itolizumab drew criticism for not adhering to regulations of a clinical trial. They pointed out that the sample size of the clinical trial is small, hence, difficult to draw verifiable results. The clinical trial enrolled a total of 30 hospitalised Covid-19 of which 20 were administered the drug and the rest were part of the control group. The goal was to check the mortality at one month. The group of 20 recovered while the three of the 10 in the control group succumbed to Covid-19.  Phase-3 which demonstrates the efficacy of the clinical trial was waived by the DCGI. In this phase, the drug is tested in multiple centres on larger demography. Instead, Itolizumab has already been allowed into the market and post-market surveillance (Phase-4) is underway. Critics of the drug have said that it is Phase-3 was an important step and should not have been skipped.  Commenting on not implementing Phase-3, Dr Rao said that the lack of clearly stated randomisation plan raises doubts whether splitting the group into two was actually random or not. Skipping this step also makes the trial unable to meet the international standards of reporting trials.  Biocon has also drawn criticism from experts for announcing the clinical trial to the media before publishing it in a peer-reviewed journal. Doing so would have allowed independent experts to assess the claims made by Biocon. What is Biocon’s response? Responding to the critics, Biocon’s Chief Medical Officer Sandeep Athalye, said that the drug is an extension of an already approved product. He defended the usage of the drug saying that if they were able to show the magnitude of effect in a small trail, which is statistically significant, even a small trial would be enough to demonstrate the power of the drug.  Several doctors have used the drug off-label (an approved drug is used to treat a disease it is not approved for) in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi on compassionate grounds and all the patients have been cured of Covid-19, Biocon said. In an interview to India Today and Managing Director of Biocon, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw explained that a 100-patient trial to test Itolizumab would have taken three months. She also said that the trial data will be published to strengthen the evidence of the effectiveness of Itolizumab. DCGI’s role Criticising the DCGI for waiving Phase-3 of the trial, some members of the medical community have demanded that the minutes of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) meeting be made public. To avoid conflict of interest, some have asked to disclose the names and professional details of SCE members.  Biocon has refused to do so saying that the kind of scientific discussions the committee had is of a “very high order.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-will-biocons-itolizumab-pass-the-test-862455.html
17-07-2020||National||Pollution cheat device: Noida police books German carmaker Volkswagen group firms, officials||Two Indian subsidiaries of German carmaker Volkswagen group have been booked for allegedly selling seven Audi cars fitted with "cheat devices” able to deceive excessive pollution emission tests to a Noida businessman, police said on Friday. The FIR lodged in Sector 20 police station against Noida-based carmakers Audi India and Skoda Auto-Volkswagen India on charges of forgery and cheating also names their top officials and parent company in Germany, said police. Businessman Aniljit Singh said in his complaint that he was sold “substandard” vehicles after misrepresentation of facts on emission. He said he bought the cars in 2016, costing him crores of rupees. He alleged the carmakers “induced” him into buying their vehicles and he bought them with an “impression” that they were compliant with the latest emission norms of the country. “However, these were substandard vehicles fitted with cheat devices,” Singh said in his complaint, adding he was duped by the company on disclosure of pollution emission by its vehicles at the time of sale. When contacted, a spokesperson for SAVW Group, however, denied the allegations and claimed: “Vehicles from our group are compliant with the emission norms prescribed in India.” The FIR names as accused Noida-based firms Audi India, Skoda Auto – Volkswagen India and Volkswagen India besides Audi AG and Volkswagen AG of Germany. The top officials of the multinational firm, who have been named in the FIR, are Audi India‘s country head Balbir Singh Dhillon, its brand director Rahil Ansari, its sales chief Nitin Kohli and Volkswagen India’s managing director Gurpratap Boparai, a copy of the FIR accessed by PTI revealed. The other officials are Audi AG chairman Bram Schot, its overseas distribution head Michael Friscii and Volkswagen AG CEO Herbert Diess. Businessman Singh also cited in the FIR what is now popularly known as the “Volkswagen Emission Scandal” or the “diesel dupe” involving the violation of environmental norms by automobile giant by the installation of “cheat device” on its cars, able to deceive pollution emission tests. India's National Green Tribunal (NGT) had in March 2019 too slapped a fine of Rs 500 crore on German auto major Volkswagen for damaging the environment through the use of “cheat device” in its diesel cars in India. “It was after the NGT order that the complainant realized that he has been duped of his hard-earned money by the accused persons as they had misrepresented him about the quality of their expensive cars by making false representation and forging the documents and devices,” the FIR stated. Accordingly, the “complainant was induced into buying their cars and resultantly the accused persons have caused wrongful gain to themselves and wrongful loss to the complainant”, the FIR stated. A senior officer of Noida Police said the investigation has been taken up and if needed, officials of Volkswagen group, including those in Germany, could be summoned for questioning. “Yes, the FIR has been lodged at the Sector 20 police station based on the complaint given by the complainant. The investigation has been taken up, and whether the allegations against the car companies are true will be ascertained only after the probe,” Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Sankalp Sharma told PTI. He added, “If required, the accused persons and company officials could be summoned to Noida for joining the investigation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pollution-cheat-device-noida-police-books-german-carmaker-volkswagen-group-firms-officials-862478.html
17-07-2020||National||No impact of Covid-19 on kharif sowing; acreage up 21.20% so far: Govt||There has been no impact of Covid-19 pandemic on kharif (summer) sowing as the total area planted to rice and other crops has increased by 21.20 per cent to 691.86 lakh hectare so far in the current season, the Agriculture Ministry said on Friday. The country has so far received good rainfall and water level in 123 reservoirs across the country is in good position, it said in the latest sowing data. Sowing of kharif crops begins with the onset of southwest monsoon from June, while harvesting starts from October. Rice is the main kharif crop, besides bajra, arhar, urad, moong, groundnut and soyabean. "As on July 17, total kharif crops have been sown on 691.86 lakh hectare area against 570.86 lakh hectare area during the corresponding period of last year, thus increase in area coverage by 21.20 per cent," the ministry said. So, there is no impact of Covid-19 on progress of area coverage under kharif crops as on date, it said. Among kharif crops, area planted to rice has increased by 18.59 per cent to 168.47 lakh hectare as on July 17 from 142.06 lakh hectare in the year-ago period. There has been significant increase in the planting of oilseeds and pulses so far during the ongoing kharif season. Pulses area has gone up by 32.35 per cent to 81.66 lakh hectare, from 61.70 lakh hectare, while that of oilseeds acreage has increased by 40.75 per cent to 154.95 lakh hectare compared to 110.09 lakh hectare in the said period. Area planted to coarse cereals has increased by 12.23 per cent to 115.60 lakh hectare so far as against 103 lakh hectare a year ago. Among cash crops, cotton area has increased by 17.28 per cent to 113.01 lakh hectare from 96.35 lakh hectare, while that of sugarcane area to 51.28 lakh hectare from 50.82 lakh hectare in the said period. Jule and mesta area has increased marginally to 6.88 lakh hectare so far in this kharif season from 6.84 lakh hectare. According to the ministry, the country has received good rainfall at 338.3 mm against a normal of 308.4 mm as on July 16. As per the Central Water Commission water level in 123 reservoirs was 150 per cent of the last year and 133 per cent of the average in last ten years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-impact-of-covid-19-on-kharif-sowing-acreage-up-2120-so-far-govt-862479.html
17-07-2020||National||Locust control operations carried out in over 3.5 lakh hectares area in 9 states so far: Agri Min||The Centre on Friday said measures to contain the spread of locust swarms have so far been carried out in over 3.5 lakh hectares of area in states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar. On July 16 night, control operations were carried out in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, the agriculture ministry said in a statement. The Indian Air Force's helicopter also undertook an anti-locust operation in the Ramsar area of Barmer in Rajasthan on Friday, it added. The statement said measures to control locust swarms were carried out on July 16 night at 23 places in nine districts (Barmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Nagaur, Churu, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Jalore and Sirohi) of Rajasthan and Kutch district of Gujarat by Locusts Control Officers (LCOs). Besides this, respective state agriculture departments also carried out control operations at two places in the district of Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, and one place in the district of Pali in Rajasthan. Since April 11, locust control operations have been carried out in more than 3.5 lakh hectares in nine states. Of the total, the LCOs have taken measures in 1,76,055 hectares area in states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, The state governments have taken control measures in 1,76,026 hectares area in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar. The ministry said that swarms of immature pink locusts and adult yellow locusts were found to be active on Friday in districts of Barmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Nagaur, Churu, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Jalore and Sirohi of Rajasthan, Kutch district of Gujarat and Pilibhit district of Uttar Pradesh. The country is battling the worst locust attack in the last 26 years. It is using all the latest equipment and machineries like drones and helicopters to stop its spread to more states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locust-control-operations-carried-out-in-over-35-lakh-hectares-area-in-9-states-so-far-agri-min-862486.html
17-07-2020||National||Govt gets 2,353 entries for Aatmanirbhar Bharat App contest, extends deadline till July 26||The government has extended last date for submission of entries under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge till July 26, following huge interest from start-ups and technical entrepreneurs across the country, the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) said on Friday. The contest, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 4 to reduce dependency on foreign apps, has received 2,353 entries under various categories from Indian entities. "Given the enthusiastic response to the Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge, the government has decided to extend the last date of submission of entries to the challenge to July 26, 2020. The challenge is hosted on the Innovate Portal of MyGov," MeitY said in a statement. Earlier, the last date for submission of entries was fixed July 18. The contest, started in eight categories, has received 286 app entries in the health and wellness segment, 339 under e-learning, 414 social networking, 136 under games, 238 office and work from home, 75 news, and 96 under the entertainment segment. Around 389 app entries have been submitted under the 'others' category. "Amongst those received from individuals, around 788 applications are ready-to-use and the remaining 708 are under development. For the apps submitted by organisations, 636 have already been deployed and the remaining 221 are under development," the statement said. It added that the applicants are from all over the country, including remote and small towns. "This shows the talent that exists in our country, and this App Innovation Challenge is the right opportunity for Indian tech developers, entrepreneurs and companies to build for India at a scale that is unparalleled anywhere in the world." The top-three winners under each of the categories will get Rs 20 lakh, Rs 15 lakh and Rs 10 lakh for first, second and third positions, respectively, from the government. "The true challenge will be to identify the apps that are robust, scalable, secure with an easy-to-use interface, and give users an experience that will make them come back to the app. The Aatmanirbhar Bharat App ecosystem has the potential to unlock value for the Indian tech start-ups and help them get a pie of the multi trillion-dollar app economy," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-gets-2353-entries-for-aatmanirbhar-bharat-app-contest-extends-deadline-till-july-26-862488.html
17-07-2020||National||Zydus Cadila looks to complete trials of Covid-19 vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D in 7 months||Drug firm Zydus Cadila is looking to complete clinical trials of its COVID-19 vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D in seven months, the company's chairman said on Friday. The company had on Wednesday started clinical trials of its COVID-19 vaccine candidate with the first human dosing. The firm is looking to complete phase I and phase II clinical trials in the next three months and submit the data to the regulator, Zydus Cadila Chairman Pankaj R Patel said in a statement. Depending on the study outcomes and if the data is encouraging and the vaccine is found to be effective during the trials, it could take a total of seven months for the trials to be completed and for the vaccine to be launched, he added. The aim would be to cater to the India market first, Patel said. "The company is open to exploring partnerships with pharma companies across geographies, however it may be too premature to comment on this at this point in time," he added. Earlier this month, Zydus had received approval from the national drug regulator to initiate human trials for its COVID-19 vaccine contender. With a record single-day surge of 34,956 cases, India's COVID-19 tally zoomed past ten lakh on Friday, just three days after it crossed the nine-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data. PTI AKT ABM ABM||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zydus-cadila-looks-to-complete-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-zycov-d-in-7-months-862489.html
17-07-2020||National||India-China border row: S Jaishankar hits back at Rahul Gandhi, says 'ask the media'||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday hit back at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of the government's foreign policy, saying that under the Modi dispensation India's major partnerships are stronger, international standing higher and it engages China on more equal terms politically. "Pakistan (that you skipped) surely notes the difference between Balakot and Uri on the one hand, and Sharm-el-Sheikh, Havana and 26/11 on the other. Ask yourself," Jaishankar said, attacking Gandhi over his comments. Jaishankar's no-holds-barred attack on Gandhi came after the former Congress chief, in a video message posted on Twitter, hit out at the government saying that over the last six years, India has been "disturbed and disrupted" with regard to its foreign policy and economy. Gandhi shared his thoughts on why did China chose to be aggressive now and alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "indiscretions" have weakened the country and left it vulnerable. "Rahul Gandhi has questions on Foreign Policy. Here are some answers: Our major partnerships are stronger and international standing higher. Witness regular summits and informal meetings with the US, Russia, Europe and Japan. India engages China on more equal terms politically. Ask the analysts," Jaishankar said in a series of tweets in which he made a point-by-point rebuttal of Gandhi's criticism and tagged his video. India speaks its mind more openly now on issues such as China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), China's Belt and Road initiative, South China Sea and UN-sanctioned terrorists, he said, adding, "ask the media". "And some facts on our neighbourhood: The Hambantota Port agreement between Sri Lanka and China was concluded in 2008. Ask those who dealt with it...Difficult ties with Maldives, after India watched President Nasheed being toppled in 2012, now stand transformed. Ask our business," he said. Ask their households. On Bangladesh, Jaishankar said a settled land boundary in 2015 which opens the path to more development and transit. "Terrorists no longer find safe haven there. Ask our security," he said. "Nepal after 17 years is getting Prime Ministerial visits. And a swathe of developmental projects: power, fuel, housing, hospital, roads, etc. Ask their citizens," Jaishankar said, highlighting strengthening of India's ties with neighbours. Ask the Afghan street. Bhutan finds a stronger security and development partner and unlike in 2013, they don't worry about their cooking gas, he asserted, referring to the row over cooking gas with that country under the UPA rule. Ask the households in Bhutan, he added. Afghanistan sees completed projects -- Salma Dam and Parliament, expanded training and serious connectivity, Jaishankar said, adding that ask the Afghan street. On India's foreign policy, Gandhi said the country had relationships with multiple countries and it used to share a strategic partnership with the US. India also had a relationship with Russia and Europe and they used to help it manoeuvre in the world, he said. Ask our security. "Today...we have a transactional relationship with the United States. We have disturbed our relationship with the Russians. We have a transactional relationship with Europe," he alleged. He claimed that in the neighbourhood all countries, other than Pakistan, had been working with India and partnered with it in the past. Gandhi alleged that today Nepalese are angry, Sri Lankans have given a port to the Chinese, the Maldives is disturbed and so is Bhutan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-row-s-jaishankar-hits-back-at-rahul-gandhi-says-ask-the-media-862494.html
17-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Piyush Goyal reviews availability, supply of medical oxygen||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday reviewed the availability and supply of medical oxygen in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, and directed officials to take special care of areas where connectivity gets affected due to adverse weather conditions, an official statement said. Officials of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed the meeting that as of now, there is no major problem reported in manufacturing, storage, transport and supply of medical oxygen. The minister said "adequate arrangements should be in place for any eventuality or sudden spurt in demand." He directed that special care should be taken to make available the oxygen supply in areas where connectivity gets affected at this time of the year due to adverse weather conditions. The average monthly consumption of medical oxygen was 902 MT/day in April and it has gone up to 1,512 MT/day as of July 15, the statement said, adding there is sufficient stock of over 15,000 MT currently. "It was observed that the overall position of the present production and supply of medical oxygen, as compared to the total projection of the requirement by end of this month, is comfortable in all the states. "In states, metros and districts, where the active cases are large in number, the position of supply and storage is adequate," it said.  Similarly, appropriate arrangements have been made for making available medical oxygen at remote places, it added. The percentage of total Covid-19 cases on oxygen support, including those in ICU, has declined to 4.58 per cent on Thursday, it said, adding medical oxygen storage capacity is also being enhanced by almost 10 per cent from 5,938 MT as on March 1. It further said all the major manufacturers of cylinders and cryogenic vessels are now registered on public procurement portal Government e-Marketplace (GeM), and the manufacturers of medical oxygen generators are in the process of registering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-piyush-goyal-reviews-availability-supply-of-medical-oxygen-862500.html
17-07-2020||National||Punjab Police cybercrime cell warns against fake 'TikTok Pro' app||The Punjab Police cybercrime cell has issued a warning against downloading APK files that mimic the banned 'TikTok' or other popular apps, saying these might be sources of malware. The warning was issued amid reports of a message being circulated via SMS and WhatsApp claiming that the banned Chinese app 'TikTok' is now available as 'TikTok Pro' in India. A URL is attached in the message for users to download the app, a police spokesperson said. Pointing out that 'TikTok' and 58 popular mobile apps have been banned by the government of India, the spokesperson said the cybercrime cell found that the malware called 'TikTok Pro' is a fake app with a logo similar to the real one. The fact that the fake app is not available for download either on Google Play Store or App Store clearly indicates it is a fraud, he said in a statement. "Further, the URL http://tiny.cciTiktokPro, provided as a download link, does not follow basic security protocols as the site starts with http and not https. Also, clicking on the file immediately installs an APK file," the official said. The department has urged people to be extremely cautious in this regard and not click on suspicious links. "If they come across any such message regarding the fake app, through any social media platform, they should not forward it to others but should immediately delete it. Clicking on such links poses high risks because it could be malware which could redirect you to other fraudulent sites and lead to financial loss," the State Cyber Crime Investigation Centre said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-police-cybercrime-cell-warns-against-fake-tiktok-pro-app-862501.html
17-07-2020||National||Congress dragging BJP in its internal fight: Satish Poonia||The Rajasthan BJP on Friday accused the Congress of dragging it its internal fight between groups of two leaders in the state. BJP state president Satish Poonia also hit out at Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, saying he levelled false allegations against Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to defame him. "Surjewala is giving statements as if he is the DG of the SOG (Special Operation Group). Congress party and its government are conspiring to defame the BJP and dragging it in its internal fight between two leaders," Poonia told reporters here at a press conference. He also asserted that Sanjay Jain, whose name surfaced in audio recordings related to the alleged horse-trading of legislators, has no connection with the BJP. Surjewala had dubbed Jain as a BJP leader but he is actually a Congress block president of Lunkaransar of Bikaner district, said Poonia. He said the Congress advocates the abrogation of Indian Penal Code section 124-A relating to the offence of sedition but Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot is using the same section against his own party leaders due to the fear of losing his chair. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria also echoed Poonia’s views saying it is a certified fact that it is an internal fight within the Congress and the BJP is being dragged into it. He pointed out that audio recordings are not authentic evidence and even the courts do not accept them. “Phone taping cannot be done without prior approval from the Home Department. It would have been better if the Congress had verified the facts before naming Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat,” he added. Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore said, “The Congress government in the state is on a death bed.” It is divided into two groups and cannot run the government any longer, he added. Questioning the authenticity of audio recordings, he said anybody can mimic someone so well today that it cannot be verified. He said the BJP has been saying that Congress is misusing law and taping phone calls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-dragging-bjp-in-its-internal-fight-satish-poonia-862503.html
17-07-2020||National||Bengal records highest single-day spike of 1,894 Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 38,011||West Bengal's Covid-19 tally reached 38,011 on Friday after it reported a record single-day spike of 1,894 cases, while the toll jumped to 1,049 with 26 more deaths, a health department bulletin said. The state now has 14,709 active Covid-19 cases, it said. Since Thursday evening, 838 people have recovered from the disease, the bulletin said, adding that 13,240 samples have been tested in this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-1894-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-38011-862505.html
17-07-2020||National||Three medium-intensity earthquakes hit Andaman and Nicobar Islands||Three medium-intensity earthquakes hit the Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Friday, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said.   Two of the quakes of the magnitude of more than five occurred within a span of 40 minutes. According to the NCS, an earthquake of 4.8 magnitudes occurred at 10.31 am and the epicentre was 250-km east of Port Blair, the capital of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The depth of the earthquake was 10 km, it said. Another quake of 5.1 magnitudes hit the archipelago 6.59 pm at a depth of 62 kilometres. The third earthquake of 5.6 magnitudes occurred at 7.33 pm at a depth of 10 km, the National Centre for Seismology said. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a high-seismic zone and is prone to earthquakes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-medium-intensity-earthquakes-hit-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-862507.html
17-07-2020||National||UN was born out of World War II, let's rebuild it out of Covid-19, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the Covid-19 pandemic had provided the context for the rebirth and reform of the United Nations, which was born out of the devastation of World War II. “The United Nations was originally born from the furies of the Second World War. Today, the fury of the pandemic provides the context for its rebirth and reform. Let us not lose this chance,” Modi said, delivering a keynote address virtually at the “High-Level Segment” of the current session of the United Nations Economic and Social Council. This was the Prime Minister’s first address to a United Nations body after India last month won a non-permanent seat at the Security Council of the international organisation for a two-year term commencing from January 2021. He indicated that New Delhi would continue to argue for the reform of the United Nations during its tenure at the Security Council. India has since long been asking for expansion of the Security Council with permanent seats for itself, as well as for Japan, Germany and Brazil. The Prime Minister on Friday said that India firmly believed in multilateralism as the path to achieve sustainable peace and prosperity. “As children of planet Earth, we must join hands to address our common challenges and achieve our common goals,” he said, adding: “However, multilateralism needs to represent the reality of the contemporary world. Only reformed multilateralism with a reformed United Nations at its centre can meet the aspirations of humanity.” “Today,” he said, “while celebrating the 75 years of the United Nations, let us pledge to reform the global multilateral  system – to enhance its relevance, to improve its effectiveness, and to make it the basis of a new type of human-centric globalisation.” He said that the Covid-19 pandemic had severely tested the resilience of all nations. India tried to make the fight against the pandemic a people's movement, by combining the efforts of the government and the society. He said that the government had given the highest priority to deliver benefits to poor households. “We have announced a package of more than $300 billion. It will bring the economy back on track, build modern infrastructure and put in place a technology-driven system,” said the Prime Minister. “We have put forward a vision of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' a self-reliant and Resilient India, integrated with the global economy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-was-born-out-of-world-war-ii-lets-rebuild-it-out-of-covid-19-says-pm-modi-862508.html
17-07-2020||National||SC dismisses plea for one nation-one education board||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea to direct the Union government to set up a National Education Council or National Education Commission and merge the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education Board into the Central Board of Secondary Education to provide one nation and one education to all children of the country. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph dismissed the PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, saying "the petition raises issues of policy. We are affirmatively of the view that it is not within the domain of this court". "These are matters which fall within the domain of experts. Similarly, the relief which has been of introducing a “standard textbook with a chapter on the Constitution” is a matter of policy. The school syllabus contains subjects bearing on the knowledge of rights, duties and governance under the Constitution," the bench said. The bench further observed that our children have such heavy bags and their backs were breaking with its weight. "Why should extra weight be added to it," the court asked.  With regard to plea for merging the two education boards, the court said, "the petition lays no foundation or justiciable basis for the court to issue directions of this nature." Upadhyay, who argued the matter himself, submitted that if the court was not inclined to entertain the petition, it should be permitted to be treated as a representation and the Registry should be directed to forward it to the authorities for considering the suggestions. Declining this plea, the bench said, we cannot "allow the office of this court to be used for directing that the suggestions which have been made by the petitioner be considered by the authorities. This is nothing but an effort to confer legitimacy on the petitioner’s attempt to enter into an area of educational policy".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-for-one-nation-one-education-board-862509.html
17-07-2020||National||Railways generated 1.6 lakh man-days of work in four weeks: Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav||The Indian Railways generated 1.6 lakh man-days of work in 4 weeks and spent Rs 608 crore under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan. Under the programme, the Railways has identified 160 infrastructure works to provide employment to the labourers who returned to their villages due to the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told reporters here. The works undertaken include construction and maintenance of approach roads for level crossings; development and cleaning of silted waterways, trenches and drains along tracks; construction and maintenance of approach road to railway stations; repair and widening of existing railway embankments/cuttings; plantation at the extreme boundary of railway land; and protection works of existing embankments/cuttings/bridges. Inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 20, the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan is in operation in 116 identified districts of six states - Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand. It has envisaged generating roughly around 8 lakh man-days of employment by the end of October, spending approximately Rs 1,800 crore. Railways zones have also been instructed to get sanction for proposed works under MGNREGS. Zonal Railways would be monitoring the works on a daily basis and submit a report to the ministry every Friday till the end of October 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-generated-16-lakh-man-days-of-work-in-four-weeks-railway-board-chairman-v-k-yadav-862512.html
17-07-2020||National||Dr Shivcharan, who complained of faulty PPEs in Amritsar, suspended||Government Medical College (GMC) Amritsar’s medicine department head and Covid-19 Nodal officer, Dr. Shivcharan was suspended days after he secured a stay order against his transfer.  According to reports, he is the central figure who raised questions about the quality of the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits purchased by the administration. “It is informed that PPE being supplied to the residents/faculty/other paramedical employees attending patients in the high-risk zone does not cover the whole body. The body cover/gown does not cover the whole body and the wearer of the PPE is not fully protected. Also, there is no N-95 mask in this kit and there are no full shoe covers. This is for your information and necessary action please,” he wrote in his complaint to the then Principal Sujata Sharma, regarding the PPE kits.  It appears there was an internal disagreement between Sharma and Dr. Shivcharan as well. When Sharma warned doctors to wear PPEs to be eligible for benefits under the Accidental Loss of Life Due to the Covid-19 Related Duty Scheme, Dr. Shivcharan accused her of hurting the morale of employees. “Doctors and staff of the medicine department have been working tirelessly to fight Covid-19. They have been fighting at the forefront against this pandemic…You have also written about accidental policy and it has also disappointed the doctors and the staff. Being head of the institute, you should make efforts to boost the morale of staff instead of hurting it,” he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-shivcharan-who-complained-of-faulty-ppes-in-amritsar-suspended-862514.html
17-07-2020||National||SC refuses to consider plea for monthly disbursal scheme for Bar clerks||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a plea for a direction to the Centre to disburse a sum of Rs 15,000 per month to the Members of the Supreme Court Bar Clerks' Association from the month of June 2020 till normalcy is restored in the functioning of the court. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah asked senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the petitioner-body as to how the court can ask the Union government to pay. The counsel said it was as per the mandate of the Disaster Management Act. The bench, then, said in that case, other associations would also demand similar relief. On this, Luthra sought to withdraw the petition with the liberty to approach the Bar Council of India. The court, however, said the BCI dealt only with matters concerning advocates. The court finally allowed him to withdraw the petition. The petition, filed by advocate Deepak Prakash and settled by senior advocate Mohan V Katarki, contended since the announcement of national lockdown on March 25, 2020, to contain Covid-19, the clerks have been facing severe financial crunch. The income of clerks, an integral and indispensable part of our legal system, has been linked to filing of cases which has disappeared due to limited functioning of courts. "Most of the members of the petitioner Association had very little or no savings and, therefore, only after a few days of the lockdown, they started suffering financially. In fact, the advocates themselves lost their earnings and are unable to pay the monthly salary," it said. Maintaining that their survival must be given utmost importance, the petitioner asked the court to direct the Union government to frame a scheme under the Disaster Management Act to allow ex gratia payments. The petitioner claimed most of the clerks are on the verge of penury having absolutely no money to even look after basic facilities, likely health and education of children and even arranging food for their family members, in grave violation of the Article 21 of the Constitution. It also pointed out that the Union government had announced a Rs 20 lakh crore financial aid package in the month of May, which covered small scale industries, migrant workers and other financially distressed groups of persons, however, no such scheme has been formulated for clerks and similarly placed persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-for-monthly-disbursal-scheme-for-bar-clerks-862524.html
17-07-2020||National||US, India deepen energy ties; begin collaboration on strategic petroleum reserves||India is set to use the underground caverns in Louisiana and Texas in the United States to store its crude oil to meet emergency needs in case of disruptions in supply. India and the United States on Friday inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to begin cooperation on strategic petroleum reserves. The MoU was signed after a video conference between Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the US Energy Secretary Dan Brouillette. “We are in an advanced stage of discussions for storing India’s crude oil in the US strategic petroleum reserves to increase our emergency stockpile,” said Pradhan.   New Delhi's move to use US facilities to enhance strategic oil reserves came amid China’s aggression along its disputed boundary with India. “Today, we're pleased to announce a technical cooperation agreement between US @EnergyDepartment and Indian @PetroleumMin on Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which ensures a consistent energy supply, protects national security, and promotes regional and global stability,” tweeted the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs of the US State Department. The Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve Limited already constructed underground rock caverns for storage of 5.33 MMT of crude oil at three locations – Visakhapatnam (1.33 Million Metric Tonne) in Andhra Pradesh and Mangalore (1.5 MMT) and Padur (2.5 MMT) in Karnataka. The total 5.33 MMT capacity under Phase-I of the strategic petroleum reserve programme is currently estimated to supply approximately 10 days of crude requirement of India at the consumption rate of 2016-17 financial year. The Modi Government in June 2018 approved establishment of additional 4 Million Metric Tonne (MMT) strategic petroleum reserve facility at Chandikhol in Odisha. It also decided to raise the capacity of the facility at Padur in Karnataka by 2.5 MMT. The new facilities will provide an additional supply of petroleum for about 12 days. The US holds the largest strategic petroleum reserve of the world with its underground facilities in Louisiana and Texas having capacity to store 797 million barrels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-india-deepen-energy-ties-begin-collaboration-on-strategic-petroleum-reserves-862527.html
17-07-2020||National||EC seeks suggestions for poll campaign during Covid-19||The Election Commission (EC) on Friday wrote to all national and regional political parties seeking their "views and suggestions" on the conduct of election campaign during upcoming polls in the country as the Covid-19 pandemic is still active. In its one-page letter, the poll body sought their replies by July 31 and said that bypolls in some states and the Bihar assembly elections are due this year. The EC, while referring to the "current situation of Covid-19 in the country", said several guidelines have been issued by the Centre and state governments under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other some other laws to ensure safety and contain the spread of coronavirus in the country. "Some of the precautionary measures prescribed include compulsory wearing of face mask in public places, social distance, maintaining a prescribed minimum social distance in public places including restrictions on large public gatherings/congregations, thermal scanning at the place of gathering, sanitisation etc," the EC said. Keeping these issues in mind, the EC asked the parties to send their "views and suggestions latest by July 31, 2020, so that necessary guidelines may be firmed up for the election campaign by candidates or political parties for the conduct of election during the pandemic period." Several opposition parties of Bihar on Friday urged the EC to assure voters that the upcoming assembly polls do not become a "super spreader event" owing to the Covid-19 infection and urged the poll body to restrict the number of voters per polling station to 250 to ensure physical distancing. The opposition parties held a virtual meeting with the Commission brass this evening and submitted a memorandum to the poll panel earlier in the day drawing its attention to the coronavirus situation in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-seeks-suggestions-for-poll-campaign-during-covid-19-862529.html
17-07-2020||National||HC allows pvt institutions to collect 75% fees for current academic year||The Madras High Court on Friday allowed unaided private educational institutions in Tamil Nadu to collect in two instalments 75 per cent of the tuition fees paid in the previous academic year, for 2020-21. While 40 per cent of the tuition fee can be collected as an advance on or before August 31, the balance can be paid within two months, starting from the date of reopening of the institutions, it said. The matter relates to a petition from All India Private Educational Institutions Association challenging an April 20 government order restraining all private schools and colleges across the state from demanding fee as fixed by the fee fixation committee by citing the Covid-19 outbreak. Passing the interim order on a batch of petitions by the private educational institutions, Justice Anand Venkatesh directed them not to compel parents and students to pay the tuition fees due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation. In his order, the judge said, "This Court does not find any visibility of the institutions reopening and conducting physical classes in the near future. Therefore, this Court finds force in the submissions made by the counsel representing the petitioners that the initial percentage of the payment of tuition fee must be increased." "Taking into consideration, the present situation and in order to find an interim solution to clear the logjam and in order to balance the interest of all the stakeholders, unaided private institutions shall collect 40 per cent of the tuition fees as advance fees based on the tuition fees collected during the academic year 2019-2020. This advance fee shall be paid by the students on or before August 31," he said. In its counter affidavit filed on July 9, the state government had informed the court that it has decided to permit the institutions to collect fees in three instalments during the lockdown period. When the matter came up on Friday, the judge allowed the institutions to collect 40 per cent as initial fees and the balance 35 per cent within two months from the date on which the schools and colleges reopen and physical classes commence. The institutions were permitted to collect the arrears of fees payable for the academic year 2019-2020, which shall be paid on or before September 30. The court ordered the Fee Fixation Committee, constituted by the government, to start the process of the determining the tuition fees for the respective institutions and make an attempt to complete it in eight months starting from August. It gave a direction to the teaching and non-teaching staff not to insist for any increment in salary and DA, until the restoration of normalcy and further orders. The state government was asked to consider the request made by the institutions to supply textbooks and notebooks to the students either free of cost or at some nominal rates and this may be confined to the students who are in dire straits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-allows-pvt-institutions-to-collect-75-fees-for-current-academic-year-862543.html
17-07-2020||National||India's registers 7.4% decline in maternal mortality ratio between 2015-17 and 2016-18||The maternal mortality ratio in India declined from 122 in 2015-17 to 113 in 2016-18, a 7.4 per cent decline, according to a special bulletin released by the Registrar General of India, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. He highlighted that the country has been witnessing a progressive reduction in MMR from 167 in 2011-2013, 130 in 2014-2016, 122 in 2015-17 to 113 in 2016-18. On India's commitment to Sustainable Development Goals SDG, Vardhan said that with this persistent decline, India is on track to achieving the SDG of 70 per lakh live births by 2030 and National Health Policy (NHP) target of 100 per live births by 2020, according to a health ministry statement. Maternal mortality ratio (MMR) is the ratio of the number of maternal deaths during a given time period per 1,00,000 live births during the same time period. The number of states which have achieved the SDG target has now risen from three to five. These five states are Kerala (43), Maharashtra (46) Tamil Nadu (60), Telangana (63) and Andhra Pradesh (65). "There are 11 states that have achieved the target of MMR set by the NHP which includes the five states and Jharkhand (71), Gujarat (75), Haryana (91), Karnataka (92), West Bengal (98) and Uttarakhand (99)," the statement said. Vardhan said that three states -- Punjab (129), Bihar (149) and Odisha (150) -- have maternal mortality ratio in between 100-150, while for five states, Chhattisgarh (159), Rajasthan (164), Madhya Pradesh (173), Uttar Pradesh (197) and Assam (215), the MMR is above 150, according to the statement. The Union health minister congratulated the Rajasthan, which has shown the maximum decline of 22 points in MMR, Uttar Pradesh 19 points, Odisha 18, Bihar 16 points and Madhya Pradesh 15 points. Telangana and Maharashtra have shown more than 15 per cent decline in MMR, while Odisha, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat have shown a decline between 10-15 per cent, Vardhan said, adding that Karnataka, Assam, Jharkhand, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have witnessed a decline in maternal mortality ratio between 5-10 per cent. "This success can be attributed to the intensive endeavour of the government in achieving impressive gains in institutional deliveries as well as focusing on quality and coverage of services under NHM through various schemes such as Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram, Janani Suraksha Yojana, and newer initiatives like Laqshya and Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan," the minister was quoted as saying in the statement. The government also envisaging rolling out the overarching SUMAN initiative including the midwifery initiative, assuring the delivery of maternal and newborn healthcare services encompassing wider access to free and quality services, zero tolerance for denial of services along with respectful maternity care, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-registers-74-decline-in-maternal-mortality-ratio-between-2015-17-and-2016-18-862548.html
17-07-2020||National||IITs relax admission norms in view of partial cancellation of exams||In a relief to students, the IITs on Friday decided to relax the admission criteria this year in view of the partial cancellation of Class 12 examinations by several boards, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said. Candidates clearing JEE-Advanced will be eligible for admission to IITs irrespective of their class 12 marks as the Joint Admission Board has decided to do away with their criterion of minimum 75% marks in Class 12 examinations, Nishank said. "Qualified candidates who have passed class XII examinations will now be eligible for admissions irrespective of marks obtained," the minister said. For admissions to IITs, apart from qualifying the JEE-Advanced, candidates were required to secure either a minimum score of 75% marks in Class 12 board exams or rank among the top 20 percentile in their qualifying examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iits-relax-admission-norms-in-view-of-partial-cancellation-of-exams-862555.html
17-07-2020||National||Twitter cringes at rescuers who fed cake to snakes on World Snake Day||Snake rescuers in Jharkhand fed cake to snakes on World Snake Day, much to the chagrin of Twitter. In a bizarre event that took place in Jharkhand, a group of snake rescuers gathered to cut cake and feed it to snakes on World Snake Day, celebrated on July 16th. The aim of the day is to create awareness about the types of snakes and the role they play in maintaining delicate ecological balance across the world.  Virat Singh, a former journalist with an active interest in conservation and wildlife, shared this video on Twitter. He tagged several experts and Indian Forest Services (IFS) officers, asking them to look into the issue.  While some were outraged by the act, others pointed out that it was merely symbolic, the cake was placed in front of the serpents but they did not eat it.  Some netizens even accused the rescuers of having malicious intentions and setting up the situation to get publicity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-cringes-at-rescuers-who-fed-cake-to-snakes-on-world-snake-day-862571.html
17-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan political row a tussle between 'autopilot' & 'fighter pilot': Union minister Shekhawat||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Thursday described the power tussle going on between Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot as a fight between "autopilot" and a "fighter pilot". Taking a swipe at Gehlot, the BJP leader said his every statement proves the "Gandhi family's proprietorship" over the Congress.  "The political war between Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot is a clash between an autopilot and fighter pilot,” Shekhawat said in a statement.  On Tuesday, Shekhawat had taken a dig at Gehlot, saying the Rajasthan government was on autopilot as the chief minister was "busy chasing a pilot".  On Wednesday, Pilot was sacked as Rajasthan's deputy chief minister and president of the Congress' unit of the state.  Attacking the Congress, Shekhawat said the party had killed internal democracy decades ago. He said the Congress levelled baseless allegations against others all the time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-row-a-tussle-between-autopilot-fighter-pilot-union-minister-shekhawat-862218.html
17-07-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Congress stumped by Pilot's demand for self-respect?||Congress closes door on rebel Sachin Pilot The Congress on Wednesday virtually shut the doors on Sachin Pilot, with Rajasthan Assembly Speaker launching disqualification proceedings against the former deputy chief minister and his 18 supporters, while Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot claimed that he had proof of Pilot hobnobbing with the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-congress-stumped-by-pilots-demand-for-self-respect-862236.html
17-07-2020||National Politics||India's culturally rich heritage is known all over the world: Ministry of External Affairs on Oli's Ayodhya remarks||India's culturally rich heritage is known all over the world, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday, days after Nepalese Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli's controversial remarks on Ayodhya and Lord Ram. Under fire for the PM's remarks, the Nepal government on Tuesday had launched a damage control act to clarify that Oli's statements were "not linked to any political subject" and had no intention at all to "hurt" anyone's feelings and sentiments. Asked about Oli's remarks, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, "The deep and culturally rich heritage of our country is known all over the world." He also noted that the Nepalese foreign ministry had issued a clarification and he did not want to comment any further on the matter. In its statement, Nepal's foreign ministry had clarified that the remarks made by Oli were "not meant to debase the significance of Ayodhya and the cultural value it bears". "As there have been several myths and references about Shri Ram and the places associated with him, the Prime Minister was simply highlighting the importance of further studies and research of the vast cultural geography the Ramayana represents to obtain facts about Shri Ram, Ramayana and the various places linked to this rich civilization," the ministry had said. To a separate question on Kerala's gold smuggling case, Srivastava said India is in touch with the UAE authorities regarding the investigation in this matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-culturally-rich-heritage-is-known-all-over-the-world-ministry-of-external-affairs-on-olis-ayodhya-remarks-862239.html
17-07-2020||National Politics||India will cross 20 lakh Covid-19 cases by Aug 10; govt must take concrete steps: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday urged the government to take concrete steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus, saying if it keeps spreading at the current pace then there will be more than 20 lakh cases by August 10. Gandhi has been critical of the government's handling of the pandemic and has questioned the Centre's claims on battling coronavirus. "10,00,000-mark has been crossed. If Covid-19 spreads at this pace, by August 10, more than 20,00,000 will be infected in the country," the former Congress chief said in a tweet in Hindi. The government must take concrete and planned steps to prevent further spread of the pandemic, he said. He also retweeted his Tuesday's post in which he said the total number of coronavirus cases in the country will cross the 10 lakh-mark this week. India's Covid-19 count on Thursday crossed two grim milestones of 10 lakh cases and 25,000 deaths, according to official data from states. India is ranked third in the global coronavirus tally after the US and Brazil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-will-cross-20-lakh-covid-19-cases-by-aug-10-govt-must-take-concrete-steps-rahul-gandhi-862294.html
17-07-2020||National Politics||Gowda appeals to Modi to pay urgent attention to flood-hit Assam||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Friday appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the union government to pay urgent attention to the situation in flood devastated Assam and offer maximum aid to the state. The JD(S) supremo noted that the state was fighting on two fronts - the Covid-19 pandemic and the floods and said he would visit Assam, 'God willing' after the virus abates. In a statement here, he said he was 'deeply disturbed' by reports of the floods in Assam that has killed more than 60 people and affected four million. He also expressed grief over the death of 60 animals in the Kaziranga National Park. "I appeal to the Prime Minister and the central government to pay urgent attention to the situation emerging in Assam and offer maximum assistance to the state government," he said. "The people of Assam, and the people of North East in general, have blessed me and showered a lot of affection when I was Prime Minister, and later too. They will be in my prayers," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gowda-appeals-to-modi-to-pay-urgent-attention-to-flood-hit-assam-862328.html
17-07-2020||National Politics||BJP poaches one more Congress MLA to weaken Scindia||The BJP on Friday poached one more Congress MLA in an apparent bid to reduce Jyotiraditya Scindia’s influence on the Shivraj Singh government. One Congress MLA had resigned last week while the BJP sources are claiming to be in touch with six more Opposition lawmakers.   Sumitra Devi Kasdekar (35) resigned from her Nepanagar (Scheduled Tribe) seat and is likely to announce her joining the BJP soon. She has not ascribed any particular reason for resignation which was immediately accepted by the Assembly pro-tem speaker Rameshwar Sharma. On July 11, Congress MLA from Bada Malhera seat in Chhatarpur district Pradumn Singh Lodhi defected to the BJP after giving up his membership from the house. He was made chairman of the MP Civil Supplies Corporation with cabinet rank on the same day. Former Union minister Uma Bharti was instrumental in roping-in Pradumn Singh into the BJP. Speculation was rife that two more Congress MLAs from the Lodhi community — Tarbar Singh and Rahul Singh—were also all set to defect to the BJP. Like Pradumn, these two MLAs hail from Bundelkhand region where Uma Bharti enjoys considerable political clout, particularly in her Lodhi community. However, PCC president Kamal Nath got a wind of the BJP’s plan and thwarted the MLAs' defection bid. Kamal Nath later summoned the two MLAs to his house and made them swear loyalty to the Congress before the media. Alarmed by the BJP’s design to poach more Congress MLAs even after toppling his government, Kamal Nath assigned his three trusted loyalists, former ministers Sajjan Singh Verma, Bala Bachchan and former speaker NP Prajapati to keep an eye on the Congress flock. While the three leaders engaged party MLAs from Bundelkhand region, which was considered vulnerable to poaching, Congress MLA Sumitra Devi from Nimar region secretly tendered her resignation to the speaker.  She was considered close to former PCC chief Arun Yadav.  Two more Congress MLAs from Nimar region are said to be in touch with the BJP and might resign. BJP sources said the party is wooing more Congress MLAs as it felt the need to reduce dependence on Jyotiraditya Scindia’s supporters. In cabinet formation as well as in department allocation Scindia loyalists managed to get king’s share, leaving BJP old guards high and dry.   Scindia, who led a successful revolt against the Kamal Nath government in March with 19 MLAs, got 11 of his loyalists in the Shivraj Singh ministry. The chief minister yielded to Scindia’s pressure in allotting lucrative departments to the defectors who are yet to win Assembly election. In the 230-strong state Assembly, the BJP has 107 MLAs while the strength of the Congress has been reduced to 90. With fresh resignations, 26 seats have fallen vacant for by-elections. “The BJP is attempting to convert the country’s politics into a 'mandi' but neither the democracy nor the public will forgive this,” said Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta. BJP's Rajneesh Agrawal hit back at the Congress, describing it as a sinking ship. Suggesting that the opposition should introspect rather than level allegations against others, Agrawal said it would have been proper if the Congress had a word with the said MLA on why she decided to call it quits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-poaches-one-more-congress-mla-to-weaken-scindia-862482.html
17-07-2020||National Politics||Bihar: Opposition parties ask Election Commission to fix limit for digital campaign expenditure||Nine Opposition parties, including the Congress, RJD and CPI(M), held a digital meeting with the Election Commission and demanded a level playing field for all in the Bihar Assembly elections and fixing a limit for expenditure on digital campaigns. The Opposition leaders also asked the EC about the arrangements it would be making for the nearly 7.5 crore voters, including physical distancing, and said people would need clarity so that wholesome participation of the majority is ensured. In the meeting, the leaders demanded that the EC create conditions for the usual campaign ensuring maximum voter participation, free and fair elections, a level playing field for all contestants, fixing a limit for expenditure on digital campaigns and penalise all seeking communal/social polarisation. "The people also expect the Commission to ensure and satisfy the people that the entire poll exercise does not become a super spreader event," the leaders said in a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora. The letter was signed by CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, Congress General Secretary Shaktisinh Gohil, CPI's D Raja, RJD's Manoj Jha and CPI(ML)'s Deepankar Bhattacharya, among others. The leaders had met to finalise the memorandum prior to the meeting. Sources said Arora told the leaders that the EC acknowledges the importance of discussions with political parties and the Commission would hold further deliberations on issues as and when there is a need. In an all-party meeting called by the EC in Bihar earlier, the leaders said the BJP and JD(U) pushed for digital campaign and prohibiting traditional election campaign methods. However, the leaders said it would be a "travesty of unpardonable proportion to officially legitimise a mode of election campaign which is not only severely limited by its reach but exclusionary by its design". According to the leaders, almost two-third of the electorate will be left out of the process if the digital campaign is endorsed, as only a few have smartphones in possession. "Uncaring about this, the parties in power have kick-started their virtual blitzkrieg while the EC is yet to fix the limit of expenditure of this virtual political campaign," they said. The leaders said the EC will have to engage with the questions related to fears of whether elections held in such a manner that fails to ensure free and equal participation of the voters under the pandemic circumstances can be considered free and fair. "It is in this context that we urge upon your esteemed office to take a proactive approach to prioritise the health and well-being of the people of Bihar as well as of the spirit of democracy, and evolve a mechanism which protects the health of the democracy as well as the health of the people," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-opposition-parties-ask-election-commission-to-fix-limit-for-digital-campaign-expenditure-862510.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Ram temple construction likely to start next month: Trust chief's spokesperson||The construction of the Ram temple here is likely to start next month and the temple trust president has sent an invite to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to grace the occasion of its foundation stone laying ceremony, said Ayodhya seers on Thursday. A tentative programme for the construction of the temple is likely to be decided in the meeting of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust here on Saturday, they said. “Trust’s president Nritya Gopal Das has sent a letter to the prime minister, inviting him to conduct the Bhumi Pujan of Ram Mandir on the occasion of its foundation laying ceremony,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, the official spokesperson of the Trust president. There is, however, no clarity as of now on prime minister’s presence on the occasion, he said, adding a clearer picture is likely to emerge after the July 18 meeting. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat too is expected to be present during the Bhumi Pujan, he said. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Modi’s former principal secretary Nripendra Mishra, also the chairman of the construction committee of the temple trust, visited Ayodhya on Thursday along with BSF’s former director general K K Sharma, the security adviser of the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust, and met various members of the Ram Temple Trust, set up as per the directions of the apex court. The meeting was held in the presence of various local authorities at the Circuit House here and attended by trust secretary Champat Rai and members Anil Mishra and Bimlendra Mishra among others. Trust president Mahant Nritya Gopal Das and member Mahant Dinendra Das, who live in Ayodhya itself, however, were not present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-construction-likely-to-start-next-month-trust-chiefs-spokesperson-862215.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||1 killed, 6 hurt as bus falls into ditch in UP's Shamli||One person was killed and six others including two women were seriously injured when their speeding bus turned over and fell into a ditch on a highway in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, police said. The incident happened on Panipat-Shamli highway near Manna Majra village in Shamli district in the evening when the driver lost control of the bus leading to the vehicle falling into the ditch, SHO Yashpal Dhama said. According to the SHO, the deceased was identified as Waseem (26). The injured have been admitted a nearby hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-killed-6-hurt-as-bus-falls-into-ditch-in-ups-shamli-862225.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Three militants killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir||A top commander of Jaish-e-Muhammad outfit, who was one among the most wanted 12 militants, was among three ultras killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Friday. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, identified the slain commander as Waleed Bhai, who was the IED expert and had escaped from the cordon four times so far. Addressing a presser here, the IGP said that acting on a tip off, a joint operation was laid at Nagnad village of Damhal-Hanjipora in Kulgam, in which three militants, including Waleed, an IED expert, who was Jaish commander and one among the most wanted 12 ultras, were killed. The identity of the other two slain militants, he said, is being ascertained.  Kumar said earlier a Lashkar-e-eToiba militant was killed along with two other ultras in Sopore area of north Kashmir recently. “He was also among the most wanted 12. So, ten more are still on the run who are most wanted,” the IGP said. Terming today’s encounter a ‘big success’ for the security forces, he said Waleed was active for the past one and a half years and was operating in south Kashmir. “We have recovered a US made M-4 carbine from the slain commander. His killing is big achievement for us,” Kumar said The Kashmir police chief said that another militant who is among the most wanted remaining ten is Sajad alias Haider, who is active in Sopore and had recently released a video asking police not to target militant families. “He was the one involved in the abduction of a BJP worker, who was rescued later,” he said. The IGP said that police doesn’t target the family members of militants nor does it indulge in any sort of harassment to them. “There is only one case where we arrested the mother of a slain militant, against whom there were ample proofs. Even the court rejected her bail plea given the concrete evidence we had against her involvement in the militancy,” he said. The IGP said the manhunt will continue to track down the remaining ten militants who are most wanted which include five from Hizbul Mujahideen, two from the Jaish and three from the Lashkar. Asked about militancy in north Kashmir, Kumar said there are less number of active militants in the north. “Our camps are located far from each other, which gives a chance to survive for a bit longer compared to the south. We have started operations in the north and all the remaining militants will be killed,” he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmir-862248.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Senior Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma trying to topple govt, claims Ashok Gehlot camp||Senior Congress legislator Bhanwarlal Sharma, who is a Sachin Pilot loyalist, was on Thursday accused by his party members of making several attempts of toppling governments but never succeeding. A statement, issued by the supporters of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, said that Sharma was making the fifth attempt to topple the government this time with rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot. "Former minister and MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma had attempted to topple the government in the 90s. This is his fifth attempt to topple the government but he never succeeded," the statement from Gehlot camp said. “Ashok Gehlot while being a union minister and PCC president that time had always objected to toppling BJP government and had said that horse trading is not a tradition in Rajasthan," the statement said. It further said when the then chief minister Bhairon Singh Shekhawat had gone to the US for a heart surgery, Sharma had met Gehlot with the intention of overthrowing the state government. However, Gehlot asked Sharma that conspiracy to topple the government led by a person who was in a foreign country for treatment was against morality, the statement said. It claimed that Sharma had also distributed money to MLAs and that one of the MLAs even told Shekhawat that he was given Rs five lakh.   A seven-time MLA, Sharma was from Janata Dal at that time and he later joined Congress. "That Bhanwarlal Sharma is again dreaming of forming a government with the help of BJP by being a part of Sachin Pilot's conspiracy," the statement alleged. The statement was issued after audio clips surfaced in which Sharma is purportedly heard discussing with a union minister about luring MLAs from the Ashok Gehlot camp to Sachin Pilot's side. Sharma, however, said the audio clips were fake. "This is neither my voice nor did I talk. This is totally fake," Sharma, who is Sardarshaha (Churu) MLA, said in a video message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-congress-mla-bhanwarlal-sharma-trying-to-topple-govt-claims-ashok-gehlot-camp-862251.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Sachin Pilot's comments on Vasundhara Raje's bungalow proof of his frustration: BJP MLAs||Sachin Pilot's statement about Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot being busy helping former chief minister Vasundhara Raje keep her official bungalow instead of fulfilling promises made in the election manifesto reflects his frustration, two BJP MLAs said on Thursday. In a statement, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs Kailash Maghwal and Pratap Singhvi highlighted that Raje had served as the chief minister of the state twice, was a five-time legislator and also the leader of the opposition. Pilot, the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister had in an interview said that Gehlot was busy ensuring that Raje does not have to vacate her government bungalow. "The bungalow is allotted to Vasundhara Raje as she is a senior MLA. Bungalows are allotted to senior MLAs from time to time," the legislators said in the statement. "It is a reality that Sachin Pilot is hurt as Vasundhara Raje defeated his mother Rama Pilot in the 2003 Assembly election," they added. As far as mines lease allotment is concerned, Pilot should know that allotment related probe was handed over to Lokayukta after complaints were lodged, they said. The MLAs advised Pilot to avoid giving irresponsible statements out of frustration caused by his ongoing struggle with Gehlot and the Congress party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sachin-pilots-comments-on-vasundhara-rajes-bungalow-proof-of-his-frustration-bjp-mlas-862270.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Political Crisis: Congress accuses BJP of being involved in horse-trading||The Congress on Friday demanded that a case be lodged against BJP leader and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, accusing him of being involved in horse-trading of Rajasthan MLAs. The party also suspended rebel MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh from the party for allegedly being involved in the conspiracy to topple the government. AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that two audio recordings have surfaced in which the MLA Sharma, union minister Shekhawat and a BJP leader Sanjay Jain are purportedly talking about the "conspiracy" to topple the government. He demanded an FIR against the three and their arrest. Surjewala said chief whip Mahesh Joshi has given a complaint to the Special Operation Group for registration of FIR in the matter. Sharma has, however, denied the allegations. When the audio tapes surfaced on Thursday, he had termed them as fake and said the voice in it was not his.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-political-crisis-congress-accuses-bjp-of-being-involved-in-horse-trading-862282.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Not my voice, ready to face probe: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Friday rejected the Congress' allegation based on two audio clips that he was part of a conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan, saying his voice is not in those recordings and that he was ready to face any probe. The Congress' attack on Shekhawat and some rebel Congress leasers, including MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, came after two audio clips surfaced pertaining to an alleged conspiracy to topple the Gehlot government. "This is not my voice... Let there be an investigation. I am ready to face any probe," the senior BJP leader from the state told reporters here after the Congress demanded his arrest. AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also demanded the arrest of one Sanjay Jain, whom he described as a BJP leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-my-voice-ready-to-face-probe-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-862321.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Instead of making false claims, Uttar Pradesh govt must adopt transparent policies for Covid-19: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying that at a time when cases are rapidly rising, the Yogi Adityanath dispensation must adopt transparent policies instead of making false claims. The Congress general secretary in-charge UP East has been criticising the state government's response to the Covid-19 crisis, alleging that it is indulging in propaganda, instead of dealing with the pandemic. "Sitting in Lucknow, the UP government makes big claims on fighting coronavirus, but two kilometers from there, its claims are exposed," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "The number of coronavirus cases in UP is continuously rising. In such a situation, the government must adopt strong and transparent policies, instead of making false claims," she said, tagging a TV media report which claimed that the government claims on dealing with the Covid crisis were "hollow". In a Facebook post, Priyanka Gandhi said the UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had claimed of having two lakh hospital beds a few days ago but as the coronavirus cases are rising, the mismanagement is coming to the fore. She also tagged a media report claiming that even King George's Medical University employees are not getting beds in the hospital in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/instead-of-making-false-claims-uttar-pradesh-govt-must-adopt-transparent-policies-for-covid-19-priyanka-gandhi-862327.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Most Muslim women in North East Delhi support Supreme Court verdict on triple talaq: DMC report||Polygamy is not prevalent among Muslims in North East Delhi and a majority of women of the community support the Supreme Court's judgement on triple talaq, according to a Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) report. The study covers 600 women from 30 localities of North East Delhi which has the highest Muslim population in the national capital. It noted the prevalence of monogamy and absence of divorce in the region. When asked whether they were aware of the apex court's decision on the issue of triple talaq, 93 per cent of them answered 'yes', the report stated.  "In their opinion, a majority of women who were aware of the court decision welcomed it, with some of them saying that with this decision Muslim women have got a new lease of life," the report stated. However, there were a small percentage of women who said that "whatever be the court's decision, whatever is followed in their culture will continue", it said. The Supreme Court in a 2017 verdict struck down instant divorce through triple talaq as "unconstitutional" practice. DMC chairman Zafarul Islam Khan, releasing the report on Thursday, said that triple talaq was "negligible" and only some "ignorant" men did it. As part of the study, Development Oriented Operations Research and Surveys (DOORS) held interviews in January and February with the respondents, of whom 66.3 per cent were married. All the married women forming the sample were in a monogamous marriage, stated the report.  "This shows that the perception that polygamy is prevalent among Muslims is totally wrong. All the women spoken to by the field workers were of the opinion that polygamous marriage is bad." The field workers didn't find a single case of polygamous marriage or a case of divorce in the sample of 600 women, it said. As per the 2011 census, the North East Delhi district had the highest population density of 37,346 persons per sq km, as well as the highest concentration of Muslim population at 29.34 per cent in the NCT.  The report stated that 73.3 per cent of respondents were of the opinion that the socio-economic condition of Muslim women has improved in their locality in the past few years.  "They said that now all girls go to school and have better education than in previous times and their thinking has also changed. They also said that previously they were not allowed to go outside their houses but now things have changed for the better," the study stated. However, 26.7 per cent of the respondents held the view that nothing had changed and that the atmosphere has changed from "bad to worse"  with so many incidents of riots and rapes and they expressed "fear" for their security, life and liberty, stated the report. North East Delhi has many poorly developed and congested areas, with majority of its residents belonging to low income group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/most-muslim-women-in-north-east-delhi-support-supreme-court-verdict-on-triple-talaq-dmc-report-862339.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Division bench hears Sachin Pilot camps' petition, Speaker to take up disqualification plea today||A division bench of the Rajasthan High Court on Friday began hearing a petition filed by Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident Congress MLAs, challenging the disqualification notices issued by the assembly Speaker. The notices had asked the MLAs to respond by Friday to the Congress move to disqualify them from the state assembly. Speaker C P Joshi is expected to take up the matter at 5 pm, instead of 1 pm as mentioned in the notices. The dissidents’ petition first came up before Justice Satish Chandra Sharma on Thursday, but their advocate Harish Salve sought time to file a fresh petition. Later, in the evening, the petition was referred to a division bench. On Friday, the petition was taken up a by a bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta. The bench accepted a plea by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi to include him as a respondent in the case. The notices were served after the party complained to the Speaker that the MLAs had defied a whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party meetings, on Monday and Tuesday. The Pilot camp, however, argues that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session. In its complaint to the Speaker, the Congress had sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they “voluntarily” give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the president of the state unit of the party after he rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/division-bench-hears-sachin-pilot-camps-petition-speaker-to-take-up-disqualification-plea-today-862346.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Telangana encounter case: Supreme Court panel receives 1,365 affidavits||Over 1,300 affidavits have been received by the three-member panel formed by the Supreme Court to probe the circumstances that led to the alleged encounter of four people arrested in connection with the rape and murder of a veterinary doctor here. In response to a notification issued in February, the commission's office has received 1,365 affidavits, an official release said on Friday. While the family members of three people who died in the 'encounter' filed their affidavits on March 5, those of the police personnel involved in the incident were received on June 15. The judicial commission headed by former Supreme Court Judge V S Sirpurkar held its first sitting on February 3. Subsequently, it could not meet due to the lockdown announced to contain the spread of Covid-19 across the nation. "As per the directions of the Commission, public notification was issued on February 5 calling upon all persons acquainted with the incident to file before it, their respective affidavits disclosing facts within their knowledge," it said. The four accused were arrested on November 29 last year two days after they allegedly kidnapped the veterinarian, killed her after raping and then burnt the body at Chattanpalli near here. On December 6, the Cyberabad police said all the four were killed in "retaliatory" firing after two of the accused opened fire at police after snatching their weapons besides attacking the latter with stones and sticks, resulting in injuries to two policemen. "In response to the notification, in all 1,365 affidavits have been received by the Office of the Commission. The family members of three of the persons who died in the incident filed their affidavits on March 5. The affidavits of the Police personnel involved in the incident were received on June 15. The state government is yet to respond," the release said. The Telangana government also constituted a Special Investigation Team headed by Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat to look into the alleged encounter issue. As most of the records from the SIT as well as affidavits received in response to the public notice were in Telugu language, the office of the Commission got it translated to English. The translated records running into thousands of pages were then verified and collated by the Secretary and the staff of the Commission, it added. Though the Commission was scheduled to sit on March 23 and 24, it had to be suspended due to the outbreak of the coronavirus. The committee explored the possibility and viability of conducting online hearings and sittings to complete the inquiry expeditiously. But, after considering several aspects it found that virtual hearing was not feasible as it would involve the participation of several persons, witnesses deposing before it, advocates appearing for the different persons, whose security and confidentiality has to be ensured. Despite the constraints imposed by the unexpected circumstances, the Commission is committed and has been looking for different ways to complete expeditiously, the enquiry assigned to it, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/telangana-encounter-case-supreme-court-panel-receives-1365-affidavits-862350.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP protests against ‘huge’ power bill, demands fixed charge waiver||The Delhi BJP Friday staged protests at discom offices across the city, demanding relief for consumers from "huge" power bills being sent to them for the coronavirus lockdown period. Party leaders and its MPs from Delhi participated in the protests and demanded consumers be provided waiver on the fixed charges. "Shops and offices were closed and all business activities were shut during the lockdown. But people are still being sent huge electricity bills including fixed charges by the Kejriwal government. The BJP opposes it and demands its waiver," said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, who participated in a protest outside the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) office in Malviya Nagar. Delhi BJP general secretary and convener of the protest Kuljeet Chahal said the 'Bijli Jan Andolan' protests were held in all 70 Assembly constituencies in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-protests-against-huge-power-bill-demands-fixed-charge-waiver-862374.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Police fired at Vikas Dubey in self-defence, Uttar Pradesh govt tells SC||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday defended before the Supreme Court the encounter killing of gangster Vikas Dubey and his 'bullet gang' in Kanpur by stating that the police team fired only in self-defence. The firing ensued as Dubey started firing indiscriminately and continued to fire while fleeing after the vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur overturned on July 10, said the UP government. It also added that Dubey was facing 64 criminal cases and was serving a life sentence in one of them and killed eight policemen on the night of July 2 while he was out on parole. In an affidavit, the Home Secretary said the police fired in self-defence as Dubey wanted to attack and not surrender as he snatched a pistol and fired. It maintained that shooting back at him was the only option for police as Dubey had the intention of killing cops and fleeing as he'd done before. "He had all the reasons, motive, object, and capacity to escape on July 10," when the vehicle, carrying him from Ujjain met with an accident in Kanpur.   The incident was real and not a manufactured one, it maintained, while pointing out that a judicial inquiry commission has already been set up by the state government.  The killing of gangster Vikas Dubey “can never be termed as ‘fake encounter’ looking at the incident in totality", it asserted. The state government's reply came in response to a couple of PILs seeking probe into criminal-police-politicians nexus and killings of eight policemen and the subsequent elimination of Dubey and his gang members.  The top court is expected to take up the matter on July 20.  It had earlier indicated to set up a committee as it had done in case of Hyderabad encounters of suspects allegedly involved in gang rape and murder of a veterinary doctor. The Yogi Adityanath government pointed out that the facts in the case related to "hardened criminal" Dubey and the Hyderabad encounters were completely and diametrically different. In the Hyderabad case, the four accused were not hardened criminals, there was no accident prior to encounter and the Telangana government had not set up a judicial inquiry commission, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-fired-at-vikas-dubey-in-self-defence-uttar-pradesh-govt-tells-sc-862380.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Credible inputs suggest militants plan to target Amarnath Yatra, says Army||The army on Friday said it has ‘credible inputs’ that suggest militants plan to target the Amarnath Yatra on a stretch of the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway. The 42-day long annual pilgrimage to the 3,880-meter-high holy cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas was scheduled to begin from June 23 from traditional Pahalgam -Chandanwari track and shorter Sonamarag-Baltal route. However, it was curtailed to two-weeks this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and will now be commencing on July 21. Addressing a presser in south Kashmir’s Kulgam, sector commander of 9-Rashtriya Rifles, Brigadier V S Thakur said the army has received inputs that militants are planning to target the Yatra somewhere on the stretch of National Highway 44. “This stretch is a bit sensitive. We are all prepared to foil the militant designs and to ensure smooth conduct of the pilgrimage,” he said. This time, the yatra will be allowed only through the shortest Baltal route and the pilgrimage will mostly be performed through choppers to avoid the road and track in view of the threat of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days. Brigadier Thakur said over 100 militants were still active in south Kashmir, including 25 to 30 foreigners. “There are reports of few individuals who are missing and since Pakistan continues to push militants into this side, you can add few more to the number I mentioned,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/credible-inputs-suggest-militants-plan-to-target-amarnath-yatra-says-army-862409.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh police claim video of Nepali youth getting tonsured, forced to chant Jai Shri Ram was 'staged', six arrested||Uttar Pradesh police have claimed that the video showing tonsuring of a Nepali youth and forcing him to raise slogans against Nepal PM K P Sharma Oli in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi was 'staged'. The UP police in Varanasi said on its official twitter handle that the man shown in the video was an 'Indian citizen'. "He was born in Varanasi and members of his family are in government service," the police said. Six people have so far been arrested in this connection. Sources said that the youth, who was tonsured and who raised the slogan' Jai Shri Ram', was paid Rs 1,000 by the members of the Shiv Sena to stage the act.  The alleged incident happened last week and the video of the act had gone viral on social networking sites. Earlier the police had said that the activists of Vishwa Hindu Sena (VHS), a saffron outfit, were behind the incident. The activists had also written 'Jai Shri Ram' on the scalp of the youth and made him raise slogans against Oli. An FIR had been lodged against VHS convener Arun Pathak in this connection.  Interestingly, Pathak had also shared the video on his Facebook profile and warned that Nepalese living in the country must raise their voice against Oli else they should also meet the same fate. He had said that the act was in protest against Oli's remarks claiming that the 'real' Ayodhya lay in Nepal.   (The story has been updated to incorporate Varanasi police’s investigation and the subsequent arrest. The earlier version of the story carried the headline ‘UP: Nepali youth tonsured, forced to chant Jai Shri Ram')||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-police-claim-video-of-nepali-youth-getting-tonsured-forced-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-was-staged-six-arrested-862418.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||2 gangsters held after shootout with police in Greater Noida||Two gangsters were arrested after they suffered injuries in a gunfight with the police in Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh early on Friday, officials said. Those nabbed have been identified as Yogesh Bhati and Kapil Bhati, both aged around 27. They are members of the dreaded Sundar Bhati gang, the officials said. Yogesh, who is one the most wanted criminals in the district, has been involved in murder and loot cases and carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, they said. Kapil too has been booked under the Gangsters Act, booked for murder earlier and carried a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest, they added. "Around midnight, there was an input about movement of some criminal elements in a car in Surajpur police station area. The suspects were intercepted along the FNG road in Sector 144," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Harish Chander said. "When signalled to stop, the car occupants opened fire on the police team and tried to flee. They soon opened fire on the police team, prompting a retaliatory action in which the accused got injured and were held," Chander said. Two illegal firearms along with ammunition were seized from their possession, and their car, which has found to be a stolen one, has been impounded, the police said. The duo got hit on their legs in the police firing and were admitted to a local hospital for treatment, the police said. An FIR has been lodged in the case at the Surajpur police station and further proceedings were under, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-gangsters-held-after-shootout-with-police-in-greater-noida-862451.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat: Court allows 34 Thai nationals to walk free on payment of Rs 6,000 fine to PM Cares Fund||A Delhi court Friday allowed 34 foreign nationals from Thailand to walk free on payment of different fines, after they accepted mild charges under the plea bargain process, related to various violations including visa norms while attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation here during the Covid-19 lockdown. Metropolitan Magistrate Gagandeep Jindal allowed the foreigners to walk free on payment of a fine of Rs 6,000 each, said advocate Ashima Mandla appearing for them. The court directed the foreigners to deposit their fines at the PM Cares Fund, since the foreigners have been found guilty of violating government orders pertaining to Covid-19 pandemic. It allowed them to walk free after the Sub-divisional magistrate of Defence Colony, who was the complainant in the case, Assistant Commissioner of Police of Lajpat Nagar, Inspector of Nizamuddin said they have no objection to it. However, seven Thai nationals did not plead guilty to the charges against them and claimed trial before the court. The court was hearing their plea bargain applications. The court had on Thursday directed 22 Nepalese to walk free on payment of Rs 4,000 fine each, which was also deposited at PM Cares Fund. A total of Rs 2,92,000 have been deposited in PM Cares Fund by 56 foreign nationals. PM Cares Fund was set up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for fighting Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence praying for a lesser punishment.  The Criminal Procedure of Code allows plea bargaining for cases where the maximum punishment is imprisonment for seven years, where offences don't affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and when the offences are not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years.   The foreigners were charge sheeted for attending the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event in the national capital by allegedly violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines, issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country. They were granted bail earlier by the court on a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-court-allows-34-thai-nationals-to-walk-free-on-payment-of-rs-6000-fine-to-pm-cares-fund-862476.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||No faith in Delhi Police, demand judicial probe into riots: Activists, former bureaucrats write to President Kovind||A day after a Delhi Minorities Commission found fault with Delhi Police in its handling of north-east Delhi riots, a group of activists, writers and former bureaucrats on Friday knocked the doors of Rashtrapati Bhavan seeking an enquiry by a sitting or retired judge of the higher judiciary for a "credible and unbiased" investigation into the February violence. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, the group said that the ongoing probe by the Delhi Police "does not inspire confidence", saying its probe had "become a fishing and roving expedition aimed at causing a chilling effect" on dissent and protest in the country. They accused the Delhi Police of being complicit in violence, indulging in custodial torture, taking no action on complaints against BJP leaders like Kapil Mishra and criminalising dissent and protest. "With serious allegations against several senior police officials of being complicit in the violence or assisting the mobs or standing mutely and watching the violence, there is bound to be a perception that the agency is shielding its own," the letter said. The group said police have been calling several youth who were part of protests for interrogation and many of them shared that there was an attempt to intimidate them and offer them “deals” in exchange for giving statements against activists and those involved in the protests. The letter was signed by 72 prominent people, including former bureaucrats Wajahat Habibullah, Vappala Balachandran, Jawahar Sircar, EAS Sarma, K Sujatha Rao, K P Fabian and Julio Ribeiro, academician Jayati Ghosh, and activists Aruna Roy, Anjali Bharadwaj and Nikhil Dey as well as Prashant Bhushan. "To ensure that justice is done and those who instigated and caused the violence are prosecuted, it is critical that the investigation be free and fair...There are, however, serious questions about the role played by the Delhi Police during the violence, with allegations of the police deliberately not preventing violence and in some places, even being complicit in it," the letter said. The letter cited instances of police high-handedness, including reports about a video footage where policemen were seen assaulting youth and forcing them to sing the national anthem as well as police personnel indulging in stone-pelting. It said one Faizan, who was detained after assault and forced to sing the national anthem, was taken into custody and died later but the FIR makes no mention of the "clearly documented video footage of the police assaulting Faizan". No policemen have been named as accused in the case, the letter said. The group also accused the Delhi Police of pursuing a line of inquiry criminalising the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and portraying them as a conspiracy which resulted in the riots in February, which claimed 55 lives. The letter said the chronology presented in the charge-sheets also criminalises dissent by claiming that speeches criticising the CAA, NPR, NRC led to instigation of violence in Delhi. The group claimed that the malafides in the police investigation is also apparent from the fact that they have been persistently questioning people that they are calling for the investigation about two groups 'Hum Bharat ke Log' (We, The People of India), which was formed by well known academics, intellectuals and activists to oppose the CAA, and 'Delhi Protests Support Group', which was formed to support the peaceful protests sites by coordinating with cultural artists and public intellectuals. "A credible and unbiased probe is crucial to ensure public trust...We therefore call upon the Government of India to institute an inquiry into this investigation under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, by appointing sitting/retired judge(s) of the higher judiciary. Further, it must be ensured that officers accused of being complicit in the violence are not involved in the investigation by the Delhi Police," the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-faith-in-delhi-police-demand-judicial-probe-into-riots-activists-former-bureaucrats-write-to-president-kovind-862497.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||NIA arrests key accused in Handwara narcotics-terror case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Handwara narcotics-terror case arrested an alleged key accused of the case from Srinagar on Friday. The J&K Police had on June 11 busted a huge narcotics-terror module and arrested three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) associates in Handwara town of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. The police had also recovered 21 kg heroin and Rs 1.33 crore in Indian currency, total worth over Rs 200 crore, from the possession of those arrested. The case was handed over to the NIA on June 23 for further investigation. A spokesperson of the NIA said that one Afaq Ahmad Wani of Maratgam, Handwara was arrested from Srinagar in connection with the case. The accused Wani, according to the probe agency, was working as Branch Manager at Baramulla Central Co-operative Bank, Handwara branch, and was absconding since June 11 “He was located and arrested from his hideout in Srinagar on July 16. Earlier, a cash amount of Rs 30,30,000 and heroin weighing 3.2 kg was seized from his house at Handwara,” he said and added the accused was produced before NIA Special Court at Jammu on Friday where he was remanded for custodial interrogation. The NIA investigation so far has revealed that the accused persons were smuggling drugs and psychotropic substances in huge quantities through the Line of Control (LoC) and the proceeds of sale were used to finance the activities of LeT operating in the valley. According to the investigation, the module was actively working for the LeT to strengthen their activities in the valley besides misguiding and motivating the local youth to join militancy. In June, Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that the module was connected to a number of operatives in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK), Handwara, Srinagar, Punjab, Delhi and Mumbai.  According to him, this network had lately received a drug consignment from PoK and arranged its transportation to Amritsar where it had been disposed of for Rs five crore, of which Rs 3.5 crore had been handed over to the LeT in the Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-arrests-key-accused-in-handwara-narcotics-terror-case-862504.html
17-07-2020||North and Central||Mother-daughter duo set themselves ablaze before UP CM Yogi Adityanath's office in protest against police apathy||A woman and her daughter suffered severe burn injuries after they set themselves ablaze in front of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's office at Lok Bhavan here on Friday evening in protest against alleged police apathy. The cops on duty there managed to douse the flames and rushed the duo to the hospital, where the condition of the mother was stated to ''very critical''. According to the police sources, the duo, who were residents of Jamo area in the state's Amethi district, were upset with the local police for not acting against some people, who had assaulted them following a dispute over a piece of land. It was alleged that the police had lodged a complaint after intervention of the senior officials but did not take any action in the matter. The woman and her daughter were assaulted again on Thursday night. The duo had arrived in the city in the morning. They carried a can of kerosene oil with them. Sources said that they sprinkled kerosene oil on them a few metres away from the Lok Bhavan and set themselves ablaze after reaching the building. Police said that a probe had been ordered into the matter. ''We are trying to ascertain the facts of the case,'' said a senior official here. Earlier, a woman from Unnao district in the state had tried to immolate herself in front of the CM's residence here in 2018 in protest against the failure of the police to act against the then BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar, who had allegedly raped her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mother-daughter-duo-set-themselves-ablaze-before-up-cm-yogi-adityanaths-office-in-protest-against-police-apathy-862538.html
17-07-2020||Opinion||Understanding implications of Hong Kong’s tech ecosystem changes for India||While the pandemic rages on, the Chinese leadership in Beijing has tightened its control over Hong Kong. Earlier in 2019, the region saw fierce protests take place regarding an extradition bill. Now, Chinese lawmakers have voted to adopt the Law of the People's Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.  The law came into force by being added to Annex III of the Basic Law (de facto Constitution of Hong Kong) and hence was not debated in Hong Kong’s legislature. There had been plenty of speculation about the dynamics of the move and how that reflects on China itself. But since the law has been put into place, it has met with sharp responses, especially within the tech community.  ‘Pausing’ data requests That the internet is also going to be a medium to enable these arrests has not gone down well with Silicon Valley. Tech companies generally share data with states when it comes to national security. Generally, there is plenty of government machinery involved on both sides to make the process possible.  Since the law has been put in place, Facebook (including WhatsApp), Twitter, Google, Zoom, and Microsoft, have “paused” data requests from the Hong Kong authorities. Even TikTok, owned by Chinese parent ByteDance, has claimed that it will exit the region in the coming days.  While TikTok has been talking about pulling out, the pause is an interesting response from big tech. From the press releases of most of these companies, the messaging is that the law seems to be fairly draconian and has the ability to potentially limit free speech. But apparently,  it is too early to make a decision since implications of the law are yet to be fully understood. Hence, at the moment, the arrangement is on hold. Should things not be as bad as they seem, companies may choose to reverse the decision and come back to Hong Kong (while complying with Chinese demands of course).  Big tech’s mixed record in China The situation might seem drastic, but this is actually a familiar trade-off for Silicon Valley. China has always been an ethical black hole that tech companies keep dipping their fingers into, and do not always come out of the other side clean. For instance, Google faced this problem a few years ago and (in)famously gave up on China. Considerations at the time were more than just ethical and are well explained in Steven Levy’s In the Plex. Similarly, despite its holier than thou attitude, Apple has shared web browsing data with TenCent, removed apps in Hong Kong on the direction of the Chinese state, and has moved iCloud data (along with its digital keys) to state-run Chinese servers.  That Google’s Search decided to leave and Apple decided to stay in China tells us that it is hard to predict how tech companies might end up reacting. The implications of the National Security Law seem clear from the outset. China is already using the law to undermine democratic political parties in Hong Kong. But that does not mean tech companies will necessarily use that as a rationale to stop offering assistance to authorities in Hong Kong. There is every chance that they might be okay with continuing profitable operations at the cost of facing backlash at home. A precedent for India? Time will tell how tech companies respond to the law. Yet, not all tech companies are going to resume their services. And the important thing is that refraining from being a part of Hong Kong’s tech ecosystem is going to set a precedent for India.  The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) was supposed to update the Intermediary Guidelines earlier this year. That is yet to happen thanks to the pandemic. At the risk of losing all nuance, the Intermediary Guidelines are the regulatory framework that defines how liable platforms like Instagram should be for content that users post on them. Granted, the Intermediary Guidelines themselves are a lot narrower than the Chinese National Security Law and are not meant to chill speech in a particular region.  Instead, the worrying bit is that much like China’s new national security law, the intermediary guidelines do not exist with enough procedural safeguards or oversight. In simpler terms, it means that we do not know how often the State can use this regulation to limit speech and track the origins of messages. This is especially concerning as a section of the guidelines also talks about enabling traceability.  Since the amendments to the Intermediary Guidelines were introduced, people have argued that platforms that use end-to-end encryption (like WhatsApp) might have an incentive to leave should MEITY go ahead with the current version. As it turns out, Hong Kong’s experience may be an excellent case study to prove them right.  (Rohan Seth is a technology policy analyst and Manoj Kewalramani is Fellow-China Studies at The Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru) D​​​​​​​isclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/understanding-implications-of-hong-kong-s-tech-ecosystem-changes-for-india-862343.html
17-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Uninhibited by the coronavirus lockdown||When time weighed heavily and days blurred during social distancing, I found a new hobby hitherto overlooked. I am fortunate to be living on a leafy street. My balcony overlooks an African tulip tree which nurtures a host of birds, squirrels and crawlies. This beautiful flowering tree known as ‘Neeru Kayi Mara’ in Kannada (because the flower buds contain water) delight the children everywhere as they pick up the fallen buds and squirt water on to each other. It grows upright to about 25 meters and bears dark green leaves and deep-orange flowers. A single cluster contains buds of various ages, pods and fully bloomed flowers. The orange blossoms seen above the green foliage provide vivid contrast. Each of the pods contains hundreds of seeds, and on maturing, they burst open. It’s a sight to behold when the white tissue-like papery seeds, looking delicate with transparent wings, sway in the air like a slow-moving danseuse as they float down to the ground. A cavity in this majestic tree trunk has become home for a pair of mynas. These medium-sized birds with yellow legs and beak are gregarious and peaceful most of the time, but they don’t let any other birds, even other mynas to come near their home. They fluff their feathers often and bob their heads while calling. When I hear intently the calls seem to alternate between croaks, squawks, whistles and screeches.  A pair of barbets just amaze me with their tenacity of making a hole on another branch of the same tree. They peck at the softwood taking turns just like any woodpecker for days together to make a hole in the trunk. After almost a week their nest is ready and then the interior design starts as they carry straw, leaves into the hole. Their loud calls to each other like that of a frog croaking is distinctive. They feed on the nectar of the orange flowers of African tulips enabling pollination. The bulbuls are daily visitors to the tree. A bunch of them whoosh down on the branches with lightning speed and then take off equally hurriedly that I strain my neck to follow their path. Their prominent black crest with brownish wings and whitish underparts are the giveaway. The noisy parakeets, koels, crows and kites are among other visitors to the tree. The ants and spiders trawling the foliage, squirrels scurrying about in their inimitable style and snacking on the fruit pods, all live symbiotically with each other in this wonderful tree. Indeed all good things in this world are wild, free and delightful if only we care to look.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/uninhibited-by-the-coronavirus-lockdown-862552.html
17-07-2020||Second Edit||Maternal mortality: Karnataka disappoints||There is reason for India to draw some satisfaction from the fall in maternal mortality in the country. Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) -- the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births -- has dropped from 122 in 2015-17 to 113 in 2016-18, according to the special bulletin on Maternal Mortality in India 2016-18, released by the Office of the Registrar General’s Sample Registration System. Five states — Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh — deserve applause. They have achieved the World Health Organisation’s Sustainable Development Goal of bringing down the MMR below 70. While Karnataka’s record has improved -- its MMR dropped from 97 in 2016-17 to 92 in 2016-18 – its performance is disappointing. It lags all the other southern states when it comes to protecting women at the time of childbirth. Consider this: Kerala and Tamil Nadu have MMR of 43 and 60 and stand first and third respectively in the country. Why is Karnataka falling behind its neighbours? While India’s performance on the MMR has improved, it is disappointing that it has failed to achieve the 2017 National Health Policy’s target of reducing the MMR to 100. States like Assam (215), Uttar Pradesh (197) and Madhya Pradesh (173) need to do more to protect women at the time of childbirth. An important reason for high maternal mortality is poor nutrition. The health and wellbeing of an expectant mother is not given the priority it deserves. Gender discrimination underlies this problem as women and girls are the last to eat and get to eat the least in a family. This is true even when they are pregnant. Consequently, many pregnant women are severely anaemic and do not survive childbirth. Child-marriage is still widely practised in India. An adolescent’s body is not ready for the rigour of childbirth and many young mothers die during delivery. Another important reason for high maternal mortality is lack of access to trained healthcare professionals. The Covid-19 pandemic and the devastating impact it has wrought on public health and livelihoods will impact India’s MMR adversely in the coming months and years. Already, fear of contracting the disease has kept many pregnant women from going to health centres and hospitals for their check-ups and delivery. Some have contracted Covid-19 during their pregnancy. Heavy medication for Covid-19 can be expected to affect the health, even survival of the mother and child. Amid a myriad of problems of health, economy and joblessness, government must avoid the temptation to treat MMR as a lower priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/maternal-mortality-karnataka-disappoints-862550.html
17-07-2020||South||Plea of J Jayalalithaa's legal heir referred to division bench of HC||A single judge of the Madras High Court on Thursday referred to a division bench a petition filed by late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa's nephew, challenging acquisition of her residence here by the state government. Justice Anand Venkatesh heard the plea by J Deepak and directed the Registry to place the petition before the Chief Justice to be referred to the Division bench, which declared the petitioner and his sister Deepa as legal heirs of the former CM. Deepak moved the court challenging the acquisition proceedings of 'Veda Nilayam,' residence of late AIADMK Supremo at upscale Poes Garden here, by the state government to convert it into a memorial. He also sought the keys of Jayalalithaa's house. The development comes a day after the government had informed the High Court that it is also actively considering converting "Veda Nilayam" into the official residence of the Chief Minister. Refusing to grant any interim relief, the judge said, " To avoid any contradicting orders by two different benches of the court, referred the matter to the Chief Justice of the court for posting it before the division bench which declared him as legal heir. This cause of action is adopted to avoid any contradicting orders by two different benches of the court." Deepak submitted that he and his sister were emotionally and sentimentally attached to the Poes Garden residence of the former chief minister and they have plans to use it for doing charity through a public trust in her name. He claimed that the authorities have not given the opportunity either to him or his sister to submit their objections against the acquisition of 'Veda Nilayam' in total violation of the principles of natural justice as mandated by the Land Acquisition Act, 2013. Therefore, as an interim relief, he wanted the court to stay the acquisition process and direct the state to hand over the keys of the property to him. He further submitted that acquisition for public purpose as claimed by the government to build a memorial would not fall under the permitted grounds of acquisition under the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/plea-of-j-jayalalithaas-legal-heir-referred-to-division-bench-of-hc-862221.html
17-07-2020||South||Telangana to conduct exams for final year college students||The Telangana government on Thursday said exams would be conducted for final year college students as suggested by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and All-India Council for Technical Education. To uphold the academic sanctity, it was decided to follow the UGC and AICTE guidelines and conduct examinations to degree, PG, Engineering final year students. Others will be promoted to the next class without any examination, the government said in a release. The decision was announced after a meeting held by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on issues related to education. It was also decided to start the engineering academic year from August 17 and preparations were on for a combined entrance tests schedule so that the students would not lose their precious academic year, the release said. The government said it would soon take a final decision on re-opening schools, the mode of teaching and other related issues in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic after examining the guidelines of the Centre and the methods adopted by other states. Educational institutions have remained shut since the national lockdown to check Covid-19 was first enforced in March. Rao, who held the meeting with Education Minister P Sabita Indra Reddy and officials, saida long-term strategy would be implemented to strengthen government educational institutions in the state by totally cleaning up of the education system." For this, Rao instructed the officials to convene a meeting with the educationists and experts and enlist their opinions, the release said. It was decided to follow the guidelines issued by UGC, AICTE and other such institutions with regard to administration of the educational institutions, conducting examinations and on syllabus, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-conduct-exams-for-final-year-college-students-862237.html
17-07-2020||South||Gold smuggling: Ex-principal secy suspended||IAS officer M Sivasankar, who was recently shunted out of the post of  Kerala chief minister’s principal secretary for alleged nexus with the accused in a gold smuggling case, was placed under suspension on Thursday. Sivasankar is facing a probe by Customs and he may be arraigned in the gold smuggling case if found involved in the smuggling-related activities. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a panel headed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta reported that Sivasankar violated service rules and has been placed under suspension pending departmental inquiry. The fresh development is a major set back to Vijayan as he had handpicked Sivasankar to the key post in the CMO as soon as he became the chief minister in 2016. Sivasankar held the IT principal secretary post and played a key role in many major decisions of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-ex-principal-secy-suspended-862260.html
17-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Saffron colour daubed on Periyar's statue; parties protest||A life-size statue of social reformer E V Ramasami 'Periyar' was found daubed with saffron colour at Sundarapuram area in Coimbatore on Friday, leading to protests by workers of DMK, MDMK and VCK at the spot. The workers, who cleaned the statue, demanded the arrest of the culprits and warned that they would intensify their agitation if such incidents recurred, police said the statue was one of the three of the social reformer installed in the city in 1995. The activists dispersed after police assured them that action would be taken. CPI district secretary V S Sundaram said defacing the statue of Periyar was not acceptable and urged police to take immediate action and arrest the 'anti-social elements'. DMK MLA N Karthik also condemned the incident and said that this could be an attempt to destroy peace in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-saffron-colour-daubed-on-periyars-statue-parties-protest-862320.html
17-07-2020||South||Yet another Tamil Nadu Minister tests positive for coronavirus||Tamil Nadu Labour Minister Nilofer Kafeel has tested positive for coronavirus, becoming the fourth minister in the state to get affected. Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday wished her a speedy recovery. Kafeel holds the portfolios, including labour, urban and rural employment and the Wakf Board. After learning that Kafeel tested positive for the virus, Palaniswami said he spoke to her over the phone and enquired about her health. On his twitter handle, the Chief Minister said he prayed to the Almighty for her speedy recovery. Higher Education Minister K P Anbalagan was the first Minister to test positive and has recovered. Electricity Minister P Thangamani and Minister for Cooperation Sellur K Raju are being treated for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/yet-another-tamil-nadu-minister-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-862324.html
17-07-2020||South||Kerala opposition party gives notice for no-confidence motion over gold smuggling case||The Opposition Congress in Kerala has given notice for a no-confidence motion against the CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in the wake of the alleged nexus of Chief Minister's office with the gold smuggling racket. Congress  MLA V D Satheesan on Friday gave the notice to the legislature secretary stating that the assembly lost confidence in the Pinarayi Vijayan led government and hence permission may be given to present the notice on July 27. The Assembly is scheduled to meet for a single day on July 27 to pass the Finance Bill. On Thursday, Indian Union Muslim League, a key coalition partner in the Congress-led United Democratic Front, had given a notice seeking removal of Speaker P Sreeramakrishan for his alleged links with gold smuggling accused former UAE consulate employee Swapna Suresh. He was seen closely interacting with Swapna during a shop inauguration. But he denied of any illegal links with her. The fresh moves are part of the ongoing protests by the opposition parties against the government. The left front has a comfortable majority of about 90 seats in 140 member Assembly, of which two seats were now vacant. Kerala CM's principal secretary was suspended from service following the alleged nexus with Swapna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposition-party-gives-notice-for-no-confidence-motion-over-gold-smuggling-case-862329.html
17-07-2020||South||Three including foreign national die of Covid-19 in Puducherry||A 92-year-old Italian national was among the three people who succumbed to coronavirus in Puducherry, taking the tally of infections in the union territory to 1,832 on Friday. Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar told a virtual press conference that the Italian national had co-morbidities and was admitted to JIPMER on July 2. He tested positive for the virus and died on Thursday. With the death of three people, the toll has shot up to 25 in Puducherry during the last 24 hours. Kumar said 91 fresh cases were reported in the Union Territory during the last 24 hours at the end of testing of 856 samples and of them 79 were admitted to the hospitals in Puducherry, nine were admitted to the Government hospital in Karaikal and three in Yanam region. Mahe region had no Covid-19 case as of now in the hospital. The rate of positivity here was 10.6 per cent while the fatality rate was 1.4 per cent, he said. The Director said the total Covid-19 cases were so far 1,832 after the transfer of two cases to Tamil Nadu account. Of them, the active cases were 793while 1,014 patients recovered and discharged so far. Total fatalities were 25 so far. Of the total28,995 samples tested in Union Territory 26,781 samples tested negative, he noted. Sixty-six patients were discharged after recovery from hospitals in Puducherry and Karaikal on Friday. The Director appealed to the elderly persons to stayed at home and also urged parents to ensure that the children remained indoors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-including-foreign-national-die-of-covid-19-in-puducherry-862344.html
17-07-2020||South||Periyar's statue found smeared with saffron colour in TN||A statue of social reformer E V Ramasami 'Periyar' was found daubed with saffron colour at Coimbatore on Friday and police are on the lookout for the miscreants behind it. After the incident came to light, workers of DMK, MDMK and VCK protested demanding action and parties, including the ruling AIADMK and main opposition DMK strongly condemned the desecration. Police said they were probing the matter and assured immediate action. The defilement, suspected to have occurred during the wee hours at Sundarapuram in the city, led to tension and anxiety and a posse of policemen -including two sporting protective gear against coronavirus- was deployed at the spot. The colour, on a portion of the statue, around the right arm and waist, was removed by Periyar's followers with police help. Senior AIADMK leader and Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar said such despicable acts can never be accepted, adding it was a punishable offence. DMK president M K Stalin said Periyar had slogged for "small men" as well, (seen as a reference to those behind sullying the statue by pouring paint) and that was why he was being hailed as "Periyar" (great man). MDMK chief Vaiko demanded that the government act "responsibly" and take action. He condemned the "continuous targeting of Periyar's statues in Tamil Nadu." The PMK, an ally of the ruling AIADMK demanded stern action against the miscreants and described the desecration as an act of cowardice. The desecration by miscreants comes against the backdrop of the arrest of two men, followers of Periyar's atheist ideology, for the alleged denigration of 'Kanda Sashti Kavacham,' a popular, Tamil hymn held sacred and recited every day by millions of devotees in Tamil Nadu in praise of Lord Muruga/Skanda. The desecrated statue, unveiled in 1995, was one of the three statues of the social reformer in the city. CPI district secretary V S Sundaram said defacing the statue of Periyar was not acceptable and urged police to take immediate action and arrest the 'anti-social elements'. DMK MLA N Karthik also condemned the incident and said that this could be an attempt to destroy peace in Tamil Nadu||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/periyars-statue-found-smeared-with-saffron-colour-in-tn-862372.html
17-07-2020||South||Covid-19 tally crosses 40,000-mark in Andhra Pradesh, 42 deaths reported||The Covid-19 tally shot past the 40,000-mark in Andhra Pradesh on Friday as 2,062 fresh cases were added in the last 24 hours. The state's Covid-19 table now showed a total of 40,646 positive cases, with 19,814 of them being active after 20,298 patients were discharged. With 42 new casualties reported in the last 24 hours, the overall toll mounted to 534, the latest bulletin said. It said 837 patients had recovered and been discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. East Godavari district reported a record 643 cases in a day, taking its aggregate to 4505, the second-highest in the state behind Kurnool (5131 cases). Guntur district has 4330, Anantapuramu 4284, Chittoor 3864, Krishna 3021, West Godavari 2537 and Kadapa 2275 total cases. The state completed testing of 12.60 lakh people at the rate of 23,605 per million population, with an infection positivity rate of 3.22 per cent. The recovery rate fell further to 49.94 per cent while mortality rate increased marginally to 1.31 per cent, the government data said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tally-crosses-40000-mark-in-andhra-pradesh-42-deaths-reported-862385.html
17-07-2020||South||UAE consulate gunman attempts to end life; Mystery over Kerala gold smuggling deepens||Mystery over the Kerala gold smuggling bid through diplomatic channel deepened as a gunman of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram made a bid to end life by severing nerve. Gunman Jayagosh, who was a civil police officer with Kerala police, was reported missing since Thursday night from Thumba in the city. On Friday morning when a police team spotted him, he reportedly severed his left wrist nerve using a sharp object and swallowed it. He was also saying that he did not commit anything wrong. He was immediately rushed to nearby hospitals and his condition was stated to be stable. He was said to be quite restless over the last few days. The incident came close on the heels of the charge d affairs of the consulate, Rashid Khamis Al Ashmia, reportedly leaving India after the customs sought permission through the Ministry of External Affairs to quiz him in connection with seizure of 30 kilogram gold from a baggage with a diplomatic tag addressed to the charge d affairs. The MEA was learnt to have sent a reminder to the UAE Embassy in Delhi seeking permission for taking Rashid's statement. Former employees of the consulate, Sarith P S and Swapna Suresh, were already held in this connection. Meanwhile, the customs officials conducted raids at a jewellery in Kozhikode, residence of Fazil Fareed, who was suspected to have sent the baggage containing gold from UAE, and couple of other premises. There were unconfirmed reports that computer used for forging documents for clearing the baggage from airport were also seized. Ten persons, including members of the gold supply racket, a jewellery owner and a two persons who invested funds for buying gold, were so far held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/uae-consulate-gunman-attempts-to-end-life-mystery-over-kerala-gold-smuggling-deepens-862389.html
17-07-2020||South||Kerala govt will not protect anyone in gold smuggling case: CPIM state secretary||CPI(M) Kerala unit chief Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Friday asserted the party led LDF government would not protect anyone in the gold smuggling case and the suspension of a senior IAS officer was a proof of it. He alleged the opposition Congress-led UDF and the BJP were attacking the LDF government over the issue as they fear that the ongoing probe by the central agencies would "boomerang" on them if it proceeded in the "right direction". In a Facebook post, Balakrishnan said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan removed M Sivasankar as his principal secretary and IT secretary immediately after allegations were raised against him that he had links with a key accused woman in the bid to smuggle the gold through diplomatic baggage. He was suspended on Thursday after following due procedure, including perusing a report filed by a panel headed by the state Chief Secretary, the CPI-M leader said. Apparently responding to questions raised by the opposition earlier on why the government was hesitant to suspend the officer, he said regardless of the nature of the allegations, certain procedures had to be followed in order to take action against a senior IAS officer. "As part of the procedure, a Chief Secretary-level inquiry was ordered and the state government waited for its report. It was a logical and a legal step in this regard. This makes it clear that the state government will not protect any officials or others who have fallen into their own pits," Balakrishnan said. He said Sivasankar had earlier worked in key positions during the previous UDF governments and was appointed as the Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister in the Left government considering him as an able administrator. "However, the chief minister removed him from the position of the IT secretary as soon as an allegation was raised against him," Balakrishnan said. He also sought to turn the tables on the opposition, saying they have been targeting the Vijayan government out of fear that the case might come to haunt them. "Both the UDF and the BJP fear that if the current probe by the central agencies goes in the right direction, it will boomerang on them. That's why they are attacking the government," Balakrishnan said without elaborating. The state government has been under fire ever since the Customs officials seized the gold worth around Rs 15 crore from baggage at the airport here as Swapna Suresh, a prime accused in the case, was found working in the state IT department and alleged to have close links with Sivasankar. The action against Sivasankar came a day after he was summoned by Customs officials and grilled for nearly nine hours lasting till around 2 am on Wednesday morning to find out if he had used his office to provide any help to the accused. As the Customs suspected a smuggling syndicate had misused the name of a person in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate and sent the baggage addressed to him, the probe in the case was entrusted with the National Investigation Agency (NIA). It has booked Sarith, Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Fareed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-will-not-protect-anyone-in-gold-smuggling-case-cpim-state-secretary-862417.html
17-07-2020||South||Covid-19 community spread confirmed in Kerala's coastal areas||Community spread of Covid-19 has been confirmed in the coastal areas of Poonthura and Pulluvila in Thiruvananthapuram city on Friday. Kerala witnessed a further spike of 791 fresh Covid-19 cases, of which 532 were due to local spread. Source of 42 cases could not be traced. One person died of Covid-19 in Thrissur district taking the death toll to 38, while 133 recovered. In Thiruvananthapuram, 246 fresh cases were found, of which 237 were due to local spread. The total Covid-19 active cases in Thiruvananthapuram is around 1,515. Poonthura and Pulluvila are close to the heart of the capital city and hence strong containment measures were being made to curb spread to other parts of the city. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that many parts of the coastal belt of Thiruvananthapuram were found to have a high number of Covid-19 patients and hence a total lockdown might be imposed in the entire coastal belt after evaluating the situation. In order to ensure effective containment, the coastal areas would be divided into three zones and senior police officers would be in charge of each zone. Steps like lockdown and other measures would be initiated at the 84 Covid-19 clusters identified the state, which included ten large community clusters, said the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-community-spread-confirmed-in-keralas-coastal-areas-862463.html
17-07-2020||South||Periyar statue smeared with saffron paint in Coimbatore, youth surrenders||A statue of Dravidian legend E V R Periyar in Coimbatore was smeared with “saffron-coloured liquid” on Friday morning by a cadre of a little-known Hindu outfit, in the second attack on the busts of the social reformer since the beginning of this year. The statue located in Sundarapuram in Coimbatore was found defaced with the “saffron-coloured liquid” at around 6 am on Friday, leading to tension in the area. Hours after the incident came to light, Arun Krishnan, District Organiser of Bharat Sena, surrendered before the police claiming responsibility for the incident. Statues of Periyar, as he is popularly known as in Tamil Nadu, have been the target of right-wing outfits in the past few years. In fact, the statue was among six busts of the legendary social reformer brought under police protection on Thursday evening following the arrest of a YouTuber who released a video on a song sung in praise of Lord Murugan. “The attack took place when the policemen had stepped out for a while,” a police official said. In January, a statue of Periyar was found damaged by unidentified miscreants in Kanchipuram district, days after Tamil superstar Rajinikanth stoked a row by making controversial comments against the late social reformer. Periyar, the legendary social reformer with Kannada roots, is a much-revered figure in Tamil Nadu who advocated a slew of reforms to ensure social justice. DK’s offshoots DMK and AIADMK that have been ruling the state alternatively since 1967 have implemented these reforms. Friday’s attack on Periyar’s statue led to a political uproar with almost all political parties condemning the incident and seeking strict action against those trying to defame the legendary social reformer. They also said repeated attacks on Periyar’s statues reinforce the fact that those opposing his ideals fear him even nearly five decades after his death.   The attacks on Periyar statues, in the recent past, began in 2018 after BJP leader H Raja said the bust of the social reformer would be the next to fall, after a statue of Russian revolutionary Vladimir Lenin was pulled out in Tripura following the loss of CPI(M) in assembly elections. While other parties condemned the incident on Periyar statue, the BJP appeared justifying the desecration with Raja going to the extent of calling Periyar a “British stooge”, while a few leaders said gave the incident a communal colour saying Hindus have nothing to do with it. In response to Kanimozhi’s tweet that Periyar was not a mere statue but the path to self-respect and social justice, Raja said requesting the “British to continue to rule Madras Presidency” is certainly not an act of “self-respect.” “Periyar was an unadulterated foreign stooge. Is there any doubt about that? His Dravidar Kazhagam passed a resolution demanding continuation of British rule in India. So, why should I not call him a British stooge?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/periyar-statue-smeared-with-saffron-paint-in-coimbatore-youth-surrenders-862517.html
17-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 79 Covid-19 deaths, 4,538 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu recorded its highest Covid-19 fatality mark on Thursday with 79 people succumbing to the virus, pushing the death toll in the state to 2,315, the health department said on Friday. The day also saw 4,538 fresh coronavirus positive cases being reported,taking the infection count to 1,60,907. The number of recoveries stood at 3,391, and the cumulative figure of those cured is 1,10,807, according to a department bulletin. Active cases in the state as of Friday was at 47,782, the bulletin said. With increased focus on testing of samples, 48,669 specimens were tested today, totalling 18,31,304 till date. Chennai recorded 1,243 cases today, pushing the count to 83,377.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-79-covid-19-deaths-4538-fresh-cases-862518.html
17-07-2020||South||Telangana CM Rao announces mid-day meal scheme for govt junior, degree college students||Students of government junior and degree colleges in Telangana will be served mid-day meal from this academic year in an effort to provide nutritious food and reduce the dropout rate, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao said on Friday. "Chief Minister Sri K Chandrashekhar Rao announced that from this academic year, mid-day meal would be served to the students of government junior and degree colleges in the State," an official release said. It was decided to provide nutritious mid-day meal to the students for their good health and to prevent them from dropping out, Rao said. The chief minister came to know from former minister C Laxma Reddy and government college lecturer Raghuram from Jedcherla, about 80 kms from Hyderabad, that they were providing mid-day meals to students of Jedcherla Government Junior College, spending money from their pockets. Laxma Reddy and Raghuram met Rao to discuss setting up of a botanical garden at Jedcherla Degree College. The chief minister appreciated both of them, the release said. Rao said the government realised the importance of providing mid-day meal to the students in the colleges, it said. The chief minister also instructed officials to take Jedcherla Degree College as an inspiration and set up botanical gardens in all government degree colleges in the state, it said. He also appreciated Sadasivaiah, assistant professor in botany department at Jedcherla government degree college, who met him here on Friday, for setting up a Botanical garden in the college.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-rao-announces-mid-day-meal-scheme-for-govt-junior-degree-college-students-862563.html
17-07-2020||South||Private hospitals yet to treat Covid patients in Kerala||Resentment is brewing among the doctors of government hospitals in Kerala as private hospitals are yet to start Covid-19 treatment while the cases are skyrocketing. Though the Kerala government has fixed rates for Covid-19 treatment by private hospitals and the private hospitals agreed to it, the private hospitals are yet to treat Covid-19 patients. Lack of sufficient infrastructure, apprehension among staff and stigma of non-Covid-19 patients are the major hurdles being cited by the private hospitals. The government doctors are now expecting steps from the government to make private hospitals handle Covid-19 treatment.  Kerala has a large network of over 3,500 private hospitals. The Kerala government fixed daily rates starting from Rs 2,300 for general wards to Rs 11,500 for ICU ventilator for Covid-19 treatment at private hsotpitals. Kerala Government Medical Officers Association state president Dr Joseph Chacko said that it was high time that the private hospitals were also made to treat Covid-19 patients as the workload of the government hospitals were increasing, and doctors and medical staff were getting stressed up. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday that discussions were still going on with the private hospitals to make use of their service for Covid-19 treatment.  Kerala Private Medical College Management Association president Dr Navas K M said that even as the many private hospitals were initially reluctant to take Covid-19 patients owing to practical difficulties, now most hospitals were setting up facilities for Covid-19 treatment. Dr E K Ramachandran of the Kerala Private Hospitals Association said that since many government hospitals were now made Covid-19 care centres, and private hospitals were offering treatment for non-Covid-19 patients at many places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/private-hospitals-yet-to-treat-covid-patients-in-kerala-862572.html
17-07-2020||State||Deficient monsoon in Malnad region||Monsoon rainfall is deficient by 33% in Malnad region — the prime catchment area of the state. As of July 15, the region received 31% less rainfall than normal and 35% less in June. In contrast, both North and South Interior Karnataka region have received excess rainfall during the monsoon season. Good rainfall is forecast for most parts of Karnataka in the next three to four days, due to an offshore trough. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, Malnad region has received 212 mm rainfall from July 1 to 16, against a normal of 307 mm rainfall. Overall monsoon rainfall since June 1 was deficient by 33% as Malnad received 447 mm rainfall compared to the long-term average of 670 mm. In July, both South and North Interior Karnataka regions recorded 73% and 63% excess rainfall respectively. While South Interior Karnataka received 65 mm rainfall against an average of 38 mm in July, North Interior Karnataka received 90 mm against a normal of 55 mm. Rainfall was normal in the coastal region during the month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/deficient-monsoon-in-malnad-region-862186.html
17-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Fire personnel rescue toddy tapper in Kadandale Kalloli||A toddy tapper who fell unconscious after climbing a palm tree at Kadandale Kalloli, was rescued by Sudhakar Salian and, fire service personnel. Santhosh, a toddy tapper for the last 29 years had fallen unconscious following low BP after climbing the tree. On noticing it, Sudhakar Salian with the help of local residents and fire service personnel rescued him. By the time he was rescued and brought down from the tree and arrangements were made for shifting him to hospital, he regained consciousness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-fire-personnel-rescue-toddy-tapper-in-kadandale-kalloli-862342.html
17-07-2020||State||Mysuru: Locals charge Police for allowing Shoba Karandlaje atop Chamundi Hill||The people, also devotees of Chamundeshwari Devi took severe exception against Police for allowing Karnataka MP Shoba Karandlaje atop Chamundi Hill despite ban orders on the occasion of fourth Ashada Friday. The MP took to the footsteps of the Hill and climber barefooted. As the MP was allowed, a score of people gathered and demanded the police to allow them to the temple. The people charged the police for denying their entry.  The district administration has banned entry to the temple following the outbreak of Covid-19 to ensure safety of the people. Thousands of people visit the temple during Ashada month. It has to be noted that a score of people representatives including Minister K S Eshwarappa, MP Pratap Simha, MLA L Nagendra had visited the temple last Friday amidst ban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-locals-charge-police-for-allowing-shoba-karandlaje-atop-chamundi-hill-862348.html
17-07-2020||State||Karnataka MLC tests positive for Covid-19||MLC Sandesh Nagaraj tested positive for Covid-19 and being treated at a private hospital in the city. The MLC was suffering health issues from past few days. The MLC was subjected to Covid-19 test which reported positive. However, his family members are home quarantined and the authorities have collected their samples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mlc-tests-positive-for-covid-19-862355.html
17-07-2020||State||Karnataka opens relief centres under lockdown for migrant labourers, vulnerable groups||The Karnataka government has decided to open relief centres in districts where the lockdown has been announced for the sake of migrant labourers and vulnerable groups and to run Shramik trains after the lockdown period is over. It has also decided to keep open one mustering centre namely Tripuravasini, Palace Grounds at Bengaluru during the lockdown period, and all those migrant workers who wish to go back to their home states through Shramik trains will be accommodated there and they will be provided with food, water and sanitation facilities as well as accommodation. Once the lockdown period is over steps will be taken for transportation of all migrant workers to their respective home states through Shramik trains, a circular dated July 15, issued by Principal Secretary Revenue department, N Manjunatha Prasad, who is also the nodal officer on migrant issues, said. According to the circular, in Bengaluru, the Labour department and the Bruhath Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike will be jointly supplying the cooked food as well as dry ration after clearly identifying migrant workers and other vulnerable sections during the new lockdown. In case of districts where the lockdown is announced, concerned Deputy Commissioners along with the officials of the district administration will take measures for identification and distribution of relief materials for the migrant's workers and other vulnerable sections, it said. The district administrations will also open relief shelters for such people and provide them with medical care. Wherever there is a requirement, dry ration kits will also be supplied in coordination with NGOs. Listing out various measures to be taken for the benefit of migrant workers and other vulnerable sections, the circular said, the administration is also directed to make provision for installation of TV along with cable connection for the entertainment of the inmates of the shelter homes. However, social distancing norms shall be strictly complied with. Bengaluru urban and rural areas are currently under "complete lockdown" from 8 pm of July 14 and it will be effective till 5 am on July 22. Following Bengaluru, administrations in several other districts like Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi (only in urban areas), Bidar, Raichur (in Raichur city and Sindhanur) and Yadgir too have announced a lockdown. In Shivamogga there is a partial lockdown with restrictions in force daily from 2 pm to 5 am the next day, until further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-opens-relief-centres-under-lockdown-for-migrant-labourers-vulnerable-groups-862495.html
17-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||4,169 new coronavirus cases take Karnataka's tally above 50,000||Karnataka on Thursday recorded its biggest single-day Covid-19 spike of 4,169 cases and 104 deaths. With this, the state also crossed the grim landmark of 1,000 coronavirus deaths and 50,000 cases overall. On Thursday, 2,344 cases were reported from Bengaluru alone. The city also saw 70 Covid-19 deaths.  With a total of 51,422 cases, Karnataka now stands fourth in the country, only behind Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. The number of active cases is 30,655 while the toll in the state is 1,032, apart from six patients dying due to non-Covid reasons. There have been 19,729 discharges so far. Seven districts reported cases in triple figures — Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Udupi and Raichur. The state tested 23,451 samples on Thursday. Medical Education Minister Dr. K Sudhakar said testing will further be ramped up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4169-new-coronavirus-cases-take-karnatakas-tally-above-50000-862523.html
17-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC issues stay order on 40-year lease of PSSK factory||The High Court of Karnataka has issued a stay on the state government’s order of leasing Pandavapura Sahakara Sakkare Kharkane (PSSK) (sugar factory) to Nirani Sugars Company. Questioning the 40-year lease, the management board of NSL Sugars, Koppa had filed a writ petition before the high court. They sought a stay order, alleging that the government had taken an unilateral decision over the contract issue of the sugar factory. The high court, which heard the appeal, issued a stay order. However, members of PSSK Labour Union claimed that the stay from the high court, is a hurdle to begin the factory. “The farming community in the region are worried. PSSK had stopped functioning four years ago. Thus, sugarcane growers of the region were supplying their produce, to factories in other districts and also to jaggery making units, for lesser price. The factory workers have not been paid salaries since months. Now, with the high court intervening, the farmers are a worried lot,” they explained. As per the procedure, Nirani Sugars won the bid and bagged the contract for 40 years. The factory was scheduled to begin crushing of sugarcane on August 1. But, NSL Sugars of Koppa have brought a stay order, they said. Sugarcane grower Dhanya Kumar said, “NSL Sugars is doing this for their selfish motives, as they would get the cane from the region for crushing. They should not test the patience of the farmers here.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-issues-stay-order-on-40-year-lease-of-pssk-factory-862534.html
17-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government halts industrial projects approved without land||Several industrial projects worth tens of crores have been put on hold after the government found glaring lapses in the way they had been approved. In six districts, including Bengaluru Urban, industrial projects were approved by the District-Level Single-Window Clearance Committee even as no land was available with the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB). Instead, approvals were given ‘subject to land availability’, according to a government document DH has accessed.  This comes at a time when the government is pushing for ease-of-doing-business reforms.  As per procedure, all investment proposals seeking establishment of units in the industrial areas developed by the KIADB need to be placed before the Land Audit Committee. This committee reviews the proposal, makes sure that the KIADB industrial area has the necessary basic infrastructure, checks the usefulness of the plots and, more importantly, looks at whether or not land is available in the first place.  “But, the joint directors of district industries centres are placing proposals of up to Rs 15 crore directly before the district-level committees (headed by deputy commissioners) without taking them to the land audit committee... despite land not available in KIADB industrial areas, it has been found that projects are being cleared saying ‘subject to land availability’. It has come to the government’s notice that such approvals have been given more by the district-level committees in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Chikballapur, Ramanagara and Tumakuru,” the document, which is a government order, states.  Apparently, the discrepancy continued despite directions from the government that district-level approvals should not be given without a “written assurance” or a “written report” that land was indeed available for projects.  In these districts, the industrialists concerned had the approval letter and applied for KIADB land, but were pushed from pillar to post due to unavailability of land. They began approaching the Commerce & Industries department, the order said.  The anomaly came up for discussion recently at a meeting chaired by Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar. It was decided that all such projects should be put on hold. When contacted, Commerce & Industries principal secretary Gaurav Gupta confirmed this. “We are trying to resolve the matter wherever such issues have come up and wherever difficulties have crept in. Resolution is the objective of this government order,” he said.  The order, while freezing such projects approved on ‘subject to land availability’, has reiterated the procedure to be followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-halts-industrial-projects-approved-without-land-862562.html
17-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Total coronavirus lockdown in Kodagu on Saturdays and Sundays||To check the surge of Covid-19 cases, the district administration on Friday decided to impose lockdown in Kodagu on Saturdays and Sundays until further orders. Except for hospitals, medical shops, laboratories, dialysis centres, petrol bunks and shops supplying essentials, all other establishments will remain closed during the weekends for the entire day. Distribution and purchase of milk and newspapers will be allowed from 6 am to 9 am. Fair price shops will operate according to the existing schedule. Transport facility will not be available. Vehicles other than those used for emergency purposes, goods transport, government vehicles and those on Covid-19 duty should refrain from movement, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said. The movement of people is restricted. Teachers and education officers on SSLC answer scripts evaluation duty should present their authorised identity card to travel to the centres.  Other government officials may also attend their duties and should present their official ID cards during checking.  Pre-scheduled marriage functions can be held with the permission of local gram panchayat or the urban local body. But should strictly follow the necessary norms. Not more than 50 people can gather at the function. Local authorities such as police and officials of the urban local bodies and gram panchayats have been directed to strictly implement the restrictions. 13 fresh cases On Friday, the district reported 13 fresh positive cases taking the total tally to 252. A total of 141 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital so far. New containment zones have been notified in Bhagavathi Nagar, Chowdeshwari Nagar and Mahdevpet and Hebbattageri. Yaga performed Zilla Brahmanara Sangha conducted Dhanvantari Yaga at the Annapoorneshwari Temple in Gandhinagar, Moornadu, seeking divine intervention to check the spread of the virus. Special prayers and the sacred fire ritual were held under the guidance of association president Dr Mahabaleshwar Bhat. Janardhan Bhat, Vighnesh Bhat, Amit Bhat and Subrahmanya Bhat performed the Yaga. Office-bearers K S Ram Bhat, H R Murali Bhat, M P Shrinivas, M G Narayana Rao and Raghavendra were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/total-coronavirus-lockdown-in-kodagu-on-saturdays-and-sundays-862567.html
17-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||311 fresh coronavirus cases reported in Dakshina Kannada||The surge in Covid-19 cases continued with 311 being reported in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. The total cases in the district have now risen to 3,074 cases. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said 1,725 patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the district, including home isolation. As many as 115 patients had been discharged from various hospitals in the district. The total discharges stand at 1,276 in the district, she added. Sullia police station was sealed down on Friday after an accused in illegal transportation of cattle was tested positive. The arrested youth was identified as Abdul Farooq. Sub Inspector Harish and other staff, who were involved in the arrest, have been asked to remain quarantined at home. When the arrested was produced in the court, he was asked to undergo Covid-19 test. The swab samples tested positive on Friday and the youth is undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Sullia. Ullal and surrounding areas have recorded 39 positive cases, including four KSRP personnel and a five-month-old baby. Woman, child traced A puerperal woman, who was tested positive, and her child were forcibly taken away by her husband from the government hospital in Belthangady on Thursday. However, they were traced by the police and shifted back to the hospital. The woman from Navoor was admitted to a government hospital in Belthangady for delivery on July 12. Before her throat swab results arrived, she delivered on July 15. Her swab sample test positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. However, the woman’s husband forcibly barged into the hospital on Thursday night and took her and the child away against the doctor’s advice. Later, the police traced the patient and admitted her back to the hospital. Now, the delivery ward in the hospital has been sealed. In Puttur and Kadaba taluks, 16 positive cases, including two pregnant women, were reported. PGR Cell The DC said that Covid-related public grievances (PGR) cell had been started in the district. The PGR cells are at Mangaluru City Corporation (08242220321), Bantwal TMC (08255233130), Belthangady (08256-234596), Moodbidri TMC (08258236236), Mulki Town Panchayat (0824-2290561), Puttur CMC (08251-238000), Sullia TP (08257230414), Ullal CMC (8277997418), Vittal TP (08255239220) and Kotekat TP (0824-2466693). The asymptomatic patients, who are in home isolation, are contacted through video call by the volunteers from helpline at Command Control Centre situated at Mangaluru City Corporation. The local doctors are engaged in counselling infected patients at home isolation. Further, the Covid-19 patients, for any details on ambulance can contact 108/1077 or 0824-2441444.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/311-fresh-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-dakshina-kannada-862574.html
17-07-2020||West||Janata Curfew on in Goa, 3-day lockdown from July 17||The streets of Goa wore a deserted look after 8 pm on Thursday as the state observed `Janata Curfew' to curb the spread of coronavirus. The state government has announced Janata Curfew between 8 pm to 6 am till August 10. Besides, lockdown will be in force on July 17, 18 and 19. During the Janata Curfew, movement for all non- essential activities has been prohibited. Ahead of lockdown, people thronged markets across the state to stock essentials. "People have cooperated very well. There is no one on the streets since 8 pm," said a senior police official. Violators will be immediately arrested, he added. Goa's COVID-19 cases have reached 3,108 with daily three-digit spike in cases. The coastal state had been declared as Green Zone in May with active cases dwindling to zero, but later there was a fresh surge in infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/janata-curfew-on-in-goa-3-day-lockdown-from-july-17-862217.html
17-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Thane building develops cracks, residents evacuated||At least nine families were evacuated from a 20-year-old building, after it developed cracks and tilted in Khopat area of Maharashtra's Thane city, a civic official said on Friday. The civic authorities have also emptied two chawls adjoining Sai Anand Apartments, which developed cracks and tilted late on Thursday night, said Santosh Kadam, chief of the Regional Disaster Management Cell of the Thane Municipal Corporation. Local firemen and police personnel rushed to the scene for the evacuation, the official said. At least nine flats in the building have been sealed and the residents were shifted to a civic school nearby, he said. As a precautionary measure, residents of Salunke Chawl and Bhoir Chawl have also been evacuated and shifted to the nearby civic school, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-thane-building-develops-cracks-residents-evacuated-862298.html
17-07-2020||West||Congress suspends two Pilot loyalists, demands arrest of union minister Shekhawat||Congress on Friday suspended two of its rebel MLAs in Rajasthan and demanded the arrest of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, accusing them of conspiring to topple Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot-led government in the state. The sharp attack from the Congress came a day after audio recordings, purportedly of conversation between Shekhawat and Sachin Pilot loyalist and former minister Bhanwarlal Sharma, were released by the Gehlot camp to buttress its charge of attempts to topple the government in the state. Addressing a press conference in Jaipur, Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala announced the suspension of Sharma and another former minister Vishvendra Singh -- both Pilot loyalists -- from the primary membership of the party after the audio recordings of their purportedconversation with BJP leaders came to light. Surjewala also demanded registration of FIR against Shekhawat, a two-term Lok Sabha member from Jodhpur, who is purportedly heard in the conversation with Sharma, working out the modalities of defection in the Congress ranks. Surjewala said the Congress had filed a complaint with the Special Operations Group in the Rajasthan Police on the basis of the audio recordings and asked them to investigate Shekhawat's role contending that he cannot work alone and links "went right at the top" in the BJP. The entire focus of the press conference by Congress leaders was on alleged attempts by the BJP to destabilise the government and made no reference to Pilot, who has been reaching out to senior Congress leaders exploring the possibility of a rapprochement. Pilot had called former Finance Minister P Chidambaram on Thursday. Chidambaram had advised him to seize the opportunity offered by the Congress and return to the party fold unconditionally. Asked about Pilot's efforts to reach out to the Congress, Surjewala merely said it would be inappropriate to speak about private conversations in the public.   As the audio recordings were released on Thursday night,  Sharma described them as "fake" and asserted that his voice was not on the tapes. "I have not spoken to any leader, the audio has been released to malign me," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-suspends-two-pilot-loyalists-demands-arrest-of-union-minister-shekhawat-862300.html
17-07-2020||West||Death toll in south Mumbai building collapse rises to 10||The death toll in a building collapse incident here has mounted to 10 and this has raised questions over the safety and security of those staying in dilapidated buildings. On Thursday, heavy rain pounded Mumbai and two incidents of building collapse were reported from Fort in south Mumbai and Malvani in the city's northern suburbs. The disaster management unit of Mumbai civic body has said while two people were killed in the Malvani incident, the death toll in the Fort area tragedy climbed up to 10 on Friday. Meanwhile, the ground floor of a six-storey building at North Side, Mint Road, caved in amid heavy rain in Mumbai and two injured persons were being treated at a hospital, at the time of filing this report||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/death-toll-in-south-mumbai-building-collapse-rises-to-10-862307.html
17-07-2020||West||Lockdown-hit casual workers of Air India move HC seeking work||At least 250 casual workers of Air India (AI) have approached the Bombay High Court seeking direction to the government-run airline to provide them work as the coronavirus-induced lockdown has rendered them jobless and deprived them of wages. Their plea was heard on Friday by a bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and V G Bisht, who issued a notice to Air India and directed the national carrier to respond within two weeks. In the interim application filed through Air India Ltd Kamgar Sangh, the petitioners stated that most casual workers belong to economically weaker sections and that they are dependent on daily wages from the airline. The application by at least 250 casual workers of the airline has been filed through senior counsel Gayatri Singh and advocate Mini Mathur. As per the plea, casual workers are allowed to work for a maximum of 240 days a year and are paid Rs 535 for each day of the services rendered by them. Casual workers, who have been litigating over regularisation and revision of pay, among other issues, for several years in various courts, are employed by the airline on a rotational basis as catering assistants, baggage handlers, security scanners and bus drivers. The petitioners, who are employed by Air India at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport here, stated they had been working for the airline for the last 25 to 30 years. However, most of them have not been called back after the airline resumed services in May, while permanent employees and those on contract had been given work, the plea stated. The petitioners claimed that while some causal workers who live near the airport have also been given work, 250 workers have not been called back. "The lockdown period has wrecked devastation. The casual workers are in desperate need of work and wages," the petition reads. As per the plea, the petitioners have sought work and wages due since March. They have also demanded transport facilities to commute to work and asked for health safety measures similar to those provided to permanent workers, the plea stated. The petitioners are already litigating in the high court over implementation of its previous orders on job regularisation and other reliefs, through a writ petition filed last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-hit-casual-workers-of-air-india-move-hc-seeking-work-862312.html
17-07-2020||West||Heavy police deployment in Goa as three-day lockdown begins||As the three-day lockdown began in Goa amid the Covid-19 outbreak, heavy police deployment was seen on the roads to restrict unnecessary movement of people. Goa has recorded 3,108 cases of Covid-19 so far, while the toll in the state stood at 19. The state government announced the lockdown to bar non-essential activities after Covid-19 cases spiralled to triple digit constantly over one week. "No major cases of lockdown violation has been reported so far. There were some minor incidents wherein the police convinced people to stay indoors," a senior police official said. While essential services, including industries, have been exempt from the lockdown, unnecessary movement of people has been banned for three days. The state government has also imposed a janata curfew in the state between 8 pm to 6 am till August 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-police-deployment-in-goa-as-three-day-lockdown-begins-862319.html
17-07-2020||West||Neurologists called to examine poet-activist Varavara Rao||Jailed writer and activist Varavara Rao, undergoing treatment at St George Hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, is also suffering from neurological problem and specialist doctors have been called to treat him, hospital officials said on Friday. The 80-year-old, an accused in the Elgar Parishad- Maoist links case, was admitted to the state-run J J Hospital earlier this week and later shifted to St George Hospital, another government medical facility in south Mumbai. Rao was admitted to the ICU Ward of the St George Hospital on Thursday evening, hours after his medical report showed he was coronavirus positive, doctors said. During treatment for Covid-19, doctors found his condition to be stable and absolutely fine, but it also came to light that he has neurological problem due to which he is not responding adequately in terms of "orientation", the officials said. His breathing and other medical parameters related to coronavirus are normal, they said. Rao's chest X-Ray and ECG reports were also normal, the officials said, adding doctors are now planning CT scan to get more clarity about his health, they said. Neurologists from J J Hospital have been called to treat Rao and they will visit him later in the day, the officials said. The poet-activist, lodged in the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai under judicial custody, was admitted to the J J Hospital on Monday after he complained of giddiness, and was later shifted to its neurology department. Rao's family members along with several writers and activists had asked the Maharashtra government to immediately shift him to hospital for treatment, citing his deteriorating health condition. Rao's Telangana-based family members on Sunday sought the jail authorities to provide him immediate medical care and claimed that when the veteran activist contacted them last week, he was in a "delirious state and hallucinating". Rao has been in jail for about 22 months and had earlier approached the special NIA court, seeking bail on medical grounds and the prevailing Covid-19 situation. On Monday, Rao filed two petitions in the Bombay High Court, seeking temporary bail owing to his ill-health and a direction to the jail authorities to produce his medical records and admit him to a state-run or private hospital. Rao and nine other activists have been arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, which was initially probed by the Pune Police and later transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/neurologists-called-to-examine-poet-activist-varavara-rao-862323.html
17-07-2020||West||Palghar lynching: Supreme Court dismisses fresh plea seeking judicial probe, action against cops||The Supreme Court Friday refused to entertain a fresh plea seeking judicial probe and action against policemen into the alleged lynching of three people, including two seers, in Maharashtra's Palghar district in April. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah said that “with regard to this incident, this court has already taken cognisance. There is no question of multiplying the petitions one by one". Petitioner in-person Jai Krishna Singh said that in his plea he has also raised concern about the recent extra-judicial killings in the country but the trigger for filing of the present petition was the Palghar incident. Singh has sought direction to register an FIR against the police officials present at the spot at the time of the killings and arrest them, including the one seen in the TV footage shrugging off the hands of the 70-years-old Sadhu. He also sought direction to set up a judicial inquiry headed by the retired Supreme Court judge or the retired Chief Justice of any High Court in the alleged killing of the three deceased persons under Kasa police station on April 16, when nationwide lockdown was in force. Besides, the plea sought setting up of a judicial committee to monitor the trial of the accused persons including the police officials on monthly basis so that justice could be administered swiftly in the case. On June 11, the top court had sought a response from the Maharashtra government on two petitions seeking separate probes by the CBI and the NIA into the alleged lynching of three people, including two seers, in the state's Palghar district in April. The top court had agreed to hear the petitions, including the one filed by sadhus of 'Shri Panch Dashban Juna Akhara' and relatives of the deceased seers. Their plea alleged that the investigation by the state police was being carried out in a biased manner. The other plea, seeking an NIA probe into the incident, has been filed by Ghanshyam Upadhyay. Besides the Maharashtra government, one of the petitions has arrayed the Centre, CBI and the director general of police of Maharashtra as respondents in the matter. The three victims from Kandivali in Mumbai were travelling in a car to attend a funeral at Surat in Gujarat amid the COVID-19 nationwide lockdown when their vehicle was stopped and they were attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village on the night of April 16 in the presence of police. The victims were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri, 70, Sushil Giri Maharaj, 35, and Nilesh Telgade, 30, who was driving the vehicle. While hearing a separate plea seeking a CBI probe in the case, the top court had on May 1 directed the Maharashtra government to submit a status report on the investigation in the matter. The fresh plea filed by 'sadhus' of 'Shri Panch Dashban Juna Akhara' has sought transfer of the probe to the CBI, claiming that there is "reasonable apprehension of bias" if Maharashtra police proceeds with the investigation. "Several video clippings have emerged on social media and news reports which very clearly demonstrate the active involvement of the police present, who can be seen handing over the three persons to the unlawful assembly of persons gathered," the plea has claimed. "The entire incident and its handling raise several questions which remain unanswered till date and as the petitioners apprehend, shall never be answered unless they are investigated by an independent, unsullen and reputed arm of the central agencies," it has said. It has also sought a direction to the authorities to "favourably decide" the April 28 representations of the petitioner which has sought allotment of land at the site of the killing for setting up a memorial. Earlier, the counsel appearing for the Maharashtra government had opposed both the petitions saying that similar pleas are already pending before the Bombay High Court. One of the petitions has also sought a direction to the authorities to pay compensation to the families of the victims. The police has arrested over 100 people in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-supreme-court-dismisses-fresh-plea-seeking-judicial-probe-action-against-cops-862333.html
17-07-2020||West||Over 12,000 posts in Maharashtra police to be filled by December end||The Maharashtra government will fill 12,538 different posts in the state police force by the end of December, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Friday. The minister held a meeting with senior officials, including additional chief secretary (home department) Sitaram Kunte at the state secretariat on Thursday. "Issued instructions during a meeting of home department officials held in Mantralaya to immediately fill 12,538 different posts in the state police force. The process will be completed by December-end," Deshmukh tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-12000-posts-in-maharashtra-police-to-be-filled-by-december-end-862351.html
17-07-2020||West||No need for CBI probe in Sushant death case: Anil Deshmukh||There was no need for a CBI probe into the death case of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput as the Mumbai police were capable of handling the matter, said Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday. The police were also examining the angle of "business rivalry" in the case, he said. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Bandra apartment in Mumbai on June 14 and what the police claimed was a case of suicide. In the initial investigation, the Mumbai police had found that the actor was under medication for depression. On Thursday, Rajput's friend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, in a tweet, demanded a CBI inquiry to understand what "pressures" prompted Rajput to take the extreme step of suicide. Chakraborty said though she has "complete faith" in the government, a CBI inquiry would help bring justice to the case. Talking to PTI, Deshmukh said the Mumbai police were conducting a detailed inquiry into the actor's death and also recording statements of people concerned. "There was no need to give the case to the CBI. Our police officials are capable and doing the inquiry in right way. We are also examining the angle of business rivalry," said Deshmukh. So far, the police have recorded the statements of more than two dozen people, including Chakraborty, filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Bollywood casting director Mukesh Chhabra and Rajput's family members, as part of probe into the suicide, which jolted the Hindi film industry. Rajput starred in films such as 'Shuddh Desi Romance', 'Raabta', 'Kedarnath' and 'Sonchiriya'. But his most prominent role came as cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni in the biopic, 'MS Dhoni: The Untold Story'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-need-for-cbi-probe-in-sushant-death-case-anil-deshmukh-862361.html
17-07-2020||West||Twitter hack: Maharashtra Cyber asks social media sites to be alert||In the backdrop of hacking of Twitter accounts of eminent US personalities, Maharashtra Cyber has asked the microblogging site and other social media platforms to take measures to ensure privacy and data security of users, an official has said. He said the cyber wing of the state has told Twitter that safety and security of accounts of prominent persons and other verified users was its responsibility. Maharashtra Cyber has sent also communication to other social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, asking them to stake steps to protect data and ensure privacy of their account-holders, the official said. In the backdrop of security breach suffered by Twitter a few days ago, there is a need to be vigilant and protect the Indian cyberspace, he said. "The cyber wing is thus being vigilant about the possibility of any such incident happening in India," he said. Since several Indian public personalities and millions of others use Twitter frequently, the cyber wing has sent communication to the popular microblogging site and other platforms, the official said. We have asked Twitter to inform us about any cybersecurity breach that might target Indian users and prominent Indian profiles, he said. Maharashtra Cyber has also asked other social media platforms to be on lookout for any threat and promptly inform the agency in case of a security breach, the official said. During the pandemic, if any wrong, unverified information gets circulated through those handles or accounts, there is a possibility of adverse impact on the law and order situation in the state, he said. Maharashtra Cyber is the nodal agency for cybersecurity and crime investigation for Maharashtra. Several prominent Twitter accounts, including those of former US president Barack Obama, Tesla CEO Elon Musk and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, were hacked apparently to promote a Bitcoin scam in what the microblogging site believes to be a "coordinated social engineering attack." The account of former US vice-president Joe Biden, who is the current Democratic Party presidential candidate in the November election, was also hacked. The attackers posted tweets that appeared to promote a cryptocurrency scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/twitter-hack-maharashtra-cyber-asks-social-media-sites-to-be-alert-862369.html
17-07-2020||West||Maharashtra man held in Gujarat for bid to sneak into Pakistan on foot||A 21-year-old man from Maharashtra has been apprehended by the Border Security Force (BSF) in Gujarat's Rann of Kutch while he was trying to sneak into Pakistan on foot, officials said on Friday. Police said that as per the preliminary probe, the man, identified as Zeeshan Siddique, was on his way to meet a woman in Pakistan whom he had befriended on a social media platform. "Siddique was held by the BSF on Thursday night and later handed over to the local police. He is from Osmanabad town in Maharashtra," Kutch-East Superintendent of Police, Parikshita Rathod, said. "Police had issued an alert after a motorcycle with Maharashtra registration number was found abandoned near Dholavira village in the Rann of Kutch on Thursday evening. The BSF later nabbed the man when he was found walking towards the border in a bid to enter Pakistan," Rathod added. According to police sources, Siddique is an engineering student and may have reached Gujarat from Osmanabad on his motorcycle. After his motorcycle got stuck in the sand, he started walking towards Pakistan in a bid to meet his social media friend living in that country, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-held-in-gujarat-for-bid-to-sneak-into-pakistan-on-foot-862384.html
17-07-2020||West||Rajasthan crisis: Sachin Pilot gets interim reprieve; police probe topple plans||In fast-paced developments, Rajasthan Police on Friday registered an FIR against unknown persons for trying to topple the state government, prompting the Congress to suspend two MLAs, loyal to former deputy chief minister and rebel leader Sachin Pilot, from the party. Though the Congress refrained from direct attacks on Pilot, at the behest of Rahul Gandhi, that the differences between them were irreconcilable was evident when Gehlot told the media that he had not spoken to his deputy for the past one year. With sharp attacks on the BJP, the Congress tried to shift the focus of the political drama in Rajasthan from the feud between Gehlot and Pilot to the BJP’s alleged role in the conspiracy. “Can Gajendra Singh Shekhawat do this alone? The links of this conspiracy reach right at the top in the BJP,” Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters in Jaipur. The Special Operations Group of the Rajasthan Police also moved in swiftly to investigate the audio recordings with a team of officials landing at the resort in Manesar in Haryana to take voice samples of Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh – the two MLAs who were suspended by the Congress. Dramatic scenes were witnessed at the resort where the MLAs were put up as Haryana Police refused to allow the SOG team to enter. “If BJP claims not to be involved in Congress' internal fight then why BJP led Haryana Government is extending their support and protection to MLAs inside the hotel,” AICC General Secretary Avinash Pande said. BJP dismissed the audio recordings as “manufactured” and an attempt by the Congress to target it out of frustration as it was not able to keep its house in order. “They (Congress) have taken their internal fight to a low level. And in that, they have tried to implicate Gajendra Singh Shekhawat,” senior BJP leader Gulab Chand Kataria told reporters in Jaipur. Shekhawat rejected the allegations levelled by the Congress and declared that he was ready to face any investigation. “This is not my voice... Let there be an investigation. I am ready to face any probe,” Shekhawat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-crisis-sachin-pilot-gets-interim-reprieve-police-probe-topple-plans-862419.html
17-07-2020||West||Maharashtra government looking at training locals to fill in skill gap due to migration amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Maharashtra government is looking at training local workforce as the state is facing a huge challenge of skill gap due to mass migration triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. "Maharashtra is one of the most industrial states that generated a lot of job opportunities, leading to people migrating from other states. "Now, the state is facing the biggest challenge of skill gap due to labour force returning to their villages and towns, panicked by the Covid-19 pandemic," Maharashtra Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Minister Nawab Malik said while addressing the CII-Western Region's conference on 'Future of Skill Training. The minister said the state government looks forward to employing locally available skilled workforce with industry on an urgent basis through portals like 'swayam'. "We are working out on programmes that can help train local people through digital medium as well as on-hand practical training wherever needed, taking into account social distancing norms," he added. The state government is also orienting the industrial training institutes (ITIs) towards emergent sectors such as solar energy, drones and electric vehicles for long-term intervention, he said. Maharashtra is also working on the Maharashtra Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (MAPS)) on the lines of the National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS) and programmes that can impart special 'agri-based skill training centres' for enabling the rural and tribal youth to reinvent and earn through the traditional skilling interventions, the minister added. Meanwhile, National Skill Development Corporation CEO and Managing Director Manish Kumar, who was present on the occasion, said the lockdown to curb Covid-19 has made digital medium a necessity. "Even those who were earlier apprehensive of the online platform are appreciating the efficiency of the digital medium. We have created an e-skill India platform that has 400 courses free of cost. In the past few months, more than 2 lakh people have joined the platform from over 20,000 before the Covid-19 disruptions," he added. There will be a need for offline training as well and we are working on creating a combination of both online and offline curriculums, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-looking-at-training-locals-to-fill-in-skill-gap-due-to-migration-amid-covid-19-pandemic-862421.html
17-07-2020||West||Mumbai: IPS officer tests positive for coronavirus||A senior IPS officer has tested positive for novel coronavirus and his office in the Mumbai police commissionerate compound will be sanitised, an official said on Friday. The officer was actively involved in efforts to combat the outbreak and his driver, as well as a couple of staff members, had earlier been detected with the infection, he added. Incidentally, the officer had recently attended a meeting in Mantralaya, the state secretariat, where several senior home department officials were present, he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-ips-officer-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-862435.html
17-07-2020||West||Palghar lynching: SC dismisses fresh plea seeking judicial probe, action against cops||The Supreme Court Friday refused to entertain a fresh plea seeking judicial probe and action against policemen into the alleged lynching of three people, including two seers, in Maharashtra's Palghar district in April. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah said that “with regard to this incident, this court has already taken cognisance. There is no question of multiplying the petitions one by one". Petitioner in-person Jai Krishna Singh said that in his plea he has also raised concern about the recent extra-judicial killings in the country but the trigger for filing of the present petition was the Palghar incident. Singh has sought direction to register an FIR against the police officials present at the spot at the time of the killings and arrest them, including the one seen in the TV footage shrugging off the hands of the 70-years-old Sadhu. He also sought direction to set up a judicial inquiry headed by the retired Supreme Court judge or the retired Chief Justice of any High Court in the alleged killing of the three persons under Kasa police station on April 16, when nationwide lockdown was in force. Besides, the plea sought setting up of a judicial committee to monitor the trial of the accused persons including the police officials on monthly basis so that justice could be administered swiftly in the case. On June 11, the top court had sought a response from the Maharashtra government on two petitions seeking separate probes by the CBI and the NIA into the alleged lynching of three people, including two seers, in the state's Palghar district in April. The top court had agreed to hear the petitions, including the one filed by sadhus of 'Shri Panch Dashban Juna Akhara' and relatives of the deceased seers. Their plea alleged that the investigation by the state police was being carried out in a biased manner. The other plea, seeking an NIA probe into the incident, has been filed by Ghanshyam Upadhyay. Besides the Maharashtra government, one of the petitions has arrayed the Centre, CBI and the director general of police of Maharashtra as respondents in the matter. The three victims from Kandivali in Mumbai were travelling in a car to attend a funeral at Surat in Gujarat amid the COVID-19 nationwide lockdown when their vehicle was stopped and they were attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village on the night of April 16 in the presence of police. The victims were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri, 70, Sushil Giri Maharaj, 35, and Nilesh Telgade, 30, who was driving the vehicle. While hearing a separate plea seeking a CBI probe in the case, the top court had on May 1 directed the Maharashtra government to submit a status report on the investigation in the matter. The fresh plea filed by 'sadhus' of 'Shri Panch Dashban Juna Akhara' has sought transfer of the probe to the CBI, claiming that there is "reasonable apprehension of bias" if Maharashtra police proceeds with the investigation. "Several video clippings have emerged on social media and news reports which very clearly demonstrate the active involvement of the police present, who can be seen handing over the three persons to the unlawful assembly of persons gathered," the plea has claimed. "The entire incident and its handling raise several questions which remain unanswered till date and as the petitioners apprehend, shall never be answered unless they are investigated by an independent, unsullen and reputed arm of the central agencies," it has said. It has also sought a direction to the authorities to "favourably decide" the April 28 representations of the petitioner which has sought allotment of land at the site of the killing for setting up a memorial. Earlier, the counsel appearing for the Maharashtra government had opposed both the petitions saying that similar pleas are already pending before the Bombay High Court. One of the petitions has also sought a direction to the authorities to pay compensation to the families of the victims. The police has arrested over 100 people in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-sc-dismisses-fresh-plea-seeking-judicial-probe-action-against-cops-862444.html
17-07-2020||West||Doctors remove Re 1 coin from 8-year-old boy's food pipe||An eight-year-old Andheri boy underwent a complex endoscopic procedure at the Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital after he accidentally swallowed a Rs 1 coin. The family spent six hours visiting several nursing homes before finding relief at Nanavati Hospital. The boy got the coin stuck in the upper part of the oesophagus or the food pipe.  Due to the obstruction, he was in immense pain and vomited every time he tried to eat anything. The parents got to know about the coin through an X-ray done at a local nursing home and after visiting several doctors, came to Nanavati Hospital. Dr. Amol Patil, senior consultant and ENT specialist immediately attended the child.  “The boy was in extreme discomfort due to the coin. Any further delay to extract the object could have led to possible life-threatening conditions such as an infection or rupture of the oesophagus,” said Dr Patil. After taking all necessary precautions, the surgical team performed a complex esophagoscopy — an endoscopic procedure through the mouth of the boy. With the help of forceps, safely concealed in a metal rod, the team of doctors successfully extracted the coin in no time. “We kept the patient under observation for some time and post-operatively, the patient did well. Once he could eat normally and showed no discomfort anymore, we discharged him,” said Dr Patil. Nanavati Hospital has taken a spew of infection-control measures to successfully perform non-Covid critical procedures during the pandemic.   “While we are fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, it’s absolutely essential to create a safe environment to attend and operate non-Covid emergencies to ensure more lives can be saved,” said Manpreet Singh Sohal, Chief Operating Officer and Director, Nanavati Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctors-remove-re-1-coin-from-8-year-old-boys-food-pipe-862473.html
17-07-2020||West||Rs 500 crore collected form Mumbai to topple Rajasthan government, claims MPCC general secretary Sachin Sawant||In a sensational charge, the Maharashtra Congress on Friday claimed that Rs 500 crore was collected from Mumbai to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. MPCC general secretary Sachin Sawant, who made the charge, demanded a probe into it. "We have got information that collection of more than Rs 500 crore have been done from Mumbai in order to topple the Ashok Gehlot- Congress government in Rajasthan," Sawant said. He had also spoken to state home minister Anil Deshmukh and requested him to look into this serious matter to find the "masterminds."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rs-500-crore-collected-form-mumbai-to-topple-rajasthan-government-claims-mpcc-general-secretary-sachin-sawant-862493.html
17-07-2020||West||One-day spike of 8,308 Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra; 258 more dead||With the single-day spike of 8,308 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the tally of patients in the state mounted to 2,92,589 on Friday, the health department said. This is the third time that the number of single-day cases has breached the 8,000-mark in the state. On Thursday, the state had recorded the highest one- day growth of 8,641 new cases, while on July 11, as many as 8,139 patients had tested positive. As the virus claimed 258 lives on Friday alone, the state's death toll increased to 11,452, a statement from the health department said. A total of 2,217 patients recovered and discharged from hospitals following their recovery during the day. With this, the number of recovered people grew to 1,60,357, it said. Currently, there are 1,20,780 active cases in the state. So far, 14,84,630 people have been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-day-spike-of-8308-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-258-more-dead-862498.html
17-07-2020||West||SC youth beaten to death over suspicion of theft in Gujarat village||A 25-year-old scheduled caste youth was allegedly beaten to death reportedly on suspicion of theft in a village in Banaskantha district in north Gujarat. According to the FIR lodged by Galchar's brother Sanjay, six persons of the village had come to his house at 10 PM on Thursday and forcefully took away Pintu in a tempo. The FIR states that Pintu never came back home and his phone remained switched off. On Friday morning, his dead body was found lying naked near the bus stand of the village. Sanjay has alleged that his brother was beaten to death by the six accused and dragged near the bus stand where he was dumped. The accused have been identified as Hansraj Y Purohit, Chetan D Purohit, Ramabhai B Purohit, Ramabhai K Purohit, Kirti M Purohit and Gautam J Purohit. They all have been arrested for murder, kidnapping and various sections of atrocity act. "The accused suspected Galchar of stealing Rs 5,000 about a week back and it was for this reason that they took him away for questioning. They beat him up and after finding that he was dead, they left him at the spot where the dead body was found today morning. We are awaiting a postmortem report to know more about the cause of death but prima facie it seems that the victim was beaten up. He had blunt injuries on his body," District Superintendent of Police Tarun Duggal told DH over phone. According to sources, the main accused Hansraj is husband of village sarpanch but "works like actual sarpanch locally known as Sarpanch Pati." They said that "One of the accused who reportedly lost Rs 5000 took the matter to 'Sarpanch Pati' Hansraj who planned to question Galchar with other accused. As per the plan, they picked up Galchar and thrashed him for a confession which turned fatal." The village, dominated by upper-caste Brahmin community, remained tense throughout the day following the incident. Security has been deployed in the village in apprehension of any flare ups. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda tweeted while seeking action against the culprit that "Galchar was killed, stripped and dragged by the accused in the village as if there is no fear of law and order among the culprits."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-youth-beaten-to-death-over-suspicion-of-theft-in-gujarat-village-862521.html
17-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Set to get mom home, Maharashtra man told she's dead||A man from Aurangabad in Maharashtra who went to the hospital to bring his mother home post recovery from coronavirus infection minutes after completing a 13th day ritual of his Covid-19 victim father was told by doctors that she too had succumbed. The 38-year-old Baijipura resident said he received a phone call from his mother, admitted in Chikalthana civil hospital, at around 3:45 pm on Thursday, informing that she was being discharged and he must come to pick her up. "I had just completed my father's rituals half an hour earlier. He died 13 days ago at a government hospital while being treated for Covid-19. When I reached the civil hospital, doctors told me my mother was critical, and some time later informed me she had died," he said. "The flowers we had bought to welcome mother home had to be used for her funeral. We took her body directly to Kailasnagar crematorium. The turn of events was numbing for the entire family, especially my children who were infected but recovered after home isolation," he told PTI. Meanwhile, hospital head Dr Sundar Kulkarni said, "We did not convey to the woman she was going to be discharged. She was to be sent home on July 17. However, she may have died of cardiac arrest. We tried out level best to save her." Former corporator Kailas Gaikwad, who reached the hospital to help the family, said the death must be probed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-set-to-get-mom-home-maharashtra-man-told-shes-dead-862530.html
17-07-2020||West||Covid-19 spreads tentacles in Maharashtra’s hinterland||Around mid-March, when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in Maharashtra, the impact was limited to the thickly-populated and highly-industrialised Mumbai-Pune belt. Four months down the line, it has spread to the hinterland of Maharashtra, the worst-affected state in India. Maharashtra now has 2,92,589 cases spread over 36 districts, which is over 25% cases that the country has seen. There are Covid-19 cases even in the remote districts of Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Gondia. The maximum number of cases—around 98,000 are reported in Mumbai, the financial capital of Mumbai. On the other hand, Wardha has a minimum number of cases. For the state, the key concern continues to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) that comprises five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad.  The MMR has a total of over 1,90,000 cases— making it the ‘Covid-19 capital’ of India. Thane district has closed to 70,000 cases while Palghar and Raigad have both recorded over 10,000 cases each. The Pune district that covers the Pune Metropolitan Region, has over 42,000 cases.  This the Mumbai-Pune belt comprising MMR-PMR has a total of 2,31,000 cases. The Nashik district has a total of around 8,000 cases. Thus, the golden triangle of Mumbai-Pune-Nashik has a total of 2,40,000 cases.   Nagpur has 2,300 cases. The other worst-affected districts with over 5,000 cases are Jalgaon with 6,900 plus cases and Solapur with around 5,000 cases. Aurangabad has nearly 9,000 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-spreads-tentacles-in-maharashtra-s-hinterland-862569.html
