18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Ranebennur wedding turns super-spreader; 32 test Covid-19 positive||A wedding at Marutinagar in Ranebennur of Haveri district, held a fortnight ago, has turned tragic for a family. After the parents of the groom succumbed to Covid-19 in July first week, as many as 32 of the groom’s relatives have tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday. The wedding took place in the town on June 29. A week later the groom’s father tested positive for Covid-19. He failed to respond to treatment and died at the designated Covid hospital in Davangere on July 7. Four days later, his wife also lost her battle against the Covid-19. Following the fatalities, 38 members of the family were quarantined at a government hostel on Antarvalli Road. Throat swab sample of 32 members have returned positive for Covid-19. Reports of six others are awaited. Meanwhile, a former Hiriyur TMC member fearing Covid-19 infection collapsed and died at the government hospital on Friday. The 62-year-old man visited the hospital after he developed fever, cough and breathlessness. He started shivering and sweating profusely when a duty doctor recommended for a Covid test. He suffered a massive heart attack and died near the flu clinic, a lab technician, also his relative, informed reporters. However, the throat swab sample of the deceased returned positive for coronavirus. The former TMC member had attended a wedding reception at Khana Hosahalli, Kudligi taluk, recently. Two others who had attended the function also have tested positive for Covid-19. KBJNL officer tests positive A senior Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigama Ltd (KBJNL) officer has contracted Covid-19 on Friday. The officer had attended several meetings, including in Vijayapura and Almatti, till yesterday (Thursday). His contacts, including the officials, contractors and members of the public have been told to undergo Covid tests. Eight Fire personnel at New Mangalore Port’s Fire station also tested positive for Covid 19 on Friday, informed sources in New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT). All staff were directed to undergo tests for Covid 19, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-ranebennur-wedding-turns-super-spreader-32-test-covid-19-positive-862635.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada records 8 more Covid-19 fatalities||Dakshina Kannada district recorded eight Covid-19 fatalities on Friday. With this, the total deaths in the district have risen to 71. According to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, a 72-year-old woman from Mangaluru taluk suffering from hypertension, hypothyroid and liver disease and who was undergoing treatment at ICU of the hospital failed to respond to the treatment and died on July 16. A 56-year-old man suffering from diabetes, liver disease also died on July 16. A 72-year-old man suffering from diabetes mellitus, filariasis, Ischemic Heart Disease, and cardiac arrest too succumbed to the virus. A 70-year-old man from Sirsi in Uttara Kannada suffering from BAR distress syndrome and diabetes died on Thursday. A 69-year old man from Chennagiri in Davangere suffering from IHD, hypertension, Chronic nicotine dependence too failed to respond to the treatment and died on July 16 and was tested positive for Covid-19. A 53-year old man from Sullia, who was brought dead to the hospital, too tested positive for Covid-19. A 68-year-old man from Bhatkal in Uttar Kannada and who was suffering from diabetes mellitus, multi-organ dysfunction died in a hospital on Friday. A 65-year-old man suffering fromPulmonary Edema, hypertension, and hypoxemic and hailing from Belthangady too succumbed to the virus on Friday. Of the total deaths reported in the district, 12 are from outside the district-Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada (4), Sirsi in Uttara Kannada (1), Ramadurga in Belagavi (1), Sakleshpura in Hassan (1), Chikkamagaluru (2), Chennagiri (1), Kundapura (1), Madikeri (1). The first fatality in the district was reported on April 19. From July 1, the district has been recording Covid-19 fatalities daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-records-8-more-covid-19-fatalities-862680.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bailhongal MLA Mahantesh Koujalgi tests Covid-19 positive||Bailhongal MLA Mahantesh Koujalgi tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.  Koujalgi showed symptoms of the illness and underwent tests for Covid-19. His test report came back on Saturday and it was confirmed that he too was infected with the deadly virus. Assistant Commissioner, Bailhongal Subdivision Shivanand Bhajantri confirmed that the lawmaker tested positive for Covid-19. Koujalgi had attended a review meeting on Friday in Bailhongal. Over 20 officials who had come in his contact too have been quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bailhongal-mla-mahantesh-koujalgi-tests-covid-19-positive-862755.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu describes JC Wadiyar as ‘Dakshina Bhoja’||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu described Jayachamaraja (JC) Wadiyar, the last ruler of the erstwhile Mysore state, as ‘Dakshina Bhoja,’ as he encouraged, promoted and propagated Indian culture and traditions.  He was speaking at the valedictory function of the birth centenary celebrations of JC Wadiyar, held virtually on YouTube live streaming on Saturday, the 101st birth anniversary. His Highness Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar Foundation had organised the event virtually as a public programme could not be held due to Covid. The inaugural function of the centenary celebration was graced by President Ram Nath Kovind on October 10, 2019, at the Public Durbar Hall of the Mysuru Palace. Even though JC Wadiyar was born on July 18, 1919, the celebration was launched onOctober 10, 2019. Naidu said, JC Wadiyar was a blend of ancient traditional values and modernity. “JC Wadiyar was the real ‘people’s maharaja’. He inherited the rare magnanimity of ‘royalty with democracy,’ from his predecessors. In pre-Independent India, Mysuru was the most self-reliant and progressive state,” he said.  Naidu said, Wadiyar strived to empower the people to rule themselves and promoted entrepreneurship. He recalled the contributions of Wadiyar for the expansion of Indian Institute of Science, for the establishment of Raman Institute, Hindustan Aeronautical Limited, Central Food Technologies Research Institute, National Tuberculosis Institute, All India Institute of Speech and Hearing, etc. Former Union minister Karan Singh, a contemporary of JC Wadiyar, said as founder president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Wadiyar propounded the inclusive principle of Hinduism.  Former Union minister and Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh said the role of VHP and its founder president JC Wadiyar in propounding the principle of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ (the world is one family) is more relevant in the current situation. “The chapter on Mysuru has just four pages in the book ‘The Story Of The Integration Of The Indian States,’ penned by V P Menon. This explains how smooth the accession of Mysuru into the Indian Union was,” he said. While president of HHSDNR Foundation Pramoda Devi Wadiyar lit the lamp at Amba Vilas Durbar Hall of Mysuru Palace, the Vice President, Karan Singh and Jairam Ramesh joined the event from their respective homes in New Delhi. Daughters of JC Wadiyar Kamakshi Devi and Indrakshi Devi joined from their homes in Bengaluru. Secretary of the foundation Reginald Wesley was present. The online streaming was watched on https://youtu.be/WNpoCYHFsio.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-describes-jc-wadiyar-as-dakshina-bhoja-862858.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Water from KRS to canals from July 28||Members of the Cauvery River Water Management Board decided to release water into canals from Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) and Kabini dams from July 28. The members of the board decided to release water, in a meeting attended by Mandya District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda and Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar at KRS on Saturday. Somashekar clarified that the water will be released from both the dams from July 28. The government has stored sufficient seeds and fertilisers for the farmers and they will be supplied soon. He said, “Water from Harangi dam would also be let into canals from July 28 itself or soon after that date.” He said that the pending salary to watermen will be released soon. The officials are directed to take measures to provide PF and ESI to eligible employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/water-from-krs-to-canals-from-july-28-862859.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 death or not, cremation a challenge to officials||Amid fear of the spread of Covid-19, the officials of the Health department and also Mysuru City Corporation are shouldering additional responsibilities of monitoring the cremation or burial of the bodies, even if the death is not related to Covid. Already, the officials and staff of the Health department and MCC are handling the bodies of Covid-related deaths, as per the ‘Covid-19: Guidelines on Dead Body Management’, issued by Directorate General of Health Services (EMR Division), under Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. MCC Health Officer Dr D G Nagaraju said, “As people are already under the fear of Covid, a death, even if it is not related to Covid in their neighbourhood or locality, creates panic.” Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “The cremation or burial of bodies, are conducted as per the government orders for uniformity across the state. There was some ambiguity over cremation and handing over of bodies, of Covid suspects, to relatives. But, it was cleared with an order of the Additional Chief Secretary of the Health department on June 25,” he said. As per the order, bodies of suspected Covid persons should be handed over to the relatives immediately after swab collection. Such bodies should be disposed of as per the guidelines for Covid victims. However, bodies of non-Covid victims should be either buried or cremated by the families as per their customs. Dr Nagaraju said, “In case of deaths in hospitals, the cause of the death will be ascertained by the doctors. Thus, there will be clarity on disposal of the body. If it is Covid-related death, the body will be buried as per the Covid protocol. Otherwise, the body will be handed over to the relatives for cremation as per their customs.” “The problem arises when somebody dies at home. If neighbours suspect that it is due to Covid, they alert the Health department or MCC. Under such circumstances, we rush to the victim’s house or send our teams, to ascertain the cause of the death. We study the victim’s health history to make sure that it is not due to Covid. If there is suspicion, we bury it as per the Covid protocol. Otherwise, the body is left to the custody of the family members,” he said. “In containment zones, we have to be extra cautious. In such areas, we rush as soon as we hear about a death in some house. We study the health history of the victim and take action as per the guidelines,” Dr Nagaraju added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-death-or-not-cremation-a-challenge-to-officials-862862.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Assistant engineer dies of Covid-19 a day after his son succumbs||A 46-year-old assistant engineer (AE) died of Covid-19 a day after his 14-year-old son also died due to the same infection. Unfortunately, he died soon after his wife and daughters recovered and were discharged from the hospital. The AE, working with APMC in Mysuru, died late on Friday, while his son died on Thursday morning. According to the relatives of the AE, all five members of the family - the AE, his wife, two daughters and a son, tested positive for Covid. While his wife and daughters recovered and returned home on Friday at 5 pm, the AE died around 9 pm.    According to the relatives and friends, the AE was on duty and visited a field a few days back. He came in contact with a contractor, who tested positive for Covid later. According to his colleagues, the AE was technically sound and was a very active person.   The final rites were performed as per the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/assistant-engineer-dies-of-covid-19-a-day-after-his-son-succumbs-862864.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Weekend lockdown evokes good response||The weekend lockdown implemented by the district administration has evoked good response in Kodagu on Saturday. Except for hospitals, medical shops, laboratories, dialysis centres, petrol bunks and shops supplying essential commodities, all other establishments remained closed. Distribution and purchase of milk and newspapers were allowed from 6 am to 9 am. Buses, autorickshaws and taxis remained off the road. A majority of the roads wore a deserted look in the district. The medical shops and clinics remained closed in the afternoon in Suntikoppa. People who were wandering on the road were warned by the police and officials. Hotels and canteens too remained closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-weekend-lockdown-evokes-good-response-862887.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: One more fatality reported in Kodagu district||A 58-year-old man who died of cardiac arrest in a private hospital on July 14, has been tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The last rites of the man was held on the day he died. His throat swab collected on July 14 tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. With this, the total deaths in the district have risen to five. On the other hand, nine fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported in the district. With this, containment zones have been opened at Appayya Swamy Road, Haidodlooru, T John Layout, Thalathmane 2nd Cross and Bonigeri in Kanive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-one-more-fatality-reported-in-kodagu-district-862889.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Shift people staying near banks of rivers'||People staying near the banks of the rivers and water bodies should be shifted to safer locations and should also be provided rehabilitation facility by the government, demanded members of Taluk Panchayat.  “If they are not shifted to safer areas, they will face a lot of hardships during monsoon.” They were speaking at the Taluk Panchayat (TP) meeting, chaired by TP president Pushpa Rajesh, on Friday. The members said those who were living on paisari land on the banks of water bodies were facing hardships during the monsoon. “They should be provided with an alternative facility.” Member M K Changappa said, “We had appealed to the authorities to shift them to safer locations in the past. A few persons have rented the houses given to them by the government and are still living on the banks of the rivers and water bodies. Such individuals should not be provided any facilities from the government.” The members said that delay in getting the swab test results was responsible for the spread of Covid-19. After giving the sample for testing, many move freely in public places without remaining in quarantine.  Taluk health officer said owing to the increase in the swabs collected for testing, the results were delayed. Those who have given swab for testing should remain quarantined at home till the results are announced. Member Mani Uthappa urged that permission should not be given for rearing pigs in urban areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shift-people-staying-near-banks-of-rivers-862893.html
18-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus: H D Kumaraswamy demands pay parity for AYUSH doctors in Karnataka||Even as 2,000 AYUSH professionals have tendered resignation protesting against wage discrimination, JD(S) Legislature Party leader H D Kumaraswamy has demanded that the state government resolve the conflict at the earliest. In a series of tweets, the former chief minister asked the government to ensure that there was no disparity between salaries given to allopathy and AYUSH doctors. "There is already a shortage of doctors in the state. In such a time of crisis, the government has to address the issue," he said. ಕೊರೋನಾ ವ್ಯಾಪಕ‌ ಹೆಚ್ಚಳ ಹಿನ್ನೆಲೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ವಿಟಮಿನ್ ಸಿ ಔಷಧಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಆಯುಷ್ ಸಚಿವಾಲಯ ದೃಢೀಕರಿಸಿದ ರೋಗ ನಿರೋಧಕ ಶಕ್ತಿ ವರ್ಧಕ ಕಿಟ್ (Immunity Booster) ಮತ್ತು ಸ್ಯಾನಿಟೈಸರ್ ಪ್ರತಿ ಮನೆ ಮನೆಗೂ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಒದಗಿಸಲಿ.1/5 On Thursday, about 2,000 AYUSH doctors resigned en masse in protest against salary disparity. The doctors argued that they were in fore front of Covid-19 management but when it came to salaries, they were paid far less than those with MBBS degrees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-h-d-kumaraswamy-demands-pay-parity-for-ayush-doctors-in-karnataka-862751.html
18-07-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown tests couples as divorce queries rise||Marriages have come under severe strain during lockdowns, suggests data available with online legal tech companies, with firms witnessing a huge uptick in queries related to divorce, domestic abuse and other matrimonial matters. Legal tech startup LegalKart received 9,700 queries related to divorce, domestic abuse and child custody in April and May compared to 3,800 such queries between January and March. The number of these queries spiked to 5,770 in June alone. According to Arvind Singhatiya, Founder and CEO, LegalKart, 34% of queries around divorce came from Mumbai, followed by Delhi and Bengaluru at 28% and 23% respectively. Around 60-65% queries were by women across cities. Legal firm LawRato is seeing a similar rise, with matrimonial enquiries now making up 45% of the total 40,000 enquiries that the company gets in a month compared to 30% earlier. LawRato Founder and CEO Rohan Mahajan said 75% of their enquiries come from the top 10 cities. Another legal advisor MyAdvo is seeing a 40-50% month-on-month increase in family-related queries since the lockdown. Queries related to divorce, domestic abuse and harassment now contribute to 15-20% of the total monthly queries at the company as compared to 7-10% in the pre-lockdown period. While divorce has emerged as the category seeing the maximum growth, employment, money-recovery and property issues are the other popular concerns across platforms. Kushal Bhagat, CEO & Co-Founder MyAdvo, said that 65-70% of queries in India came from Tier-I cities. “In the last four months, major queries have been around family matters, employment matters like wrongful termination, recovery of money, property-related issues and movement passes during the lockdown,” said Bhagat. Employment-related enquiries are up from 10% to 15% of the total enquiries at LawRato. The number of queries concerning recovery of money jumped nearly five times to 2,179 in April and May compared to 467 cases between January and March at LegalKart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-tests-couples-as-divorce-queries-rise-862587.html
18-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 18||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 10 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.    On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 10,73,172 as of July 18 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 26,795 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 6,53,751 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-18-862611.html
18-07-2020||National||United States passenger flights to India can resume starting July 23||The government of India has agreed to allow US air carriers to resume passenger services in the US-India market starting July 23, the US Transportation Department said on Friday. The Indian government, citing the coronavirus, had banned all scheduled services, prompting the US Transportation Department in June to accuse India of engaging in "unfair and discriminatory practices" on charter air carriers serving India. The Transportation Department said it was withdrawing an order it had issued requiring Indian air carriers to apply for authorization prior to conducting charter flights, and said it had approved an Air India application for passenger charter flights between the United States and India. A group representing major US airlines and the Indian Embassy in Washington did not immediately comment on Friday. India's Ministry of Civil Aviation said on Twitter it was moving to "further expand our international civil aviation operations" and arrangements from some flights "with US, UAE, France & Germany are being put in place while similar arrangements are also being worked out with several other countries." "Under this arrangement," it added, "airlines from the concerned countries will be able to operate flights from & to India along with Indian carriers." The US Transportation Department order was set to take effect next week. The Trump administration said in June it wanted "to restore a level playing field for US airlines" under the US-India Air Transport Agreement. The Indian government had banned all scheduled services and failed to approve US carriers for charter operations, it added. The US government said in June that Air India had been operating "repatriation" charter flights between India and the United States in both directions since May 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/united-states-passenger-flights-to-india-can-resume-starting-july-23-862617.html
18-07-2020||National||Centre asks WB, Assam, Bihar, Odisha to strengthen efforts to combat Covid-19||With a surge in COVID-19 cases in Bihar, West Bengal, Assam and Odisha, the Union health ministry has asked these states to make renewed efforts to contain transmission of the virus and keep case fatality rate below one per cent. With these states imposing lockdown anew, the health ministry emphasised that the restrictions should be utilised to focus on containment, surveillance and testing in containment and buffer zones as the key strategy for early detection of cases and fatality management. In a letter to Principal Secretaries (Health) and Secretary (Health) of these states, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal asked them to ensure that at least 80 per cent of the new cases have their close contacts traced and are in quarantine within 72 hours of case confirmation.   The letter underlined that containment and buffer zones should be suitably delineated based on the mapping of cases and contacts, and a list of NCC volunteers along with other workforce is available on COVID warriors' portal which can be optimally utilised in containment and surveillance effort. "In terms of testing the state should aim to achieve a minimum of 14 tests per one lakh (140 tests per million) per day, while ensuring a positivity rate of less than 10 per cent," the letter to the states read. The Centre has also decided to depute a multi-disciplinary team to Bihar to review and coordinate with the state in managing the pandemic there, according to an office memorandum issued by the health ministry. The team, comprising Agarwal, Dr S K Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control, and Dr Neeraj Nischal, Associate Professor, Medicine at AIIMS New Delhi, will undertake the visit immediately and coordinate with state health authorities to review the existing situation and provide necessary support and guidance. According to the letter to the Principal Secretary (Health & Family Welfare), Bihar, cases in the state are rising with almost 450-500 cases being reported daily and 80 per cent of the total active cases in the state were reported in the last seven days. Districts like Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Begusarai and Munger are reporting higher number of cases while Saharsa, Gaya, Paschim Champaran, Jamui, Arwal, Saran and Khagaria are the emerging hotspots. The overall testing is very low in the state vis-a-vis national average and an increasing trend in case positivity rate on weekly basis is also a cause of concern, the letter said. In the letter to the Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), West Bengal, Agarwal said the state is reporting almost 1,600 cases daily and 93 per cent of the total active cases in state were reported in the last four days. "Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, as well as emerging hotspots in Jhargram, Purulia, Nadia, Midnapur East, Hooghly and Nadia, need immediate attention." Further, Odisha is reporting an average of more than 500 cases everyday since the past four weeks, the letter to the state's Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) said. "According to active case load, Odisha is the tenth most-affected state in the country with Ganjam reporting approximately 37 per cent of the state's active caseload," the letter said, adding, there is need to focus on emerging hotspots such as Nabarangpur, Sambalpur and Kendujhar. "The increase in weekly fatality trend with almost 29 pc of cases above 45 years, is also a cause of concern," the letter said. In the letter to the Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Assam, Agarwal said the state is reporting approximately 600 cases everyday. About 80 pc of current active case load is reported in last 14 days, with Kamrup metro reporting more than 50 per cent of state's active caseload. Nine districts including Nagaon, Goalpara, Karbi Anglong, Nalbari, Sivasagar are testing lower than India's average. High case of positivity is noted in Dima Hasao and Kamrup Metro, the letter highlighted. To keep cases fatality rate less than one per cent, weekly case fatality needs to be monitored and the state should conduct rapid audit of hospitals and create dashboards to monitor real time status of bed utilisation, the letter sent to the four states mentioned. It also asked them to ensure adequate human resources, revamping ambulance system and helplines to ensure resolution of problems of patients experiencing symptoms or undergoing home isolation.   "The Centre of Excellence for Clinical Management should undertake hospital wise/facility-wise fatality analysis and guide facilities with high CFR through regular VC on appropriate clinical management. Required support from 24x7 team set up by AIIMS Delhi for clinical management consultation may also be taken in this context," the letters said. Necessarily testing all asymptomatic high-risk contacts and mild symptomatic as per ICMR protocol should be undertaken, it said. The states have also been asked to use the forecasting tools made available by the health ministry to ascertain the number of Covid beds required and accordingly calculate the oxygen requirement. "A nodal officer to keep a track of oxygen requirements and for relevant communication with the centre is to be appointed," the letter said. "State should also focus on ensuring availability of non-Covid services such as immunisation, maternal and child health services including other emergency and critical care services," it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-wb-assam-bihar-odisha-to-strengthen-efforts-to-combat-covid-19-862643.html
18-07-2020||National||Pakistan intruder arrested along Line of Control in J&K's Rajouri||A Pakistani intruder was arrested by the Army along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, an official said on Saturday. The intruder was found moving into this side in Nowshera sector late Friday night and was immediately arrested, he said. The official said the man was being questioned. This is the second such arrest along the LoC in the past four days. On July 15, Abdul Rehman (28), a resident of Nakyal village in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), was arrested when he sneaked into this side from across the LoC in Balakote sector of Poonch district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-intruder-arrested-along-line-of-control-in-jks-rajouri-862645.html
18-07-2020||National||34,884 new cases push India's Covid-19 tally over 10.3 lakh; death toll crosses 26,000||With 34,884 people testing positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours, India's Covid-19 caseload surged to 10,38,716 while 6,53,750 patients have recovered from the disease so far, according to data by the Union Health Ministry. The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 26,273 with 671 fatalities reported in a day, the data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed. At present, there are 3,58,692 active cases in the country, while 6,53,750 people have recovered so far and one has migrated. "Around 62.94 per cent of patients have recovered so far," an official said. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. This is the third consecutive day when the number of Covid-19 cases increased by more than 30,000. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 1,34,33,742 samples have been tested for COVID-19 up to July 17 with 3,61,024 samples being tested on Friday. Of the 671 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 258 are from Maharashtra, 115 from Karnataka, 79 from Tamil Nadu, 42 from Andhra Pradesh, 38 from Uttar Pradesh, 26 each from West Bengal and Delhi, 17 from Gujarat, nine each from Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab, and eight each from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Telangana has reported seven fatalities followed by Haryana with five deaths, Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha reported four each, Assam and Puducherry have registered three each, Chhattisgarh and Goa reported two each while Kerala and Uttarakhand have registered a fatality each. Of the total 26,273 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 11,452 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,571 deaths, Tamil Nadu 2,315, Gujarat 2,106, Karnataka 1,147, Uttar Pradesh 1,084, West Bengal 1,049, Madhya Pradesh 697 and Rajasthan 546. So far 534 people have died of COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh, 403 in Telangana, 327 in Haryana, 239 in Punjab, 231 in Jammu and Kashmir, 201 in Bihar, 83 in Odisha, 51 in Uttarakhand and Assam each, 46 in Jharkhand and 38 in Kerala. Puducherry has registered 25 deaths, Chhattisgarh 23, Goa 21, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh 11 each, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura three each, Meghalaya and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two each while Ladakh has reported one fatality. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 2,92,589 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,60,907, Delhi at 1,20,107, Karnataka at 55,115, Gujarat at 46,430, Uttar Pradesh at 45,163 and Telangana at 42,496. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 40,646 in Andhra Pradesh, 38,011 in West Bengal, 27,789 in Rajasthan, 24,797 in Haryana, 23,589 in Bihar and 21,081 in Madhya Pradesh. Assam has instances of 20,646 infections, Odisha 16,110 and Jammu and Kashmir 12,757 cases. Kerala has reported 11,066 novel coronavirus infections so far, while Punjab has 9,442 cases. A total of 4,964 have been infected by the virus in Chhattisgarh, 4,921 in Jharkhand, 4,102 in Uttarakhand, 3,304 in Goa, 2,366 in Tripura, 1,832 in Puducherry, 1,800 in Manipur, 1,417 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,151 in Ladakh. Nagaland has recorded 956 Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh 660, Arunachal Pradesh 609 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 585 cases. Meghalaya has reported 403 cases, Mizoram 282, Sikkim has registered 266 infections so far, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has recorded 194 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding that 163 cases are being reassigned to states. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/34884-new-cases-push-indias-covid-19-tally-over-103-lakh-death-toll-crosses-26000-862648.html
18-07-2020||National||Rajnath Singh offers prayers at Amarnath cave shrine||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday visited the holy cave of Amarnath and offered prayers. Singh spent about an hour at the temple complex there. The Amarnath cave is considered to be one of the holiest shrines in Hinduism and hundreds of thousands of devotees make an annual pilgrimage to it across challenging mountainous terrain. His trip to the holy cave comes on the second day of his visit to Jammu and Kashmir. On Friday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the overall security scenario in Jammu and Kashmir with the top military brass, officials said. He asked the armed forces to give a fitting reply to any "misadventure" by Pakistan. At a high-level meeting, the defence minister had also asked the armed forces to maintain a strict vigil along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-offers-prayers-at-amarnath-cave-shrine-862657.html
18-07-2020||National||Fact Check: Did WHO claim that asymptomatic patients do not spread Covid-19?||A video of Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, technical lead COVID-19, WHO Health Emergencies Programme, is also making the rounds on YouTube. From the channel ‘JayyU.S TV’, it has gained nearly 50,000 views.  Alt News has also received verification requests on its official mobile application.  The viral clip is part of a press briefing held by WHO on June 9. The transcript of the complete briefing can be accessed here.  At 34 minutes Dr Kerkhove says, “We have a number of reports from countries who are doing very detailed contact tracing. They’re following asymptomatic cases, they’re following contacts and they’re not finding secondary transmission onward. It’s very rare and much of that is not published in the literature. We are constantly looking at this data and we’re trying to get more information from countries to truly answer this question. It still appears to be rare that an asymptomatic individual actually transmits onward.” WHO did not say that asymptomatic patients cannot spread coronavirus but that the transmission is “very rare”. This comment was not well-received by the scientific community. Liam Smeeth, a professor of clinical epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, was quoted by Reuters as saying, “It goes against my impressions from the science so far that suggest asymptomatic people – who never get symptoms – and pre-symptomatic people are an important source of infection to others.” He added that he had not seen the data Kerkhove’s statement was based on.  The next day, WHO clarified on its statement and said that more research is needed to establish the extent of asymptomatic transmission. It further said, “To some, it came across as if the WHO was suggesting that people without symptoms weren’t driving spread. Some studies, however, have estimated that people without symptoms (whether truly asymptomatic or presymptomatic) could be responsible for up to half of the spread, which is why the virus has been so difficult to contain. Isolating people who are sick, for example, does not prevent the possibility they already passed the virus on to others. Some modeling studies have assumed quite widespread asymptomatic transmission.” Viral social media claims also suggest that asymptomatic patients needn’t be quarantined however WHO never made such a statement. It in fact said, “People not showing symptoms can spread the virus, whether they ultimately feel sick or not. That’s why wearing masks and keeping distance are so important to limiting transmission.” In a tweet posted yesterday (July 16), WHO wrote that one of the reasons Spain was able to manage COVID-19 transmission is isolation. Therefore, the World Health Organisation is in favour of self-isolation and the claim that asymptomatic patients cannot spread the disease is false.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-did-who-claim-that-asymptomatic-patients-do-not-spread-covid-19-862681.html
18-07-2020||National||Apprised PM Narendra Modi of Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis has said that he has apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra. He told this to reporters in Delhi on Friday night after a meeting with Modi. Fadnavis said that the PM asked about the situation in Mumbai, Pune and other parts of the state. "As a leader of opposition, it is my job to apprise the government of the loopholes in the system and the improvements required to be made. I have been demanding that testing in Mumbai should be increased," he said. Fadnavis has been visiting parts of Maharashtra to monitor the coronavirus situation and the health care facilities. The former state chief minister on Friday also met Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He had later said that no political talks were held during the meeting with Shah, as it was meant to discuss financial assistance to the sugar industry in the state. Fadnavis said he also met Union Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. "I am confident that the Centre will announce a good package for the sugar industry and farmers in the state," he said. Fadnavis is scheduled to meet BJP chief J P Nadda later during the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apprised-pm-narendra-modi-of-covid-19-situation-in-maharashtra-fadnavis-862683.html
18-07-2020||National||Last date for 'AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge' extended to July 26||In view of strong response coming in, the government has extended the last date for submission of entries for the 'AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge' to July 26, 2020. According to an official release, 2,353 entries have so far been received across the eight categories identified. IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has also tweeted, "Keeping in view the enthusiastic participation from app developers and innovators the last date for submitting your entries for #AatmaNirbharBharat App Innovation Challenge has been extended to 26th July, 2020". The challenge is hosted on the Innovate Portal of MyGov. It may be recalled that the deadline for submission of entries was previously July 18, which has now been extended. "AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 4 has seen a very enthusiastic response from tech entrepreneurs and startups from across the country. So far, 2,353 entries have been received across the eight categories identified," an official statement added. These include 1,496 entries from individuals and about 857 from organisations and companies. Among those received from individuals, around 788 applications are ready to use and the remaining 708 are under development. The category-wise breakup of the apps submitted includes 380 under business, 286 health and wellness, 339 e-learning, 414 social networking, 136 games, 238 office and work from home, 75 news and 96 under the entertainment category. Around 389 apps have been submitted under the 'others' category. Around 100 of these apps have more than 100,000 downloads, the official statement added. The statement further said that the AatmaNirbhar Bharat App ecosystem has the potential to unlock value for the Indian tech startups and help them get a pie of the multi trillion-dollar app economy. "Just the top three companies with maximum downloads of apps this year have a total market cap of almost USD 2 trillion and are growing very fast," it said. The applicants for the challenge are from all over the country including remote and small towns. This shows the talent that exists in our country and this App Innovation Challenge is the right opportunity for Indian tech developers, entrepreneurs and companies to build for India at a scale, that is unparalleled anywhere in the world, the statement said. The true challenge will be to identify the apps that are robust, scalable, secure with an easy to use interface and give users an experience that will make them come back to the app, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/last-date-for-aatmanirbhar-bharat-app-innovation-challenge-extended-to-july-26-862693.html
18-07-2020||National||Bachchan family responding well to Covid-19 treatment: Hospital sources||Megastar Amitabh Bachchan, son Abhishek Bachchan, daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and granddaughter Aaradhya Bachchan are responding well to the treatment to Covid-19, hospital sources said on Saturday. Amitabh, 77, and Abhishek, 44, are in the isolation ward of Nanavati hospital since July 11 after they were diagnosed with Covid-19, while Aishwarya, 46 and eight-year-old Aaradhya were shifted to the facility on Friday night, almost a week after they tested positive for the virus. The mother-daughter duo were self-quarantining at home till Thursday. “They all (referring to Amitabh Bachchan, Abhishek, Aishwarya and Aaradhya) are ok. They are responding well to the treatment. They are in the isolation ward. Amitabh Bachchan and Abhishek Bachchan will be in the hospital maybe for a day or two,” a hospital source told PTI. “Aishwarya had cough. She is ok now. Aishwarya and Aaradhya will have to be in the hospital for a couple of days," the insider added. Since his diagnosis, Amitabh has been regularly updating his admires about his health on social media. “In happy times, in times of illness, you our near and dear, our well wishers, our fans have ever given us unstinting love , affection care and prayer .. we express our bountiful gracious gratitude to you all .. in these circumstances hospital protocol, restrictive,” the screen icon tweeted on Friday evening. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC),coronavirus cases on in Mumbai rose to 98,979 with 1,228 new patients being reported on Friday. Death toll due to the pandemic rose to 5,582 with 62 new fatalities being recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bachchan-family-responding-well-to-covid-19-treatment-hospital-sources-862704.html
18-07-2020||National||Venkaiah Naidu asks people to promote Indian tradition of living, working together||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday appealed to people to preserve and promote the Indian tradition of living and working together and asked them to follow the philosophy of 'sharing and caring'. Addressing an online event to mark the birth centenary celebrations of the 25th ruler of the erstwhile Mysore kingdom Jaya Chamaraja Wadiyar, Naidu called for celebrating the knowledge, wisdom, patriotism and vision of all great rulers and statesmen who shaped the history. Describing Jaya Chamaraja Wadiyar as an able administrator, the vice president said he built a strong, self-reliant and progressive state in pre-Independence India. Naidu said Jaya Chamaraja Wadiyar was a democrat at heart and a people's ruler who always wanted to remain in touch with them and ensure their wellbeing. Crediting him with leading India's transition to be a strong democracy and contributing to the unity and integrity of the nation, the vice president called him a perfect blend of ancient values and modernity. "The greatest tribute which we can pay to stalwarts like Sri Jaya Chamaraja is to preserve and promote this grand cultural tradition of India of living together and working together, for the country, the world and the entire humanity," he said concluding his address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/venkaiah-naidu-asks-people-to-promote-indian-tradition-of-living-working-together-862712.html
18-07-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh offers prayers at Amarnath shrine||Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who is on a two-day visit to Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir, visited the holy cave of Amarnath to pay obeisance and perform Puja. Reports said, Singh, who was accompanied by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and Army chief General MM Naravane, spent about an hour at the cave shrine. “Feeling extremely blessed after praying at Shri Amarnathji Holy Cave in Jammu and Kashmir,” he tweeted.  Feeling extremely blessed after praying at Shri Amarnathji Holy Cave in Jammu and Kashmir.   The Defence Minister’s visit to Amarnath shrine comes at a time when the Army on Friday said it has ‘credible inputs’ that suggest militants plan to target ensuing Yatra on a stretch of Srinagar-Jammu national highway. On Friday, Singh visited Leh where he reviewed security in the aftermath of standoffs with China along the Line of Actual Control, including the killing of 20 Indian soldiers by the PLA in the Galwan Valley on June 15. After his visit, he signalled that China might not agree to fully resolve the crisis in Ladakh and, in that event, India would not hesitate to use force. After Ladakh visit, he arrived in Srinagar on Friday afternoon, where he reviewed the overall security situation in Jammu and Kashmir at a high-level meeting. Officials said the senior security officials apprised the Defence Minister about the situation along the Line of Control with Pakistan as well as on anti-militancy operations. There have been increasing incidents of unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC in the past few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-offers-prayers-at-amarnath-shrine-862714.html
18-07-2020||National||Govt issues notice to Twitter after recent hack targeting global high-profile users||After global hack, targetting high-profile users of Twitter, India’s cybersecurity nodal agency CERT-In has issued a notice to the micro-blogging platform, asking complete information on number of Indian users affected as well as impact on data. Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) action came in the backdrop of hackers gaining access to Twitter’s systems to hack accounts of many global corporate leaders, politicians, celebrities and businesses. The CERT-In has also asked Twitter to provide information about the number of users from India who have visited the malicious tweets and links, and whether the affected users have been informed by the platform about unauthorised access to their Twitter accounts. The government has also sought information on the modus operandi of the attack and asked for details of remedial actions taken by Twitter to mitigate the impact of the hacking incident. Large number of Twitter users' accounts were hacked by cyber attackers on Wednesday, including former US President Barack Obama, Democratic presidential front-runner Joe Biden as well as many corporate leaders like Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and Tesla CEO Elon Musk —  in a purported Bitcoin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-issues-notice-to-twitter-after-recent-hack-targeting-global-high-profile-users-862715.html
18-07-2020||National||Mayawati, Akhilesh demand action after woman, daughter try self-immolation outside UP CM office||BSP and SP attacked the UP government on Saturday after a woman and her daughter set themselves on fire outside the CM office alleging police inaction in a land dispute case in Amethi, saying it should take the incident seriously and act against the officers responsible for it. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati said the mother and her daughter were "compelled to set themselves afire" as they did not get justice from the Amethi administration. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the incident should "wake up" and "insensitive government". "UP government should take this incident seriously, and deliver justice to the aggrieved. Action should also be initiated against the officers who showed laxity in this regard, so that such incidents do not happen in future," Mayawati in a tweet in Hindi. "Is the attempt made by two women to set themselves afire not enough to wake up a sleeping government or is it that an insensitive government and chief minister are waiting for any other major incident? Is there something known as a government in Uttar Pradesh?" SP president Akhilesh Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. A woman and her daughter set themselves on fire in front of the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister's Office on Friday allegedly over police inaction in a land dispute case in Amethi. Police said they are probing the matter. The women suffered burn injuries and were admitted to the civil hospital; they are said to be critical, police said. The incident took place at 5.40 pm in Lucknow's high-security zone, where the assembly and the Lok Bhawan - the office of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath - is located. The police personnel posted there rescued the women, they said. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-akhilesh-demand-action-after-woman-daughter-try-self-immolation-outside-up-cm-office-862721.html
18-07-2020||National||43% children with disabilities planning to drop out due to difficulties faced in e-education: Survey||About 43 per cent of children with disabilities are planning to drop out of studies due to difficulties faced by them in online education, according to a survey conducted with 3,627 respondents. The survey was conducted by Swabhiman, a community-based organization working for the rights of persons with disability, in Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Chennai, Sikkim, Nagaland, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir in the month of May. A total of 3,627 people, including students, parents and teachers, participated in the survey. According to the survey, 56.5 per cent of children with disabilities were struggling yet attending classes irregularly, while 77 per cent of students said they would not be able to cope and would fall behind in learning due to their inability to access distance learning methods. The survey found that 56.48 per cent students are continuing their study, while the rest 43.52 per cent are planning to drop out. Thirty-nine per cent visually impaired students were unable to understand lessons with many students talking simultaneously, it said. About 44 per cent children with disabilities complained that no sign language interpreters were present in the webinars, the survey said. The parents of 86 per cent children with disabilities (CwD) said they did not know how to use technology and around 81 per cent of teachers said they did not have accessible educational material with them. "The teachers also reported that 64 per cent of students (CwD) did not have smartphones or computers at home. As many as 67 per cent of students (CwD) said they needed tabs or computers or comparable devices for online education," the survey said. Seventy-four per cent of children with disabilities said they needed data/Wi-fi support for educational purposes while 61 per cent expressed a need for scribes, escorts, readers and attendants, it said. A report based on the survey made detailed recommendations to policy changes and revisions required "in the new normal" in times of the COVID-19 pandemic. "Creating curricula which are suitable for different forms of disability is a non-negotiable and the starting point for any education for the children with disability," the report said. "Policy changes are required to ensure that children are supported by suitable curricula in alternate formats suitable for them, and have the hardware and data to make online learning feasible. At the same time, an investment in special educators and parents to adapt to the changed environment is necessary so that they can support children with disabilities better," it said. The report also recommended that education budgets should be suitably amended. "At the same time, there is a need to explore alternative mediums such as community radio and television for education. Since children with disabilities relied on mid-day meals for their nutritional well-being, it is important that they continue to get this support," it said. Swabhiman founder and chief executive Sruti Mohapatra said all children with disabilities cannot be clubbed as one group as they are persons with different disabilities and therefore different needs. "The current pandemic has the potential of leaving students with disabilities behind. If adequate measures are not taken urgently, they are likely to suffer irrecoverable losses in their quest for education and a life of dignity," she said. "Alternate course material must cater to different disabilities. Our recommendations include empowering students, teachers and parents so that they can play their roles more effectively," Mohapatra added. The lockdown induced by Covid-19 in March prompted schools and colleges to move to the virtual world for teaching and learning activities. But weak internet penetration has turned e-education into a distant dream for many children. As per official statistics, there are over 35 crore students in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/43-children-with-disabilities-planning-to-drop-out-due-to-difficulties-faced-in-e-education-survey-862727.html
18-07-2020||National||85-year-old cancer patient, wife defeat Covid-19 in Odisha||An 85-year-old cancer patient and his septuagenarian wife have recovered from Covid-19 in Odisha's Kendrapara district, officials said on Saturday. Surendra Pati, who is suffering from throat cancer, and his 78-year-old wife Sabitri has been cured of Covid-19 and both have been discharged from a medical facility, Kendrapara district Collector Samarth Verma said. "...they inspire many to beat the disease. Our best wishes to them," the collector tweeted. The man was admitted to the Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre in Cuttack on June 8 for chemotherapy, while his spouse was attending to him at the hospital. On June 29, both of them had tested positive for Covid-19, Kendrapara Additional District Medical Officer (ADMO) M H Beig said. The couple was admitted to a designated Covid-19 hospital in Cuttack. After undergoing treatment for 10 days, they were discharged when they tested negative for the infection, he said. Thereafter, the couple was housed in a Covid-19 care centre in Bagada gram panchayat area in Kendrapara block as a precautionary measure, Beig said, adding they were discharged from the facility on Friday. "The couple, particularly Surendra Pati, fought the battle against coronavirus with grit and determination despite his advancing age. Cancer patients have low immunity levels," he said. The couple has sent a message loud and clear that Covid-19 can be vanquished, the ADMO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/85-year-old-cancer-patient-wife-defeat-covid-19-in-odisha-862734.html
18-07-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries exceed active cases by 2.95 lakh, says health ministry||India's actual Covid-19 caseload is 3,58,692, while close to 18,000 people have recuperated from the disease in 24 hours taking the number of recoveries to 6,53,750 which exceed active cases by 2,95,058, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Medical attention is being provided to all active cases, either in-home isolation or in hospitals for severe cases, it said. In a statement, the ministry said, "The last 24 hours saw 17,994 Covid-19 patients recovering. The recovery rate is now 63 percent." Timely, proactive, and graded strategy initiatives for effective coronavirus infection management in the country, led by the Centre and implemented by the states and Union Territories, have ensured that the actual Covid-19 caseload remains manageable, it said, adding that expansion of hospital infrastructure continuously has aided in increased recoveries. Cumulatively, 1,34,33,742 swab samples have been tested till now, of which 3,61,024 were carried out on Friday raising the number of tests per million to 9734.6, the ministry said. The Centre continues to support and supplement the efforts of the state governments by sending teams of experts to areas witnessing increase in caseload, it said. With a surge in daily fresh Covid-19 cases in Bihar, West Bengal, Assam and Odisha, the Union health ministry has asked these states to make renewed efforts to suppress the transmission as well as to keep case fatality rate below one per cent. With these states imposing lockdowns anew, the health ministry emphasised that the curbs should be utilised to focus on containment, surveillance and testing in the containment and buffer zones for early detection of cases and fatality management. A central team has been deployed in Bihar to assist the state in the assessment of Covid-19 management and to provide all necessary support. The team comprising Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal, Dr S K Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control and Dr Neeraj Nischal, Associate Professor of medicine at AIIMS, New Delhi, will reach Bihar tomorrow. "The focus of the containment strategy remains on house-to-house survey, perimeter control activities, timely contact tracing, surveillance of containment and buffer zones, aided by effective clinical management of severe cases through a standard of care approach," the ministry said. The latest testing strategy of the Indian Council of Medical Research allows all registered medical practitioners to recommend testing. RT-PCR tests and rapid-antigen point of care tests, boosted by TruNat and CBNAAT have contributed to a surge in the number of samples tested, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-exceed-active-cases-by-295-lakh-says-health-ministry-862736.html
18-07-2020||National||Heavy monsoon rains speed up crop planting in India||Indian farmers have planted 69.2 million hectares with summer crops, up 21.2 percent from this time a year earlier, according to the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers' Welfare, boosted by bountiful monsoon rains that spurred sowing in most parts of the country. Farmers typically start planting their summer-sown crops June 1, when monsoon rains usually reach India. Planting usually continues until the end of July or early August. Planting of rice, the key summer crop, was at 16.8 million hectares as of July 17 versus 14.2 million hectares in the previous year, the ministry said. The area planted with cotton was at 11.3 million hectares versus 9.6 million hectares the prior year. Planting of overall oilseeds, including soybean - the main summer oilseed crop - was at 15.5 million hectares, up from 11 million hectares from the previous year. Soybean sowing in India, the world's biggest buyer of cooking oils, looks likely to jump by at least 15 percent in 2020. Sugarcane sowing in the world's biggest sugar producer reached 5.1 million hectares compared with 5 million hectares last year. The figures are provisional and subject to revision as updates arrive with the progress of the June-September monsoon season. The world's leading producer of most farm goods has received 10 percent above average rainfall since June 1. India's state-run weather office defines average, or normal, rainfall as between 96 percent and 104 percent of a 50-year average of 88 cm for the entire four-month season. Water levels in India's main reservoirs are substantially higher thanks to higher-than-average rains so far in the season, according to the latest government data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-monsoon-rains-speed-up-crop-planting-in-india-862737.html
18-07-2020||National||India-China conflict: A timeline of key events||The ongoing India-China conflict in Ladakh has tested India’s ability to de-escalate a tense situation while still holding its ground in matters of the international border.  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on July 17 visited areas of Eastern Ladakh and Leh and spoke to soldiers in Lukung, which is on the western bank of Pangong Tso lake. Addressing the troops, he said that even though discussions between India and China are on to address the ongoing crisis, there is no clarity on when the talks would produce an agreement or what that agreement would entail.  What happened in June? Local media reports suggested that the Indian soldiers were “beaten to death”, said BBC. The article also noted that though there have been occasional scuffles, shots have not been fired from either side in the last 40 years.  Over the past month, senior Army Officials of both the countries have engaged in a series of talks to disengage peacefully in the Galwan Valley. The Indian Army, on Thursday, released a statement saying that the “disengagement process is intricate and requires constant verification”, therefore, the process may take many more rounds of discussion.  In the first part of disengagement that took place on June 6, both the armies pulled back their troops from Galwan, Hot Springs and Gogra post.  The second part of the disengagement followed with the withdrawal of armies from Finger 4, though few Chinese soldiers were stationed on the ridgelines to keep track of Indian troops. Therefore, mistrust colours all negotiations and disengagement talks.  The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) blocked the Indian patrols at Finger 4 after the May 5-6 stand-off. Later, the Chinese army also blocked patrolling points 10, 11, 12 and 13 at Desang. What prompted the aggression? The crux of the conflict between the two major Asian countries lies in unresolved border issues.  “During the 1962 war too, DBO, Galwan, and the Pangong Tso-Chushul areas were scenes of major action. By the time the Chinese declared a unilateral ceasefire, the PLA had almost secured the areas up to the 1960 claim line. At the end of the war, the two sides as per mutual understanding withdrew 20 km from the positions last held by the opposing forces,” he added.  Currently, there are about 90,000 personnel in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, a mountain-warfare trained force, which is tasked to guard the 3,488-km-long LAC with China. It was raised in 1962 in the aftermath of the Chinese aggression and has decided to move at least 60 fresh companies to various locations along the LAC in the wake of the current situation in Ladakh. How did India react? Apart from the de-escalation process that is conducted by the Indian Army officials, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has assured people that no part of Indian soil will be compromised, “I can assure you that India is not a weak country. No power in the world can touch even an inch of India’s land.” He also dismissed claims by critics that China’s aggressive action forced a change in the perception of the Line of Actual Control.  Amidst clamours to reduce economic relations with China, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, on July 12 attacked the government and asked in a tweet, “What has happened that under Modi ji rule, China took away Mother India's sacred land?” He also accused Modi of “surrendering” India’s land to China and “misleading” the media on the disengagement talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-conflict-a-timeline-of-key-events-862742.html
18-07-2020||National||IIT-B scientist predicts Covid-19 toll may peak in hotspots in 2.5 months but others disagree||A disease prediction model proposed by a Nobel laureate and tailored for India by an IIT Bombay professor suggests that the peak of Covid-19 death count in Indian hotspot states would be over in another 2-2.5 months barring Karnataka where the toll has begun to rise. Several Indian researchers tracking the pandemic using their own models, however, didn't give credence to such a prediction citing technical flaws associated with the model. Proposed by 2013 Nobel laureate Michael Levitt, the scheme relies on a simple mathematical formula, which has been applied to India by Bhaskaran Raman, a computer science professor at Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. Going by the prediction, Mumbai will witness the peak in Covid-19 deaths in another two weeks whereas for Delhi, it is still two and half months away. For Chennai city, the peak would come after a month. Looking at the states, the same model suggests a peak in the death toll in Tamil Nadu in six months whereas for Maharashtra, it would come after two more months. Gujarat has already achieved it but the pandemic pain for Karnataka has just begun. For Kerala, the data is too small to make any meaningful prediction. “The model is childishly simple and hence blindingly brilliant. It has been known since March-April when Michael Levitt proposed this metric based on his analysis of Hubei data, and later for other countries’ data,” Raman said in a presentation. The model can be used to predict both Covid-19 deaths and cases. Several researchers disagree with the formula. "This method does not take the disease dynamics and biological characteristics of the outbreak into account and linearly extrapolates the growth rate observed over a finite period, which is bound to deviate later on," Tanmay Mitra, a scientist at Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Germany told DH. "In case of India, this method is bound to fail as we still have a time-dependent reproduction number (Rt) with a value substantially more than 1 (about 1.4 for India as a country around the second week of July) and we are still continuing on a rising phase of the pandemic." "The problem in Levitt's method is that it linearly extrapolates the growth rate observed over a finite period for future times, with no physical/epidemiological basis. We need much better evidence for reliability of this simple extrapolation," noted Ramachandran Shankar, a retired professor at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai who provided some of the data for the study. Mitra, however, conceded that the metric might be useful to anticipate the peak of the reported daily deaths, owing to the fact that the growth curve of reported deaths were less exponential than that of an infection curve. “The analysis is not based on any epidemiological model but on a curve fitting of the available data. So it would "explain" the past data well. In predicting when the pandemic will end, the team makes the assumption that the future behavior of disease spread will be determined by its past behaviour. This may or may not be the case,” observed Dibyendu Nandi, a professor at Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Kolkata. “This may match the future behavior of some states but fail to do so for others. It will depend on whether or not the epidemic dynamics, specifically containment measures, remain the same or change from the fitted behaviour,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-b-scientist-predicts-covid-19-toll-may-peak-in-hotspots-in-25-months-but-others-disagree-862744.html
18-07-2020||National||IIT Kharagpur develops weather forecast system to help farmers||Researchers at IIT Kharagpur have developed an advanced weather forecast system to help farmers in agricultural activities and reduce climatic risks, an official said on Saturday. The institute in collaboration with the India Meteorological Department started offering an agro-advisory to cultivators to improve their production in different weather conditions, the IIT-KGP spokesperson said. Sponsored by the Ministry of Earth Sciences, two projects - 'Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa' and 'Forecasting Agricultural output using Space, Agrometeorology and Land- based observations' - provide weather information to farmers to improve their economic return, the official said. "The agro-advisory offers crop selection, planting time, land preparation, input management and yield. It is based on future weather and land characteristics of a specific location," agricultural and food engineering department's professor Dilip Kumar Swain said. Farmers get awareness on managing inputs such as fertiliser, irrigation and pesticide every week throughout the cropping season. "Based on a five-day weather forecast, the agro- advisory is prepared on Tuesday and Friday every week and sent to farmers' cell phones, he said. The advisory is being sent in Bengali to about three lakh farmers of West Medinipur, Jhargram, Bankura, Birbhum, and Purulia in West Bengal. Using the advisory, they can protect their crop from extreme weather events and reduce production cost by need- based irrigation, fertiliser and pesticide applications, the professor said. IIT Kharagpur director professor Virendra Kumar Tewari said, "Besides sending the agro-advisory, we also conduct training and awareness programmes regularly in villages on organic and integrated farming and advanced production technology for sustainable agricultural growth."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-kharagpur-develops-weather-forecast-system-to-help-farmers-862762.html
18-07-2020||National||Indian Railways yet to decide on operating more trains||With number of Covid-19 cases rising in the country, the Indian Railways has said that it will have to wait some more time to operate more passengers trains. The railways officials are in touch with state governments. If the states asked for more trains, we are ready to operate, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told media in virtual press conference. At present 230 special passenger trains are being operated by railways, in which, overall occupancy rate is 75.48 per cent. Around 68 trains have 100 per cent occupancy while 37 trains have 30 per cent occupancy. "There are vacant berths available in most of the trains. As of now, these trains are serving the requirement of people. We are closely monitor the situation," he said. He also said railways has not yet worked on its passenger train time-table for the year because of the pandemic. To attract more freight, railways is discussing a number of issues with its customers including freight rationalisation measures, extending discounts for certain routes, and improving the capacity of its good sheds to increase loading and unloading. The railways operated 4615 Shramik special trains since May 1 to ferry migrant workers and stranded people to their home state. All the demand from the states are met. If required more Shramik special trains ready to operate, he said. The railways deployed 813 Covid-19 coaches with capacity of 12,712 beds on request of various state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-yet-to-decide-on-operating-more-trains-862776.html
18-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: B H Anil Kumar out of BBMP||In today’s episode, Vasundhara Raje says that it is unfortunate that the people of Rajasthan are paying for the discord within the Congress, B H Anil Kumar out of the BBMP and Scientists have claimed that there are six distinct 'types' of Covid-19  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-b-h-anil-kumar-out-of-bbmp-862777.html
18-07-2020||National||2 held for killing man in J&K's Kathua, search on for third accused||Two people were arrested while the search is on for the third accused as police on Saturday claimed to have solved the recent murder of a 30-year-old man in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir. Deepak Kumar, a resident of Badala village, was allegedly murdered by some people at Chack Drab Khan village last week. Taking cognizance of the incident, police registered a case and stated investigations which led to the arrest of Wali Mohammad alias Billi (65) and Mohammad Din alias Munna (25), both residents of Chack Drab Khan, a police spokesperson said. While Wali Mohammad was arrested from Sahar Khad area on July 14, Mohammad Din was apprehended from Jarai area on Saturday morning. The search is on to nab the duo's accomplice identified as Bhagga, who is absconding, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-held-for-killing-man-in-jks-kathua-search-on-for-third-accused-862786.html
18-07-2020||National||Vasundhara Raje hits out at Congress; BJP wants CBI probe in phone tapping||Breaking her silence, former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje on Saturday hit out at the Congress leaders for accusing the BJP for the alleged attempts to topple Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s government. Raje, who is considered as the tallest BJP leader in the state, said it was unfortunate that the people of Rajasthan were paying for the “internal discord” within the Congress at a time when Covid-19 had claimed more than 500 lives and positive cases had crossed 28,000, the state facing locust attacks and crime against women is at an all time high. “There is no point trying to drag the BJP and the BJP leaders’ names through the mud. It is the interest of the people that must remain paramount. Think of the people,” the former chief minister said. BJP on Saturday demanded a CBI probe in all the aspects of the alleged phone tapping in Rajasthan and claimed that the political crisis in the state is a mix of “conspiracy, lies and illegalities” of the Congress government. The blame game between the Congress and the BJP continued over the investigation launched by the Rajasthan Police into the audio clips with the leader of the Opposition in the Rajasthan assembly, Gulabchand Kataria demanding to know whether the Gehlot government was tapping phones of opposition leaders. Congress hit back at the BJP accusing the Haryana government of engineering the escape of its rebel MLAs from the resort in Manesar when the team of Rajasthan Police reached there on Friday to question Pilot loyalists Sharma and Vishvendra Singh. “We have been told now that attempts are being made to take them (rebel Congress MLAs) to another BJP ruled state Karnataka,” Congress spokesman Pawan Khera told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vasundhara-raje-hits-out-at-congress-bjp-wants-cbi-probe-in-phone-tapping-862790.html
18-07-2020||National||BJP leaders’ speeches against anti-CAA protesters find mention in Delhi riots report||Two "communal" speeches by Karnataka MLA G Somasekhara Reddy and Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya against anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (anti-CAA) protesters find a mention in the report of the Delhi Minorities Commission-appointed fact-finding team on riots in the national capital in February. The remarks of Reddy and Surya find mention in a section where the fact-finding team elaborates on the sequence of events immediately preceding the riots in which the panel said that several developments – a “combination” of nationwide developments as well as Delhi specific events – "must be reiterated to situate the build-up to a sharply divisive atmosphere" in the capital. Reddy, who is the brother of mining baron G Janardhana Reddy, and Surya are known for aggressive, high-pitched speeches and had faced trouble earlier too. In the section ' Delhi Legislative Assembly Elections 2020: Incendiary campaign speeches and the fanning of communal sentiments in Delhi', the report said that the riots were "clearly preceded by a number of speeches by BJP leaders openly maligning anti-CAA protestors and questioning their motives with no basis, making derogatory remarks laden with communal undertones and open threats and to cast the Shaheen Bagh protests, particularly, in a negative light to build an 'anti-Shaheen Bagh' narrative". It went on to say that Home Minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Union Animal Husbandry Minister Giriraj Singh among others made "provocative, threatening speeches against the protestors". The report referred to Reddy's January 3 speech in Bellary where he "cautioned" Muslims against participating in anti-CAA protests and warned of serious repercussions in "blatantly divisive and dangerous terms". "It’s just a caution for those who are protesting against the CAA. We are 80% per cent and you (Muslims) are 18%. Imagine what will happen if we take charge…Beware of the majority when you live in this country. This is our country. If you want to live here, you will have to, like the Australian Prime Minister said, follow the country’s traditions…So, I warn you that CAA and NRC are made by Modi and Amit Shah. If you will go against these acts, it won’t be good…If you wish, you can go to Pakistan. We don’t have any issues. Intentionally, we would not send you… If you will act as enemies, we should also react like enemies," it quoted Reddy as saying. The report also quoted Surya's February 5 speech in Lok Sabha during which he said, "what is happening today in Shaheen Bagh in Delhi is a stark reminder that if the majority of this country is not vigilant, if the patriotic Indians do not stand up to this, the days of Mughal Raj coming back and revisiting Delhi is not very far away. Sir, what is happening in Shaheen Bagh is fanatic Islamism, masquerading in the garb of constitutional secularism. Sir, and therefore, we must exercise vigilance to ensure that this country is on the path to true secularism.”  It also mentioned the campaign speeches of Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, BJP's West Delhi MP Parvesh Verma and former BJP MLA Kapil Mishra, who faced wrath of the Election Commission. Referring to Mishra's speech on February 23 in which he openly called for forcefully removing the anti-CAA protesters at Jafrabad, the report said violence started immediately after that but the police failed to take the "first and foremost immediate preventive step" needed to avoid violence by arresting him. It noted that the Delhi High Court had on February 26 asked Delhi Police to take a “conscious decision” to register an FIR in 24 hours against Mishra, Thakur and Verma with Justice Muralidhar questioning the delay and lack of acknowledgement of the speeches themselves as crimes. Appearing for Delhi Police, the report said, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta repeatedly asserted that FIRs will only be “registered at an appropriate stage”. However, the matter reverted to a different bench for the hearing on February 27 and the court gave the Centre four weeks time to file a counter-affidavit in response, it said adding, “to date, no FIR has been registered against the BJP leaders.” "While the Election Commission initiated some steps to acknowledge and penalise the harmful content of the speeches pointed to, the initial decisive actions of the Delhi High Court did not materialise into the initiation of prosecution against the BJP leaders for inciting violence through their speeches. In the preface to the report, Delhi Minorities Commission Chairperson Dr Zafarul-Islam Khan and members Kartar Singh Kochhar and Anastasia Gill said the violence "continued unabated for the next few days and was seemingly planned and directed to teach a lesson to a certain community which dared to protest against a discriminatory law." "Seemingly, to crush the (anti-CAA) protests, with support of the administration and police, a retaliatory plan of pro-CAA protesters was worked out to trigger violence at a large scale which led to loss of lives and damage to hundreds of properties owned mainly by the Muslim religious minority," fact-finding team Chairman M R Shamshad, a Supreme Court lawyer, said in the 'Foreword' to the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-speeches-against-anti-caa-protesters-find-mention-in-delhi-riots-report-862792.html
18-07-2020||National||SC closes matter related to Karnataka Housing Minister, wife in land denotification case||The Supreme Court has closed a matter against Karnataka Housing Minister V Somanna and his wife Shylaja, on a plea by Lokayukta police challenging the High Court's 2017 order that had quashed proceedings initiated against them in a land denotification case.  The case also involved Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa as denotification of 22 guntas land in Bengaluru's Nagadevanahalli in 2009 was undertaken during his previous tenure. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah disposed of the special leave petition as it has become "infructuous". The court was informed by senior advocate Yatindra Singh and advocate Sanjay M Nuli, appearing for Somanna and wife that the trial court has accepted a closure report in the matter, subsequent to the High Court's order of January 2, 2017. The Lokayukta police, represented by advocate Shubhranshu Padhi proposed to assail the order by the trial court which accepted the closure report. He also did not dispute that the instant matter has become infructuous. In its petition, the Lokayukta police had contended that the HC had wrongly set aside the summons issued by the Bengaluru court against Somanna, Shylaja and the other person, Lingaraju on April 13, 2012.  In a complaint, Ravi Krishna Reddy, a software engineer, alleged Yeddyurappa denotified 22 guntas of land in Nagadevanahalli in Bengaluru in 2009 to an education trust owned by Somanna's wife in violation of rules. The police, however, filed a closure report saying there was no evidence of any offence. Rejecting police report, the trial court took cognisance of the offences under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act. The special leave petition did not name Yeddyurappa as the High Court order was passed, on petition filed by Somanna, who is also holding portfolio of Karnataka Housing Minister, Shylaja and the other person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-closes-matter-related-to-karnataka-housing-minister-wife-in-land-denotification-case-862794.html
18-07-2020||National||India-US announce new areas of research on transformational power generation||India and the US have announced new areas of research on transformational power generation based on supercritical CO2 (sCO2) power cycles and advanced coal technologies, including carbon capture, utilisation, and storage (CCUS), the Ministry of Science and Technology said on Saturday. This emerged at a virtual ministerial meeting of the US-India Strategic Energy Partnership (SEP) on Friday to review progress, highlight major accomplishments, and prioritise new areas for cooperation. The meeting was co-chaired by Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan and US Secretary of Energy Dan Brouillette. Besides Pradhan and Brouillette, the virtual meeting was attended by US Ambassador to India Kenneth I Juster, Indian Ambassador to the United States Taranjit Singh Sandhu, and Secretary of Department of Science and Technology (DST) Professor Ashutosh Sharma along with other concerned officials. Speaking on the occasion, Sharma said the collaboration between India and the United States has grown over the years under the Programme for Accelerating Clean Energy – Research (PACE-R). The ongoing collaboration on smart grids and energy storage is being implemented by a consortium comprising 30 Indian and US entities with an investment of USD 7.5 million each by India's DST and US Department of Energy (DoE), with matching amounts provided by the consortium, he said. Sharma said this project addresses essential issues related to the adoption and deployment of smart grid concepts along with Distributed Energy Resources (DERs), including storage in the distribution network for its efficient and reliable operation. It will also provide policy directions for societal acceptance, impact and value of the integrative solutions and the emerging role of utilities as Distributed System Operators. The DST secretary said the dialogue between US' DoE and India's DST on clean coal technologies, sCO2 power cycles and Carbon Capture Utilisation and Storage (CCUS) technologies has progressed well and common priorities for collaboration have been evolved. He said one of the notable outcomes of the dialogue is the participation of India in the multilateral platform for Accelerating CCUS Technologies (ACT) through which avenues have been generated for possible US-India collaboration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-announce-new-areas-of-research-on-transformational-power-generation-862803.html
18-07-2020||National||BTP supports Gehlot govt in Rajasthan, say party's MLAs||The Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) supports the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan, the two MLAs of the regional party said in a joint press conference with state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasara on Saturday. BTP legislators Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad asserted that their party's president and other leaders have agreed on extending support to the Gehlot government on the condition that demands related to the development of the state are fulfilled. The party had on Monday issued a whip asking Roat and Ramprasad to be neutral and neither support the Congress nor the BJP. It had also told them to neither support Chief Minister Gehlot nor Sachin Pilot in case of a floor test in the assembly. "BTP MLAs and their party leaders held discussions with the chief minister. They were already with us and have reassured their support to the Ashok Gehlot government," Dotasara said at the press conference outside a hotel on the Delhi highway where the Congress has kept MLAs amid the political crisis. The MLAs were shifted to Hotel Fairmont on Monday soon after a Congress legislature party meeting, where Congress lawmakers expressed support for Gehlot and only indirectly referred to Pilot, whose rebellion threatens the state government. Pilot was stripped of the posts of Rajasthan's deputy chief minister and the party's state unit president on Tuesday. Chief Minister Gehlot tweeted informing about the support by the BTP. He tweeted a photo with the BTP's MLAs and office-bearers giving him a demand letter and said that they have announced to support the government. "We had supported the Congress in the Rajya Sabha elections (last month) on the condition that our demands related to the development of our areas will be met. We have again held discussions with the chief minister on those demands and we have been assured that the demands will be fulfilled," BTP MLA Roat said. He said that the BTP president had issued a whip directing them to stay neutral but now the party is in support of the government. Roat, who recently issued two videos alleging that policemen were not allowing him to go from his Jaipur MLA residence to his constituency in Dungarpur district, said it happened due to misunderstanding by the police. "I do not know what they had in mind. They said it was a misunderstanding. It's okay now," he said. In the videos, one police inspector was seen taking away the keys from his car, which was surrounded by two police vans. Ramprasad said that the BTP is against any attempt to topple an elected government. "We are into issue-based politics. Toppling an elected government by BJP is not fair,” he said, while reaffirming support to the Gehlot government. In the house of 200, Congress has 107 MLAs, including 19 of those who have been issued notices of disqualification by the assembly speaker on complaint by chief whip Mahesh Joshi. The party claims that the Gehlot government has 109 MLAs, including Congress, independents and other supporting party legislators, in its support to run the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/btp-supports-gehlot-govt-in-rajasthan-say-partys-mlas-862804.html
18-07-2020||National||Government announces modalities for financial contributions to NDRF||The Centre has laid out the modalities for financial contributions to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), through which people get money and other help during natural calamities and other crisis. The announcement came amidst the coronavirus pandemic and floods in different parts of the country. The central government has laid out the modalities for receipt of contributions and grants from any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management in the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) as per Section 46(1)(b) of the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005, a home ministry statement said. Accordingly, contributions and grants can be made by any person or institution in NDRF through several modes. One option is through physical instruments like cheque favouring 'PAO (Secretariat), MHA' at New Delhi. On the back of the instrument, the individual may mention the remarks for 'Contributions/ Grants to NDRF'. Contributions may also be made through RTGS/ NEFT indicating the purpose as 'Contributions/ Grants to NDRF' and deposited in the Receipt Account No. 10314382194, IFSC Code- SBIN0000625, State Bank of India, Central Sectt Branch, New Delhi. The other options are via Bharatkosh portal https://bharatkosh.gov.in,  through net banking, debit cards, credit cards & UPI. The NDRF helps people in distress during floods, droughts, quakes and other natural disasters. The NDRF fund was also used to provide food and accommodation to migrant workers during the coronavirus-induced lockdown beginning March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-announces-modalities-for-financial-contributions-to-ndrf-862808.html
18-07-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi again targets govt over border standoff||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday again hit out at the government over its handling of the border issue with China and claimed that India will have to pay a "huge price". In a tweet, he also alleged that the government was behaving like a "Chamberlain" and this would further embolden China. Gandhi tagged Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's speech made in Ladakh on Friday, during his two-day visit there, during which he said progress has been made in talks with China for a solution to the border standoff in Ladakh but he cannot guarantee to what extent it would be resolved. Singh sent out a strong message saying that no power in the world can touch an inch of the country's land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-again-targets-govt-over-border-standoff-862809.html
18-07-2020||National||Ram Temple 'bhumi poojan' next month, PM Modi gets invite||The foundation stone of the proposed Ram Temple at Ayodhya would be laid either on August 3 or August 5 next. The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust, which would be overseeing the construction work, in its first meeting held at Ayodhya on Saturday invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of the Temple. ''We have sent an invite to prime minister Narendra Modi....a final decision in this regard will be taken by the PM,'' Trust secretary Champat Rai said after the meeting. ''The seers and saints of Ayodhya want the PM to come to Ayodhya and lay the foundation stone,'' he added. He also said that the design of the Ram Temple was changed and now it would have five domes instead of three as decided earlier. Rai said that he expected the Ram Temple to be completed within three-three and half years time.  Collection of fund for the proposed Temple would begin once the situation becomes normal, he added. So far there has not been any communique from the PMO about Modi's plan to travel to Ayodhya to lay the foundation stone. If he goes there, it will be his first visit to Ayodhya.  The levelling work of the land on which the Ram Temple would be constructed had been completed. The company, which had been assigned the task of construction, had also signaled that it was ready to start the construction work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-bhumi-poojan-next-month-pm-modi-gets-invite-862811.html
18-07-2020||National||Ram Janambhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust invites PM Modi to lay foundation stone of temple on August 3 or 5||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya either on August 3 or 5, both auspicious dates, said a spokesperson. PM Modi had announced the formation of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust on February 5. Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, the spokesperson of Ram Mandir Trust president Nritya Gopal Das said, "We have suggested two auspicious dates -- August 3 and 5 -- for the prime minister's visit based on calculations of movements of stars and planets." After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court had on November 9 last year paved the way for the construction of a Ram Temple by a Trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative 5-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-janambhoomi-teertha-kshetra-trust-invites-pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-temple-on-august-3-or-5-862812.html
18-07-2020||National||Cong blaming BJP for 'internal strife' ridiculous: Diya Kumari||BJP MP from Rajsamand Diya Kumari on Saturday hit back at the Congress for blaming the BJP for its "internal strife" and claimed that the root of the controversy is the continuing war of supremacy within the ruling party in Rajasthan. She said blaming BJP leaders at the Centre or in the state for the political tussle in Rajasthan is a "reflection of the Congress' frustration". It is ridiculous and condemnable to blame the BJP for Congress' "internal strife", Diya Kumari said. "The people of Rajasthan will never forgive them that instead of providing relief to the people in these pandemic times, the Congress MLAs are learning to make Italian dishes in a five-star hotel," the MP, who is a member of the erstwhile Jaipur royal family, said in a statement. She was referring to some pictures and videos surfacing on social media showing MLAs of Ashok Gehlot camp staying at a five-star hotel on the Jaipur-Delhi highway since Monday. "The photographs show that no social distancing is being maintained. It would have been appropriate if they had done some work of service as per the Indian culture," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-blaming-bjp-for-internal-strife-ridiculous-diya-kumari-862828.html
18-07-2020||National||Gujarat adds highest 960 Covid-19 cases in one day; 19 die||Gujarat on Saturday recorded the highest single-day rise of 960 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 47,476, state Health Department said. The number of fatalities has risen by 19 to 2,127, it said. As many as 1,061 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of the recovered cases to 34,005, the release said. Gujarat now has 11,344 active cases, it said, adding that the condition of 75 patients is critical.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-adds-highest-960-covid-19-cases-in-one-day-19-die-862835.html
18-07-2020||National||Covid-19: ICMR to conduct study on effectiveness of BCG vaccine among elders||The ICMR will conduct a multi-centric study to assess whether the BCG vaccine, used against tuberculosis, can prevent the occurrence of coronavirus infection and reduce the severity of the disease and mortality among elderly individuals residing in hotspot areas. The study will be carried out in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi in approximately 1,500 healthy volunteers above 60-years of age, an ICMR scientist said. Sanction has already been accorded to the trial by the ICMR's National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT) in Chennai by the Tamil Nadu government on July 15 to study the efficacy of BCG vaccine in the elderly. The BCG-COVID trial, under the auspices of ICMR would be held in five other centres -- National Institute of Occupational Health, Ahmedabad, National Institute for Research in Environmental Health in Bhopal, GS Medical College and KEM Hospital in Mumbai, National Institute for Implementation Research on Non-Communicable Diseases in Jodhpur and AIIMS, New Delhi. "As a part of this multi-centric study which will be carried out at six sites, elderly people not affected by coronavirus infection, will be given the Bacille Calmette Guerin (BCG) vaccine. The same BCG vaccine that is administered to newborn babies as a part of National Immunization programme for more than 50 years in the country will be used in this study," the ICMR scientist said. "The objective is to see if the shots can prevent the occurrence of the coronavirus infection and reduce the severity of the disease and mortality rate among the elderly individuals residing in hotspot areas," the scientist said. There are pre-set criteria in the study that will decide on eligibility of a volunteer to participate in this study. The volunteers would be followed up closely for a period of six months post vaccination. Those vaccinated would be followed up and if some of them get infected with Covid-19 later on, it would be assessed if the BCG vaccination stood them in good stead when compared with others of the same age group who were not vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-icmr-to-conduct-study-on-effectiveness-of-bcg-vaccine-among-elders-862837.html
18-07-2020||National||Patanjali restrained from using ‘Coronil’ brand name||Coronil, which was claimed as a cure for Covid-19 infection by Patanjali Ayurved Limited, has landed in yet another controversy. The Madras High Court has restrained the company promoted by Yoga guru Baba Ramdev from using the trademark Coronil after objection from a city-based firm. Justice C V Karthikeyan passed an interim order restraining Patanjali from using the name ‘Coronil’ till July 30. The order was passed on a petition filed by Chennai-based Arudra Engineering Private Limited which claims that 'Coronil' is a trademark owned by it since 1993. The company, while making a case against Patanjali for using its trademark name, said its clients include public sector undertaking (PSUs) like the Indian Oil and BHEL. Arudra Engineering also produced sales bills of its products to bolster its claim that the name ‘Coronil’ has been in existence for about three decades. Patanjali launched Coronil last month, claiming that it was a cure for coronavirus, but the Centre said it has not given any certificate in this regard. The company then changed its stance saying it was just an immunity booster and not a cure for the infection caused by Covid-19. "Currently, our right over the trademark is valid till 2027," the company said in its petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patanjali-restrained-from-using-coronil-brand-name-862841.html
18-07-2020||National||SC orders DNA test on 84-year-old, charged with raping, impregnating minor||The Supreme Court has ordered an 84-year-old man from West Bengal to undergo a DNA test after he was accused of raping a 14-year-old girl, resulting in the birth of a child. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan allowed the test to ascertain if the accused was capable of performing sexual acts. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal who appeared for the accused, contended that the man suffered from various ailments and was incapable of performing sexual acts. He expressed the willingness of the client to undergone DNA and paternity test. Sibal said his client was in jail since May 12 and his health was fast deteriorating. He also submitted that the accused was framed in the matter following a dispute on payment of rent with the victim's family who were tenants in their premises. The West Bengal counsel, Liz Mathews agreed for the test. She said the court should wait for the test reports, as the sample had already been taken. The court was examining the challenge to the Calcutta High Court's order of June 5 rejecting the accused's bail plea in view of the gravity of charges. It posted the matter after three weeks, awaiting the final test reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-dna-test-on-84-year-old-charged-with-raping-impregnating-minor-862847.html
18-07-2020||National||Eminent mathematician C S Seshadri passes away at 88||C S Seshadri, a towering figure in the field of algebraic geometry and founder of the prestigious Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI), passed away on Friday night. 88-year-old Seshadri suffered a cardiac arrest and is survived by his two sons. An eminent mathematician, Seshadri had mentored many young people who were interested in the field of mathematics and was the man behind the CMI. His contributions in the field were so immense that a constant in algebra was named after him. Known as “Seshadri constant”, it is an invariant of an ample line bundle L at a point P on an algebraic variety. Born on February 29, 1932, Seshadri secured his B.A. (Hons) degree in Mathematics in 1953 from the famed University of Madras and completed his Ph.D in Mathematics five years later from Bombay University. Condolences poured in for Seshadri with people from all walks of life praising his contributions to Mathematics. Prime Minister Narendra Modi termed Seshadri as an “intellectual stalwart” who did outstanding work in mathematics. “His efforts, especially in algebraic geometry, will be remembered for generations. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” he tweeted. Seshadri, who began his career at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, moved to his home town of Chennai in 1984 to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences. In 1989, he launched the School of Mathematics as part of the SPIC Science Foundation, which is now known as CMI. After having stepped down as Founder-Director of the CMI in 2010, Seshadri continued his contributions to the institute as its "Director-Emeritus" till his last breath. K. Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, wrote a long thread on Twitter calling Seshadri’s passing as a “great loss to mathematics in particular and to science and teaching in general.” “Not content with his extraordinary and widely recognised contributions through research, he established the Chennai Mathematical Institute, now a recognised powerhouse of undergraduate education, and research,” he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eminent-mathematician-c-s-seshadri-passes-away-at-88-862855.html
18-07-2020||National||Rs 3 lakh financial aid given to shelling-hit family in J&K's Poonch||Authorities in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday handed over Rs 3 lakh financial aid to the family which lost three members due to the Pakistani shelling along the Line of Control (LoC). A cash amount of Rs 30,000 under the Red Cross was also given to the family, an official spokesman said. A couple and their teenage son were killed when their house was hit by a Pakistani mortar shell in Karmara village Friday night. Another family member was injured in the incident. The spokesman said the financial aid of Rs 3 lakh and Rs 30,000 under the Red Cross was handed over to the victim family by Deputy Commissioner, Poonch, Rahul Yadav who visited the village in the afternoon. Yadav, along with other senior officers, met with family members of the deceased and their relatives and assured them of every possible help in the future, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-3-lakh-financial-aid-given-to-shelling-hit-family-in-jks-poonch-862861.html
18-07-2020||National||PLA-linked Chinese companies operating in India under scanner||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government contemplating more economic measures against China, the security agencies are identifying the communist country's companies, which have past or continuing links with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and are operating in India.  The companies so far identified for having links with the Chinese PLA include Alibaba Group Holding Limited, Tencent Holdings Limited, Huawei Technologies Company Limited, and SAIC Motor Corporation Limited. The list also includes the Xinxing Cathay International Group Company Limited, which has invested in the Xindia Steels Limited that has an iron ore pelletisation facility in Koppal district of Karnataka. A source in New Delhi said that the security agencies would assess if the continued operation of the companies linked with the Chinese PLA in India could pose any risk to national security. The move comes in the wake of China’s belligerence along the disputed boundary with India. The Xinxing Cathay International Group Company Limited is integrated and recombined from the manufacturing system and its subordinate enterprises and institutions of the General Logistics Department of the Chinese PLA. Apart from investing in the plant at Koppal in Karnataka, it also has a ductile iron pipe manufacturing plant in Chhattisgarh. It is linked with Jihua Group Company Limited, which is the production base for military supplies to the Chinese PLA and the armed police force and the main purchase and processing base for the international military munitions market. The China Electronics Technology Group Corporation (CETC) in June 2018 announced a $ 46 million (Rs 320 crores) investment in a 200 MW solar photo-voltaic cell manufacturing facility in Andhra Pradesh. It is China’s leading military electronics manufacturer and the United States barred exports from several subsidiaries of the company on national security grounds. Apart from being implicated by the US Department of Justice in several cases of illegal exports, some of the CETC employees have also been convicted for military espionage in America. The CETC is also accused of providing technology used for human rights abuses in Xinjiang. The Alibaba, Tencent and Baidu Inc are involved in developing Artificial Intelligence solutions in several domains as a part of the civil-military fusion programme of China. SAIC Motor Corporation Limited, a former vehicle servicing unit of the Chinese PLA, is the parent company of MG Motors, that sells a popular SUV MG Hector, in India. New Delhi earlier this month banned 59 apps linked to China, alleging that they were used in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. New Delhi of late decided to bar China’s companies from participating in highway construction projects in India. The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and the Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Limited (MTNL) of late cancelled tender inviting bids from companies for supply of equipment for upgrading its network to 4G – a move, which is apparently aimed at keeping away Huawei Technologies Company and ZTE Corporation of China away from the project and stopping them from expanding footprints in the telecom sector of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pla-linked-chinese-companies-operating-in-india-under-scanner-862867.html
18-07-2020||National||Data nation's asset; must be secured: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Data is a nation's asset and it should be utilised properly for achieving prosperity, especially in sectors like healthcare, agriculture and education, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Saturday. He also said that keeping this in mind, the government has brought a data protection law which is being examined by the select committee of Parliament. Observing that data must be secured, Prasad said the government had in the first week of December last year approved the Personal Data Protection Bill that will spell out a framework for the handling of personal data, including its processing by public and private entities. Prasad, who holds the Law and Justice, Electronics and Information Technology and Communications portfolios, was delivering the Late Thakur Prasad Centenary Memorial Lecture on "Data Privacy, Data Security and Data Sovereignty". The programme was organised by an organisation called Aatma Bodh. Late Thakur Prasad, a veteran Jan Sangh leader who served as a minister in Bihar in 1977, is the father of the minister. "Data is a nation's asset. This great asset of data has to be properly used, processed and value-added for healthcare, agriculture and education. Therefore, not only data ownership but also data sovereignty becomes important," the Union minister said. "If data is a good asset it must be secured and vested into the sovereign power of a country. Therefore, we have brought data protection law which is being examined by the select committee of the Parliament," Prasad said. He said that Digital India today has become a transformative programme whereby common Indians are getting empowered through technology. The "great JAM trinity- Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile - has led to a transformation in governance," he said. The central government has transferred close to Rs 11 lakh crore directly into the bank accounts of the poor under direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme and saved Rs 1.70 lakh crore which used to be pocketed by fake beneficiaries and middlemen, Prasad said. A digital ecosystem generates a lot of data and the vast size and population of India with 120 crore plus mobile phones and nearly 70 crore plus internet users have become a new tool in the hands of the common man, he said. The Union minister said that Aadhaar itself undertakes three crore authentications every day. Platforms like e-scholarship, e-hospitals, soil health card, GSTN, UPI, Ayushman Bharat are all game-changing programmes which have improved governance and delivery, Prasad added. Prominent among those who spoke on the occasion included Patna High Court Chief Justice Sanjay Karol, former Supreme Court Judge and Chairman of Press Council of India Justice C K Prasad, retired Chief Justice of J&K and Rajasthan High Court Justice S N Jha, former Jharkhand HC judge and judicial member of National Company Law Tribunal Ananth Vijay Singh. They recalled Thakur Prasad as a prominent public figure and a well-known senior lawyer of the Patna High Court. The speakers also highlighted the late leader's commitment to hard work, integrity and commitment to ideology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-nations-asset-must-be-secured-ravi-shankar-prasad-862872.html
18-07-2020||National||Covid-19: AIIMS panel nod to human clinical trial of Covaxin||The AIIMS Ethics Committee on Saturday gave its nod for a human clinical trial of the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin following which the premier hospital is likely to begin the exercise by enrolling healthy volunteers from Monday. AIIMS-Delhi is among the 12 sites selected by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting phase I and II human trials of Covaxin. In phase I, the vaccine would be tested on 375 volunteers and a maximum of 100 of them would be from AIIMS. "The AIIMS Ethics Committee gave its approval for starting the human clinical trial of the indigenously developed Covaxin today. Healthy volunteers having no comorbid conditions and without a history of Covid-19, aged more than 18 years and less than 55 years, would be eligible to participate in the randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial," Dr Sanjay Rai, Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine at AIIMS said. "Few volunteers have already registered for the trial. We would start the screening of the individuals and evaluate their health condition from Monday onwards before vaccinating them," Rai, who is also the principal investigator of the study, said. Anybody willing to participate in the trial can send an email to Ctaiims.covid19@gmail.com or an SMS to or call on 7428847499, he said. The institute may also put up these contact details on its website. According to Rai, the Ethics Committee had raised few concerns in the protocol submitted for carrying out of the trial. "Those concerns were addressed to the following which the EC gave its approval to begin the trial by the premier institute," he said. Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the ICMR and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), had recently got theCovidnod for human clinical trials from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Noting that this was the first indigenous vaccine being developed by India, ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava in a letter to principal investigators of the 12 sites recently had asked them to fast-track the human clinical trial approvals stating it is one of the "top priority projects which is being monitored at the top-most level of the government". The trials have so far started in AIIMS, Patna and some more sites. The DCGI has permitted two vaccines -- one developed by the Bharat Biotech International Limited in collaboration with the ICMR and another one by Zydas Cadila Healthcare Ltd to go in for phase I and II human clinical trials. Bhargava had said these two vaccine candidates have undergone successful toxicity studies in rats, mice and rabbits and these data were submitted to DCGI following which both got clearance to start the early phase human trials early this month.  They have got their sites ready and approximately 1,000 human volunteers would be participating in the exercise for each of the two indigenously developed vaccine candidates, he had said. Since India is one of the largest vaccine producers in the world, it is the country's "moral responsibility" to fast-track vaccine development process to break the chain of coronavirus transmission, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-aiims-panel-nod-to-human-clinical-trial-of-covaxin-862877.html
18-07-2020||National||No forest land will be taken for industrial park: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday assured that his government will not uproot trees or take over forest land to develop an industrial park in Ludhiana. His statement came after some people claimed that forest land would be destroyed with the development of an industrial park in Mattewara area. “There was no question of destroying the Mattewara forest,” Singh said in a Facebook Live session, asserting that statements suggesting that the forest would be destroyed are "simply not true". The government has taken 955 acres of land of the animal husbandry, horticulture department and Gram Panchayat. The acquired land does not include an inch of the 2,300 acres of the Mattewara forest, he claimed in a statement here. His government had last year planted 75 lakh saplings to commemorate the 550th 'Prakash Purab' of Guru Nanak Dev, the CM said. He also allayed fears that the waste from the industrial park would be discharged into Sutlej river and said a modern common effluent treatment plant would be set up. The objective behind the planned industrial park is to create a vibrant industrial estate where people of Ludhiana and nearby areas can get good jobs, he added. Replying to another question, Singh said two Special Investigation Teams were investigating the 2015 Bargari sacrilege case and police firing incidents at Faridkot and he was hopeful that the probe would be completed soon. “We will get to the bottom of the matter and no guilty person will be spared,” he added.           On the Covid-19 situation, he reiterated his appeal for all to take due precautions, wear masks and follow other safety norms to check its further spread in the state. Responding to the concern of Amit Kumar of Rajpura, who said people in his city were not wearing masks in crowded markets etc and police were only checking at a particular spot, Singh said strict action would be taken against violators. The CM further urged the people to contact hospitals on the first sign of any symptom or suspicion of Covid infection since delay reduces the chances of survival. The cases were continuing to rise, he said, expressing concern over the fact that around 300 cases had been added every day over the past week. In response to a question, the CM said anyone coming into the state through any border would be checked strictly. To a question from Amarjeet Singh from Anandpur Sahib, he said the Sunday curfew was not being enforced now due to many people needing to leave home for work. Terming the rates for Covid treatment fixed for private hospitals as too high, Sewak Singh, Ludhiana, said it was beyond the common man's reach. The CM pointed out that the rates being charged by the private hospitals so far were exorbitant and that Rs 18,000 per day was for critical patients only. The government hospitals had all the facilities, which they were providing at affordable costs, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-forest-land-will-be-taken-for-industrial-park-punjab-cm-862880.html
18-07-2020||National||Fighting gang war with gangster not permissible, petitioner claims before SC||An advocate, who sought a CBI or NIA probe into the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen, countered before the Supreme Court the Uttar Pradesh government's claims in the entire episode, saying no law provided justification of the killing of even a hardened criminal in the custody of law enforcement agency. "While fighting a lawless (an outlaw) the state cannot go to the extent of becoming lawless. Fighting a gang war by the state with a gangster is not permissible in a democratic civil society," advocate-petitioner Anoop Prakash Awasthi said in a rejoinder affidavit to the UP government's assertion. "There is no justification in killing a person in custody by staging an almost identical film story each time," he said. In its response to the PIL, the Uttar Pradesh government had earlier claimed before the court that the police had no option but to fire back in self-defence as gangster Dubey had tried to escape after snatching a pistol and firing indiscriminately on being brought from Ujjain to Kanpur on July 10. It also said the state government has already set up a judicial inquiry commission headed by a former Allahabad High Court judge, Justice Sashi Kant Agarwal, to probe incidents between July 2 and 10, besides two other SITs, including one to probe Dubey's nexus with police and politicians. In his rejoinder, lawyer, for his part, questioned the legality of setting up a judicial inquiry commission, headed by the former judge, saying Justice Agarwal who headed the panel, was not a retired judge, as he had resigned from the post on his transfer to Jharkhand High Court in 2005 and was not being paid retirement benefits. "Constitution of judicial inquiry commission is completely illegal as it was not done in accordance with Section 3 of Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 which mandates passing of a resolution by each house of state followed by gazette notification, or issuance of Ordinance by the Governor," he said. Further, he said, the judicial commission was "merely a fact-finding body" and its recommendations were not binding upon the state. The lawyer also questioned the composition of an SIT, formed by the state to probe into incidents related to killings of 8 policemen in Kanpur and the elimination of Dubey and his gang members on July 10. He said a member of the SIT, DIG IPS Ravindra Gaur himself was accused in the fake encounter of a medicine dealer Mukul Gupta in Bareilly in 2007. The CBI which investigated the encounter did not get sanction for prosecution of Gaur. Further, Gupta's parents, who pursued the matter before the HC, were also murdered, he alleged. With regard to the formation of another SIT headed by SP Crime Kanpur, saying it would suffer personal bias due to alleged involvement of the entire system of city police, Awasthi contended. He also accused UP police of killing a juvenile member of the Dubey gang. Awasthi also relied upon media reports to claim UP police did not take transit remand of accused Dubey before taking him from Ujjain to Kanpur. The petitioner also claimed that there was no justification by the police in demolishing the house of Dubey, after killings of eight policemen, and damaging the parked vehicles, saying it amounted to destruction of evidence. The demolition covered by media did not show recovery of any weapon, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fighting-gang-war-with-gangster-not-permissible-petitioner-claims-before-sc-862885.html
18-07-2020||National||Bharat Biotech announces commencement of phase 1 clinical trials of India's first Covid-19 vaccine||Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech has announced the initiation of phase-1 clinical trials of India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. It may be recalled that Bharat Biotech International Limited has, on 29 June, announced that it had “successfully developed Covaxin, India’s first vaccine candidate for Covid-19”, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV). “Phase-1 trials began across the country on 15 July. This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in 375 volunteers in India,” the company stated. Double-blind testing is a trial process especially of a drug where the dose content (test vaccine or placebo) is revealed neither to the subject/volunteer nor the administrator. The SARS-CoV-2 strain was isolated in NIV, Pune, and transferred to Bharat Biotech. The indigenous, inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Biosafety Level 3) high containment facility located in the Genome Valley, Hyderabad. The Drug Controller General of India, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare granted permission for initiation of Phase I and II human clinical trials after the company submitted results generated from preclinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response, the company said. Bharat Biotech had, at that time, announced human clinical trials as scheduled to begin across India in July 2020. However, controversy broke out a few days later, with a letter from the ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava stating that the vaccine is envisaged to be launched for public health use by 15 August, “after completion of all clinical trials.” “BBIL is working expeditiously to meet the target, however, the final outcome will depend on the cooperation of all the clinical trial sites involved in this project,” the letter dated July 2 from Bhargava to all the partners in the project. It has, further, “strictly advised” trial sites to “fast track all approvals related to initiation of the clinical trial and ensure that the subject enrollment is initiated no later than July 7.” A section of experts and opposition parties criticized the government for “rushing through an elaborate and time taking vaccine testing process.” ICMR later clarified that the DG's letter “was meant to cut unnecessary red tape, without bypassing any necessary process, and speed up recruitment of participants.” The Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad and the King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam are among the 12 trial sites. NIMS reportedly commenced the process on July 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-announces-commencement-of-phase-1-clinical-trials-of-indias-first-covid-19-vaccine-862888.html
18-07-2020||National||Empty flats, community centres can be Covid-19 care facilities||The Centre has issued guidelines for setting up Covid care facilities within housing societies, residential complexes to be run by resident welfare associations as the infectious disease continued to spread rapidly through parts of the country. According to guidelines, the makeshift Covid care facilities could be set up in community centres or common utility areas within residential complexes or even in empty flats that are isolated from the rest of the occupied dwelling units. “It will be a dedicated health facility for management of suspect, asymptomatic, presymptomatic, very mild cases of Covid-19, residing in that particular residential facility,” the guidelines said. India on Saturday added a record 34,884 new cases of Covid-19 that took the total confirmed cases to 10,38,716. Of these total 10.38 lakh cases, 6.53 lakh patients have already recovered and been discharged from hospitals. “The actual caseload of Covid-19 in the country is only 3,58,692,” the health ministry said. The Centre believes that setting up Covid care facilities within residential complexes may be more acceptable to residents and will help reduce the burden on existing facilities. However, it stressed that this facility is not meant for elderly patients, children less than 10 years of age, pregnant or lactating women, and patients with co-morbidities. The Covid care facility will follow strict infection prevention and control practices, the guidelines say, stating that confirmed and suspect cases would be kept in separate partitioned areas and no intermixing will be allowed. There should also be separate toilets for both categories. The Ministry also issued a Covid-19 advisory for gated residential complexes, asking them to make provisions for hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) at entry points and in work areas. The advisory also asked the RWAs to carry out thermal screening of visitors/staff at entry points and permit only asymptomatic individuals to enter the premises. “Vendors, household help, car cleaners, delivery personnel, etc. will also undergo such screening daily. Physical distancing of at least six feet to be followed as far as feasible at all locations at all times in all common areas, including parks, corridors, lift lobbies, gyms and clubs,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/empty-flats-community-centres-can-be-covid-19-care-facilities-862894.html
18-07-2020||National||Bank union releases list of 2,426 loan defaulters||Even as the risk of Covid-related bank loans turning sour looms large, the All India Bank Employees Association Saturday released a list of 2,426 wilful defaulters, who together owe over Rs 1.47 lakh crore to 17 public sector banks, evoking a sharp criticism from Trinamool Congress, which said the money “looted” would have been enough to transfer lakhs of rupees into the accounts of jobless migrant workers. "Received a list of 2,426 wilful defaulters from All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) today. Rs 1,47,350 crore looted from the common man. Enough to transfer lakhs of rupees to each jobless migrant worker," TMC MP Derek O'Brien tweeted. He also accused the government of "abetting" crony capitalism. Mehul Choksi-owned Gitanjali Gems with its default of Rs 4,644 crore to Punjab National Bank tops the list, followed by ABG Shipyard Ltd, which owes Rs 1,875 crore from the State Bank of India. REI Agro Ltd, Ruchi Soya Industries, Gili India, Winsome Diamonds & Jewellery, Kudos Chemie and Nakshatra Brands Ltd are the firms, which owe more than Rs 1,000 crore each. Coastal Projects and Winsome Diamonds & Jewellery too are among top 10 defaulters, who together owe Rs17,005 crore to PSU banks. AIBEA has demanded to stop the present practice of giving concessions to defaulters. In a release, CH Venkatachalam, general secretary of All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) says, "Atmanirbhar or self-dependency cannot be achieved by weakening our public sector banks (PSBs) or by privatising our banks. We have a very bitter experience with private banks in our country. The only major problem faced by our banks is the bulging and alarmingly increasing bad loans by private companies and corporates. If tough action is taken on them and money is recovered, our banks can play a bigger role in national development," said CH Venkatachalam, general secretary of AIBEA in a statement. Among the 17 public sector lenders, SBI has the highest number of wilful defaulters at 685 who together had defaulted on a loan of Rs 43,887 crore. It is followed by PNB with 325 defaulters owing Rs 22,370 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bank-union-releases-list-of-2426-loan-defaulters-862895.html
18-07-2020||National||After seven workers die, four more killed cleaning tank of same Gujarat firm||Four labourers on Saturday died while cleaning out a chemical tank of a private firm, Vishal Fabrics, owned by Chiripal Group, located in the outskirts of Ahmedabad. Police said that labourers followed each other into the tank containing chemical waste after the first one to go failed to respond. This is the second fatal incident this year involving the same group. Earlier, seven workers had been burnt to death in another denim factory in the city where gross negligence of fire safety norms had been revealed. "There were four workers who had been hired by a private contractor for cleaning the chemical tank. After the first labourer didn't come out and stopped responding, three others stepped into the tank one by one and died," said Ahmedabad district superintendent of police R V Asari. He said the incident happened in Dholi village of Dholka taluka at a chemical waste facility of the Vishal Fabrics associated with Chiripal Group. The factory manufactures stretch denim fabric. The victims have been identified as Mayur Barad, Vijay Barad, both resident of Sanand and Pravin Rathod and Prabhu Jamod, residents of Dholka. They were in their early 20s. Assistant Superintendent of Police Nitish Pandey said that the process of FIR was underway. Meanwhile, Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani twitted pictures of the victims and alleged that the police were "reluctant to lodge an FIR" against the company for its connection with the political party. Earlier in February, seven workers died in a fire that had erupted at Nandan Denim Company, belonging to Chiripal Group, located in Narol area of Ahmedabad city. Records state that forensic reports suggested that fire broke out because of "negligence" of the factory owners as "the shade of the shirting department (where the fire broke out), was built with the support of sheets and without fire safety. There was only one staircase to go up from the basement to the first floor and that too only had one exit door." It was also found that "There was no emergency exit or windows or lift in the department. The accused persons did not make proper safety arrangements knowing that in an event of a fire accident, such improper arrangements can be dangerous for the workers working in the factory." Deepak Chiripal and Jyotiprasad Chiripal against whom the FIR was registered approached high court which granted them relief on the ground that the FIR "lacked" basic ingredient of the offence under section 304 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-seven-workers-die-four-more-killed-cleaning-tank-of-same-gujarat-firm-862899.html
18-07-2020||National||Bihar emerging as new Covid-19 hotspot, Karnataka third in daily new cases||India’s Covid-19 numbers have been galloping after crossing the 10 lakh mark as new patients were being reported from across the country at rising speed with Bihar emerging as the latest hotspot adding in excess of 1800 cases every day. The fresh spurt of cases in Karnataka has pushed the state to the third position in the list of states reporting highest cases every day, while Delhi which occupied the spot earlier witnessed a steady decline in new infections. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu continued to lead the states reporting maximum new infections every day. On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 8,348 new cases and crossed the three lakh mark. Pune has been rivaling Mumbai in adding new cases every day and on some days exceeding the daily infections reported in the country’s financial capital. Tamil Nadu added 4,807 new cases on Saturday followed by Andhra Pradesh (3,963), Uttar Pradesh (1,873), Bihar (1,667), and Assam (1,218). West Bengal and Telangana too have been reporting a high caseload. States such as Goa, Chhatisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Himachal were also reporting new infections at a rising speed. A DH Covid-19 Tracker put the total number of cases 10,73,295 at 8:30 p.m. on Saturday, an intra-day increase of 34,226. Of these 10.73 lakh cases, 6.73 lakh had been discharged from healthcare facilities, while 3.72 lakh were under active medical supervision. According to a study by researchers in the India office of an NGO, Population Council, eight districts in Bihar rank among the most vulnerable to the health and economic impacts of Covid-19. Researchers have created a vulnerability index that has identified Madhya Pradesh as the most vulnerable among 30 states assessed. Karnataka ranks 15th on the index with states such as Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh ranked lower. None of the districts in Karnataka find a mention on the top 20 most vulnerable districts. The study, published in The Lancet, noted that nine of 30 large states – Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Telangana, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, and Gujarat – were highly vulnerable to Covid-19 impact. It rated the vulnerabilities of states to the pandemic on a scale from zero to one, measured using 15 indicators across five domains — socioeconomic, demographic, housing and hygiene, epidemiological, and health systems. “Our index aims to help planners and policymakers effectively prioritise regions for resource allocation and adopt risk mitigation strategies for better preparedness and responses to the Covid-19 epidemic,” Rajib Acharya from Population Council, New Delhi, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-emerging-as-new-covid-19-hotspot-karnataka-third-in-daily-new-cases-862904.html
18-07-2020||National||India protests truce violation by Pakistan; acting envoy summoned by MEA||Islamabad’s acting envoy to New Delhi, Syed Haider Shah, was on Saturday summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), where senior officials lodged a strong protest over unprovoked violation of ceasefire by Pakistan Army resulting in the death of children and two other Indian citizens.   A child and two other Indians were killed and another child was injured when the Pakistan Army opened fire flouting the truce along the Line of Control in Krishna Ghati Sector in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. The deceased persons belonged to the same family. “India condemns, in the strongest terms, the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians by Pakistan forces,” the MEA stated in a press release. Twenty-one Indians have been killed and 94 injured in over 2,711 unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani Army personnel and the border guards. India also protested Pakistan’s continued support to cross border terrorist infiltration into India, including supporting cover fire provided by Pakistani Army on the LoC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-protests-truce-violation-by-pakistan-acting-envoy-summoned-by-mea-862908.html
18-07-2020||National Politics||Decision to make Priyanka Gandhi face of Congress in 2022 UP Assembly polls to be taken by CWC: Jitin Prasada||Senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada on Saturday said while it has been a long-standing demand of party workers that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra be the party's face in the 2022 UP Assembly elections, it is a "strategic decision" to be taken by the "Congress Working Committee and Priyanka ji herself". Prasada, who is a special invitee to the Congress Working Committee (CWC) also said that the party will not be forging any alliance in the 2022 assembly elections. On whether Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi would be the face of the party in 2022 elections, he told PTI, "That has been a long-standing demand of the workers, but, the decision is a strategic one which will be taken by the CWC and Priyanka ji herself." Accusing the UP government of "headline management, the former Union minister also asked why was it that most of the victims of crimes were Brahmins. "The issues which are being raked up are not the real issues. The state government is only doing headline management. I have talked about Brahmin killings. Why is that most of the victims (of crimes) are Brahmins? What is the intention of the state government," he asked. "The Vikas Dubey encounter on the face of it looks fake and the intention of the government is suspicious. We (Congress) have already demanded an SC-monitored inquiry. Who allowed Vikas Dubey to become such a big (criminal)? This has now been brushed under the carpet," he said. He also said that under the Brahmin Chetna Parishad, the party was holding virtual meetings with members of the community in Pilibhit, Jhansi, Ayodhya, Etawah, Meerut, Basti and Badaun. Prasada refused to comment on the party's prevailing situation in Rajasthan. On July 14, he had tweeted about his "colleague and friend" Sachin Pilot, saying that no one can take away the fact that the former deputy chief minister had long worked with dedication for the Congress. Sachin Pilot is not just a collegues but my friend. No one can take away the fact that all these years he has worked with dedication for the party. Sincerely hope the situation can still be salvaged. Sad it has come to this... On Priyanka Gandhi being dubbed a Twitter leader by rivals, including the BJP, the 46-year-old former Lok Sabha MP from Dhaurahra said, "They have nothing else to say. Their performance is zero, and to hide it, they are saying such things." Intensifying his attack on political rivals, Prasada said, "Whoever is saying such things should first disclose the performance of their department, and what they have done for the people of UP. Give a record of that." He said they were elected to work for the people of Uttar Pradesh and their performance in sectors such as health, infrastructure or rural development. "Tell us what you have done in these sectors...It (using such terminology) is to only divert the attention of people and their failures (of BJP)," the former Union minister said. Referring to the work going on within the state Congress, he said, "The party is preparing and working to strengthen its organisation. Wherever the organisational fill-up is required down to booth level that is being prepared and it is the primary task. Organisational re-hauling of different frontal organisations of the party is also going on." Asked whether the Congress was lagging behind the BJP in holding virtual meetings, Prasada said, "A virtual meeting group (of party leaders) has been formed, and meetings are being held regularly. Some strategy meetings too have been held virtually. A programme called 'Kaise Hain Aap', which was about talking to party workers, was started by me and now the party is doing it."   He said the party was interacting with people in every district and was gathering their views and seeking suggestions from them over the issues they are facing. When asked that many party leaders were missing in action when UPCC chief Ajay Kumar Lallu was taking on the UP government and was sent to jail, Prasada said, "All action is not confined to Lucknow alone. Things happen in other districts of the state as well."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/decision-to-make-priyanka-gandhi-face-of-congress-in-2022-up-assembly-polls-to-be-taken-by-cwc-jitin-prasada-862702.html
18-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan crisis: Congress says BJP's demand for CBI probe amounts to admission of guilt||The BJP's demand for a CBI probe into the audiotapes that showed a conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan "amounted to admission of guilt" and it was now clear that the party was behind the rebellion by Sachin Pilot and others, the Congress said on Saturday. The Congress also cited Pilot and other rebel MLAs taking shelter in a hotel in the BJP-ruled Haryana to allege the saffron party's involvement in "horse-trading". "We all witnessed over the last week the daylight murder of democracy being attempted by the BJP...everyday a new layer comes out exposing the direct links of the BJP in creating some kind of a crisis in Rajasthan... Their (BJP's) only grievance is that when they were murdering democracy, why were they being recorded and if...it was legal," Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told a virtual press conference in Delhi. Earlier in the day, the BJP asked if the Congress government in Rajasthan resorted to "unconstitutional" methods to tap phones of politicians and demanded a CBI probe into what it called a "saga of illegalities and concocted lies". "These are serious questions that we want to ask the Congress high command and Ashok Gehlot. Was phone tapping done? Assuming that you've tapped phones, was the standard operating procedure followed? Did the Congress government in Rajasthan use unconstitutional ways to save themselves when they found themselves cornered?" BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra asked at a press conference. The BJP spokesperson demanded an immediate reaction from the state government and called for a CBI investigation into this "saga of illegalities and concocted lies". Hitting back, Rajasthan minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said Patra "is a generator of lies". Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra said the BJP spokesperson made "an unsuccessful attempt to save face". Dotasra said if the BJP was not involved in it why a Rajasthan Police team probing the audiotapes was not allowed to enter the hotel in the BJP-ruled Haryana till the rebel MLAs were moved elsewhere. "The SOG (Special Operation Group) team had gone to Haryana for investigation but the Haryana Police did not cooperate," he added. The Congress sought response from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the matter. The Congress on Friday demanded the arrest of BJP leader and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma after two audio clips surfaced pertaining to the alleged conspiracy to topple the Gehlot government. The BJP had described the audio clips as "manufactured". Shekhawat has denied the charge too, saying the voice in these clips was not his. He said he was ready to face any probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-crisis-congress-says-bjps-demand-for-cbi-probe-amounts-to-admission-of-guilt-862710.html
18-07-2020||National Politics||Covid-19 took 'gigantic form' in UP, government didn't pay attention to testing, contact tracing: Priyanka Gandhi||The Congress general secretary has been criticising the state government's response to the Covid-19 crisis, alleging that it is indulging in propaganda, instead of dealing with the pandemic. "Despite almost three months of lockdown and all claims of the UP government, coronavirus cases have increased sharply in 25 districts of UP in July," she said in a tweet in Hindi. There has been a jump of 200 per cent in Covid-19 cases in three districts of UP, 400 percent in three districts and above 1,000 per cent in one district, Priyanka Gandhi said. लगभग 3 महीने के लॉकडाउन, यूपी सरकार के तमाम दावों के बावजूद यूपी के 25 जिलों में जुलाई महीने में कोरोना के मामलों में तेजी से वृद्धि हुई है।   "According to media reports, 70 percent of the Covid-infected people in Prayagraj died within 48 hours of testing positive," she said. "We were afraid of this and therefore, at the beginning itself, we had written a letter to the Chief Minister of UP and gave constructive suggestions in this context and also raised the issue of maximum testing," she said. The disease has taken this "gigantic form" because of the lack of attention to testing, delay in giving reports, juggling of data and not doing contact tracing properly, Priyanka Gandhi alleged. The UP government has no answers on these issues, she added. Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 38 deaths, its highest single-day spike in coronavirus fatalities, raising the toll to 1,084 while 1,919 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 45,363, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-took-gigantic-form-in-up-government-didnt-pay-attention-to-testing-contact-tracing-priyanka-gandhi-862750.html
18-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan crisis: Ashok Gehlot camp MLAs performing yoga, getting cooking tips at 5-star hotel||From performing yoga to getting cooking tips, Rajasthan Congress MLAs of Ashok Gehlot camp are engaging themselves in various activities in a five-star hotel on the Delhi Highway where they have been staying since Monday amid the political crisis in the state. In many photos and videos doing the rounds on social media, some of the legislators are seen doing yoga in the hotel lawn, crowding around a chef cooking food, watching movies, playing carrom and celebrating the birthday of an MLA. In a video, mostly women legislators including minister Mamta Bhupesh and Olympian Krishna Poonia are seen among others crowding around a chef. "The MLAs are seen without wearing face masks and not following social distancing norms. The government is not allowing the gathering of more than 50 people in view of the coronavirus pandemic but no such rule is followed here," BJP state president Satish Poonia said. "There is no governance in the state now. People are looking at the ministers (for relief), but they are busy in the luxury hotel," he said. The MLAs were shifted to the five-star hotel on the Delhi Highway in Jaipur following a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party at chief minister's residence on Monday. Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs supporting have rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot government. The Congress has sacked Pilot, Vishvenda Singh and Ramesh Meena from the Gehlot cabinet and suspended the party membership of two MLAs -- Vishvendra Singh and Bhanwarlal Sharma -- for their alleged involvement in the "conspiracy to topple the government". After notices of disqualification were issued to them by the Assembly speaker on the basis of a complaint by government chief whip Mahesh Joshi, 19 MLAs, including Pilot, moved a writ petition in the high court challenging the notices. Pilot and the Congress dissidents have got a four-day reprieve from any action by Rajasthan Speaker on the disqualification notices served on them, as the high court on Friday extended the hearing into their petition to the next week. The Rajasthan High Court will resume the hearing at 10:00 am on Monday and Speaker C P Joshi will not take any action on the disqualification notices till 5:30 pm on Tuesday. Speaker C P Joshi had written to the court that he will not act on the notices till 5 pm on Friday, by when the court proceedings were earlier expected to be over. His counsel agreed to extend this breather to 5:30 pm on Tuesday as the division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta had not delivered its order by that time. An assembly statement said this was mutually agreed by both sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-crisis-ashok-gehlot-camp-mlas-performing-yoga-getting-cooking-tips-at-5-star-hotel-862775.html
18-07-2020||National Politics||Rajnath Singh visits key forward post in volatile Keran sector in North Kashmir||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday visited a sensitive forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in North Kashmir's volatile Keran sector that has been witnessing frequent incidents of unprovoked firing by Pakistan Army and cross-border infiltration bids by terrorists. The defence minister's visit to the area came a day after he directed the top military brass in Jammu and Kashmir to strongly retaliate to any Pakistani "misadventure" along the LoC and foil all attempts by the "adversary" to push terrorists into the Indian side. Singh was accompanied to the high-altitude North Hill post by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Northern Army Commander Lt Gen YK Joshi and Commander of Chinar Corps Lt Gen BS Raju among others. Before arriving at the post, Singh visited the holy cave of Amarnath and offered prayers. At the post, the local Army commander briefed Singh about the overall situation in the area and how Indian troops are relentlessly foiling Pakistan Army's attempts in the sector to push terrorists into the Kashmir Valley. "The visit by the defence minister and the top Army brass to Keran sector is a clear message to Pakistan that India will appropriately respond to its attempts to create problem in Kashmir," said a senior official on the condition of anonymity. Singh spent around an hour at the post during which he interacted with the soldiers and hailed them for guarding the LoC round-the-clock despite the harsh weather and other trying circumstances. "The whole country is proud of you all," Singh told them during the impromptu interaction. Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic in the region, Pakistan has been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC and making concerted efforts to push militants into Kashmir. The Pakistani hostilities increased after India announced its decision to withdraw special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcate the state into two union territories in August last year. The Keran sector has particularly been witnessing significant rise in number of ceasefire violations and cross border infiltration attempts. The area was the scene of a deadly operation in April in which five elite army commandos laid down their lives while eliminating a group of infiltrating terrorists. The Pakistan Army resorts to border shelling as a cover to help Pakistan-based terrorists infiltrate into Kashmir. "Visited a forward post near LoC in Kupwara District of Jammu-Kashmir today and interacted with the soldiers deployed there. We are extremely proud of these brave and courageous soldiers who are defending our country in every situation," Singh tweeted At a security review meeting with top Army officials in Srinagar on Friday, Singh asked them give a befitting reply to any "misadventure" by Pakistan. Fourteen Indians were killed and 88 sustained injuries in more than 2,432 incidents of unprovoked ceasefire violations carried out by Pakistani forces till June this year, according to official data. In 2019, Pakistani troops resorted to 3,200 ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir which was highest in the last 16 years, according to the data. Of these, 1,565 ceasefire violations took place since between August and December after India reorganised Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 2,936 instances of violation of the 2003 ceasefire by Pakistan. Singh arrived in Srinagar on Friday afternoon on a two-day visit to Kashmir. Earlier on Friday, he had visited forward posts in Stakna and Lukung in eastern Ladakh amid the LAC standoff with China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajnath-singh-visits-key-forward-post-in-volatile-keran-sector-in-north-kashmir-862860.html
18-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan political crisis: Gulab Chand Kataria demands CBI inquiry into audio tape row||Leader of Opposition in Rajasthan Gulab Chand Kataria on Saturday demanded a CBI inquiry into the audiotape controversy, alleging that Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot was misusing government agencies to save his post. The BJP leader said phone tapping is a violation of privacy and it is conducted after permission from the home department. "Chief Minister Gehlot is also conspiring to intimidate and threaten legislators by misusing government agencies to remain in power," Kataria told reporters. "The CBI should conduct an inquiry in the matter," he said. He questioned if the ruling Congress has the majority in the state assembly then why its MLAs have been kept in a hotel. There had been infighting between the chief minister and Sachin Pilot since the government formation, which led to the present circumstances, Kataria said. "All the allegations made by Congress on the BJP are false. The Congress alleges that the BJP and its leaders are plotting to topple the Gehlot government, which is wrong," he said. As the question mark over the survival of the Congress-led government in the desert state loomed large, two audio clips remained at the centre of the Rajasthan political tangle with attention shifting, even if momentarily, from the Congress’ internecine Gehlot vs Sachin Pilot feud to its battle with the BJP. Rajasthan Police's Anti-Corruption Bureau registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act in connection with the two clips of conversations purportedly regarding a "conspiracy" to topple Gehlot’s rule -- thrown into instability by rebel MLAs led by Pilot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-gulab-chand-kataria-demands-cbi-inquiry-into-audio-tape-row-862873.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Couple, son killed in Pakistani shelling in Jammu and Kashmir||Three members of a family were killed when Pakistani troops shelled various forward areas and civilian places along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Friday, prompting the Indian Army to give a befitting reply, officials said. "At around 2120 hours on Friday, Pakistani Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and resorting to shelling of mortars along the LoC in Gulpur sector of Poonch district," a defence spokesperson said. Pakistan army also shelled heavily the hamlets along the LoC in Khari Karmara sector, officials said. A shell landed on a house in Karmara village in which Mohd Rafiq (58), his wife Rafia Bi (50) and son Irfan (15) died on the spot, they said, adding that some houses have been damaged and a few people injured. "The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly," the officials said. Firing and shelling between the two sides were going on when the last report came in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/couple-son-killed-in-pakistani-shelling-in-jammu-and-kashmir-862602.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Three of a family killed in Pakistan shelling along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir||In fresh escalation of tension along the Line of Control (LoC), a husband-wife duo and their teenage son were killed when Pakistani army shelled forward posts and civilian areas in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday night. A defence spokesperson said at around 9:20 pm on Friday, Pakistani Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and resorting to shelling of mortars along the LoC in Gulpur sector of Poonch. Officials said Pakistan army also heavily shelled Khari Karmara village along the LoC and one of the 120 mm mortar shell hit a residential house in the village killing a husband and wife, and their 15-year-old son. The slain were identified as Mohammad Rafiq (52) his wife Rafiq Bi (50) and their teenage son Irfan Ahmad. Another family member also got injured in the incident, who was evacuated to the hospital amid heavy shelling in the area, they said. Deputy Commissioner (DC) Poonch, Rahul Yadav confirmed that three persons died and another one was injured in the cross-border shelling. A few days back, two women were killed in Pakistan shelling in Mendhar sector of Poonch, taking civilian casualties this month in the border district to five.Sources said that the Pakistan army also tried to push a group of three to four armed infiltrators into the Indian territory under the cover of firing and shelling but their plot was foiled with timely retaliation by the Indian army. The infiltrators reportedly escaped back from the LoC without trying to make any attempt to enter into this side finding the troops alert. Pakistan army has been regularly resorting to ceasefire violations and aiding and abetting infiltration attempts by the militants along the LoC. A number of infiltration attempts have been thwarted by the army along the LoC leading to the killing of several infiltrating militants in recent weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-of-a-family-killed-in-pakistan-shelling-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-862639.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Day after killing Jaish commander, forces gun down four militants in Kashmir||Four unidentified militants were killed in an early morning encounter with security forces in south Kashmir's Shopian district on Saturday. The encounter broke out after a joint team of Army’s 62 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Amshipora village of Shopian, 55 kms from here, on a ‘specific information’ about the presence of militants in the area. As a joint search team of forces approached the suspected area, the hiding militants fired upon them and in the retaliatory action by the forces four militants were killed, a police official said. However, the identity and the group affiliation of the slain militants was not known immediately. The latest encounter came a day after the killing of three militants, including a Jaish-e-Mohammed commander believed to be an IED expert, in neighboring Kulgam district. IGP Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, termed the killing of the Jaish commander as a big success for forces. More than 130 militants have been killed in different operations across Jammu and Kashmir this year. Those killed include top commanders of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, Lashker-e-Toiba and the Jaish. In June only 48 militants were killed, most of them in the four districts of south Kashmir, during various encounters with security forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-after-killing-jaish-commander-forces-gun-down-four-militants-in-kashmir-862642.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Were phones of politicians tapped in Rajasthan, asks BJP; demands CBI probe||The BJP on Saturday asked if the Congress government in Rajasthan resorted to "unconstitutional" methods to tap phones of politicians and demanded a CBI probe into what it called a "saga of illegalities and concocted lies". BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra hit back at the Congress a day after it cited some audio clips to accuse some saffron party leaders, including Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, of conspiring to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in the state. Patra said senior Congress leaders, including Chief Minister Gehlot, have been claiming that these audio clips are authentic even though the FIR registered by police does not say so. "These are serious questions that we want to ask the Congress high command and Ashok Gehlot. Was phone tapping done? Assuming that you've tapped phones, was the SOP followed? Did the Congress government in Rajasthan use unconstitutional ways to save themselves when they found themselves cornered?" Patra asked at a press conference. People of Rajasthan want to know whether their privacy has been compromised, he said, asking if phones of people related to politics are being tapped? "Is it not a case of veiled emergency in Rajasthan?" he asked. Patra demanded an immediate reaction from the state government and called for a CBI investigation into this "saga of illegalities and concocted lies". He cited regulations governing phone tapping to say that it can only be done by authorised agencies as per due process of law and subject to approved safeguards and a standard operating procedure (SOP). The Congress on Friday demanded the arrest of union minister Shekhawat and rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma after two audio clips surfaced pertaining to the alleged conspiracy to topple the Gehlot government. The BJP had described the audio clips as "manufactured". Shekhawat has denied the charge too, saying the voice in these clips was not his. He said he was ready to face any probe. Patra also insisted that the political crisis in Rajasthan is an outcome of factional feud between Gehlot and rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot and noted that the chief minister has said that he was not on "talking terms" with his deputy for 18 months. The two groups had been fighting since the Congress won the assembly elections in the state in 2018 over who would become chief minister, the BJP spokesperson said. They have been in a "cold war", he said. Scoffing at the Congress's allegation that the BJP was behind the rebellion, Patra cited Gehlot's recent digs at Pilot and said the conspiracy grew within the state's ruling party. "The political drama unfolding in the Congress in Rajasthan is a cocktail of conspiracies, concocted stories, manufactured lies and illegalities... The sin was theirs. Conspiracies existed within the Congress," he alleged. The Congress has a history of "phone tapping and bugging", Patra said, and referred to a row involving Pranab Mukherjee and P Chidambaram, both senior ministers in the erstwhile Congress-led UPA government, over alleged snooping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/were-phones-of-politicians-tapped-in-rajasthan-asks-bjp-demands-cbi-probe-862662.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: 2 die in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, 14 patients recover||According to Chief Medical Officer Praveen Chopra, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the district stood at 123 on Friday. A total of 357 patients have recovered from the disease in the district so far, he said. Two people, who were admitted to a dedicated Covid-19 facility in Meerut, died, whereas 14 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-2-die-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-14-patients-recover-862663.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Indore SEZ exports log marginal decline in Apr-June amid Covid-19 pandemic||Exports from Indore Special Economic Zone (SEZ) have not been impacted much due to the coronavirus outbreak, with outward shipments dropping merely 1.14 per cent in April-June, an official said. The multi-product Indore SEZ logged exports worth Rs 2,555.42 crore in the first quarter of the ongoing fiscal as against Rs 2,584.88 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. In this, 70 per cent contribution was of medicines, according to a union commerce ministry official. Despite the lockdowns imposed due to Covid-19, the production in pharma units continued as the government kept it under essential services category, the official said. In Indore SEZ, he said, 60 units belonging to different segments including packaging material, engineering, textile-manufacturing, food-processing and others are functioning. Among them 20 alone are from the pharma sector. This SEZ is spread across an area of 1,100 hectares. With IT services demand rising during the lockdown, the four IT SEZ also recorded growth in software exports. The first quarter ended June 30 saw Crystal IT Park exporting softwares worth Rs 107.52 crore, followed by TCS Rs 102.95 crore, Impetus Rs 28.30 crore and Infosys Rs 11.36 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-sez-exports-log-marginal-decline-in-apr-june-amid-covid-19-pandemic-862668.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Woman, daughter attempt self-immolation outside Uttar Pradesh CM's office||A woman and her daughter set themselves on fire in front of the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister's Office here allegedly over police inaction in a land dispute case in Amethi. The mother-daughter duo sustained burn injuries and were admitted to the civil hospital where their condition was said to be critical, police said. The incident took place at around 5.40 pm on Friday in the state capital's high-security zone as it houses the assembly as well as the Lok Bhawan -- the office of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The police personnel posted there swung into action as they saw the women engulfed in flames and rescued them, they said. A video of the incident went viral on social media. "They had some dispute in the Jamo area in Amethi. They had come here but didn't approach anyone and instead tried to immolate themselves in front of Lok Bhawan," a senior police officer said. "We are probing the matter," the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-daughter-attempt-self-immolation-outside-uttar-pradesh-cms-office-862678.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Bike-borne assailant held after shootout with Noida Police||A motorcycle-borne assailant was held when he got injured in police firing in the heart of the city while fleeing after snatching a man's mobile phone on Saturday morning, police said. The accused has been identified as Delhi's Trilokpuri resident Sajid (21). He has around 18 cases of loot and house-trespassing registered against him in the national capital and Noida, the police said. His accomplice, however, managed to flee from the spot when the shootout broke out near the Radisson Hotel in Sector 18 around 6 am, they said. "The accused had snatched a mobile phone from a man, a resident of Sector 49, near Kailash Hospital. The information was relayed on the police network and the duo, who was on a motorcycle, intercepted in Sector 18," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Ranvijay Singh said. "Finding himself surrounded by the police near the multilevel parking, the accused opened fire on the police team, while his accomplice ran away towards the drain and escaped. Sajid got hit on his leg during the retaliatory fire and was held," Singh said. The officer said Sajid was taken to a hospital for treatment while a combing operation was launched in the area to nab his accomplice. An illegal firearm, along with some ammunition, was seized from his possession and the motorcycle was impounded, he said. Further proceedings in the case were underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bike-borne-assailant-held-after-shootout-with-noida-police-862679.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Man approaches cops against tailor for stitching underpants 'too short'||A 46-year-old man has approached the Bhopal police with a complaint that a tailor has stitched his underpants "too short". The police, however, asked the man- Krishna Kumar Dubey- to move the court to get the issue resolved. Dubey, who was earlier employed as a security guard and used to earn Rs 9,000 per month, lost his job due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown two months ago. "I am from Sidhi district of Madhya Pradesh and I came to Bhopal for a job in October. Recently, I borrowed Rs 1,000 from a friend and bought different things, including a two metre-long cloth to get two underpants stitched," Dubey, who lives in Bhim Nagar here, said. He paid Rs 190 to the tailor for the job. However, according to him, when he wore the underpants, he found them too short. "I complained to the tailor, who told me that the cloth was inadequate. I went back to the shop owner, who told me that he had given two metres of cloth," he added. The man then approached the police a couple of days back, who asked him to take up the matter to court. "We asked him to approach the court," Habibganj police station inspector Rakesh Shrivastava on Saturday said. However, the tailor finally told Dubey that he was ready to return his money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-approaches-cops-against-tailor-for-stitching-underpants-too-short-862695.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Riots cases: Anil Baijal asks Arvind Kejriwal to decide on Delhi Police's request for lawyers in 7 days||Citing difference of opinion with the AAP dispensation, Lt Governor Anil Baijal has written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asking him to decide within a week on the Delhi Police's proposal to appoint six senior advocates for arguing on its behalf in cases related to riots and anti-CAA protests. Baijal, in his letter to Kejriwal, said that acting Home Minister Manish Sisodia did not agree to the Delhi Police proposal despite the force providing detailed justification for it. The Delhi Police has proposed to appoint six senior advocates to argue on its behalf in 85 cases of riots in Northeast Delhi and assign 24 cases of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to special public prosecutors, sources said. The lieutenant governor said that he had called the file pertaining to the matter for perusal on July 14 under Rule of 19 (5) of the Transaction of Business Rules (TBR), the sources said. Baijal said that he had requested the home minister to reconsider his decision and agree to the proposal of the Delhi Police. Sources said that there was a meeting between Baijal and Sisodia through video conference on Friday to settle the difference of opinion, but the matter could not be resolved. "Since the difference of opinion still persists, I would request the chief minister to expeditiously refer the matter to the Council of Ministers under Rule 49 of TBR of GNCTD, 1992 with Section 45 (c) of the Government of NCT Act, 1991. "In view of urgency and sensitivity of matter, it is requested that the decision of Cabinet be communicated expeditiously, preferably within a week," a source quoted Baijal as having said in the letter. Sources also said that if the Delhi Cabinet doesn't agree with the Delhi Police's request, the L-G will have an option to invoke his special powers under the provisions of Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution. The first round of confrontation between the AAP dispensation and the L-G's office had emerged in June over the appointment of 11 special public prosecutors to argue cases pertaining to the communal riots in northeast Delhi in February. When the Delhi government had rejected the police's request on the issue, the L-G had invoked the power under Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/riots-cases-anil-baijal-asks-arvind-kejriwal-to-decide-on-delhi-polices-request-for-lawyers-in-7-days-862699.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan governor should recommend President's Rule: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati said on Saturday that Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra should take cognisance of the instability in the state and recommend President's Rule. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, she said, had openly violated the Anti-Defection law and cheated the BSP for a second time by getting its MLAs included in the Congress. "And it is also evident he did an illegal and unconstitutional thing by phone tapping," Mayawati said in a series of tweets in Hindi. "The governor (of Rajasthan) must take cognisance of the political deadlock and instability prevailing in Rajasthan, and should recommend imposition of President's Rule in the state, so that the condition of democracy in the state does not deteriorate," she said. Sachin Pilot and other Congress dissidents have got a four-day reprieve from any action by Rajasthan Speaker on the disqualification notices served on them, as the high court on Friday extended the hearing into their petition to the next week. The Rajasthan High Court will resume the hearing at 10 am on Monday and Speaker C P Joshi will not take any action on the disqualification notices till 5.30 pm on Tuesday. Outside the courtroom, the Congress and its government in Rajasthan acted tough, even sending a police team to a hotel in Gurgaon's Manesar where the dissidents are supposed to be holed up. Pilot and 18 other dissident MLAs are challenging the Congress move to disqualify them from the state assembly, and were initially asked to send their replies by 1 pm on Friday. Speaker C P Joshi had written to the court that he will not act on the notices till 5 pm on Friday, by when the court proceedings were earlier expected to be over. His counsel agreed to extend this breather to 5.30 pm on Tuesday as the division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta had not delivered its order by that time. An assembly statement said this was mutually agreed by both sides. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the president of the state unit of the party after he rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The BJP has demand for a CBI probe into the audio tapes that showed a conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-governor-should-recommend-presidents-rule-mayawati-862701.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Haryana girl, set ablaze by man accused of raping her, succumbs to burn injuries||A 15-year-old girl, who was allegedly set afire by a man accused of raping her and his accomplice, succumbed to burn injuries at a hospital in Haryana, police said on Saturday. According to the girl's family, the duo set her ablaze in the wee hours of Thursday while she was sleeping at her home. On July 14, family members of the minor had lodged a police complaint in which they alleged that the 22-year-old man living in the neighbourhood raped her and made a video of the act, a police official said. The family had also alleged that the man used the video to blackmail the 15-year-old girl, he said. "The girl died on Friday at PGIMS at Rohtak due to the burn injuries," Bhiwani Sadar Police Station's SHO Shri Bhagwan said over the phone. The father of the main accused had committed suicide after the girl's family had lodged a police complaint, he said. The SHO said some members of the girl's family were booked for abetting the suicide. The main accused was arrested on Thursday evening and remanded to police custody, the police official said. He has been booked for rape and murder, the SHO said, adding that further invesigations were underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-girl-set-ablaze-by-man-accused-of-raping-her-succumbs-to-burn-injuries-862705.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Chattisgarh government imposes penalties for violating coronavirus lockdown norms||The Chhattisgarh government on Saturday decided to impose penalties ranging from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 for spitting in public places and violating home quarantine and social distancing measures, an official said. The government had earlier fixed a fine of Rs 100 for not wearing face masks in public places. For violating home quarantine instructions, a fine of Rs 1,000 will be imposed. Owners of commercial institutions and shops will be liable to pay Rs 200 in penalty if social distancing protocols are flouted in their facilities, the official said. As per a notification issued in this regard by the Health department, nayab tehsildars, assistant sub-inspectors and officers authorised by district magistrates concerned will be designated for recovering fine from violators, he said. Non-payment of penalty will attract legal action under provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, he added. It is mandatory for every person to wear face masks or face cover in public places, offices, workplaces, factories, hospitals, markets, crowded places and streets. Similarly, every person will have to wear face masks or cover while travelling by two-wheelers and four-wheelers, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chattisgarh-government-imposes-penalties-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-862739.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 outbreak in Indore may reach its peak by early August||Health authorities have expressed fears that the Covid-19 outbreak in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district, which has so far reported more than 5,900 cases, is likely to reach its peak by late July or early August. In view of this possibility, the authorities have started gearing up to reserve more than 10,000 beds for coronavirus patients in the district hospitals. According to officials, more than 125 Covid-19 cases were reported in the district for the last three consecutive days. Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO), Praveen Jadia, on Saturday said that the total count of Covid-19 patients in the district has reached 5,906 after 136, 129 and 145 new cases were reported in the last three days respectively. Indore is the worst-affected district in the state. "We estimate that the coronavirus outbreak in the district may reach its peak in late July or early August. We are reviewing the medical arrangements," he said. The CMHO said that 1,443 Covid-19 patients were being treated in the district, whereas a total of 7,000 beds were reserved for such patients in hospitals. "We are preparing to reserve more than 10,000 beds in hospitals for the coronavirus patients in hospitals considering the possibility that the outbreak may reach its peak in the coming days. We are holding discussions with the hospital management in this regard," he said. Jadia said that in the last four months, 288 patients have succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the district, while 4,175 people have recovered after treatment. After the lifting of curbs as part of 'Unlock 1', people had started coming out on the streets and started visiting public places and workplaces. However, in a bid to prevent the spread of the virus, the administration once again imposed some restrictions recently. District Collector Manish Singh said that a "left-right" system has been introduced for business establishments in Indore city as a new way to curb the spread. Under this, shops on the right side of the road will be allowed to open on one day, followed by those on the other side the next day. Singh said that the government personnel cannot be deployed everywhere to monitor the situation and people must take care to protect themselves from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-outbreak-in-indore-may-reach-its-peak-by-early-august-862747.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Four cops suspended, three arrested for 'encouraging' mother-daughter self-immolation||In what many suspect to be a cover-up exercise, Uttar Pradesh police on Saturday claimed that the lady and her daughter, who had set themselves ablaze in front of the chief minister Yogi Adityanath's office at Lok Bhavan here on Friday evening in protest against alleged police apathy, had been 'encouraged' to do so by leaders of some political parties to 'tarnish' the image of the state government. Three persons, including a district president of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), were arrested on charges of 'inciting' the duo to set themselves ablaze. Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey said here Amethi district president of AIMIM Kadeer Khan and a Congress leader Anoop Patel had 'encouraged' the duo to set themselves ablaze before the CM office here. Two members of the family of the lady and her daughter were also involved in the conspiracy and had been arrested, he said. Pandey also said that the duo had visited the local Congress office here and met Patel. He said that it was a conspiracy to 'malign' the UP government. Union minister and MP from Amethi, Smriti Irani also sought to blame Congress for the incident. ''They (Cong) can not fight the BJP...they lost Amethi and the princess (Priyanka) now wants a shot at the throne,'' she tweeted. The lady and her daughter, residents of Jamo area in Amethi, had set themselves ablaze before the CM office in protest against alleged failure of the local police to act against the people, who had assaulted them following a dispute over a nullah. The cops on duty there managed to douse the flames and rushed the duo to the hospital, where the condition of the mother was stated to be ''very critical''. Four cops at Jamo police station have been suspended in this regard. Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders slammed the state government for trying to ''cover up'' the incident. ''It is an attempt to hide its failure,'' said a senior Congress leader here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-cops-suspended-three-arrested-for-encouraging-mother-daughter-self-immolation-862748.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Ex-Delhi MLA ensures dignity in death for Covid-19 patients||With their families quarantined or refusing to perform their last rites due to the fear of catching the infection, former Shahdara MLA Jitender Singh Shunty and his team are ensuring dignity in death for Covid-19 patients. Shunty's non-profit organisation Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal (SBSSD) has been cremating unclaimed bodies for 25 years. The last few months, however, have been especially busy for SBSSD as bodies pile up in hospital mortuaries amid the pandemic. Shunty said local officials sought SBSSD's help in March as the pandemic intensified in the national capital. "Since then we have been providing ambulance, hearse and cremation services to anyone in need in cooperation with local administration and hospitals. As of Friday, bodies of 272 Covid-19 patients have been cremated with our help," he said. "We have so far cremated over 35 bodies. The relatives of these people were quarantined and unable to attend the last rites. However, there have also been instances where family members left the bodies unattended and we had to cremate them after due permission from the authorities," he said. SBSSD operates a fleet of over a dozen hearses and bears the entire expense for cremation, according to the former MLA. Shunty tested positive for Covid-19 last month and is quarantined at home with his wife, sons and over half a dozen staff. However, he is undeterred and waiting to join his team again. "We are fine now but staying at home as per doctor's advice. Our work is going on even though some of the staff have been infected. As soon as I fully recover, I will be out to help the people," he said. Shunty said he was pained by the stigmatisation of those infected with Covid-19. The SBSSD is active in trans-Yamuna areas of Shahdara, East and North East Delhi, but now, Shunty said, it has started receiving calls for help from other parts of the city as well. The work done by Shunty and his NGO has been lauded by Shahdara, East Delhi and North East Delhi district administrations. "Jitender Singh and his organisation are doing an incredible job in helping out people and by extending cremation services during the pandemic," said East Delhi District Magistrate Arun Mishra. Besides helping in cremations, SBSSD provides ambulances, food and other essential items for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-delhi-mla-ensures-dignity-in-death-for-covid-19-patients-862760.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Interstate arms supply gang busted in Muzaffarnagar, 9 held||Police have busted a gang involved in illegal supply of arms with the arrest of nine people in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district on Saturday, officials said. According to Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishekh Yadav, a police team, led by SHO K P Singh, raided an illegal arms manufacturing unit in Jolla village under Budhana police station limits and seized a large quantity of weapons, including 44 pistols, and nabbed nine people. Three persons managed to flee during the raid, the senior superintendent of police added. During interrogation, the suspects revealed that the gang used to supply the illegal firearms manufactured in western UP and Haryana, police said. The SSP has announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for the police team, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/interstate-arms-supply-gang-busted-in-muzaffarnagar-9-held-862778.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh cop booked for assaulting woman constable over marriage||A police station in-charge in Dindori district in Madhya Pradesh has been booked for allegedly assaulting a woman constable, an official said on Saturday. The incident happened on Friday and accused Hemant Barve, in charge of Shahpura police station, is on the run and has been suspended, he said. "A woman constable has complained Barve was pressurising her for marriage. On Friday evening, he forcibly entered the constable's home in the police line area, and beat her up when she refused to accept his marriage proposal," said Kotwali police station in-charge CK Sirame. Barve has been charged under sections 294 (obscene act), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 452 (trespassing) and 506 (criminal intimidation) among others of IPC. Barve was suspended by Additional Director General of Police (Shahdol Range) G Janardhan, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cop-booked-for-assaulting-woman-constable-over-marriage-862781.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Muslim clerics in UP seek ban on release of Iranian film on Prophet Muhammad||Muslim clerics here on Saturday demanded a ban on the digital release of Iranian film 'Muhammad: The Messenger of God', claiming its screening would be "an insult to Islam". They said they will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that the film is not released in India. Based on the life of Prophet Muhammad, the film was originally released in 2015. Maulana Sahabuddin, general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Tanzeem Ulema-e-Islam, said religious organisations propagate Islam and films are not needed. "To ensure that the film is not released in India, a delegation of maulanas will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Time will be sought from the prime minister. We are hopeful that once the information about the film reaches him, its release will be stopped." "Initially, we had decided not to oppose the film openly. The tendency in India is that a film becomes a hit if it is opposed publicly. But now the atmosphere is different. There is tremendous anger among Muslims. Screening of this film will be an insult to Islam," he said without elaborating. Shahar Imam of Bareilly Khursheed Alam echoed the same sentiment. "A Muslim can tolerate anything but an attack on the honour of Hazrat Muhammad Sahab. The Centre should not allow the film's release so that peace prevails and the atmosphere is not vitiated," he said. 'Muhammad: The Messenger of God' is slated to be released on digital platforms on July 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-clerics-in-up-seek-ban-on-release-of-iranian-film-on-prophet-muhammad-862784.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Devotees hoping to pay obeisance at Amarnath cave shrine start reaching Jammu||A group of six devotees from Ranchi in Jharkhand has reached here with a hope to pay obeisance at the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir Himalayas. The initially proposed 42-day yatra was scheduled to commence from the twin tracks of Pahalgam and Ganderbal in Kashmir on June 23 but was delayed due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Though the Jammu and Kashmir administration announced its plan to undertake the yatra in a “restricted manner” this time and only 500 devotees will be allowed by road per day from Jammu to the cave shrine, the high court on July 15 had directed the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) to take an urgent decision on holding the pilgrimage while ensuring that the right to health of every person is at the highest pedestal. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday visited the holy cave shrine and offered prayers there. Singh, who was accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, spent about an hour at the temple complex. There has been a spike in coronavirus cases over the past couple of weeks, especially in Kashmir, forcing the local administration to reimpose the lockdown in different parts of the Valley, including summer capital Srinagar. “Despite coronavirus casting its shadow on the annual yatra, we are hopeful of offering our prayers at the shrine in the coming days,” Deepak Choudhary, who along with his five friends has reached here, said. The group from Jharkhand is staying at a hotel near the Bus Stand here after they were allegedly denied permission to stay at the Yatri Niwas, the base camp for the pilgrims at Bhagwati Nagar locality of Jammu. The Yatri Niwas, which was earlier turned into a Covid care centre, is being prepared for the pilgrimage which is likely to start later this month for a two-week duration. “I have been performing this yatra for the last 11 years. We used to be part of a strong 150-member group but this time we are only six friends visiting the shrine,” Choudhary said. He said they were subjected to screening on their arrival at Lakhanpur, the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir, bordering Punjab. “We were also sampled for Covid-19.” Manoj Kumar Jaishwal, who is part of the group and is coming for the yatra for the 26th time, said, “We are looking forward to a positive response from the government.” Sumit Kumar said he will pray for “corona-free India” besides offering prayers for the safety and welfare of his family during his visit to the shrine, which houses the naturally formed ice-shivling. The SASB, which manages the annual yatra, has made adequate arrangements for carrying on the regular religious rituals at the shrine. To facilitate the 'darshan' this year, the government had also started a live telecast of 'Baba Amarnathji Arti' on Doordarshan National and live streaming on Youtube so that the devotees can have the glimpse of Lord Shiva without joining the yatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/devotees-hoping-to-pay-obeisance-at-amarnath-cave-shrine-start-reaching-jammu-862787.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath launches employment scheme for Scheduled Castes||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday launched 'Navin Rojgar Chhatri Yojana' for all-round development of the Scheduled Castes. He transferred financial assistance of Rs 17.42 crore online to 3,484 people under the 'Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Swarojgar Yojana' and interacted with some beneficiaries from Rae Bareli, Gorakhpur, Basti, Meerut, Azamgarh and Moradabad districts through video conferencing. The chief minister said, "Economic equality becomes the basis of social equality. The society with one of its sections becoming strong while another remaining weak will not be able to become self reliant. It is necessary that there is a balance in the society and this balance should also be at the economic level." During the video conference, the beneficiaries of the scheme informed Adityanath that they will use the money for setting up general merchant shops, laundry and dry cleaning, cybercafe and tent house. "Under such circumstances also, the state government is extending financial help to make people self dependent," he said. He also stressed that the state government is committed towards providing employment to labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-launches-employment-scheme-for-scheduled-castes-862791.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: POCSO court sentences 63-year-old man to life term for raping teen daughter||A POCSO court in Rajasthan's Baran district has convicted a 63-year-old man to life imprisonment for raping his teenaged daughter at his house in 2017. The court also imposed a penalty of Rs 25,000 on the convict. Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Court - 1 of Baran district pronounced the verdict on Friday as it convicted Bhagwan Lal Galav (63), a resident of Mamli village under Nahargarh police station limts of Baran district, to life term till his natural death for raping his then 13-year-old daughter, Public Prosecutor (PP) of POCSO Court – 1 Ghansilal Verma said. On the night of December 1, 2017, Galav raped his 13-year-old daughter while she was asleep next to him at his house while other members of the family were in another room, the public prosecutor said. The minor girl narrated the ordeal to her mother the following day after which a case of rape was lodged against the father under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the POCSO Act at Nahargarh police station, Verma further said. Following a trial that lasted for more than two years, the special judge of POCSO Court – 1 Rakesh Katara held Galav guilty of rape and convicted him to a life term in jail, the public prosecutor added. In the judgement, the court said that the crime of rape with a minor daughter reflected distorted mentality and moral degradation and also hurts the self respect of women. If the accused in such crimes escape punishment, it would invite distrust of people upon the law and legal system, the special judge observed while delivering the verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-pocso-court-sentences-63-year-old-man-to-life-term-for-raping-teen-daughter-862805.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Forensic experts recreate Vikas Dubey's encounter site||Dubey was shot dead in a shootout after a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area, police had said. Senior Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) experts along with other team members recreated the scene of the encounter with the help of Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force, said a senior FSL official who did not wish to be named. In order to cross-examine the encounter theory narrated by the STF and local police, the scene of the shootout has been recreated by forensic experts, he added. The FSL team along with the STF inspected the place where the police vehicle, which was ferrying Dubey, overturned due to rain and high speed. Following the crash, the gangster was surrounded and asked to surrender but he refused and fired at the police personnel, the police had claimed. Most of the officers from the STF including CO (STF Kanpur unit), TB Singh, and Kanpur Police who took part in the encounter were also present at the spot, the official said further. The STF and Kanpur Police were instructed to remain present at the spot to help the forensic experts team to recreate the scene.     A K Srivastava, a senior FSL official, told media persons that the state government has already issued instruction to recreate the encounter and submit the findings. “We have recreated the scene and forensic findings would also be submitted to the government at the earliest," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-forensic-experts-recreate-vikas-dubeys-encounter-site-862807.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: Rs 25 lakh Insurance cover for local body members for militancy-related deaths||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday announced a life insurance cover of Rs 25 lakh each to all elected members of Panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies (ULBs) of the union territory in case of death due to a militancy-related incident. The decision is aimed at strengthening the grassroots democracy by providing a sense of security to the elected members of local bodies who are under constant threat from militants, an official spokesman said. The Administrative Council (AC), which met here under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu, approved a life insurance cover of Rs 25 lakh each to all elected block development council (BDC) chairmen, sarpanches, panches and all elected members of municipal bodies of Jammu and Kashmir in case of death due to a militancy-related incident, he said. The spokesman said the life insurance cover will act as a guarantee for the subsistence of the family members of the elected representatives who die in militancy-related incidents. It will ensure that their families do not face economic distress and poverty in case of any untoward incident as well as fulfil basic needs of nutrition, education and health in adverse circumstances, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-rs-25-lakh-insurance-cover-for-local-body-members-for-militancy-related-deaths-862810.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Income Tax department to summon promoters of Rajasthan-based firms in tax evasion case||The Income Tax Department will soon summon the promoters of three Rajasthan-based groups whom it had raided earlier this week for alleged tax evasion, officials said on Saturday. They said the sleuths had recorded the statements of some employees of these firms when the searches were launched on July 13 at 43 premises in Mumbai, Delhi, Kota and Jaipur, amid a brewing political crisis in the ruling Congress party in the desert state. Some more summons will be issued to the main promoters of the business groups that were searched, officials said. The questioning is required to seek more details on their businesses and also to confront them with the material seized and collected, they said. Officials had said about Rs 12 crore cash and jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore were seized after the searches. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the policy-making body for the tax department, had said on Monday that "search and survey operations were conducted on three groups at 20 premises in Jaipur, six in Kota, eight in Delhi and nine in Mumbai". While the department did not identify the groups, officials said the premises of Om Metals Infraprojects Limited in Delhi and Rajasthan, Jaipur's Amrapali Jewels promoted by Rajasthan Congress leader Rajiv Arora, those of another Congress leader Dharmendra Rathore and R K Sharma, promoter of a luxury hotel in Jaipur, were covered.  The searches came amidst an intense power tussle between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy and former PCC chief Sachin Pilot. The action was criticised by the Congress party even as the department said the raids were carried out based on "reliable inputs" of tax evasion by the groups under the scanner. "One of the groups covered is involved in several business activities like hotel, hydropower projects, metal and auto sectors. It is suspected to have invested unaccounted income generated from these activities into real estate," the CBDT had said. The second group, it said, is engaged in the business of trading of silver and gold jewellery and antique silver articles and has associate enterprises in various countries like the UK and the USA, and also has properties and bank accounts in these countries. "The main allegation against the group is that a substantial part of its silver jewellery business is carried out outside the regular books of accounts," the CBDT had said. The third group, it added, is involved in the hotel business. "The source of investment in the same remains to be verified," it said. The CBDT had said several incriminating evidences in the form of loose papers, diaries, digital data were found that indicate bullion trading in cash, investment of cash in properties among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/income-tax-department-to-summon-promoters-of-rajasthan-based-firms-in-tax-evasion-case-862830.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||J&K admin approves grant of mining rights through short-term permits to PRIs||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday approved the grant of mining rights through short-term permits to Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) in the Union Territory, an official spokesman said. The Administrative Council (AC), which met here under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu, approved the amendment to the Jammu and Kashmir Minor Mineral Concession, Storage, Transportation of Minerals and Prevention of Illegal Mining Rules, 2016, the spokesman said. He said the amendment will enable the grant of short-term permits to PRIs on land up to one hectare till September 30, 2021. It also exempts PRIs from payment of advance royalty to the Geology and Mining Department before commencing mining, the spokesman said. The decision is aimed at empowering PRIs to raise funds through mining surpluses and address the shortage of key construction material in local markets, besides keeping a check on their prices, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-admin-approves-grant-of-mining-rights-through-short-term-permits-to-pris-862836.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot calls on Governor Kalraj Mishra, 'discusses Covid-19 situation'||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday evening called on Governor Kalraj Mishra here, amid a brewing political crisis in the Congress-ruled state. The meeting lasted for about 45 minutes. A Raj Bhavan spokesperson said it was a courtesy meeting during which the chief minister briefed the governor about the efforts being taken to protect the state from the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-calls-on-governor-kalraj-mishra-discusses-covid-19-situation-862842.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||AAP objects to LG's 'intervention' in appointment of special public prosecutors in Delhi riots, anti-CAA protest cases||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday objected to "constant intervention" of Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal in the appointment of special public prosecutors for cases pertaining to Delhi riots and anti-CAA protests. The party insisted that only a panel of lawyers selected by its government should be appointed and not the one recommended by the police or the Centre as the force has faced "serious allegations" on its response to the riots. Citing difference of opinion with the AAP dispensation, Lt Governor Baijal has written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asking him to decide within a week on the Delhi Police''s proposal to appoint six senior advocates for arguing on its behalf in cases related to riots and anti-CAA protests. Baijal, in his letter to Kejriwal, said that acting Home Minister Manish Sisodia did not agree to the Delhi Police proposal despite the force providing detailed justification for it. "The Aam Aadmi Party expresses its strong objection to the constant intervention of the Lt Governor in the appointment of Special Public Prosecutors for cases pertaining to Delhi riots and anti-CAA protests," the AAP said in a statement. Calling Delhi riots a "blot" on Delhi and the entire country, senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said the AAP government is committed to ensure strictest possible punishment to all those involved in the violence. "But for that to happen, independent investigation by the police and a free and fair trial are a must. The LG and the central government are insisting on the appointment of a panel of Special Public Prosecutors chosen by the central government. This is happening at a time when there are very serious allegations on the response of Delhi Police to these riots as well as how the investigation process is going on," he said. There are reports that the "police is busy implicating some people, while at the same time trying to save others," he claimed. "It is therefore extremely important that the public prosecutors for these cases are independent. If they are under the central government and appointed by Delhi Police itself, their independence is under serious question. "Therefore it is important that the panel of lawyers chosen by Delhi government represent these cases in the courts,” he added. AAP leader and MLA Raghav Chadha said under the law, specifically the CrPC, it is very clear that the Public Prosecutor is a representative of the State and not the Police. "The same principle has been upheld by the orders of the High Court of Delhi in 2016 and Supreme Court (Division bench) in 2017, and the power to appoint Public Prosecutors has been granted solely to Delhi government. "Delhi Police being the investigating agency therefore, should have no role in deciding the lawyers," Chadha said. However, under the Constitution, the Lt Governor of Delhi has special powers to overturn any decision of the elected government. The Supreme Court has made it clear that this power has to be used in the rarest of rare cases. Last month, the LG used these extraordinary powers to appoint 11 central government lawyers to represent cases pertaining to Delhi riots in the lower courts, he said. "Now, the LG wants to appoint central government lawyers to represent these cases in the High Court and Supreme Court too. "When Delhi's Home Minister Manish Sisodia, strongly objected to appoint the panel of lawyers recommended by Central government, LG yesterday wrote a letter to the chief minister conveying his disagreement with the decision of Delhi's Home Minister and directing the Council of Ministers to consider this matter and give its recommendation within a week,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-objects-to-lgs-intervention-in-appointment-of-special-public-prosecutors-in-delhi-riots-anti-caa-protest-cases-862871.html
18-07-2020||North and Central||UP technical education minister tests Covid-19 positive: Hospital sources||Uttar Pradesh Technical Education Minister Kamal Rani tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday and was admitted to the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Hospital here, sources said. The minister was later shifted to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, the hospital sources said. Earlier, Rural Development Minister Rajendra Pratap Singh alias Moti Singh, Sainik Kalyan Minister Chetan Chauhan, Ayush Minister Dharam Singh Saini and Youth Development Minister Upendra Tiwari had tested positive for the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-technical-education-minister-tests-covid-19-positive-hospital-sources-862879.html
18-07-2020||Opinion||Why the China-Iran partnership will test India||This week it was reported that China and Iran are in the process of signing a long-term, 25-year agreement valued at close to $400 billion. The agreement, proposed in 2016 by China, covers key sectors such as energy, infrastructure, and telecommunications and is likely to considerably expand China’s presence and influence in Iran.  As per the agreement, China will invest in building Iranian infrastructure, and in return, Iran will supply energy resources to China for the next 25 years. The closer relationship between China and Iran will add a positive dimension to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and has strategic implications for the geopolitics of the Middle East, balance of power in Asia and India’s security strategy. Iran has been at the loggerheads with the United States and has been facing crippling sanctions owing to its nuclear program. Last year, the US decided to withdraw from the nuclear deal with Iran, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), signed in 2015 and to apply ‘maximum pressure’ on the Iranian regime. This has made it extremely difficult for Iran to export its energy resources. For example, since 2019, India has reduced energy imports from Iran significantly. Iran and the US along with its regional allies such as Saudi Arabia are also engaged in a complex, proxy war in the broader Middle Eastern region including in civil wars and/or political competition in Syria, Iraq and Yemen. The US’ sanctions and aggressive foreign policy towards Iran have now resulted in Iran and China coming closer to each other.  Overcoming contradictions Iran and China share a similar outlook towards the US; both have an antagonistic relationship with it and are interested in reducing the US’ influence in world affairs. Both would like to challenge the existing balance of power in their respective regions and perhaps tilt it in their favour by kicking out the US. Glaring contradictions that exist in the political systems in China and Iran have not come in the way of the budding partnership. Iran is a theocratic state with a major role for religion in national affairs whereas China is a communist state and the Chinese Communist Party is officially atheist. Hard-nosed calculations of national interests always trump such contradictions as has happened in this case as well.  China’s key partner in South Asia, Pakistan, and Iran have conflicting interests towards each other over the treatment of Shia Muslims, the question of Baluchistan and the political future of Afghanistan. Strengthening of the Sino-Iranian relationship is likely to influence the Iran-Pakistan relationship positively. China’s stakes in the $ 62-billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and the promised investments in Iran are expected to provide the necessary glue for this relationship. India will not be pleased to see the cordial Iran-Pakistan relationship built with China’s nudging.  Partnerships premised on opposition to US & West It is interesting to note here that over the years, China has built closer ties with several states that have been at the odds with the US and the Western world such as North Korea and Myanmar. China has supplied these states with necessary economic, political and military support to ensure that Western sanctions and global isolation do not imperil their survival as a viable nation-state. In return, China has managed to gain immense strategic influence over these states. With Iran, China is likely to pursue a similar strategy. China has also built closer ties with Russia, which has been facing biting Western sanctions since the annexation of Crimea in 2014. China and Russia have also invested in long term energy and economic partnership and are opposed to the US strategy in the Indo-Pacific region. Ostensibly, a closer relationship between China, Russia and Iran holds the potential to not just change the balance of power in the Middle East but also influence geopolitics in Central and Inner Asia. Moreover, their partnership and convergence of interests are not just limited to the Asian mainland but also extends to the maritime domain. Last year, these three states held maritime exercises in the Gulf of Oman. Such exchanges are likely to intensify in future.   China’s overtures towards Iran could also be regarded as a part of its larger strategy to systematically increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean. China has already opened a military base at Djibouti in 2017 and is developing the port of Gwadar in Pakistan. It is rumoured that China would like to open its second military base at Gwadar. Along with Djibouti and Gwadar, significant politico-military presence in Iran will give China the ability to further solidify its footprint in the Indian Ocean and consequently, increase the capacity of the Chinese navy to operate in the region. India’s challenges For India, these strategic developments do not bode well. Closer Sino-Iranian partnership is likely to result in further deteriorating the security environment in South Asia and in the Middle East. The implications of it will be felt not just in the Indo-Iranian bilateral relationship but also in Afghanistan and towards India’s desire to establish and regularise overland connectivity to Central Asia and Russia.  Just as the news of Sino-Iranian partnership broke, it was also announced that Iran had dropped India from a key 623-km railway project that connected Chabahar port to the town of Zahedan and was expected to extend to Zaranj in Afghanistan. The timing of this announcement makes it even more remarkable. The railway project would have been crucial in facilitating India’s access to Afghanistan via Iran. India is developing the port of Chabahar in Iran and managed to get the American waiver for the railway and the port project. However, India’s inability to build the railway in time has resulted in the exclusion of India from this project. India’s difficult balancing act between Iran and the US lies at the root of these tensions between the stated commitments and their actual implementation. Iran moving into China’s orbit is an ominous development for India at a time when India-China relations are undergoing significant change and the Chinese navy is expanding its presence in the Indian Ocean.  Intensifying competition between China and the US is likely to strain many such relationships for India. The closer relationship between an energy-rich, geostrategically-located, significant Middle Eastern power like Iran with China complicates India’s external security dynamics. It is likely to test India’s ability to manoeuvre and respond to evolving strategic changes in its extended neighbourhood. (Sankalp Gurjar is a Research Fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi. Views are personal)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-the-china-iran-partnership-will-test-india-862725.html
18-07-2020||Opinion||Are these the leaders who will usher in a new world post-Covid?||Christiane Amanpour started off the Friday edition of her absolutely brilliant show Amanpour with a segment on the pandemic in Brazil with this telling comment: “America, Brazil and India are now the top three countries in the world with Covid-19 cases. The common link between the three countries – their populist leaders!” Be that as it may. Someday, this damn virus will stop mattering, regardless of our leaders. So, we must think of that post-Covid future. What will it look like? Many people are thinking, dreaming and writing about it. At DH itself, we receive dozens of articles a week predicting much good, indeed a new world in which people, leaders and countries have changed for the better; they are all working towards greater equality – social, economic, education and opportunity-wise; they are all thinking about the environment and acting to ensure that the relatively clean environment due to the lockdown becomes permanent; greedy, rapacious capitalism has given way to ‘social enterprises’; and politics and politicians have changed for the better. But that’s just us, common people and newspaper writers with too much time on their hands, and naivete. What about our leaders? What are they thinking? What kind of a post-Covid world are they building? Consider this: Bolsonaro began to preside over the destruction of the Amazon forests, called the “lungs of the world,” long before the Coronavirus struck, and continues to be at it even now. Soon, ‘Amazon’ might come to mean only Jeff Bezos’ online shop. In America, Trump is on course to reversing 100 environmental rules. And he’s getting the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the very agency meant to protect America’s air and water quality, to do it for him. The rules reversed include protections for wetlands and wildlife protected areas, vehicle emissions and fuel economy rules, mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants, rules that restricted toxic and greenhouse emissions from the fossil fuel industry, those relating to environmental impact assessment of projects, and so on. 68 rules reversed or diluted so far, 32 more to go, says the New York Times. Nearer home, in April, under cover of the lockdown, the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife, chaired by our Environment Minister, met online and cleared 16 projects of highways, railway lines and power transmission lines through national parks and wildlife sanctuaries, apart from several more in other eco-sensitive areas. These include the Hubbali-Ankola rail line, for which nearly 600 hectares of pristine forests in the Western Ghats, and some two lakh trees, will be cut down. The line will cut through tiger, elephant, leopard and sloth bear corridors and destroy them forever. Other projects will cut through a tiger corridor in Telangana, a national park in Uttarakhand, a wildlife sanctuary in Goa, and so on. For a government to be able to do such things, it has to destroy existing institutions. Just like Trump has gotten the EPA to reverse green rules, the Modi government has got the National Board for Wildlife, established under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, by the environmentally-conscious and wildlife-loving Indira Gandhi in 1972, to do exactly the opposite of its mandate. Similarly, under cover of the lockdown, the Environment Impact Assessment norms for projects ranging from Modi’s pet Central Vista project to coal mining have been redrawn to smooth the approvals process. Indeed, India’s new Parliament building will be built on lies – the environment ministry’s Expert Appraisal Committee, too, met in April and gave approval for the triangular building by considering the EIA of only that building, instead of looking at the impact that the full Central Vista project will have on Delhi. The modus operandi is simple: The Central Vista project is likely to make Delhi, whose air is already unbreathable (except during the current Covid-19 blessing), a gas and dust chamber. It will be resisted. So, approve the EIA in a piecemeal fashion so that no one piece of the Central Vista project is seen to have environmental impact beyond the threshold. Talk of the Chinese salami-slicing Indian territory on the borders. Modi is ‘conquering’ Lutyens Delhi by the same tactic! But none of this should come as a surprise to anyone. Our environment minister, Prakash Javadekar, is also our industries minister, is also our propaganda minister. The NBWL is headed by the prime minister and is by law required to meet at least twice a year. Under Manmohan Singh, it used to meet every month. Since 2014, Modi has not had time, amidst six years of polarising election campaigning, globe-trotting and collecting thousands of crores from anonymous donors via electoral bonds, to convene and chair a meeting of the NBWL even once! But last month, he had time to launch the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining – in the forests of India’s central and eastern states, which face destruction as a result. And it is government-sponsored, too – with Rs 50,000 crore of the alleged Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package earmarked for coal infrastructure development. That’s just the story of what our leaders are doing to the environment under cover of the lockdown. Meanwhile, in the states, labour laws are not being reformed but just thrown away wholesale; and arrests -- of dissidents, of alleged rioters, of seditionists, etc -- are being made as per the government’s convenience. And if all that is not enough, Covid-19 testing and treatment contracts and purchases are turning out to be lucrative business for private hospitals, ministers and officials. And you want a new, just and greener world after the Covid-19 crisis? Under these leaders?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-these-the-leaders-who-will-usher-in-a-new-world-post-covid-862905.html
18-07-2020||Opinion||Vikas Dubey as hero||It’s easy to see him as a monster who got his comeuppance. But the “encountered” outlaw Vikas Dubey is the bellwether of a form of progress for the rural poor in the reptilian world of Uttar Pradesh (UP). He proves that UP – a monstrosity holding 80 seats in the Lok Sabha – has been in an eternal state of suspended animation. Its villages along the sacred-but-filthy Ganga exhibit every conceivable human atrocity. Religious and cultural centres like Varanasi are literal drains. The politician-gangster-police-godman coils its ethos like a python. It’s cinematic that Dubey spent his last hours near the Mahakal Temple in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh. Like the faithful, he did his karma, may have gone to heaven, rid himself of the cycle of births. If you’re a believer, you’d not want the Almighty to grant him another birth on earth. Dubey’s life shows that crime pays, and pays beautifully, in UP. According to Home Ministry figures for 2016, it had more gun violence, legal and illegal arms possession than any other state in India, and by some distance. UP culture, despite its syncretism, has a yen for bloodletting. In that sense, UP is a most permissive society. Criminality has validity, as it is UP’s core competence. For those with limited means, it’s one of the few ways to make something of one’s life or just get by. Still, it must need guts and brains to live by the gun. Vikas Dubey was Bikru’s Gabbar Singh. It was his talent that UP politicians were forced to reckon with, recognise and reward. As per one report, he could swing 10,000 votes in an election. Among mobsters, he was a radical infidel who had a friends-with-benefits thing going with more than one political party. An Enforcement Directorate probe claimed his posse held properties across UP and even Dubai. Going by Indian aspirations, he’s a winner vis-à-vis his state compatriots who live in a society whose growth doesn’t level with its giant size. They say it takes a village to raise a child, and ergo, it took an ecosystem to nurture our man. And, yes, Dubey’s Bikru-Rome wasn’t built in a day. With each passing week, UP boosts its vile status. It displays an unappeasable desire for injustice, violence, inequality. UP’s majority poor are crushed under feudalism at home. So, they move for jobs to urban India where they are schemed by agents and hobbled in slums. They journey back on pigsty train compartments without protection, say during a pandemic, where they will likely return to more agony at “home”. As they footed it out two months ago, so many said they were bhagwan bharose, or “we would like to die in our own homes”. Home is where you go to die. Fatalism is UP’s legacy issue. Given what has happened this year, the current UP government has had little choice but to make the right noises in favour of its migrant workers. Though exceptions abound, the UP workers’ situation might not allow them to express their rage against the state and Union governments. Are UP folk comfortable with shabby treatment? They are. Which is why, its power-wielders know they can get away with mayhem. Though it bleeds the country, the rest of India is inured to UP’s condition. Vested interests everywhere, benefitting from exploiting poor and cheap UP workers, refrain from calling for its division. Indeed, UP’s own different parts have called for its breaking up to no avail: It has more people than any single country in Africa or South America. Obviously, it’s ungovernable. It has been that way from the time of the States Reorganisation Commission. Such facts point to accepting self-inflicted pain. Vikas Dubey broke through conventional mores. He even won local elections. Democracy bestowed him with legitimacy. We must laud him. For the cops he killed, he may merit the bravery award. One under-probe cop has asked the Supreme Court for protection. What irony. Are we ‘the world’s largest democracy’ or a banana republic in the glaring light of day? Such schizophrenia mustn’t exist anywhere on the planet. And not least, the Vikas Dubey thriller gave us a rare moment, when nobody in North Indian politics blamed Muslims for it. Yet. Just for that, please applaud.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vikas-dubey-as-hero-862906.html
18-07-2020||Opinion||Galwan has reshaped Indian resolve||Even though a disengagement and de-escalation process to reduce tensions on the borders was announced by the Special Representatives of India and China, NSA Ajit Doval and State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, on July 5, the Galwan incident of June 15, when 20 Indian army personnel were killed in a “planned and pre-meditated” manner, has led to a new resolve in Indian postures vis-à-vis China. Firstly, at the bilateral level, the impact is being felt acutely following the two sides mobilising military forces and the discourse changing from one of bonhomie, as in the two ‘informal summit’ meetings between the two leaders at Wuhan and Chennai, to adversarial. For instance, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Ladakh on July 3 to boost the morale of the troops as well as to give them political signals of a free hand in any military operations henceforth. He criticised the “expansionist” agenda of China, a remark he first made in February 2014 at Pasighat in Arunachal Pradesh and later in September 2014 in Japan. During the interactions with the military personnel, he alluded to Sudarshanachakra [the ultimate weapon wielded by Krishna in Hindu mythology]. For more than a decade, China prided in developing shashoujian [the “assassin’s mace”] like electromagnetic pulse weapons or supersonic hyperglide vehicles, against the United States. In imagined rhetoric, Beijing now finds more than a match in New Delhi. Also, with unusual swiftness, India’s IT ministry banned 59 Chinese apps, citing digital security. It was estimated that this would cost the Chinese companies involved over $18 billion. In recent times, China has shown an inexplicable penchant for investing in Indian start-ups. In addition, China’s investments in infrastructure projects and preferential tendering of contracts have been removed. Secondly, the June 15 Galwan incident could affect other postures that India and China have adopted towards each other. India has, for instance, accepted the ‘One China’ policy ever since it recognised Taiwan as a part of China in its discussions in December 1949 to April 1950. India had never raised the basic principle of diplomacy – reciprocity – on this and other concessions to China. In 2014, then foreign minister, the late Sushma Swaraj, had raised it, telling her counterpart that India had for so long abided by the ‘One China’ policy, it is now time for China to reciprocate on ‘One India’ policy. Now, India could well become insistent on this reciprocal Chinese commitment. China raising the Kashmir issue at the United Nations Security Council thrice last year after changes to Article 370 of the Indian Constitution came as a rude shock to New Delhi. Interestingly, after China passed a new security law in Hong Kong – overturning the autonomy promised by Beijing under the ‘one country, two systems’ policy -- several countries have expressed concern at the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council. While China issued a demarche to India, as with other countries on this issue, the Indian Permanent Representative to the UN expressed hope that “the relevant parties will take into account these views and address them properly, seriously and objectively.” Beijing, which has extended its ‘One China’ policy to a host of other issues like Tibet, Taiwan, South China Sea, Senkaku Islands and other disputes, will face stiff resistance from New Delhi. It is not lost on observers that when China wanted to trigger a “two-front war” against India with Pakistan’s help, it saw multiple fronts opening against it in the South China Sea and others. The United States despatched its large aircraft carriers USS Ronald Reagan and USS Nimitz to the South China Sea. If India joins the South China Sea multinational naval exercises in the future, the going for China would become rough, especially as the ASEAN has just released a statement requiring China to abide by international law on the seas. With the likely invitation for Australia to join the trilateral Malabar naval exercises, the emerging maritime order could pose more challenges to China. Thirdly, the Galwan Valley incident is an inflection point in India’s alliance behaviour. India is likely to further intensify its equations with major powers such as the US, Russia, European Union and Japan. Indeed, encouraging signals came from these countries recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/galwan-has-reshaped-indian-resolve-862907.html
18-07-2020||Opinion||Charmless against China||Hou Yanqi. Ring a bell? Is it a name? A place? An animal? A thing? It didn’t, for me. Till a few weeks ago, when I received a WhatsApp, embedded with a clip from a news channel. Hou Yanqi is a name, a woman’s name, and the woman so named is Ambassador of our current arch, but still unnamed, enemy, China, to our former bosom buddy, Nepal. According to the official website of the Chinese Embassy in Nepal, Her Excellency boasts a pretty predictable curriculum vitae, typical to any officer of any country’s diplomatic corps. Born in 1970, Hou Yanqi is a Master of Arts, has had tenures in Pakistan and in the US. She is married, with one son. From the looks of it, the Ambassador seems to have at least the minimum credentials for the job and must have cleared some exam. But for this WhatsApp warrior, none of this was of any consequence. He would have fumbled to name India’s Ambassador to China, or to Nepal, presumably both fine diplomats themselves. For sure, this man wasn’t wondering what their chess moves were. Instead, three things were preoccupying him: first, that Communist China had cosied up to ‘Hindu nation’ Nepal. Whilst this does deserve eye-popping eye-rolls, his emphasis on ‘Hindu’ disregarded the fact that Nepal changed its Constitution in September 2015 to redefine itself as a secular country, like we are supposed to be. But WhatsApp warriors have no trade in facts not cosily fitting in well with their choice of ‘narrative’. Second, Yanqi is conversant in Urdu, or shall we simply say ‘Muslim’. And the third and final nail in his ‘covfefe’ was the allegation that this servant of her State had utilised her feminine charms to place one or more public figures of a certain State up to no good and to harm India. For hours after reading this, I had severe symptoms of Covid-19. But my mouth tasted. It tasted metallic, of disgust and defeat. This was yet another reminder that when small men lose the plot, or big men entire territories, their first instinct is to find a woman to blot. Unsurprisingly, some days later, a similar tweet, more cleverly worded, was broadcast by a major, pun intended, celebrity to his million-strong following. At last count, it has received 28,600 ‘likes.’ Having determined that Hou Yanqi is a woman, I replayed Name Place Animal Thing for these men, and no, they don’t fit any bill. They are apps, and while we are tripping over each other to uninstall those 59, these too should be banned. Even setting aside the fact that, in New India, the slander of ‘our own’ women, always centred around their sexuality, is a commonplace and shameless show of ‘pride’, these apps reached further, across the border, and higher than before. 14,000 ft high, and that much underground, dashing all hopes of the return of decency, or of territory. Hou Yanqi is no hero for us in India, but it’s worth asking what is it that emboldens this kind of calumnious chatter from these ear-shatteringly loud hyper-nationalists. Surely, they know that their character assassination endangers ongoing diplomatic parlays, that this sort of fingering is different from reclaiming those Fingers near the Pangong Tso. My conjecture is that there is a deep jealousy operating amongst ‘our own men’ of women who are competent but unafraid to be feminine. From her social media profiles, Hou Yanqi is undoubtedly one of these. And there is a vast universe of men waiting eagerly to consume this kind of ‘info-taint-ment’, ready to forward this fake feel-good artillery fire. And so, what if a professional patriot uses all the tricks in her tote? What charms do you have, Major, except for an endless supply of data, the permanent position of a high-decibel delusional debater, and faux camouflage? What charms are ‘our men’ turning on? Besides the kind that made Nepal turn off our TV channels. Do our men know that slander never won a war, unless of course it’s against the Tablighi Jamaat? Surveillance, strategy, and strength, not streanh, does. Converting a two-front war into a four-front one, one against women, is not the work of heroes but hormonal hashtag zeroes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/charmless-against-china-862909.html
18-07-2020||Opinion||Like a love long lost that came back||I had always been a reader. Not a book nerd, but someone who read a lot. As a child, I would read under the blanket, with a torch, late into the night. My parents got me a library membership. I borrowed books and returned them so quickly that every time I went in, the strict-looking librarian would look up and sigh. The way she’d look at me was to say, I don’t think you really read all these books. I didn’t care anyway. At university, I read English literature. Classics, tragedies, comedies, contemporary Indian fiction, I read it all. My world opened up and expanded. 800-odd pages of the classic Gone with the Wind were nothing. I devoured it in three days. Scarlett O’ Hara was my heroine. The last line of the book, when the dashing Rhett Butler walks out on her, and instead of crying her eyes out, she bravely says, tomorrow is another day, became my motto (it still is!). I finished my degree. Then, I stopped reading. It happened slowly, gradually. I didn’t even realise it. I would join book clubs, but never turn up. I got myself library memberships, but never borrowed a single book. Whenever I saw a bookstore, I went in and spent hours pulling the books out of the shelves, reading the back covers. I spent more time with the books I had already read and were my favourites: Wuthering Heights, Midnight’s Children, Persuasion, We need to talk about Kevin, Sophie’s Choice. I ordered Kazuo Ishiguro’s Never let me go just because he won the Nobel Prize in Literature and everybody else was reading him. I never opened a page. I bought lots of books and my bookshelves continued to bulge. My phone lit up one evening. It was Bernard. He was a friend from university. I hadn’t heard from him in ages. I answered. He opened with: what are you reading these days? I deflected his question. I started to ask him question after question, just to avoid answering his one question. He persisted. I confided in him: I had only read one book that year. I did start many others but given up after three pages, or less. Silence. Then he said, but you love reading. Yes, I do, I said. Just keep reading, he said. It’s not that I didn’t see the hypocrisy in my behaviour. I did. I bought books because I supported the independent bookstores. I wanted them to have my money, rather than the big online booksellers. Yet, I never read them. There’s a Japanese word for it: tsundoku — acquiring books but never reading them. I talked about books; I recommended books, I felt like a fraud. A parcel landed on my door. It was Anita Brookner’s Strangers. Along with it, a note from Bernard: let’s see how quickly you read this one. I opened the first page. Then the next, and the next. Over the next few days, even when I felt like giving up, I read. I looked at most people looking down at their phones as they walked by and then put my head down to read the book. Two weeks later, I finished it. I picked up another book a month later from my unread collection. It was The Poison of Love, the English translation of KR Meera’s Malayalam novel Meerasadhu. I read slowly, savouring the narrative. Two months on, it was UR Ananthamurthy’s Kannada novella Bara. I read. Not as much as I used to, but not one book a year, either. The greatest gift, after all, is to be surrounded by stories, isn’t it?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/like-a-love-long-lost-that-came-back-862910.html
18-07-2020||South||Chennai sees dip in Covid-19 positivity ratio amidst ramped up testing||After clocking 37 percent Covid-19 positivity ratio a month ago, the city has now brought it down to around 12 percent following measures such as ramped up testing and increased surveillance, a top official of the Greater Chennai Corporation said here on Saturday. The government announced a 12-day lockdown last month had also been largely beneficial as it reduced people's mobility, GCC Commissioner G Prakash said. Ramped up testing for coronavirus, fever camps and door surveillance has brought down the positivity ratio to 10-12 percent from about 35-37 percent just a month ago, he told reporters here. Since March, the civic body has conducted over five lakh RT-PCR tests. "A month ago, we increased the testing as per Chief Minister K Palaniswami's instruction. This has been a major turning point (in bringing down the positivity ratio). As of today we have achieved a positivity ratio of 10-12 per cent, from about 35-37 per cent a month ago," he said. "When 4,000 samples were tested in the past, there were 1,400-1,500 positive cases. And of the 13,000 samples being tested now, only 1,200 to 1,250 positive cases are being reported," Prakash added. The Chief Minister's decision on enforcing the lockdown, which reduced the people's mobility, created a conducive atmosphere to increase the testing and step up the household surveillance, he said. The metropolis had earlier reported heavy caseload of the virus, sharing a big chunk of daily numbers of the infections reported all over from the state. The government had, among others, cited the population density, especially in many of the narrow lanes, as the key to the fast spread of the pandemic in this city. Subsequently, an intense lockdown with more curbs was implemented in the city and suburban areas covered under three different districts--Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallore, from June 19-30. The city has been of late witnessing a dip in the daily number of cases. Tamil Nadu's cumulative tally of Covid-19 cases stood at 1,60,907 as of Friday, with Chennai's share being 83,377. Prakash further said that about 11,53,399 people have attended over 18,645 fever clinics conducted in Chennai from May 8 to July 17. Of those who attended, 60,686 symptomatic patients were identified and tested for Covid-19 and others were given medicines for minor ailments, he said. On the civic body's recently launched Home Quarantine and Isolation Monitoring System (HQIMS), a smartphone application to monitor those quarantined, he said the method has been effective. Nearly 8.5 lakh people were quarantined and several among them have completed the mandated isolation period. "The Chief Minister allotting Rs 40 crore for this unique initiative had helped us to identify and deploy 4,500 youth for the monitoring work," Prakash added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-sees-dip-in-covid-19-positivity-ratio-amidst-ramped-up-testing-862717.html
18-07-2020||South||Tyres burnt in front of 3 temples leads to tension in Tamil Nadu||Burning tyres found in front of three temples bere on Saturday led to tense moments with workers of BJP and fringe pro-Hindu outfits demanding action against the culprits, police said. The incidents came a day after a statue of social reformer E V Ramasami 'Periyar' was found daubed with saffron hued paint here. Police acted on a complaint from locals, scanned CCTV footage and found a man taking an old tyre lying outside a nearby garage early this morning and setting it on fire in front of the Makaliamman temple. He damaged a board kept there and broke a bulb, while a trident in front of the temple was blackened due to the thick smoke from the burning tyre, they said. Hearing the news, workers from BJP, Hindu Munnani, VHP and other pro-Hindu outfits rushed to the area and demanded immediate arrest of the miscreants. Many police personnel have been deployed in the area. BJP Tamil Nadu Vice-president, Vanathi Srinivasan urged the City police commissioner to take action against the miscreants. In a tweet, she alleged that the trident kept in front of the temple was damaged. In the second incident, a burning tyre was found in front of the Vinayakar temple near the railway station and another, at the Selvavinayakar shrine at Nellampalayam area, police said. Further details are being ascertained, they said. The party workers also rushed to these two areas and demanded action against those responsible, police said. They dispersed after police assured them that action would be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tyres-burnt-in-front-of-3-temples-leads-to-tension-in-tamil-nadu-862724.html
18-07-2020||South||Covid-19: 7 more held for illegal sale of anti-viral drugs in Hyderabad||Seven more people have been arrested for allegedly involved in black-marketing of drugs being used on Covid-19 patients, police said on Saturday. On Friday, two brothers were held for the same offence. The seven included staff nurses working in different hospitals and medical shops here. The arrested were illegally buying generic versions of Remdesivir and Cipremi injections and selling them at a higher price, a press release from the police said. Nine Remdesivir and one Cipremi injections were seized from the possession of the accused, the police said. Besides the seven people, 11 have been apprehended so far as part of the crackdown on illegal procurement and sale of the emergency anti-viral drugs, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-7-more-held-for-illegal-sale-of-anti-viral-drugs-in-hyderabad-862767.html
18-07-2020||South||20-year-old man fatally stabs lover, injures father||A 20-year-old man is on the run after fatally stabbing his teenage lover near her house on the outskirts of the city, police said on Saturday. C Ratheesh and Aishwarya (18) were in love but her parents objected to it. So, she began avoiding him since the last four months, the police said. Upset over this, Ratheesh went to her house on Friday night and called her out. When she came out, the two got into an argument and the man knifed her. On hearing her scream, Aishwarya's father came out and he was also stabbed. Neighbours took the daughter and the father to hospital where she died without responding to treatment while he is in stable condition, the police said. The girl is a B Com student in her first year of college. A case has been registered and a search is on for Ratheeh, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/20-year-old-man-fatally-stabs-lover-injures-father-862774.html
18-07-2020||South||Kerala to go in for 'cluster care' method to contain Covid-19 spread||As the number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala are on the rise, the state government has decided to implement a "cluster care" method to mitigate the spread of coronavirus, state health minister K K Shailaja said on Saturday. The minister said testing, treatment and quarantining will be strengthened inside the "clusters" in order to stop the spread of the virus beyond a particular area. "Thosein the clusters must strictly follow the health protocol including wearing of masks, social distancing, handwash, use of sanitisers etc. We must keep in mind that the clusters are formed just before the community transmission," Shailaja said in a release. A cluster is formed when there is an "unexpected surge in Covid-19 cases" at a particular area or a region. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Friday said that community spread had occurred in Poonthura and Pulluvila in Thiruvananthapuram and its nearby places have seen a rapid increase in the number of contact cases. The health minister said that there are 87 clusters in the state of which 70 are active clusters and 17 contained clusters. "Two of such clusters have reported community transmission and the people there need to cooperate with the health department to bring those regions from the cluster classification," she said. Contact tracing of the cluster is started based on the fact that there is at least one case where the source is unknown and more than two unrelated cases in an area. "It can be a market, hospital, coastal area, an institution, a ward, panchayat or a tribal area. The disease may be reported en masse in people who work or live in that particular area," she said. She also said the state government and the health department was trying to "break the chain" of transmission from one cluster to another by "thoroughly locking the clusters." "We need to give more attention to coastal areas. Inside the clusters, local transmission is more than 50 per cent, but outside the clusters it is below 10 per cent. We should prevent clusters forming and the community spread of the infection," Shailaja said. She was speaking to reporters after inspecting the over 700-bed Covid-19 first line treatment centre set up at the International Convention Centre inside the Greenfield stadium here. The health department said that when a cluster is formed, a rapid response team will be set up which will engage in contact tracing and conduct testing on the basis of primary, secondary contacts. A region will be declassified as a cluster only if it is confirmed that there is no new case within 7 days after the last positive case in that area was detected. Kerala on Saturday reported 593 fresh Covid-19, of which 364 cases were through contacts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-go-in-for-cluster-care-method-to-contain-covid-19-spread-862796.html
18-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records all-time high of Covid-19 cases, fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections as well as the number of daily deaths, with the total infection count crossing 1.65 lakh. As many as 4,807 new positive cases of Coronavirus were reported from different parts of the state on Saturday, even as over 3,049 people were discharged after recovery. The state saw 88 fatalities, the highest single day toll so far, pushing the death toll to 2,403, a health department bulletin said. With the addition of the new Covid-19 cases, the infection count has gone up to 1,65,714. Today's recoveries of 3,049 pushed those discharged after treatment to 1,13,856, the bulletin said. Active cases stood at 49,452. Due to ramped up testing, as many as 48,195 samples were examined, pushing the cumulative tally to 18,79,499 , the bulletin said. Chennai reported 1,219 fresh Covid-19 infections. Its overall numbers clocked 84,598 as of Saturday. According to the bulletin, six of the 88 deceased were persons with "no comorbidities" and the victims included a 31-year-old man from the city who died of 'acute respiratory failure'. Among comorbid cases was a 29-year-old woman from Salem, suffering from systemic hypertension, and she died due to respiratory failure, the bulletin said. As many as 15 octogenarians were among those who succumbed to the virus. Besides Chennai's 1,219 new infections on Saturday, Tiruvallur (370) and Chengalpet with 323 new cases too reported significantly high numbers. Vellore recorded 191, Madurai 185, Thanjavur 181, Virudhunagar 179, Sivaganga 170, Tuticorin 160, Tirunelveli 155, Kanyakumari and Theni 144 each, Tiruchirappalli 124, Coimbatore 118, Ranipet 109 cases and Dindigul 104. Among the new Covid-19 cases reported today, 76 had returned from various domestic and overseas locations. A government run and a private laboratory each have received approval to conduct testing of samples, taking the number of facilities operating in the state to 111, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-all-time-high-of-covid-19-cases-fatalities-862850.html
18-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu minister condemns denigration of hymn on Lord Muruga, says legal action will be taken against YouTube channel||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday said legal action will be taken against a YouTube channel which allegedly denigrated a Tamil hymn sung in praise of Lord Muruga, days after two people were arrested in connection with the episode. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department minister Sevoor S Ramachandran took strong exception to the channel "Karuppar Kootam", for allegedly denigrating "Kanda Sashti Kavacham", sung in praise of Lord Muruga, son of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvathi. "The Kanda Sashti Kavacham is a Hindu devotional song composed in Tamil by Baladevaraya Swamy (in the 19th century) seeking the Lord's protection," he said. "It is a Tamil devotional song heard daily in the houses of the Tamil people. Murugan's devotees sing the hymn for His blessings to protect them from head to toe. The wrong depiction of the popular hymn and denigrating the God is highly condemnable," Ramachandran said in a statement. He further said legal action will be initiated against "Karuppar Kootam" in connection with the incident. Recently, a video made by "Karuppar Kootam" (Black group) YouTube channel purportedly ridiculed the holy "Kanda Sashti Kavacham," prompting the BJP and various Hindu outfits to go on the offensive against the group. After the BJP filed a complaint against the group here, two people, including the anchor who allegedly made the controversial remarks in the video, which had also gone viral in other social media, were arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-minister-condemns-denigration-of-hymn-on-lord-muruga-says-legal-action-will-be-taken-against-youtube-channel-862857.html
18-07-2020||South||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan appeals for more plasma donations||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday appealed to all those, who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma and help in the treatment of coronavirus patients. She said that all those who had recovered from Covid- 19 and those who were having adequate antibodies can donate the plasma so as to save the lives of seriously affected patients of Covid-19, according to a release from the Raj Bhavan. The Governor, who visited the Covid-19 Plasma Blood Bank at ESI Medical College in Sanatnagar here urged people not to have misconceptions about plasma donation. "All the people who got cured are not eligible to donate plasma. Only those who have got cured and possess adequate antibodies to fight the Covid-19 are eligible to donate plasma. The potential donors need not have any misconceptions about plasma donation," she said. Tamilisai Soundararajan stated that it was an ultimate humanitarian service to donate plasma by all those eligible donors and urged them to come forward for plasma donation. "Not as the Governor, I see myself as the catalyst in the service of the people of Telangana. Not as the First Citizen of Telangana, but as one among the common people, I am for the constructive work and I am here to cooperate and complement the services of the government to the people of the State," she said, according to the release. The Governor further appealed to the people not to venture out unnecessarily. She urged them to wear masks and maintain physical distance so as to contain the spread of Covid-19, the release added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-governor-tamilisai-soundararajan-appeals-for-more-plasma-donations-862868.html
18-07-2020||South||Kasargod tightens Covid-19 vigil; 10-day total lockdown in coastal areas of Thiruvananthapuram||In view of the increasing Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada district, Kerala has enhanced vigil at the bordering Kasargod district. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that there were serious concerns for Kasargod as Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada was increasing. Hence stringent measures were being taken by the district administration. Apart from enhancing vigil along border roads, markets in Kasargod would be allowed to work only on alternate days. Of the 29 fresh cases reported in Kasargod on Saturday, 22 got infected through local spread. The total Covid-19 active cases in the district reached 316. Meanwhile, a total lockdown was imposed along the entire coastal area of Thiruvananthapuram for ten days as community spread was found in two localities and a spike was being witnessed along the coastal belt. Of the 173 fresh cases on Saturday, 152 were infected locally. A total of 593 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Saturday in Kerala, which was slightly lower than the fresh cases during the last four days. While two more persons died, 204 recovered. Of the 593 fresh cases, 364 were due to local spread. The chief minister said that local spread were being reported from various parts of the state and hence people should strictly follow social distancing and other safety practices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargod-tightens-covid-19-vigil-10-day-total-lockdown-in-coastal-areas-of-thiruvananthapuram-862884.html
18-07-2020||South||Goa CM Pramod Sawant eats humble pie in tussle of words with Governor||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant appears to have eaten humble pie for now after his run in and subsequent rebuke from Governor Satya Pal Malik earlier this week. Sawant, on Thursday, was reprimanded by the Governor, for allegedly "putting words in his mouth" about criticism of the "negative" media coverage of the Goa government's Covid-19 management efforts. The CM has now assured Malik that he would heed suggestions from Raj Bhavan to combat the pandemic. "The Chief Minister assured that the observations and suggestions of the Governor would be acted upon by the government in the right earnest. The Governor and Chief Minister pledged to continue to work in full co-operation and synergy in order to win the battle against the contagion and in the interest of the state," Governor Malik said in a statement issued on Saturday. The statement also said that the Raj Bhavan extends "full support to the government in its fight against the pandemic". The Chief Minister and the Governor had come to a head, after Sawant while briefing media persons following a Covid-19 review meeting with the Governor on Thursday, had said that the latter was unhappy with erroneous media coverage of his government's Covid-19 management efforts as well as its criticism on social media. Minutes after Sawant's statement, Malik addressed another media briefing accusing Sawant of not behaving in a "civilised" manner and condemning the Chief Minister's attempts to allegedly "put words in his mouth" related to media criticism. The Opposition had seized opportunity during the tussle of words between the two top officials and had demanded Sawant's resignation for trying to hoodwink the Governor about shoddy efforts taken by the BJP-led coalition government, which has seen active Covid-19 cases shoot past 1000 in recent weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-eats-humble-pie-in-tussle-of-words-with-governor-862900.html
18-07-2020||State||Karnataka HC asks Centre, state to clarify on Aarogya Setu app||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the Union and state governments to clarify on the compulsory use of Aarogya Setu application in certain services. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N Nagaprasanna directed the governments to submit clarification on a PIL filed by Anivar A Aravind on the issues surrounding the Aarogya Setu App. During the hearing on Friday, senior counsel, appearing for the petitioner, contended that Aarogya Setu App has been extended to serve as an e-pass and also to provide links to services offered by various service providers. He pointed out that at present only the client-side source has been released, that too for the Android version only. “The server side code is not released meaning that the current form of open sourcing by the government does not give clarity on how the tracking of data iscontrolled.” The petition stated the deletion of data on the App has been restricted to demographic data. It said the Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol does not clearly state if uninstallation of the App will amount to deletion of demographic data or if a user has to follow a set procedure to request deletion of its demographic data. In another issue, the petitioner contended that Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (BMRCL) has made it mandatory for its passengers to display the App before entering the station, whenever the services resume. The petitioner submitted the notices in this regard have been placed at the stations. “Mandating the use of smartphones and Aarogya Setu Application discriminates against persons who do not have a smartphone and also affects the right to privacy of citizens by mandating the use of an App that has access to the location of the user,” the petition stated. The bench asked both the Centre and the state government to clarify on these issues. “Though we are granting time to the Government of India to file objections, we direct that on the next date of hearing the Union of India shall make clarifications. Respondent 9 (BMRCL) will explain whether use of the App will be mandatory as a condition precedent for boarding metro rail as and when the functioning of the metro rail,’” the bench directed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-asks-centre-state-to-clarify-on-aarogya-setu-app-862687.html
18-07-2020||State||Pvt hospitals should discharge asymptomatic Covid-19 patients: Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka||Private hospitals should “immediately discharge” asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Friday.  “It has come to our notice that some private hospitals are still keeping asymptomatic patients and giving them package treatment,” he said. “Those without any symptoms should not be kept in the hospital. They should be immediately discharged,” said Ashoka, who is in-charge of managing private hospitals during the Covid-19 crisis. The chief secretary will issue an order in this regard, he said.  Ashoka was speaking to reporters after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa held a meeting with all those in-charge of the eight municipal zones in Bengaluru. Ashoka is in charge of the south zone.  The government is yet to get all of the 2,500 beds from the private sector for which a final round of meeting has been scheduled on Saturday. “(Private hospitals) have said things like they don’t have enough staff. But, we will give it finality and take all those beds under government custody,” Ashoka said. “If beds are arranged, problems won’t arise. So, beds are important, especially in ICU and with ventilators,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pvt-hospitals-should-discharge-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-karnataka-revenue-minister-r-ashoka-862691.html
18-07-2020||State||Two nurses, one housekeeping staff for 112 patients at Bengaluru's KC General Hospital||The nurse-patient ratio is heavily skewed in KC General Hospital that is treating more than 100 Covid-19 patients. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar's late-night visit to the state government-run hospital on Friday night revealed that instead of having one nurse for every ten Covid patients as per protocol, the hospital had two nurses for 112 patients. There was also only one Group D staff to shift dead bodies in the hospital and cleaning services. Six healthcare staff donned in head to toe PPE spoke to Sudhakar standing on a skywalk in the hospital campus on Friday night, as they were working in the Covid-19 ward and not supposed to be in proximity with outsiders. "Every ten patients should have one sister. We have two sisters for 112 patients at night. How can we manage? Out of five physicians, three are Covid-19 positive, only two are working," said a nurse to Sudhakar.  According to statistics provided by Dr BR Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent of KC General Hospital, there are one nursing superintendent, three senior nursing officers, and 92 junior nursing officers (86 have been hired, two posts are vacant). Eight auxiliary nurse midwives have been hired. From the BBMP's end, five nursing officers have been appointed. On contract, nine nurses are serving. This accounts for 123 nursing officers in total. Out of these 22 nurses are either Covid-19 positive or under quarantine for being a contact. 14 are under quarantine after Covid-19 work. Eleven are on leave. Five are absent without leave. Hence, in all 52 are not working currently.  Group D staff There are 47 group D employees and 37 are on contract, in all, 84. Of these four of them are in quarantine and have tested positive. Eight are under quarantine after Covid-19 work at the hospital. Three are on leave. Nine are absent without leave. In all, 24 housekeeping staff are not working. "Please depute physicians, staff nurses and group D from somewhere. There is no group D staff in the male ward or the female ward of the hospital. Only one man is shifting dead bodies," urged the nurse to Sudhakar. "In all, 98 staffers are on leave for various reasons," said Dr Venkateshaiah to DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-nurses-one-housekeeping-staff-for-112-patients-at-bengalurus-kc-general-hospital-862869.html
18-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Health department intensifies drive to check coronavirus infection||The Health department has intensified the drive to check Covid-19 and sought people's support to detect infected persons. The authorities are concentrating on Narasimharaja Assembly segment in the city, as the cases are more in the segment. District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Venkatesh said, "30 surveillance teams are ready to conduct a survey. The team members will conduct door-to-door survey. We are taking all possible steps to contain the spread of the disease." The DHO said, "Unless people support, it is impossible to contain the spread of Covid and urged the people to share accurate details with the team members. No health problem, such as cold, fever and others must be hidden. The citizens must disclose all issues without hesitation." The DHO said, "Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and the authorities concerned have discussed the issue with religious heads and they have assured of their community support for Covid tests. "In order to speed up the testing process, 2,300 antigen kits are supplied to the district. With the help of the kits, the virus can be detected in a short span of time. The government will supply more such kits, if needed. As many as 1,500 kits will be used for NR Assembly segment and it depends on the number of cases," the DHO said. The Health department is making arrangements to establish isolation facility at Farooqia College. The patients will be housed at the college, if needed, he said. A majority of the cases are from NR Assembly segment and the death rate is also high in the region, due to Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/health-department-intensifies-drive-to-check-coronavirus-infection-862865.html
18-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Invoke DM Act against erring private hospitals, says BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday ordered invoking stringent provisions of the Disaster Management Act against private hospitals that refuse treatment to Covid-19 patients. "Hospitals that refuse treatment during such a crisis and make patients run around will face indiscriminate action under the Disaster Management Act. This is a strong law. The CM has directed me to invoke this law," Revenue Minister R Ashoka said.  Ashoka, who is the minister in charge of liaising with the private healthcare sector during the Covid-19 pandemic, pointed out that two hospitals - Vikram and Apollo - were served notices. "But going forward. we won't issue notices. We will take criminal action against hospitals," Ashoka said.  Earlier this week, the High Court of Karnataka had said that it was necessary for the government to invoke provisions of the Disaster Management Act to deal with complaints of private hospitals denying admission to Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/invoke-dm-act-against-erring-private-hospitals-says-bs-yediyurappa-862866.html
18-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 4,537 new coronavirus cases; private hospitals promise 3,000 more beds||Karnataka reported 4,537 new cases on Saturday, on a day when Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa held a meeting with private hospitals who promised 3,000 additional beds, said Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar addressing a press conference here. "In a meeting with CM Yediyurappa, private hospitals managements have agreed to part with a total of 5,200 beds for Covid-19 treatment. They have already given 2,200 beds and have agreed to give 3,000 beds by the end of the week. Only one hospital, Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences did not attend the meeting. The CM has said that if they don't allocate 200 beds, action should be taken against them," said Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. The Government issued a circular on Saturday for mandatory admission of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic cases in Covid care centres or home isolation. Private hospitals should not admit asympomatic patients. The state conducted 24,909 RTPCR tests, 110 CBNAAT tests, 485 TrueNAT tests and 9,315 rapid antigen tests on Saturday, in all 34,819 tests, which is the highest number of tests done in a single day. However, asked about the backlog of samples, which is leading to a high turnaround time for test reports to come, causing hardships to patients, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Jawaid Akhtar, had no answers. He clarified saying the surge in cases was not because of testing the backlog of samples but were fresh cases surfacing everyday. "I do not have the exact number of pending samples waiting to be tested, but I can assure you that it is not a lot. The surge on cases is not because of clearing of backlog but fresh cases surfacing everyday,"(sic) Akhtar said. The state is procuring an additional 10 lakh rapid antigen test kits. Asked if the state would agree there is community transmission in Karnataka just like the Kerala CM has conceded to the fact, Sudhakar sidestepped the question. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 36,631. 93 new deaths were reported on Saturday, including 49 from Bengaluru, taking the death toll to 1,240 apart from six non-Covid deaths. 580 patients are in the ICU, out of which 332 are in Bengaluru alone. The total number of positive cases now are 59,652. So far 9,84,996 tests have been done. With 1,018 discharges done on Saturday, the total number of recoveries in the state stand at 21,775.    The state's positivity rate is 5% according to Sudhakar, mortality rate 2.08% and recovery rate 36.50%. Bengaluru alone accounted for 2,125 cases, followed by 10 districts who reported cases in triple digits -- Dakshina Kannada (509), Dharwad (186), Vijayapura (176), Ballari (155), Belagavi (137), among others. Keywords: COVID-19, coronavirus, coronavirus update, coronavirus news, coronavirus latest news, coronavirus live news, coronavirus lockdown, india coronavirus, Karnataka, cases, deaths, karnataka cases today, karnataka covid-19, Bengaluru, bangalore coronavirus||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-4537-new-coronavirus-cases-private-hospitals-promise-3000-more-beds-862875.html
18-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No need to be scared of coronavirus: Recovered patient||“I was scared when I was told that I have been tested positive for Covid-19. Over a period of time, the fear disappeared. One need not be scared of Covid-19. It is not a disease to be scared of,” said Jeeya-Ul-Hussain, who recovered recently. “When I experienced fever and cough, I visited a private clinic. The doctor advised me to go for Covid test. The health officials asked me to undergo swab test at the government hospital. The report arrived after three to four days and I was admitted to the Covid hospital in Madikeri. I was given Vitamin C tablets for five days,” he added. The doctors and the staff treated me with care. I was frequently given hot water to drink and warm food and I recovered within five days. I was asked to remain in institutional quarantine for five more days in a residential school and my health condition was monitored before discharging me,” he added. “The residents of Shanthinagara accorded a warm welcome when I returned home. During the sealdown, the residents supported my family. There is no need not be scared of Covid-19,” Jeeya-Ul-Hussain added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-need-to-be-scared-of-coronavirus-recovered-patient-862890.html
18-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||174 persons recover from Covid-19 in Madikeri||Amid the gloomy Covid-19 situation, the rise in the recovery rate is definitely a cause for cheer in the district. A total of 174 infected persons have recovered after availing treatment at designated covid hospital and covid care centres in Madikeri till now. On average, more than 10 persons are discharged daily in the district. The recovery rate in the district has made people to heave a sigh of relief. The district had recorded only three cases from March to May. With the unlock 0.1, the number began to rise and the district recorded the cases daily, which also had created fear in the minds of the people. Kodagu district had recorded a total of 264 cases. Of which, 174 have already recovered. There are 85 active cases and the patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals and covid care centres. The health condition of the remaining active cases are stable and are recovering. Five persons with severe co-morbid conditions have succumbed to the virus in the district, saidofficials from health department. Grand welcome A man, who recovered from the infection, was accorded warm welcome by the residents of Shanthinagara in Virajpet, which is a positive development in the district. Such incidents instill confidence in the people. “We should save ourselves through self motivation. If Covid-19 is traced at the primary stage, then the recovery is fast,” said a resident of Shanthinagara in Virajpet. Further, those who have recovered are also involved in instilling confidence in their areas by maintaining distance. They are circulating video explaining how they recovered from the Covid-19, thereby instilling confidence in the people. Common cold and fever is common among people in the district during monsoon. However, fearing Covid-19, people are consulting doctors for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/174-persons-recover-from-covid-19-in-madikeri-862892.html
18-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Corruption fears emerge as Karnataka grapples with coronavirus||The possibility of widespread corruption in state government departments that are involved in the fight against Covid-19 has come as a rude shock to people, who are already in distress due to poor healthcare facilities. DH accessed copies of complaints made to the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and Anti-Corruption Bureau, allegations made by Opposition leader Siddaramaiah and related documents alleging irregularities in the procurement of essential items such as ventilators, sanitisers and N-95 masks. Siddaramaiah even alleged that the graft by the state government runs over Rs 2,000 crore. Recently, the Congress launched the ‘Lekka Kodi’ campaign putting pressure on the government to make the expenses public. From the purchase of key equipment at inflated prices — even from companies under rate contracts — to mismanaging and escalating the price of food kits and packets supplied to migrant workers and BPL families, various departments seem to have turned a blind eye on irregularities committed. Exemption under section 4(a) and 4(g) of Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act (See Page 4) appears to have only helped misuse funds meant for health infrastructure.  Even though the increased cost of raw materials following the lockdown caused a temporary spike in prices, documents accessed by DH show that the pandemic was used as a pretext to jack up procurement costs of essential items, sometimes at two to three times the market price. There are also corruption claims in arranging institutional quarantine centres for the thousands of primary contacts of Covid-19 patients, and returnees from neighbouring states and foreign countries.   Complaints on procurement of medical equipment range from issuing orders to companies not equipped to manufacture these devices, to the huge variation in costs incurred by different departments in procuring the same type of product. For instance, SM Pharmaceuticals, which had allegedly supplied poor-quality sanitisers prior to the pandemic was given a contract to supply sanitisers again, at almost three times the initial price, documents show. Though district labs of Kalaburagi and Ramanagara had filed a report in January stating that the sanitisers supplied by SM Pharmaceuticals were ‘not of standard quality’, the same firm won a tender to supply 40,000 units of sanitisers in March. Karnataka Rashtra Samithi, one of the first organisations to raise the alarm, in its complaint claims that sanitisers were procured from the same firm at three times the unit price of its previous order. However, Karnataka State Drugs, Logistics And Warehousing Society (KDLWS), in its report to the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) recently, said that the order placed with the company for 40,000 units was cancelled, without specifying the reasons. A list of questions sent by DH to SM Pharmaceuticals is yet to elicit any response.  Two other firms supplied sanitisers at a cost of Rs 250 per unit, KDLWS said, citing increased demand and lack of raw materials for the price surge.   Another case came to light recently, after a complaint was filed with authorities about procurement of N-95 masks from a firm, which received an order to supply five lakh masks for medical use on March 21. However, the company received approval for manufacturing NIOSH-approved N-95 masks — vital for healthcare professionals — only on June 7, more than two months later.  The KDLWS also issued a procurement order of 25,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits from Bengaluru-based firm aTechTron, at Rs 725 per unit. The company’s website, which says it was launched in 2014, lists services ranging from air purifiers to media management. Rajeev Krishna, co-founder of the firm, said that though they had received the purchase order, they were not able to supply as “specifications of the kits required by the government were not clear.”  Differing rates There are also complaints of significant variation in rates while procuring essential medical equipment. While the KDLWS procured N-95 masks at Rs 147 a piece, the Medical Education Department spent Rs 295 per mask. Similarly, the complaints state that the KDLWS purchased BiPAPs (non-invasive ventilators) at Rs 1.18 lakh per unit and multi-parameter monitors at Rs 1.67 lakh per unit while the Medical Education Department purchased them at Rs 4.3 lakh per unit and Rs 5.37 lakh per unit respectively. In a blatant example of inflated procurement prices, the Health Department procured sanitisers at Rs 250 per 500 ml unit and the Social Welfare Department spent Rs 600 per 500 ml unit for its 1,867 hostels in the state. The price quoted to the Social Welfare Department in mid-April, was twice the market price, even during peak demand for sanitisers. Documents show that Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Ballari procured 6,300 PPE kits at a cost of Rs 1,200 per unit in July this year. However, such kits were available at a maximum retail price of Rs 550-600 in late June.  Dr B Devananad, Director, VIMS, said that the order to a Bengaluru-based firm was under process and kits were not procured yet. “There were nearly 40-60 people infected at the hospital and supply from the district health department was exhausted. We then took a quotation from three parties to procure PPEs,” he said. On the cost of PPEs, he said that Indian Council of Medical Research itself had procured kits for Rs 1,350. “Other colleges have procured for even Rs 1,600,” he said, adding that VIMS bought it on a need basis. He said that VIMS had procured PPEs in March and April, when prices were as high as Rs 1,800 to Rs 2,000 per unit. While purchasing ventilators, KDLWS paid prices ranging from Rs 5.6 lakh to Rs 18.2 lakh per ventilator. Reports have emerged of neighbouring states procuring ventilators at around Rs four lakh per unit, leading the Opposition to question the exorbitant price paid by the state government. Cases of inflated prices while providing relief to migrant labourers in the form of food packets and ration kits were also highlighted in the complaint. With various district administrations empowered to make arrangements, the extent of irregularities with respect to procurement of food alone is yet to be assessed. According to sources, the transfer of a top IAS official was triggered by alleged irregularities in handling migrant labour issues during the pandemic. Speaker’s restrictions According to proceedings of the PAC meeting, revealed by Opposition leader Siddaramaiah on Twitter, former minister and BJP MLA Murugesh Nirani red-flagged Covid-19 procurement during a PAC meeting recently. This came as an embarrassment to the government. As per the proceedings, Nirani informed PAC to have travelled with an official from Vijayapura who had documents that could prove massive irregularities in Covid-19 procurement.  Nirani subsequently denied making such remarks, saying that he did not know who the officer was. Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri’s ban on PAC from visiting any Covid-19 care facilities, hours after PAC chairman H K Patil announced that he would visit them, also raised several eye-brows. The order had led to a bitter battle with Patil even mulling a privilege motion against the Speaker. However, increasing cases in Bengaluru city and voluntary quarantine by several key political leaders due to the pandemic temporarily put to rest any fresh developments regarding the irregularities. The most recent case of infantile decision making — especially when the state was facing a financial crunch — came when officials decided to rent 10,100 beds and other equipment, for the country’s largest Covid Care Centre at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre. The beds were supposed to be rented at Rs 700-800 per day for a four-month period, before an angry Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa put a swift end to these plans. Officials who had approved the project came under fire, after a senior IAS officer wrote to the government about the unnecessary expense incurred by renting the beds. The saga ended with a blame game over the issue between ministers and bureaucrats.  Deepak C N, general secretary, Karnataka Rashtra Samithi, says that these are just a few instances of corruption in Covid-19 procurement. “The justification provided by the Health and Family Welfare Department to PAC does not explain how prices for PPE kits fluctuated from Rs 350 in early March toRs 750 or more when production hadalready peaked,” he said, commenting on the recent response by the Health and Family Welfare Department regarding procurements to PAC. On whether any report was sought on procurement by the government, N Manjushree, Additional Director, KDLWS said that the department had not submitted any report. “There is no internal enquiry regarding procurement,” she said. “Most of the complaints were filed by those who failed to bag an order from the government,” she added. Emerging documents and notices issued by the government call for immediate action to prevent further leakage of public funds dedicated for health infrastructure during this unprecedented crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/corruption-fears-emerge-as-karnataka-grapples-with-coronavirus-862898.html
18-07-2020||West||Sanjay Jain arrested in connection with conspiracy to topple Rajasthan government||The Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police on Friday arrested Sanjay Jain whose name had surfaced in a viral audio recording about horse trading of legislators to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan, an official said.  "Jain has been arrested following interrogation into the FIR lodged on the basis of audio recording that had gone viral on social media," Additional Director General (ATS and SOG) Ashok Rathore said.  Jain was interrogated Thursday and Friday following which the arrest has been made, officials said.  Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi had lodged a complaint demanding a probe and registration of an FIR under sedition charges against three persons -- Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Sanjay Jain -- who were allegedly discussing a conspiracy to topple the state government in one of the three audio recordings that went viral on social media Thursday.  Congress leader Randeep Surjewala had referred to Jain as a BJP leader, a charge denied by that party. The SOG had earlier on Friday registered two FIRs under IPC sections 124-A (sedition) and 120-B (conspiracy) to probe into the complaint related to horse trading of MLAs and the alleged audio recordings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-jain-arrested-in-connection-with-conspiracy-to-topple-rajasthan-government-862605.html
18-07-2020||West||HC notice to minister on plea over hiding cases for passport||The Bombay High Court has issued a notice to Maharashtra minister Vijay Wadettiwar on a plea filed by a former legislator, alleging that the Congress leader had not disclosed the criminal cases pending against him while applying for passport twice in Nagpur. Apart from the minister, the Nagpur bench of the high court on Friday also issued notices to the state Home Department, Nagpur Commissioner of Police and passport offices in Nagpur and Mumbai. In his plea, former MLC Mitesh Bangadia demanded that a case be registered against the minister in this connection and his passport be confiscated. Wadettiwar, who represents the Bramhapuri Assembly constituency in Chandrapur district, is minister for Relief and Rehabilitation in the MVA government. The petitioner, through his counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, submitted that when Waddettiwar applied for passport in Nagpur in May 2001 for the first time, he deliberately did not disclose the criminal cases pending against him. The petitioner claimed that more than 10 criminal cases were pending against Wadettiwar at that time. The petitioner further submitted that Wadettiwar had, therefore "knowingly suppressed necessary information with a view to mislead the authorities in order to procure a passport in his favour and gave false information that there no criminal cases pending against him". "It is apparent from the above act that the respondent was aware that if the passport office gains knowledge about the criminal cases pending against him, passport may not be issued to him," the petition said. The petitioner also said that Wadettiwar applied for passport in Nagpur for the second time in January 2007, but did disclose about filing of previous application for the issuance of passport although he was bound to disclose it as per the rules. In the second application, too, he did not disclose the criminal cases pending against him and misled the passport authorities, the petition said. The petitioner requested the court to direct Nagpur commissioner of police, the passport offices in Worli (Mumbai) and Nagpur to register an FIR against Waddettiwar for the offences under section Sec 120 (B), 406, 41, 420, 426, 465, 468 r/w Sec 34 of the Indian Penal Code, with the police station and confiscate his passport. The notices issued by the division bench of Justices A S Chandurkar and Amit Borkar are returnable in four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-notice-to-minister-on-plea-over-hiding-cases-for-passport-862653.html
18-07-2020||West||Shiv Sena praises Devendra Fadnavis for doing 'good job' as Oppn leader||The Shiv Sena on Saturday praised BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, saying that he has been effectively carrying out his role as a Leader of Opposition. The ruling party also said that as Fadnavis has expressed satisfaction over the public health machinery in the state in the fight against Covid-19, it has boosted the morale of the government and the coronavirus patients. "Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis is as much young and dynamic as he was when he was the chief minister of the state. His recent statement has come to light in which he told a close party colleague that if tests coronavirus positive he should be admitted to a government hospital for treatment," the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. "Although Fadnavis should be praised for this statement, he is being trolled, which is not right. We have time and again said that he has been doing a good job as a leader of opposition," it said. Sena said that Fadnavis has been touring the state to monitor the Covid-19 relief work and the health facilities and has expressed satisfaction over the work being carried out by the state government against coronavirus. "His statement that he should be admitted to a government hospital cannot be called a stunt. He has expressed confidence that the government health machinery will keep him safe if anything happens to him. "This confidence is a morale-booster for the government and the Covid-19 patients in the state and he should be praised for that," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-praises-devendra-fadnavis-for-doing-good-job-as-oppn-leader-862677.html
18-07-2020||West||Lover kills woman after tiff, held||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly killed by a man she was in a relationship with in Nagpur city, police said on Saturday. The body of the victim was recovered on Friday evening from an under-construction house in Abhay Nagar locality of the city, police said. The accused, identified as Prem alias Sonu Pankaj Ganveer, 23, a resident of a slum, has been arrested, an official from Ajni Police Station said. "Some residents of Abhay Nagar found the girl lying dead in an under-construction house around 6 pm on Friday. After being alerted, a police team went to the spot and launched a probe. During the inquiry, it came to light that some miscreants from a nearby slum regularly visited the place," he said. Acting on a tip-off, the police picked up Ganveer late on Friday night. During the questioning, he confessed to the crime, police said. "He told that he and the victim, Aarti Bhalavi (25), a resident of Shatabdi Nagar, were in a relationship. On Friday, an argument broke out between them over marriage and in a fit of rage, he strangled her to death," the official said. According to police, Ganveer, a history-sheeter, has been booked under IPC section 302 (murder).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lover-kills-woman-after-tiff-held-862686.html
18-07-2020||West||Lover kills woman after quarrel; held||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly killed by a man she was in a relationship with in Nagpur city, police said on Saturday. The body of the victim was recovered on Friday evening from an under-construction house in Abhay Nagar locality of the city, police said. The accused, identified as Prem alias Sonu Pankaj Ganveer, 23, a resident of a slum, has been arrested, an official from Ajni Police Station said. "Some residents of Abhay Nagar found the girl lying dead in an under-construction house around 6 pm on Friday. After being alerted, a police team went to the spot and launched a probe. During the inquiry, it came to light that some miscreants from a nearby slum regularly visited the place," he said. Acting on a tip-off, the police picked up Ganveer late on Friday night. During the questioning, he confessed to the crime, police said. "He told that he and the victim, Aarti Bhalavi (25), a resident of Shatabdi Nagar, were in a relationship. On Friday, an argument broke out between them over marriage and in a fit of rage, he strangled her to death," the official said. According to police, Ganveer, a history-sheeter, has been booked under IPC section 302 (murder).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lover-kills-woman-after-quarrel-held-862688.html
18-07-2020||West||Mumbai's Covid-19 recovery rate better than national: Data||Even as Mumbai's Covid-19 case count is nearing the one lakh-mark, the recovery rate of the country's financial capital is nearly 70 per cent, which is seven per cent more than the national average, official data has revealed. A release issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) on Friday said that there were 3,42,756 Covid-19 cases in the country (till Friday) and the number of of recovered patients was approximately 6.35 lakh, which was 63 per cent of the reported cases. Mumbai's recovery rate is nearly 15 per cent more than that of Maharashtra, which is 55.62 per cent, it said. According to the data released by Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) on Friday, the number of active cases in Mumbai was 24,307, while 67,830 patients have recovered from the infection so far. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Mumbai stood at 50 per cent around mid-June, when the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched "Mission Zero" under the Rapid Action Plan to contain coronavirus transmission. The rate improved to 57 per cent on July 1 and further to around 70 per cent on July 15, the PIB statement said. According to the BMC, the number of coronavirus cases in the city on Friday rose to 98,979, while the death toll due to the pandemic reached 5,582. The city includes Dharavi, the largest slum in Asia with a population of around 6.5 lakh, which had emerged as one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the metropolis. However, it only had 102 active cases on Friday. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had last week praised the efforts taken to contain the spread of the Covid-19 in Dharavi. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had also said last Saturday that 82 per cent of patients in Dharavi have recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-covid-19-recovery-rate-better-than-national-data-862707.html
18-07-2020||West||4 Ts, awareness and sanitisation changing Mumbai's Covid-19 scenario: Mayor||The four Ts and awareness among the common people and sanitisation is helping the turnaround story of Mumbai in fight against Covid-19, says Mayor Kishori Pednekar. “Today our recovery rate is 70 per cent, which is appreciable,” said Pednekar, a former nurse, who is leading from the front. “We need to thank the people, who were part of the campaign…besides we have to appreciate that sanitisation has become order of the day,” she said, and also lauded the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for working tirelessly in these difficult times. According to her, the key thing that made the difference is 4 Ts – tracing, tracking, testing and treating. “This example is being followed elsewhere,” she said. According to Centre’s Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Mumbai has recorded one of the most impressive recovery rates at nearly 70 per cent, which is 7 per cent higher than the national average and nearly 15 per cent higher than Maharashtra, which has clocked a recovery rate of 55.62 per cent.  The Covid-19 recovery rate in Mumbai stood at 50 per cent around mid-June, when the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched the ‘Mission Zero’ under Rapid Action Plan to contain coronavirus transmission. The rate improved to 57 per cent on July 1 and further to around 70 per cent by July 15.  The focus of Covid-19 containment has now shifted to Mumbai satellite cities –  that is the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. According to her, the situation in Mumbai has improved significantly than what it was nearly a couple of months ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-ts-awareness-and-sanitisation-changing-mumbais-covid-19-scenario-mayor-862758.html
18-07-2020||West||Hoarding invoking Amitabh Bachchan's 'Don' against Covid-19 removed||A hoarding of megastar Amitabh Bachchan with a famous dialogue from the 1978 blockbuster "Don" on coronavirus awareness has been removed from a village in Maharashtra's Osmanabad district in view of "sentiments" of his fans, an official said on Saturday. The hoarding with an old photo of Bachchan carried a message in Marathi asking people to remain indoors in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Referring to the dialogue in the movie, the message reads: "the don whose capture was not only difficult but impossible, has been caught by coronavirus...stay at home for your families and do not unnecessarily try to become a 'don'". Lohara Nagar Panchayat chief officer Gajanan Shinde said, "We had designed this banner to create awareness about coronavirus and displayed it. But looking after sentiments of fans of Amitabh Bachchan here, we have removed it". Bachchan,77, his actor son Abhishek (44), daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and granddaughter Aaradhya Bachchan are undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in a Mumbai hospital||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hoarding-invoking-amitabh-bachchans-don-against-covid-19-removed-862798.html
18-07-2020||West||MSETCL to use drones for power line inspection||India's largest transmission company, the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd (MSETCL), has added one more feather in its cap by using drone for inspection of power lines and transmission towers. The state energy minister Dr Nitin Raut pursued the drone procurement issue with the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and Director General of Civil Aviation which gave green signal to use drone for aerial surveillance and inspection of EHV Lines and towers. Drones allow aerial surveillance which is more efficient than manual survey of power lines. It will help to detect defects at the incipient stage in transmission lines. The drones are equipped with ultra HD cameras which can take high resolution close-up photographs and videos of the towers and their components. The constant video recording allows better assessment of faults in the existing lines. Recently, the Central Government has appreciated the MSETCL for using drones. Dr Raut has congratulated MSETCL chairman and managing director Dinesh Waghmare and his team for successfully using drones for aerial inspection of power lines and transmission towers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/msetcl-to-use-drones-for-power-line-inspection-862800.html
18-07-2020||West||Over 200 jawans test Covid-19 positive in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli||More than 200 jawans posted in the Naxalite-affected Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra's Vidarbha region have tested Covid-19 positive. These include 114 from the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), 87 from Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and two from the Border Security Force (BSF). “The results have come in over the past one week,” a Gadchiroli-based official told DH. Troopers of SRPF, CRPF and BSF account for over 200 of the 330 cases registered in Gadchiroli district. While 42 SRPF men had tested positive earlier, the 72 new positive cases are from a battalion that started working there recently.  The official said that all necessary drills are being followed and the jawans have been quarantined. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Chandrapur district, nearly two dozen positive cases have been detected over the past three to four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-200-jawans-test-covid-19-positive-in-maharashtras-gadchiroli-862833.html
18-07-2020||West||Maharashtra man beats wife to death after fight over food, arrested||A 34-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly killing his wife after picking up a fight as he did not like the food she cooked, Thane police said. Sachin Godane, a resident of Gaikwad Pada in Ambernath, locked his two children and an aunt in one room of the house on Friday afternoon and brutally beat up his wife Chandrakala (28) with a log and then strangled her, said Assistant Inspector JB Bhoyer of Shivajinagar police station. Godane has been remanded in police custody for four days, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-beats-wife-to-death-after-fight-over-food-arrested-862838.html
18-07-2020||West||Ahmedabad's Covid-19 count rises by 199 to 24,163; 4 more deaths||The number of Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad district in Gujarat rose by 199 to 24,163 on Saturday, state health department said. With four more deaths, the toll has reached 1,541, it said. A total of 169 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of the recovered cases in the district to 18,841, a release said. Of 199 new cases, 182 cases were reported from the city limits and the rest 17 from other parts of the district, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabads-covid-19-count-rises-by-199-to-24163-4-more-deaths-862839.html
18-07-2020||West||Religious gatherings not allowed in state, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Ahead of Bakri Eid and Ganesh festivals, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday reiterated that religious, social and political gatherings will remain prohibited in the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing collectors and municipal commissioners via a virtual meeting, the CM called for replication of the Dharavi model elsewhere in the state to control the viral outbreak. "Care should be taken to ensure that new containment zones do not get created," he said. The WHO recently praised the successful containment of the coronavirus spread in Dharavi, a major slum pocket in Mumbai. The CM also asked officials to appoint auditors for Covid-19 hospitals to ensure that patients are not fleeced. He also told them to ensure that adequate facilities are made available at institutional quarantine centres in every district. The CM called for monitoring the implementation of the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya scheme and availability of beds in hospitals. "At present, 540 patients are on ventilator support in the state," he said, adding that every district will now have a nodal testing officer. The government has decided to ramp up rapid antigen tests along with swab collection. The CM said Rs 2,000 will be given to every plasma donor and told officials to create awareness among people. BMC commissioner I S Chahal, who attended the meeting, suggested setting up of a unified command centre for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) where information about all facilities will be made available. He also suggested computerisation of bed management. The MMR has been witnessing a spike in new cases. The commissioner said asymptomatic patients need not be hospitalised so that beds remain available for the needy patients. Thackeray said the period of lockdown, which is in place in municipal corporations, should be utilised for contact tracing and bringing down the mortality rate. "Lockdown shouldn't be imposed under pressure. Impose it only if you are confident that it will help to contain the pandemic. Coronavirus should not reach rural areas from urban spots," the CM said. Health minister Rajesh Tope and medical education Minister Amit Deshmukh also attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/religious-gatherings-not-allowed-in-state-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-862845.html
18-07-2020||West||Maharashtra crosses three lakh Covid-19 cases, Mumbai's cases top one lakh||With Covid-19 cases rapidly climbing upwards, the total number of positive cases in Maharashtra crossed the three-lakh mark on Saturday. Similarly, the cases in Mumbai, the financial capital of the nation, crossed the threshold of one lakh cases. Given the trend, the total number of cases in the Mumbai metropolitan region is set to cross the two lakh-mark in the next two days. The total number of positive cases and deaths in Maharashtra now stands at 3,00,937 and 11,596, respectively. The total number of positive cases and deaths in Mumbai now stands at 1,00,350 and 5,650, respectively. On the other hand, the total positive cases in the larger Mumbai metropolitan region stands at 1,96,046 while it has recorded 8,071 deaths. According to the Public Health Department, 5,306 patients were discharged taking the total to 1,65,663 who have been treated and discharged, as of Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-crosses-three-lakh-covid-19-cases-mumbais-cases-top-one-lakh-862870.html
18-07-2020||West||With 1,822 fresh cases, Thane's Covid-19 tally rises to 65,927||An addition of 1,822 Covid-19 cases in Thane on Saturday took the district's count to 65,927, while 43 deaths increased the toll to 1,870, an official said. Navi Mumbai and Thane reported ten deaths each during the day, while Kalyan led the case count with 475, followed by Navi Mumbai at 352 and Thane at 342, he added. "Thane and Kalyan now have more than 15,000 cases each while Navi Mumbai has crossed the 11000-mark. The recovery rate in the district further improved to 62.34 per cent," the official informed. Neighbouring Palghar district has 11,403 cases, while 212 people have died there of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-1822-fresh-cases-thanes-covid-19-tally-rises-to-65927-862878.html
