19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Now, a virtual 'tour' of BDA sites||Those bidding for BDA sites on e-auction can now take a look at their favourite site online. Considering the difficulty faced by public in visiting the site during Covid-19 crisis, the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has developed a technology that allows one to see the property online. The BDA has notified that 308 sites will be e-auctioned in the second phase. Considering the challenges faced by the bidders, the BDA commissioner had instructed officials to introduce e-mapping technology. Thanks to the assistance provided by an IT company, the 308 sites on e-auction can be viewed through the BDA website. Integrated to google map, the technology allows bidders to 'visit' the property with one click. The geo-tagged mapping provides precise information of the property while the visuals allow a visitor to experience the environment of the place. The BDA has decided to make the virtual tour it a permanent feature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/now-a-virtual-tour-of-bda-sites-862911.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Exclusive control room for cops to report Covid-19 infection||The police department has set up an exclusive control room for its staff and families to report the coronavirus infection. Infected policemen can call up the control rooms to reach out for an ambulance or arrange treatment. The exclusive control room comes in the wake of more city policemen getting infected with Coronavirus. A senior police official said city policemen can call the exclusive control room at 080-22942625 and 080-22943772. The control room is working under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Command Centre) Isha Pant. Staff working at the control room said it began functioning from Thursday. It functions out of the fifth floor of the police commissioner's office and is working round-the-clock. Two policemen have been deployed to work in shifts. The staff or their family members can call up the centre to report a Covid positive test report or symptoms. This will allow the police top brass to arrange for treatment, keep an account of the number of infections in the department, and ensure sanitisation or sealing of the respective police stations and the police quarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/exclusive-control-room-for-cops-to-report-covid-19-infection-862912.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Victory over Covid-19: A whiff of fresh air for family of 3||Adhitya Ganeshiah, On June 13, my wife had a fever and cold. Immediately, I called my office and told them I will not be coming in, as my wife is unwell.  On June 15, I took my wife to the Authorised Medical Attendant who attends to Central Government Employees (I am a civilian technician in the Indian Army), who directed us to the fever clinic in Kengeri. As I was feeling feverish, I underwent a check-up as well. We were told it was influenza and were prescribed medicines. Then on June 17, my wife complained of a loss of taste and smell and soon, my 15-year-old daughter had a fever.   We decided to go to a private hospital after seeing social distancing not being practised in the fever clinic. Here we took a Covid-19 test and returned home. On June 18, some ASHA workers came to our house and told us, our daughter has tested positive. When I went to comfort my daughter, she pushed me away saying, "Don't come near me. I have tested positive. Why are you coming near me?" It was an emotionally difficult time. Soon, I received a call from the doctor, telling us that both me and my wife had tested positive as well.  On hearing this, I was actually happy as it meant that all of us could be admitted in the same hospital.  We were admitted to the Asymptomatic ward at Victoria hospital, as we did not have respiratory issues. My wife and daughter were admitted to the female ward next door.  I was given five different types of medicines: Hydroxychloroquine, Fluvir, Erythromycin and Vitamin tablets.  We were served breakfast at 8.30 am, lunch at 2.30 pm and dinner at 8 in the night. The nursing staff and doctors visited us at least 3-4 times a day. The psychologists called up each day, inquiring about our mental well-being. Among my four ward-mates, there was a farmer, who was mentally strong. Probably, he wasn’t afraid because he hadn’t watched the news as much as we did. The mobile phone helped stave off boredom and maintain contact with the outside world.  I stayed in the hospital for 10 days and was discharged on June 27, along with my wife and daughter. I had regained my sense of taste and smell two days into my stay there and though I lost some weight, I have gained it all back in the few weeks of staying at home.  (As told to Prajwal Suvarna of DHNS)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/victory-over-covid-19-a-whiff-of-fresh-air-for-family-of-3-862918.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||With hotels coming forward, Karnataka government hopeful of more CCCs||With officials arranging a tie-up between the hotel owners’ association and hospitals, the government is now confident of expanding the Covid Care Centre (CCC) infrastructure to meet the increasing demand for beds. Beds at the seven government CCCs are nearly full, with 1,875 of 2,114 beds filling out. Rajender Kumar Kataria, who heads the team constituted to oversee setting up of CCCs in the city, said the girls' hostel for North-East students at the Bangalore University is getting ready with 510 beds. “It is ready in all respects and is starting to receive patients,” he said. The number of daily cases shot past the 1,500 mark this week with discharge rates hovering around 500. Kataria said authorities are prepared to meet the growing demand for CCC beds. He met the Bangalore Hotel Owners' Association and Bangalore Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association to arrange a tie-up to create private Covid Care Centres. “The demand for private CCCs is high among patients who are willing to pay, which will add up to the government-run CCCs,” he said. Framing guidelines to run private CCCs, the government fixed Rs 8,000 per day for budget hotels and Rs 12,000 per day for five-star hotels. Kataria said the hotels and hospitals welcomed the government’s decision and sought two days to finish other formalities. The government now hopes more hotels and hospitals will come forward to set up CCCs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/with-hotels-coming-forward-karnataka-government-hopeful-of-more-cccs-862920.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Demand for RTE seats falls for second straight year||The demand for seats under Right to Education (RTE) quota has come down even during the 2020-21 academic year and the department of public instruction has received 11,466 applications as against 10,478 seats available for admission. This is the second consecutive year that the demand for the seats has gone down since the state government brought amendments to the RTE regulations in state, prioritising admissions at government and aided schools.  Even the number of seats available under the Act this year are lesser compared to the previous year. During 2019-20, the number of seats available were 17,720, of which only 4,698 seats were filled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/demand-for-rte-seats-falls-for-second-straight-year-862921.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Resignation: Karnataka HC bins former KSPCB chairman's petition||One more matter surrounding the curious case of resignation of Dr M Sudheendra Rao as chairperson of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has been disposed of. The Karnataka High Court, while upholding the legal sanctity of the resignation, dismissed Rao’s contention that the resignation was not according to theWater Act. Sudhindra Rao had claimed that some loose sheets of papers containing his signatures were misused to write a resignation letter in his name, dated May 2, 2020. The Seshadripuram police had also registered an FIR for forgery and fabrication on his complaint. He subsequently moved a petition contending that the resignation, even considered genuine, was not as stipulated in the Water Act. Senior counsel P S Rajagopal, appearing for the petitioner, argued the government could not have accepted the resignation as it was not as required under the provision of the Water Act. He said the subject letter was addressed to the chief minister and not to the state government and hence does not fit into Section 5 (4) of the Water Act.  Justice Krishna S Dixit, however, did not accept this argument. The bench said that what the government does after the resignation was tendered would not be much relevant for consideration. Justice Dixit said the endorsement of the chief minister made on the subject “Resignation Letter accepted” advances nobody’s case.    “True it is, that the chief minister is not the manifestation of the state unlike the King/Queen in England, but he acts as a limb of the government, is not legally disputable; therefore the letter of resignation addressed to the CM can be safely construed as the one addressed to the state government,” JusticeDixit held. Additional Advocate General (AAG) Dhyan Chinnappa informed the court that the police have filed a ‘B’ report on the complaint by Sudheendra Rao alleging forgery and fabrication in his resignation letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/resignation-karnataka-hc-bins-former-kspcb-chairmans-petition-862922.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||It's a positive turn for government schools amid Covid-19 crisis||The Covid-19 crisis has turned positive even for government schools in the state which are in need of makeover as many celebrities and elected representatives are coming forward to adopt them. Recently, sandalwood actor Sudeep had adopted four government schools in Chitradurga district and Member of Legislative Assembly from Magadi constituency Manju had adopted three schools. And the officials from the department of Public Instruction said, “several other celebrities have inquired about school adoption.” However, following the positive response for the school adoption programme during lockdown time, the department has issued an order asking officials at local level to take necessary steps to implement adoption of three schools by elected representatives at their respective constituencies under constituency development funds. “Following the announcement made in the state budget by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the order has already been issued, asking all elected representatives to adopt three schools each in their respective constituencies,” said a senior official of the department. Considering that the official inauguration of the programme by Yediyurappa is scheduled to be held in the second week of August, the department has instructed officials at the local level to take necessary measures and contact elected representatives for the purpose. “In case the MLAs are not aware about the programme, the announcement made in the budget or the government order issued, our block education officers have to contact them and brief them about the same,” explained the official.  The target to complete the adoption process by MLAs is the first week of August and upload the details along with DISE code of the adopted schools by all 224 MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/its-a-positive-turn-for-government-schools-amid-covid-19-crisis-862924.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man protests in front of Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa's house after baby dies||A man protested in front of Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's residence on Saturday alleging lack of medical care claimed the life of his one-month-old infant girl, police said on Saturday. Venkatesh sat with the baby's photograph in front of the Chief Minister's house, saying the girl developed health issues on July 11 and he rushed her to a hospital, but it turned him away, the police said. He said he had approached about a dozen hospitals and all of them refused to provide the baby any medical care. Eventually, the baby died. This forced Venkatesh to hold a protest to draw the Chief Minister's attention to the issue, the police said. The demonstration drew public attention and a few people joined him in the protest, they said. Later, he was taken away from the spot by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-protests-in-front-of-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-house-after-baby-dies-862943.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||67 policemen, 3 home guards test positive for Covid-19 so far in Dakshina Kannada||There are 1,977 police personnel in Police Commissionerate and Dakshina Kannada police jurisdiction. Of this, in the Commissionerate jurisdiction, 57 persons and in district police jurisdiction 10 personnel have been tested positive for Covid-19 (as on July 16). The use of sanitisers, masks, and other Covid-19 guidelines was being implemented. At work, distancing rules too have been maintained. Online work has also been given priority.  The police personnel have been divided into indoor and outdoor while deploying for work. No one was allowed inside the station without a check-up. All the staff have been given mandatory one day leave in a week. Those who are suffering from illness and are above 50 years old were also given leave, Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police B M Lakshmi Prasad said. Those who are deployed for outdoor work are given the task via phone. They need not come to the station. Majority of the works are carried out online (via mobile phone), said DCP Lakshmi Ganesh. During the checking for traffic violations and while working at check-post, the documents are not verified by holding it in hands. Instead, a photo is clicked from a mobile phone and then the document is verified. If any violation is found, notice is served via mobile phone, said ACP Vinay Gaonkar. Police personnel who were working as frontline worriers during the lockdown and quarantine centres have been infected with Covid-19. Dakshina Kannada district has 930 Home Guards. Three among them had been infected with the virus (as on July 16). Two have already recovered and discharged from hospitals. As many as 12 are being subjected to home quarantine, Home Guards Commandant Dr Muralee Mohan Choontharu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/67-policemen-3-home-guards-test-positive-for-covid-19-so-far-in-dakshina-kannada-862981.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada reports 237 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 more deaths||According to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, as many as 1,848 people were undergoing treatment at hospitals, Covid care centres and in home isolation in the district. On a positive note, 109 persons had recovered and were discharged from the hospital. The total discharges in the district stand at 1,387. Of the reported Covid-19 cases, nine persons including a senior police officer from Puttur division, a doctor of a private hospital in Puttur too had tested positive.  Kadaba community health centre was sealed for two days. A Kadaba home guard too had tested positive. The Kadaba police station officer and staff were asked to remain quarantined at home.  Two staff members of the postal department too had tested positive. As a result, 13 post offices including Head post office at Pandeshwar, Hampankatte, Ashoknagara, Gandhi Nagara, Boloor, Kuloor, Konchadi, Kavoor, Bejai, Kodialbail and Falnir will be sealed and sanitised as a precautionary measure, stated officials. As many as 15 persons in Ullal area too had tested positive. 4 Covid-19 fatalities Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that the district had recorded four more Covid-19 fatalities. The total deaths reported in the district stood at 75. A 74-year-old woman from Puttur, suffering from diabetes mellitus, hypertension, heart disease and asthma failed to respond to the treatment and died on July 17. A 67-year-old man from Mangaluru suffering from stroke, pneumonia and undergoing treatment at ICU of the hospital died on Saturday. A 49-year-old woman from Mangaluru suffering from cardiac arrest and chronic kidney disease too died on Saturday. A 61-year-old woman from Mangaluru suffering from COPD, hypertension and cardiac arrest succumbed to the virus on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-reports-237-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-more-deaths-862983.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Udupi family's video on Covid-19 awareness goes viral on social media||Seven members of the family including a four-month-old and an 85-year-old senior citizen tested positive for Covid-19 along with four staff of the shop belonging to the entrepreneur.  In the video, entrepreneur calls upon the people not to panic over Covid-19. He says it is the society that has created fear in the minds of people. "After 10 days of treatment at Covid hospital in Kundapura, we have returned back home after recovery. Self-confidence and courage is the need of the hour to overcome the virus," he said in the video. He thanked the DHO, doctors and staff of the Covid hospital for taking care of them by risking their lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-familys-video-on-covid-19-awareness-goes-viral-on-social-media-862988.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown extended till July 27 in Kalaburagi||Deputy Commissioner B Sharat has on Sunday extended the lockdown till July 27 in Kalaburagi city and taluk headquarters coming under urban local bodies. He had earlier ordered the imposition of lockdown from July 14 to 20 to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district. Business activities permitted during lockdown will be held from 6 am to 2 pm. This order will not be applicable to essential services and Sunday lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-extended-till-july-27-in-kalaburagi-863264.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ward off fear on Covid-19, face it boldly: N K Mohan Kumar, coronavirus survivor||“I was not scared when I was informed about Covid-19 infection. People should not be scared of Covid-19 and should face it boldly” said N K Mohan Kumar, who recovered after undergoing treatment in a hospital. Sharing his experience on Covid-19, he said, “I was surprised when the doctor told me over the phone about my swab sample report. I did not know what to do for a minute. I was asymptomatic. I do not know, how I was tested positive. But I faced it with courage.” He said, “My child was suffering from fever on July 3 and I went to the community health centre for a check-up. The staff collected my son’s swab and also advised me to undergo the test. Dr. Mahesh from the hospital called me on July 12 to confirm the test report. Later, officials from the health department arrived in an ambulance to shift me to the hospital. The entire process of shifting to the hospital was scary. There is a need to change the system of shifting the patients to the hospital,” Mohan Kumar felt.  Only the house of the infected should be sealed and not the entire locality. “I was admitted to the hospital on July 13 and was given medicines for five days. The doctors and the staff at the hospital treated with care and love. I am always grateful to them for their service. I was supplied with clean and good food during the treatment at the hospital and the doctors have been advised me to consume Vitamin C tablets for sometime.” He said, “After five days, I was discharged from the hospital with a letter on recovery. People should ward off the fear about the Covid-19 from their minds. One needs to take rest and consume nutritious food.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ward-off-fear-on-covid-19-face-it-boldly-n-k-mohan-kumar-coronavirus-survivor-863276.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown not a permanent solution to check Covid-19: DC Annies Kanmani Joy||Lockdown cannot be a permanent solution to check the spread of Covid-19. Instead, the public should help curb the disease by strictly following preventive protocols, said Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. Speaking during a live Facebook session organised by the district administration in Madikeri on Sunday, she said, “There are queries on why total lockdown is not imposed as the cases are on the rise. But, lockdown is not a permanent measure and business activities cannot be held up for long under the pretext of lockdown.” Rather, every person should follow the preventive guidelines such as usage of masks, hand sanitisers and social distancing. The quarantined people should adhere to the rules without fail, the officer said. “The fight against Covid-19 continues. There may not be a logical end to it as it is like a marathon. We cannot rest after covering a specific target,” Annies said. Talking about the social stigma associated with Covid-19, DC said patients need support and cooperation instead of being ill-treated. "We should fight against the virus and not against the infected persons,” she said. She asked the public to cooperate with agencies striving restlessly to keep the disease in control.  As per the revised guidelines, the people with international travel history should compulsorily undergo an institutional quarantine for seven days and home quarantine for seven days. People with inter-state travel history should undergo compulsory home quarantine for 14 days. People arriving from other districts should remain quarantined at home for seven days compulsorily. “People living in containment zones are requested to stock essential items. There is a long way to go. However, with everyone’s cooperation, we can effectively handle the situation,” she added. Talking about the delay in test results, the DC said there was a glitch in a machine at the district Covid-19 laboratory which has now been rectified. “Only lodges have been identified and not the resorts as quarantine centres. Health check-up at the check-posts of the district cannot be possible due to technical reasons,” she said. The officer, meanwhile, clarified that the designated Covid-19 hospital will not be shifted to Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences (KoIMS). “KoIMS is an educational institution. Equipment in the district government hospital cannot be shifted to the institute. Currently, the designated Covid-19 hospital is being run efficiently,” she said. 2,000 beds ready Talking about the preparedness, the officer said the Covid-19 hospital currently has 250 beds and 31 ICU beds are kept ready along with 25 ventilators. Covid care centres have been opened at Madikeri, Virajpet and Kushalnagar. A total of 2,000 beds are readied in the district. Meanwhile, she invited the doctors from Kodagu origin to serve in the district. Despite all the necessary amenities, along with Rs 60,000 salary per month, the doctors are hesitating to come to Kodagu. There was no good response for a walk-in interview at KoIMS, for the doctors, she lamented and said that it is a good opportunity for doctors from Kodagu origin to serve in their home district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-not-a-permanent-solution-to-check-covid-19-dc-annies-kanmani-joy-863280.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||E-auction of 308 BDA sites to begin from July 20||The e-auction of 308 BDA sites will start from Monday at 11.00 am, and those interested must pay Rs 4 lakh per site as earnest money deposit (EMD) to get themselves registered.  The auction will be done in five phases. Sites with serial number 1 to 75 will be auctioned on August 6, 76 to 127 on August 7; 128 to 191 on August 8; 192 to 254 on August 11 sites from 255 to 308 will be auctioned on August 12, an official of the BDA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/e-auction-of-308-bda-sites-to-begin-from-july-20-863291.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Krishna waters for irrigation from July 21||With the inflow into Almatti reservoir going up, water will be released for Krishna command area on July 21. The water will be released without any break, unlike in the past. This arrangement would continue as long as the dam gets water. The inflow into Almatti had decreased four days ago. However, on Sunday it received 47,611 cusec of water raising the storage in the dam by 4 tmc. At present, the reservoir has 87 tmcft of water. The decision on water release is usually arrived at irrigation consultative committee meeting. However, the committee did not meet this year. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol and officials in an internal meeting arrived on the decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krishna-waters-for-irrigation-from-july-21-863292.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Cattle found dead in coffee estate, poisoning suspected||Nine cattle were found dead in a coffee plantation belonging to a private company at Aigur in the taluk. Local residents suspect that the cattle were poisoned to death by the staff of the company as per the instructions of the company manager. Police complaints have been filed against the manager and staff in this connection. The owners of the cattle have demanded that serious action be taken against the suspects. S C Girish, an agriculturist from Kiraganduru village, said that three of his cattle were poisoned by the coffee company staffers Darshan, Govind, Srinivasa, Muttappa and others. Girish said he had suffered a loss of Rs 50,000 following the death of his cattle.  Also, the cattle belonging to K U Somesh of Aigur, Chidananda, Sandeep, Chandrashekhar, Veeraraju, Puttaraju and Nitin are missing. The farmers have suspected a foul play and alleged that their cattle too have been killed by the company staff. They have demanded action against the suspects. Following the complaints, circle inspector Nanjundegowda and station house officer Shivashankar conducted a spot inspection. The autopsy of the cattle was also performed. The coffee estate manager, assistant manager, field officer, tractor driver and another employee were quizzed by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cattle-found-dead-in-coffee-estate-poisoning-suspected-863294.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Widespread rain in North Karnataka districts; inflow into Almatti, TB dam rises||Heavy showers in the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday poured misery on Siruguppa taluk in Ballari A makeshift bridge across Yellamma Halla stream at Raravi village was washed away in a flash flood in the early hours of Sunday. Due to which, many villages in the Andhra border and in the taluk were cut off for the best part of Sunday. A swollen stream near Bandral village in the taluk submerged a low-lying bridge, causing untold hardships to the motorists. Many parts of north Karnataka plains, including Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Dharwad, Belagavi and Gadag districts, witnessed intermittent spells of rain on Sunday. Inflow into Tungabhadra reservoir has increased owing to copious rain in its catchment in Malnad. The inflows are expected to go further up on Monday. Almatti reservoir in Vijayapura district received 47,611 cusecs (about 4 tmcft of water) on Monday. Belagavi city and surrounding areas experienced spells of light rain. Overcast conditions prevailed over the region for most part of the day.Heavy showers, coupled with thunder, lashed Kolar district on Sunday. Showers batter Kolar The one-and-a-half hours downpour left the residential areas in Kolar, Srinivaspur, Mulbagal, Malur and KGF waterlogged. Power outages were reported from many parts of the district. The showers causes misery to the farmers, many of who lost the ready-to-harvest tomato, cabbage, beans and capsicum. Parts of Chikkamagaluru district, including the city, Sringeri and Koppa, received intermittent rains. After a brisk rain activity, most parts of the coastal districts experienced a sunny weather on Sunday. Orange alert for coast Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy showers, accompanied by thunder activity, in Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts for next two days. Declaring an orange alert for the region, the IMD has warned the fishermen not to venture into the sea, which is witnessing hightides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/widespread-rain-in-north-karnataka-districts-inflow-into-almatti-tb-dam-rises-863295.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Good old Doordarshan comes in handy for new-normal classes||Engaging the high school children this academic year, the much-awaited classes on Doordarshan (Chandana channel) begin on Monday.  Amidst uncertainty over opening of schools this academic year, with an aim to keep students engaged in the curriculum, the department of public instruction has launched classes via Doordarshan’s regional channel Chandana. The move is expected to bridge the growing gap between Urban and Rural students, as the latter have to face poor internet connectivity. The department has issued a detailed time-table for classes 8, 9 and 10. In the first phase, the department has issued the schedule for 10 days (from July 20 to July 31). Soon after the completion of the first 10 days, the second time-table will be announced. As per the schedule, each subject/class will be telecast for half an hour, covering eight subjects per day (total four hours). The classes commence at 9.30 am and go on till 5.30 pm spread across three different slots. Officials from the department said, “There will be unit test for students after the completion of one month of classes via Chandana channel.” The department has released Rs 1.6 crore towards the programme and directed officials at the local level to identify children who do not have access to TV to involve them with the students in the locality who have access totelevision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/good-old-doordarshan-comes-in-handy-for-new-normal-classes-863298.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chamundi temple incurs Rs 8.36 cr loss in last three months||With the outbreak of Covid-19, which was followed by the lockdown and ban on the entry of devotees during the month of Ashada and Vardhanti festival, Sri Chamundehswari Temple atop the Chamundi Hill, has suffered a huge loss in the last three months. According to sources, the temple suffered a loss of Rs 8.36 crore. It has to be mentioned that following Covid-19, the temple remained closed during the lockdown and the number of devotees visiting the temple declined after the lockdown. The authorities too decided to ban the entry of devotees during the month of Ashada and also on the weekends, to prevent the spread of pandemic. As the number of devotees to the temple declined after the lockdown, the collection was very less compared to previous years. Lakhs of devotees used to visit the temple on Ashada Fridays, but this time, the district administration had banned the entry to devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamundi-temple-incurs-rs-836-cr-loss-in-last-three-months-863302.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Spike in Covid cases in Chamarajanagar, 38 tests positive||There was a spurt in Covid-19 cases with 38 new cases reported in the district on Sunday. This is the highest so far in the district. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 297. While 188 people have been discharged after recovery, there are 106 active cases. All are being treated at the Covid hospital. In all, 188 have been discharged so far. Out of 38 new cases, Kollegal taluk tops the list with 18 people testing positive. Ten cases have been reported from Gundlupet taluk, five from Chamarajanagar taluk, three from Hanur and two from Yalandur taluk. Increase in the number of cases without the known source of contact has created anxiety among the authorities. Out of 38, the source of contact of 17 people is not known. The contact tracing is on. While eight of them are primary contacts, seven who have returned from Bengaluru, one from Tumakuru have tested positive. Three people suffered from ILI and two are from the containment zones. Male Mahadeshwara Hill has reported its first Covid case, with a police personnel testing positive. The police station has been sealed down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/spike-in-covid-cases-in-chamarajanagar-38-tests-positive-863303.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two deaths, seven test coronavirus positive in Mandya||The district reported two deaths and seven positive cases on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 869. The total deaths have increased to seven. The deceased are a 75-year-old woman, who was admitted to the hospital on July 13, and also suffered from fever, diabetes, blood pressure and breathing problems. She died on the night of July 18. The other person is a 60-year-old man, who was admitted for breathing issues on July 14, and died on Saturday night. In all, 609 have been discharged after recovery and there are 253 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-deaths-seven-test-coronavirus-positive-in-mandya-863304.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah bats for ASHA workers’ demands||Even though the government promised a one-time incentive of Rs 3,000 to ASHA workers, 50% of them have not received the money, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has claimed. It is not enough to simply designate ASHA workers as "frontline workers" and the government needs to ensure that their demands are met, he said in a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.  "There is a statewide protest by ASHA workers. Many of them are affected by Covid-19. They are being underpaid. The government had announced in its budget to hike their pay to Rs 8,000- Rs 9,000 but they are being paid only Rs 4,000 to Rs 6,000. Also, only half of them have received a one-time compensation of Rs 3,000, announced for them. They want the government to assure them of an honorarium of Rs 12,000, PPE kits and treatment while on duty," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-bats-for-asha-workers-demands-862927.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Take private medical colleges into confidence: Kumaraswamy to Karnataka govt||Senior JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday advised the Karnataka government to utilise the services of private medical colleges in treating Covid-19 patients, by taking them into confidence, instead of threatening them with license cancellation for not complying with directives. He also said a concentrated effort should be taken in the fight against coronavirus. "It was wrong for any hospital to deny treatment. It is also not correct on part of the government to threaten the private medical colleges with cancellation of their licence for that reason. It won't be of any help at this time of medical emergency. Remember that MCI has the authority to cancel licenses, not government," Kumaraswamy tweeted. "Instead of showing fury on private medical colleges at such a time, concentrate on taking their service by taking them into confidence. Look into their needs. I urge for a concentrated fight against coronavirus," he added.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had on Saturday convened a meeting with Private Medical College Hospitals regarding Covid management and directed them to provide 50 per cent of the beds as promised. In another tweet, Kumaraswamy said the notice being put out by local administrations in front of coronavirus patient's house is leading to new age social discrimination and untouchability. To ensure that infected patients and his family leads a respectable life, such a practice has to be dropped immediately. "..... instead health workers should be sent to their houses to educate and instill confidence in them," the former CM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/take-private-medical-colleges-into-confidence-kumaraswamy-to-karnataka-govt-863162.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Probe mask procurement from Chinese firm: Karnataka Rashtra Samithi||After the Indian arm of a Chinese firm allegedly cheated Karnataka and Tamil Nadu governments by supplying KN-95 masks against orders for N-95 masks, the Karnataka Rashtra Samithi has demanded the central government to initiate a probe into the procurement. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Ravi Krishna Reddy has urged him to launch an investigation by NIA and similar agency to bring out the truth. Noting that the firm, BYD Company Ltd had links with Chinese ruling authorities, he alleged that the company had deliberately cheated many state governments. "While there is negligence on the part of the state authorities, this act by M/s BYD seems to deliberate, unlawful and unpardonable," he said. This incident shows the lack of competency and professional bankruptcy of officials, who could not even verify the credentials of a company and the products, and have not even bothered to test the materials after receiving them, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/probe-mask-procurement-from-chinese-firm-karnataka-rashtra-samithi-863296.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Opposition attacks government over infant’s death||The death of a one-month-old baby due to alleged lack of medical care spiralled into a controversy on Sunday, as opposition parties lashed out at the government here on Sunday. The Congress blamed “rampant corruption and incompetency in handling the Covid crisis” for the child’s death. The incident came to light after father of the child, Venkatesh Naik, staged a protest in front of the chief minister’s residence on Saturday. His son was diagnosed with a heart-condition around a week ago and was recommended immediate hospitalisation. Though he along with his wife visited multiple hospitals in the city, they refused to admit the infant resulting in his death. “It’s tragic that a one-month-old baby died due to lack of medical care. The devastated father protested in front of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s residence. This government’s rampant corruption and incompetency in handling this crisis is making people’s lives miserable,” KPCC president D K Shivakumarvsaid. He said that Venkatesh had travelled for 36 hours in Bengaluru and at least 10 hospitals denied him admission. “Will you take responsibility for this tragedy?” Shivakumar asked, adding that ministers in the government were busy looting while people suffered. The Aam Aadmi Party also attacked the government over the infant’s death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/opposition-attacks-government-over-infant-s-death-863297.html
19-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Stop warning signs at houses of Covid-19 infected: HD Kumaraswamy to government||The practice of hanging warning signs in front of the residences of Covid-19 infected patients should be ceased, JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy said on Sunday. “Such a measure is causing social discrimination and untouchability. Families are being treated in an undignified manner,” he said in a tweet. Rather than hanging signs, the government should send health workers to such residences and create awareness. They should be advised to stay at home, rather than insulting them by such practices, he said, requesting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to take cognisance of such issues.  He also advised the government on initiating penal action against private hospitals and medical colleges during the pandemic. “Refusing treatment is a mistake by any hospital. But, it is not right for the government to threaten medical colleges of cancelling its licences,” he said, reminding the government that only Medical Council of India was empowered to cancel licences. The government should take these colleges to confidence and ensure that they deliver services during the pandemic, the former CM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/stop-warning-signs-at-houses-of-covid-19-infected-hd-kumaraswamy-to-government-863300.html
19-07-2020||National||Sachin Pilot tweets urging people to support Assam, Bihar flood victims||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Saturday appealed to all Indians to join the efforts in helping support those affected due to the floods in Assam and Bihar. Pilot's appeal comes amid the raging political firestorm in Rajasthan where he declared open rebellion against the Ashok Gehlot government. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the state Congress chief earlier this week.  My thoughts & prayers with all those families affected by the Assam & Bihar floods. Over 68 lives lost & 3.6 million people affected in Assam alone.I appeal to all Indians, to come together, join in the efforts to help support those affected in these extreme flood situations. "My thoughts and prayers with all those families affected by the Assam & Bihar floods. Over 68 lives lost & 3.6 million people affected in Assam alone," Pilot tweeted. "I appeal to all Indians, to come together, join in the efforts to help support those affected in these extreme flood situations," he said. The tweet by Pilot was his first in four days. His last tweets were on July 14, the day he was sacked from both the posts. Soon after his removal as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and PCC chief, Pilot on Tuesday had said "truth can be rattled, not defeated". Later that evening, Pilot had tweeted, "My heartfelt thanks and gratitude to all those who have come out in my support today." Pilot has the support of 18 MLAs. There was little news of the Pilot camp. While the former PCC chief has been silent, there was little information on his whereabouts and those of the MLAs who mounted the rebellion with him. They had been in a resort in Haryana till Friday evening when the Rajasthan special operations group reached for their voice samples but could not meet them. Some Congress leaders alleged that they had been taken to another BJP-ruled state but no one was quite sure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sachin-pilot-tweets-urging-people-to-support-assam-bihar-flood-victims-862946.html
19-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 19||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 10 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.    On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 11,09,894 as of July 20 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 27,517 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 6,53,751 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-19-862947.html
19-07-2020||National||DH Toon | Migrants bear the brunt of Atmanirbhar Bharat||Most migrant workers in misery, says pre-Covid-19 study Three months before the Covid-19 outbreak, a State-wide sample survey of construction workers had clearly established that 77% owned no land or were small and marginal farmers. Irregular income from agriculture forced them to migrate to cities for work, a fact dramatically exposed by the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-migrants-bear-the-brunt-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-862952.html
19-07-2020||National||Stranded on ships, 200,000 seafarers struggle in coronavirus limbo||Indian ship worker Tejasvi Duseja is desperate to go home after months stranded offshore by coronavirus border closures and lockdowns that have left more than 200,000 seafarers in limbo. From engineers on cargo ships to waiters on luxury cruise liners, ocean-based workers around the world have been caught up in what the United Nations warns is a growing humanitarian crisis that has been blamed for several suicides. Many have been trapped on vessels for months after their tours were supposed to end as travel restrictions disrupted normal crew rotations. "Mentally, I am just done with it... but I'm still holding up because I have no other option," Duseja, 27, told AFP via WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger in late June as the Indian-owned cargo vessel he works on floated near Malaysia. Duseja, one of roughly 30,000 Indian workers unable to leave their ships, had extended his seven-month contract a few months before the pandemic struck. "The last time I stepped off from this 200-metre (650-foot) ship was in February," he said. Seafarers typically work for six to eight months at a stretch before disembarking and flying back to their home countries, with new crews taking their place. But as the deadly virus whipped around the world and paralysed international travel, that was suddenly impossible. Underscoring the growing urgency of the situation, more than a dozen countries at a UK-hosted International Maritime Summit this month vowed to recognise seafarers as "key workers" to help them get home.   Philippine luxury cruise ship technician Cherokee Capajo spent nearly four months on ships without setting foot on land due to virus shutdowns. The 31-year-old had barely heard of Covid-19 when he boarded the Carnival Ecstasy in Florida in late January. Soon, a number of Carnival-owned cruise ships were stricken with severe outbreaks -- including the Diamond Princess in Japan. After the Ecstasy passengers disembarked in Jacksonville on March 14, Capajo and his colleagues were forced to stay on board for the next seven weeks. Finally, on May 2, the ship sailed to the Bahamas where Capajo says he and 1,200 crew members were transferred to another boat that took them to Jakarta before arriving in Manila Bay on June 29. He wanted to "kiss the ground" when he came ashore nearly two weeks later after finishing quarantine. "This could probably be the hardest part of my experience as a seaman because you are not sure what will happen every day," Capajo told AFP via Facebook Messenger last week, as he endured a second quarantine near his hometown in the central Philippines. "You worry if you'll ever come back home, how long will you be stuck on the ship. It's difficult. It's really sad." Filipinos account for around a quarter of the world's seafarers. About 80,000 of them are stranded because of the pandemic, according to Philippine authorities.   The ordeal has taken a toll on the mental health of many seafarers, with reports of some taking their own lives. In one case, a Filipino worker died of "apparent self-harm" on the cruise ship Scarlet Lady as it anchored off Florida in May, according to the US Coast Guard. Shipping industry groups have expressed their concerns about "suicide and self-harm" among workers in a joint letter to UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who said last month some seafarers have been "marooned at sea for 15 months". An International Labour Organization (ILO) convention widely known as the Seafarers' Bill of Rights limits a worker's single tour of duty to less than 12 months. The strain is also being felt by families waiting at home. Priyamvada Basanth said she did not know when she would see her husband who has been at sea for eight months on a ship owned by a Hong Kong company. "The government is not even doing anything," said Basanth, from the southern Indian port of Kochi. "I just want him to come home." Lala Tolentino, who runs the Philippine office for a UK-based seafarers support group, said they had been swamped by "hundreds" of pleas for help from stranded workers since March. "They want to know what will happen to them, where they are going. Will they be able to get off their ships," she told AFP. Many of those stuck onboard completed their tours more than four months ago and were exhausted, the ILO said last month. For Duseja, who comes from the northern Indian city of Dehradun at the foothills of the Himalayas, the end of his ordeal is in sight. "I'm still on the ship," he told AFP in a WhatsApp message last week. "But mentally, I am feeling slightly better because I've been told that I'm finally getting off the ship mid-August."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-on-ships-200000-seafarers-struggle-in-coronavirus-limbo-862992.html
19-07-2020||National||India records single-day spike of 38,902 Covid-19 cases; 6,77,422 recoveries||India saw a record single-day jump of 38,902 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 10,77,618 on Sunday, while the total number of recoveries increased to 6,77,422, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The death toll due to the disease rose to 26,816 with new 543 fatalities even as 23,672 patients have recuperated in the past 24 hours, the highest so far in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Ministry of Health said the 11 most Covid-19 affected countries in the world --the US, Brazil, Russia, Peru, Chile, Mexico, South Africa, the UK, Iran, Pakistan, Spain --together reported 8 times more cases and 14 times more deaths than India. There are 3,73,379 active cases presently in the country. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. This is the fourth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 30,000.  According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,37,91,869 samples have been tested up to July 18 with 3,58,127 samples being tested on Saturday.  Of the 543 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 144 are from Maharashtra, 93 from Karnataka, 88 from Tamil Nadu, 52 from Andhra Pradesh, 27 from West Bengal, 26 from Delhi, 24 from Uttar Pradesh, 17 from Haryana, 16 from Gujarat and nine from Madhya Pradesh. Bihar, Punjab and Rajasthan have reported seven fatalities each followed by Telangana with six deaths, Jammu and Kashmir five, Odisha and Puducherry three each, Assam, Tripura and Kerala two each, while Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand have registered a fatality each.   Of the total 26,816 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 11,596 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,597 deaths, Tamil Nadu 2,403, Gujarat 2,122, Karnataka 1,240, Uttar Pradesh 1,108, West Bengal 1,076, Madhya Pradesh 706 and Andhra Pradesh 586. So far, 553 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 409 in Telangana, 344 in Haryana, 246 in Punjab, 236 in Jammu and Kashmir, 208 in Bihar, 86 in Odisha, 53 in Assam, 52 in Uttarakhand, 46 in Jharkhand and 40 in Kerala. Puducherry has registered 28 deaths, Chhattisgarh 24, Goa 21, Chandigarh 12, Himachal Pradesh 11, Tripura 5, Arunachal Pradesh 3, Meghalaya and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two each, while Ladakh has reported one fatality. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 3,00,937 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,65,714, Delhi at 1,21,582, Karnataka at 59,652, Gujarat at 47,390, Uttar Pradesh at 47,036, Andhra Pradesh at 44,609 and Telangana at 43,780. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 40,209 in West Bengal, 28,500 in Rajasthan, 25,547 in Haryana, 25,136 in Bihar, 22,918 in Assam and 21,763 in Madhya Pradesh. Odisha has reported 16,701 infections, Jammu and Kashmir 13,198, Kerala 11,659, while Punjab has 9,792 cases. A total of 5,342 have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand, 5,233 in Chhattisgarh, 4,276 in Uttarakhand, 3,484 in Goa, 2,654 in Tripura, 1,894 in Puducherry, 1,891 in Manipur, 1,457 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,159 in Ladakh. Nagaland has recorded 978 Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh 700, Arunachal Pradesh 650 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 602 cases. Meghalaya has reported 418 cases, Mizoram 284, Sikkim has registered 275 infections so far, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has recorded 198 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding, state-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-single-day-spike-of-38902-covid-19-cases-677422-recoveries-863004.html
19-07-2020||National||Defectors should be banned from holding public office for 5 years, fighting next poll: Kapil Sibal||Amid the political firestorm in Rajasthan following Sachin Pilot's rebellion, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Sunday called for amending the anti-defection law to ban all defectors from holding public office for five years and fighting the next election. Sibal also said that the "antibodies" against the "virus of corrupt means" to topple elected governments lie in amending the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution (anti-defection law). His attack comes in the wake of Pilot's open rebellion against the Ashok Gehlot government, which has been on shaky ground since, with at least 18 legislators backing the rebel leader. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the state Congress chief earlier this week. The Congress has accused the BJP of making efforts to topple the Gehlot government by indulging in horse-trading. "Need for Vaccine: Virus of 'corrupt means' to topple elected governments has spread through a 'Wuhan like facility' in Delhi," Sibal tweeted, in an apparent swipe at the BJP. "Its 'antibodies' lie in amending the Tenth Schedule. Ban all defectors from: Holding public office for five years, fighting the next election," he said. Need for Vaccine : Virus of “ corrupt means “ to topple elected governments has spread through a “ Wuhan like facility “ in Delhi It’s “ antibodies “ lie in amending the Tenth Schedule Ban all defectors from : Holding public office for 5yearsFighting the next election   Taking a swipe at Pilot over his claim that he is not joining the BJP, Sibal on Thursday had asked what happens to his "ghar wapsi" and whether Rajasthan's dissident legislators are vacationing in Haryana under the "watchful eye" of the saffron party. In the house of 200, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including the 19 dissidents who have been issued notices of disqualification by the speaker and they have challenged them in the high court. The Congress has maintained the claim that the Gehlot government has the support of 109 MLAs, including the two BTP MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defectors-should-be-banned-from-holding-public-office-for-5-years-fighting-next-poll-kapil-sibal-863007.html
19-07-2020||National||Covid-19 crisis: Survey says 55.1% households in India had only two meals a day||The Unmasking the Impact of Covid-19 on Asia's Most Vulnerable Children early recovery assessment report released by child-rights NGO World Vision Asia Pacific, found that resulting economic, psychosocial, and physical strain on Indian families has negatively affected all aspects of child well-being including access to food, nutrition, healthcare, essential medicines, hygiene and sanitation facilities, as well as child protection and safety. The report based on data gathered from 5,668 households across 119 districts from 24 states and 2 union territories (Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir) during the period of April 1 to May 15 highlighted that the livelihoods of more than 60 percent of parents or caregivers were fully or severely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Daily workers, who are the largest segment in the survey, are the hardest hit and the loss of livelihoods that have resulted from government lockdown measures has become the top-most concern for the rural and urban poor, the survey found. "About 67 percent of urban parents/caregivers have reported a loss of jobs or income reduction in the previous weeks," it said. The results of the report revealed that 55.1 percent of the interviewed households could get only two meals a day, which indicated limited access to basic food supplies due to affordability challenges, the report said. The study found that only 56 percent of respondents always had access to hygiene items, and 40 percent had access only sometimes. "Access to adequate water and sanitation remains a challenge, which increases the risk of malnutrition and the spread of the diseases, including Covid-19.   "The stress on families related to loss of income, lack of school, change of children's behaviour and quarantine measures contributes to children experiencing physical punishment and emotional abuse," the report said. The report also indicated that 40 percent of children are stressed out due to the current situation.  “Women and children are usually the worst affected in any disaster. The Covid-19 crisis is proving to be no different. It is causing cascading damage to poor and vulnerable children — through stretched health services, inadequate medical supplies, higher risk of violence & exploitation, minimal access to education and a lower intake of nutritious food stemming from the severe drop in income levels in families," said Cherian Thomas, Regional Leader, World Vision International, South Asia and Pacific region. The report which also covered other Asian countries of Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, the Philippines, and Sri Lanka gave short and long term recommendations for helping the impacted communities. In the short-term (through the end of 2020), the report recommended scaling-up of social protection interventions for nutritious food, cash, and voucher assistance that are child-sensitive, gender-responsive which provide a pathway to broader social protection, optimising the targeting of beneficiaries in government social assistance schemes and increasing investment in public works programmes among others. In the medium to long-term (2021-2022), the report recommended increasing government resources for these social assistance interventions, leveraging multi-sectoral responses to promote child well-being, invest in the rebuilding of livelihood interventions that promote inclusion of vulnerable populations and women's economic empowerment among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-survey-says-551-households-in-india-had-only-two-meals-a-day-863053.html
19-07-2020||National||Parliament panels have started scrutinising handling of Covid-19 in India: Naidu||In a Facebook post hailing the media's role during the pandemic, the vice president also said Parliament is "on course" for holding the Monsoon session. The Rajya Sabha chairman said he has held several rounds of discussions with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on enabling the meetings of the parliamentary committees and the Monsoon session of Parliament. "Given the corona-induced social distancing norm, the logistics of seating of MPs required detailed deliberation and planning. The government also recently reached out to both the presiding officers (Naidu and Birla) on holding the Monsoon session. "We are on course," Naidu said. With the easing of restrictions on domestic air travel in May and to a lesser degree on rail travel, the department-related standing committees of both Houses of Parliament have resumed their meetings this month, he pointed out. They have undertaken an examination of various aspects of the management of the pandemic and its fallout, Naidu said. "This, in effect, means the required parliamentary scrutiny of the handling of the pandemic started in about three and half months of the last sitting of the apex legislature of the country. Any other shorter timeframe may have not been possible given the situation prevailing in the country," he asserted. Some members of Parliament had suggested holding the standing committee meetings online due to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. But the committees met physically. At least four parliamentary panels have met in the last few days and the ones relating to home affairs and science and technology have discussed various aspects of the pandemic. Naidu pointed out that the Budget session had to be cut short a few days ahead of the schedule as the MPs wanted to be with the people in this hour of crisis. Both Houses were adjourned sine die on March 23. According to the provisions of the Constitution, Parliament has to meet within six months of the last sitting. Normally, the Monsoon session starts in July with some exceptions over the years. "This year, we are living in abnormal times due to the pandemic. The central and state governments are engrossed in handling the pandemic for the last over four months on a day-to-day basis," Naidu pointed out. Referring to journalists, he said the media, as the fourth pillar of democracy, is often said to be the bridge between parliamentary institutions and people by enabling a two-way communication. "This role has assumed even more significance during the time of the pandemic," the vice president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panels-have-started-scrutinising-handling-of-covid-19-in-india-naidu-863058.html
19-07-2020||National||Goa continues to export ore to China; NGO complains to PM Modi||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's travails appear to brook no stopping for now at least. After Sawant was rebuked by Governor Satya Pal Malik last week for trying to "put words in his mouth" vis a vis media criticism of the government's handling of the pandemic crisis, the state's leading green NGO Goa Foundation has now petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's claiming the state government mining policy continued to favour China. "Normally, all mining activity halts before the monsoon by May 15 every year. Dr Sawant ought to be directed to stop the export of Goa’s ore to China forthwith as it is entirely inappropriate when seen within the circumstances facing the country today," says the letter to the Prime Minister's Office written by the Director of Goa Foundation Claude Alvares on Sunday. The complaint letter to the PMO comes in times of increased hostilities between India and China over the territorial spat in Leh which has claimed lives of soldiers on both sides. "The priority of the Sawant government today is to be seen in recent orders of the Director of Mines and Geology, permitting transport and export of iron ore stocks upto July 31, 2020, directly favouring former lease-holders and traders who have spot contracts with China," the letter also states Mining was banned in Goa for the second time in 2018, after the Supreme Court of India indicted the state government for flaws in the leases renewal procedures of 88 operational mining tracts. Interestingly, while the amended Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act has made auctioning of major resources mandatory, the letter states that the state government has been dragging its feet vis a vis starting the auctioning process, which would yield the exchequer a much needed financial boost. "Instead of going in for auctions – the law of the land today – the Goa government has wasted precious time writing to the Union Mines ministry, and to the PMO, asking for a 'legislative cure'," the letter states, adding that the Sawant-led administration has not given a not to prosecute key officials involved in the 2018 mining lease renewal who had been indicted by the Lokayukta in its report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-continues-to-export-ore-to-china-ngo-complains-to-pm-modi-863082.html
19-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 fatality rate among lowest in the world, 'progressively falling'||India's Covid-19 case fatality rate is "progressively falling" and is currently at 2.49 per cent, which is one of the lowest in the world, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday, crediting efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases for it. There are 29 states and union territories with a case fatality rate (CFR) lower than India's average, with five of them having a CFR of zero and 14 having fatality rate of less than 1 per cent. The focused efforts of the Centre and state and UT governments on efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases have ensured that India's case fatality rate has fallen below 2.5 per cent, the ministry said. With effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardized clinical management protocols based on holistic standard of care approach, the CFR has significantly dipped, it said.  "The CFR is progressively falling and currently, it is 2.49 per cent. India has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world," the ministry said. From 2.82 per cent over a month earlier, India's Covid-19 case fatality rate declined to 2.72 per cent on July 10 and has further reduced to 2.49 per cent presently. Under the guidance of the Centre, the state and UT governments have ramped up testing and hospital infrastructure by combining public and private sector efforts, the ministry said. Many states have conducted the population surveys to map and identify the vulnerable population like the elderly, pregnant women and those with co-morbidities. This, with the help of technological solutions like mobile apps, has ensured keeping the high-risk population under continuous observation, thus aiding early identification, timely clinical treatment and reducing fatalities, the ministry said. "At the ground level, frontline health workers like ASHAs (Accredited Social Health Activists) and ANMs (Auxiliary Nursing Midwives) have done a commendable job of managing the migrant population and to enhance awareness at the community level. "As a result, there are 29 States and UTs with CFR lower than India's average. This shows commendable work done by public health apparatus of the country," the ministry said. Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands have zero case fatality rate. States and UTs having a CFR below the national average include Tripura (0.19 pc),  Assam (0.23 pc), Kerala (0.34 pc), Odisha (0.51 pc), Goa (0.60 pc), Himachal Pradesh (0.75 pc), Bihar (0.83 pc), Telangana (0.93 pc), Andhra Pradesh (1.31 pc), Tamil Nadu (1.45 pc), Chandigarh (1.71 pc), Rajasthan (1.94 pc), Karnataka (2.08 pc) and Uttar Pradesh (2.36 pc). India saw a record single-day jump of 38,902 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 10,77,618 on Sunday, while the total number of recoveries increased to 6,77,422. A total of 23, 672 patients have recuperated in the past 24 hours, the highest so far in a day, according to the health ministry data updated at 8 AM. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 1,37,91,869 samples have been tested up to July 18 with 3,58,127 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-fatality-rate-among-lowest-in-the-world-progressively-falling-863086.html
19-07-2020||National||Prime Minister Narendra Modi now has 6 crore followers on Twitter||The followers of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on microblogging site Twitter have risen to six crore. Modi is known for reaching out to the masses through social media. He uses Twitter extensively to share important information with the people. Most of his addresses are beamed live on his personal Twitter handle. Modi, who joined Twitter in January 2009, is following 2,354 accounts, according to his handle @narendramodi. In September 2019, Prime Minister Modi had five crore followers. The Twitter handle of the Prime Minister's Office has 3.7 crore followers. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who joined Twitter in April 2015, has over 1.5 crore followers. Gandhi follows 267 accounts on Twitter, according to his handle. Modi has over 4.5 crore followers on Instagram. US President Donald Trump has over 8.3 crore followers on Twitter and he follows 46 accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-narendra-modi-now-has-6-crore-followers-on-twitter-863092.html
19-07-2020||National||Teenagers develop chat-bot to manage shopping queues in Covid-19 times||A group of teenagers in the national capital have come up with a technological solution to avoid crowding at neighbourhood stores as social distancing has emerged as the buzzword in battling the Covid-19 pandemic. The group of six high school students hope to change the way Indians shop during the pandemic by tying up with neighbourhood stores using a WhatsApp chat-bot by helping them manage queues and allotting time slots for customers to pick their orders. The chat-bot – WhyQ – developed by Jai Relan, Jasraaj Puri, Tejas Mehta, Sara Kothari, Aditi Agarwal and Prithvi Oak – is currently operational in a couple of south Delhi localities, helping several neighbourhood shops and milk parlours manage queues. “Through WhyQ, users can place orders for groceries from their nearby stores and receive a particular time to visit the store, eliminating the need to stand in a queue or in a crowded market,” Relan, a Class 10 student and Chief Executive Officer of WhyQ told DH. Relan said that the beta test of the chat-bot is underway in the Green Park area of the national capital with around 100 customers. They also have plans to extend services gradually to more areas depending on the response. Customers can use the chat-bot to place orders and select a time slot for picking the same from a list of shops enrolled with the company. Payments can be made to the respective shop using e-wallets or cash at the time of delivery. Relan said the company also has plans to help shopkeepers digitise their inventory which could help ease the shopping experience. The company is in talks with Resident Welfare Associations to increase their footprint. The chat-bot is being mentored by the Delhi chapter of The IndUS Entrepreneurs under the initiative to support start-ups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teenagers-develop-chat-bot-to-manage-shopping-queues-in-covid-19-times-863097.html
19-07-2020||National||HRD ministry's evaluation found Jamia Millia Islamia's performance for 2019-20 'outstanding', says university||An evaluation of central universities done by the HRD Ministry for the academic year 2019-20 found the performance of Jamia Millia Islamia "outstanding", the university said. JMI secured 95.23 percent in an overall assessment, as indicated in a letter sent to the university by the Ministry of Human Resource Development. Vice-Chancellor Professor Najma Akhtar attributed the achievement to high-quality teaching, relevant and focused research and improved perception of the university. She hoped the university would improve its performance in the coming years. Akhtar said the achievement is all the more significant because of the challenging time the university went through in the recent past. The police have said they entered the campus to look for outsiders involved in the violence that erupted during an anti-CAA protest being held a few meters away from the university. With an objective to evaluate the performance of central universities (CUs) on select key parameters against set targets, all of them are required to sign a tripartite MoU with HRD Ministry and the University Grants Commission (UGC). JMI was the first university to sign the MoU in 2017. Performance of universities is evaluated on parameters of student diversity and equity, faculty quality and strength, academic outcomes, research performance, outreach, governance, finance, national and international rankings and accreditation, and co-curricular and extra-curricular activities. In the ministry's National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings announced last month, JMI was ranked 10th. In the 'Overall' category, the university was placed at the 16th position. IITs, IIMs, IISc, other top technical institutions and universities are also included in the 'Overall' category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hrd-ministrys-evaluation-found-jamia-millia-islamias-performance-for-2019-20-outstanding-says-university-863098.html
19-07-2020||National||Liquor worth Rs 70 lakh seized in 'dry' Bihar||Liquor worth Rs 70 lakh was seized in Bihar's Araria district and seven persons were arrested in a joint operation by the excise department and the police, officials said on Sunday. Acting on a tip-off, police and excise officials intercepted two trucks at the toll plaza in Town police station area on Saturday night and seized 648 cartons of liquor, Araria Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) Pushkar Kumar said. The value of the seized liquor is estimated to be around Rs 70 lakh in the market, he said, adding that two drivers and a cleaner of the trucks were arrested. Four persons, who later arrived at the spot in an SUV, were also arrested in connection with the seizure, Kumar said. The two trucks and the SUV have also been seized, he said. The consignment was being taken to Muzaffarpur in north Bihar from West Bengal via Araria, the officer said. Police are investigating the matter in order to unravel the smuggling network, he said. Bihar is a 'dry' state after it banned liquor in April 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/liquor-worth-rs-70-lakh-seized-in-dry-bihar-863107.html
19-07-2020||National||Bengal youth hacks 84-year-old man to death for refusing money for drugs||An 84-year-old man was hacked to death in West Bengal's Purba Barddhaman district for allegedly refusing money to one of his acquaintance's son for buying drugs, police said on Sunday. The accused was arrested and produced before a court on Saturday, which sent him to judicial custody till July 30, they said. The incident took place in Tejganj area of Barddhaman town on July 2 when accused Ronit Dutta, a college student, visited the residence of deceased Gorachand Dutta and demanded money for buying drugs, a police officer said. Preliminary investigation has found that when the elderly person refused to give him money, the accused allegedly hacked him to death with a sharp weapon and fled the spot with the deceased's mobile phone, he said. The accused was traced and arrested after an intense search, the officer said, adding that his family members had sent him to a drug rehabilitation centre after the incident. The deceased used to buy milk from the accused's family and had good relations with his parents. He had visited Ronit Dutta's neighbour on the day of the incident, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-youth-hacks-84-year-old-man-to-death-for-refusing-money-for-drugs-863116.html
19-07-2020||National||We’ll be kingmakers, says BTP as Rajasthan crisis unfolds||As the Ashok Gehlot government struggles to retain power in Rajasthan, the Bhartiya Tribal Party says it is now in a position to punch way above its weight despite its minuscule presence in the state assembly. “We have two MLAs in a House of 200, yet we are in the position of kingmakers,” party president Maheshbhai C Vasava told PTI on Sunday. At a joint press conference with the Congress on Saturday, BTP legislators Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad Dindor made it clear that they are with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. This ended days of uncertainty over where the Gujarat-based party’s loyalties lie. The two MLAs supported the ruling Congress in the state in last month’s Rajya Sabha polls. But when the power tussle between Gehlot and his now sacked deputy Sachin Pilot re-surfaced recently, the BTP said it will remain neutral. Vasava said the party is now extending support to Gehlot after an assurance that its demands related to the development of tribal areas will be met. “We have fought against the Congress and the BJP on tribal issues but if the government now assures full support on the issues raised by us, why shouldn’t we support it? After all it is fulfilling the agenda of tribal welfare and development,” he said. When the crisis began last week, Vasava issued a whip directing both Roat and Dindor not to support any leader or party in case there is a floor test in the assembly. However, Sagwara MLA Ramprasad Dindor expressed defiance of the whip, saying both of them will support the state government. Later, party office-bearers and the MLAs held discussions with the chief minister on their demands. “We had supported the Congress government in the Rajya Sabha elections last month after an assurance by the chief minister on our demands,” Chorasi MLA Roat said. “But the demands were not fulfilled. Some of them could have been met in just one day,” he complained. The party then thought of not extending support to him, the MLA said. Last week, Roat appeared in two video clips, alleging that he was being stopped by Rajasthan police from travelling to his constituency in Dungarpur district. He claimed that police personnel had come in two vans and taken away his car keys. He also alleged that some people were forcing him to come with them. The videos were circulated by the Sachin Pilot camp and the BJP had questioned the state government over them. But Raut later dismissed the episode as a “misunderstanding” with police. He said the party’s agenda is the development of tribal areas and they have raised 17 demands before the CM. Some of the demands are related to a reservation in jobs and the utilisation of funds for tribal areas. The BTP came into being in 2017 in Gujarat and expanded into Rajasthan the next year. In the December 2018 assembly elections, it fielded 11 candidates in the tribal belt in southern Rajasthan. Raot was 26 when he won and most other candidates too were young. “The youth are our power. Today's youth is educated, understands issues and understands how the tribal people were deprived of their rights. We fielded many young candidates and the party's performance was very good,” BTP state president Velaram Ghoghra said. The crisis in Rajasthan Congress has been brewing since the party picked Gehlot over Pilot for the chief minister’s post. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the party’s state unit president when he and 18 other MLAs stayed away from two Congress Legislature Party meetings. The rebel MLAs were served notices by Speaker C P Joshi after the Congress sought their disqualification from the assembly. The Rajasthan High Court will on Monday resume hearing their petition challenging the notices. Including the dissidents, the Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member assembly and the BJP 72. If the 19 Congress dissidents are disqualified, the current strength of the state assembly will reduce to 181, slashing the half-way mark to 91 and making it easier for Gehlot to retain majority support. In the past, the ruling party has claimed the support of 13 independents, two MLAs each from the CPM and the BTP), and one from the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-ll-be-kingmakers-says-btp-as-rajasthan-crisis-unfolds-863118.html
19-07-2020||National||MP: Demand for Kadaknath chicken surges amid Covid-19 pandemic||The demand for Kadaknath, a protein-rich breed of chicken from tribal-dominated Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh, has shot up significantly amid the Covid-19 outbreak, an official said on Sunday. The supply of this chicken had been affected due to the lockdown, but ever since the restrictions were eased, its demand has gone up. Talking to PTI, Chief of Jhabua's Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Dr I S Tomar, said that the supply of Kadaknath chicken was affected as transportation facilities were not available during the nationwide coronavirus-induced lockdown. But after the lockdown was eased, the demand has increased, he said. KVK works for preserving and promoting this black- coloured variety of chicken through its hatchery. "The poultry owners from across the country are coming to our hatchery in their own vehicles to buy Kadaknath chicks. We sold around 5,000 hatchlings from our hatchery last month," Tomar said. "The old stock of Kadaknath chicks in our hatchery is now over. The demand for it is so high that if one places a new order today, we will be able to supply it only after two months," he said. Although the KVK has not conducted any separate scientific study regarding Kadaknath chicken in the backdrop of Covid-19, it is an established fact that this variety of chicken has higher amount of protein and is low in fat and cholesterol than other breeds, Tomar said. Kadaknath chicken also has medicinal properties besides having a different taste. Vinod Meda, head of a Jhabua district-based cooperative organisation associated with the production of Kadaknath, said that the demand for this chicken has increased during the pandemic. However, due to the lack of regular passenger train services for the last four months, its supply for inter-state orders has been affected, he said. "Before the Covid-19 outbreak, we were supplying live Kadaknath chicks and chicken across the country through luggage coaches of passenger trains from Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh and Vadodara in neighbouring Gujarat. They are packed in a ventilated packaging so that they remain alive until the completion of rail travel," Meda said.  Kadaknath chicken from Jhabua district had got a Geographical Indication (GI) tag last year. This variety of chicken, which is mainly reared in Jhabua and called 'Kalamasi' in the local dialect, is registered under the category of "Meat Product, Poultry and Poultry Meat" of the GI. This chicken, its eggs and meat are sold at a higher rate than the other breeds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-demand-for-kadaknath-chicken-surges-amid-covid-19-pandemic-863123.html
19-07-2020||National||Maharashtra: Mumbai civic chief proposes unified command for MMR||At a Covid-19 review meeting presided over by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal mooted the idea of unified command centre for MMR, saying that it would ensure better coordination among various agencies. “We will also be able to manage the beds in a better way,” Chahal told the meeting. However, the government is yet to respond to the proposal. In the review meeting, all divisional commissioners, district collectors and municipal commissioners of the state were present While in Mumbai, the total cases have crossed one lakh, in MMR it has reached the 2-lakh mark. While Mumbai comprises two districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai suburban districts, the MMR includes these twin districts and parts of neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts. The MMR is spread over 6,355 sq km— almost 10 times the size of Mumbai, whose area is 603 sq km. The population of MMR is over two crore. The MMR has nine municipal corporations, nine municipal councils and over 1,000 villages. This includes the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), for which the budget and deposits is more than some smaller states. The eight other corporations are Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivali, Ulhasnagar and Mira-Bhayandar and Bhiwandi-Nizampur (in Thane district), Panvel in Raigad district and Vasai-Virar in Palghar district. After Mumbai, the Thane district is the worst-affected with over 70,000 cases. The BMC’s successful strategy of 4 Ts— tracking, tracking, testing and treating— is being adopted in many places including Thane. “Several places this strategy is being used,” said Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar. According to sources, bringing the MMR’s Covid-19 fight under one umbrella will help manage things better— testing, allocation of beds, ambulances and so on. Also, similar protocols of asymptomatic patients could be adopted. “Technically speaking, Mumbai-MMR is the same. Mumbai is where you have the suburban train network as people commute daily to their workplaces,” officials said. Health officers and experts noted that while the Mumbai strategies have started showing results there is a spurt in MMR. “We need to have better coordination among the municipal corporations, councils, zilla parishad, gram panchayats,” they said, adding that the scope of sero surveillance tests could be expanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-mumbai-civic-chief-proposes-unified-command-for-mmr-863130.html
19-07-2020||National||Seven held for selling Remdesivir injections at higher cost||Seven persons have been arrested here for allegedly selling Remdesivir injections being used in the treatment of Covid-19 at a higher price, a police official said on Sunday. The accused were selling a vial of the injection for Rs 30,000, much higher than the MRP of Rs 5,400, he said. Officials of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and crime branch also recovered stock of Remdesivir injection after raiding two places in the city on Saturday, he said. "On a tip-off, an FDA official contacted a man for buying the injection over the phone on Saturday. A decoy customer was sent at a meeting point in suburban Mulund to collect the vial. Two persons who had come to deliver the injection were picked up from the spot," the crime branch official said. They are identified as Vikas Dubey and Rahul Gada. On the basis of disclosure made by them, police arrested five men from Delfa Pharmaceuticals, a manufacturing unit based in suburban Ghatkopar, he said. They are identified as Bhavesh Shah, Ashish Kanojiya, Ritesh Thombre, Gurvinder Singh and Sudhir Pujari, the official said. All the accused have been booked under sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under provisions of the FDA Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-held-for-selling-remdesivir-injections-at-higher-cost-863134.html
19-07-2020||National||Railways to run private passenger trains from March 2023, tenders to be finalised by March 2021||The Ministry of Railways on Sunday said the proposed private passenger trains are slated to run from March 2023, and there is no delay in the plan. "Tenders will be finalised by March 2021 and trains will operate from March 2023," the railways said in a statement. The Ministry's clarification came in the background of some reports saying that private train operations are delayed and it would start from March 2024 only. Earlier, the railways formally kickstarted its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network by inviting request for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pair of routes through 151 modern trains. Introduction of private trains in addition to existing trains is aimed to cater to the increasing demand with quality service. In 2019, a total of 8.4 billion passengers travelled in trains while the number will be 30 billion by 2030. Keeping with demand, the railways will continue to introduce new trains, said the railways. Indian Railways network is about 68,000 route kilometers. In the year 2018-19, the reserved passenger volume was 16% (0.59 billion) of the total originating non-suburban passengers (3.65 billion). Almost 8.85 crore of waitlisted passengers could not be accommodated," said the official from the railways. The railways felt the requirement to introduce private participation in passenger train operation will allow introduction of next generation technology and provision of higher service quality, ensuring use of improved coach technology and reduced journey time and boost job creation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-run-private-passenger-trains-from-march-2023-tenders-to-be-finalised-by-march-2021-863136.html
19-07-2020||National||Govt seeks 300-word article on suitability from Vigilance Commissioner aspirants||Bureaucrats of former bureaucrats aspiring to compete for the lone post of Vigilance Commissioner in the anti-corruption watchdog Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) will have to submit a 300-word write-up explaining why they are suitable for the job along with the applications. The government has invited applications last week for one post, which is becoming vacant in October when incumbent member Sharad Kumar will be completing his term. The CVC has three members, including Chairperson and two members. At present Sanjay Kothari is the chairperson, while Kumar and Suresh N Patel are members. The Vigilance Commissioner shall hold office for a term of four years or until the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier. “It is proposed to appoint a Vigilance Commissioner in the Central Vigilance Commission, against the vacancy due to arise in October, 2020, as one Vigilance Commissioner will demit office on completion of tenure,” the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has said in an order. The last date for sending the application is August 17. The pro forma for the application says that the applications should “indicate your suitability assessments for the post (in not more than 300 words)”. The Vigilance Commissioner shall hold office for a term of four years from the date on which he/she enters upon his/her office or till he/she attains the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier. All applicants should be of outstanding merit and impeccable integrity and should have knowledge and at least 25 years of experience in the relevant field(s), the order said. According to the rules, those who are or were in All India Service or any civil service of the Union or in a civil post under the Union having knowledge and experience in the matters relating to vigilance, policy making and administration including police administration are eligible to apply for the post. Those who held office or are holding office in a corporation established by or under any Central Act or a Government company owned or controlled by the  Central Government and persons who have expertise and experience in finance including insurance and banking, law, vigilance, and investigations can also apply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-seeks-300-word-article-on-suitability-from-vigilance-commissioner-aspirants-863143.html
19-07-2020||National||Very few buyers and sellers in animal markets ahead of Bakrid; Muslim organisations urge govt to issue guidelines||The animal markets, which are usually bustling with activity ahead of Bakrid, are desolate this year. The Covid-19 pandemic has shorn all festivals of public celebrations, and people are apprehensive that the tradition of animal sacrifice may be affected due to social distancing norms. Also there is a massive drop in demand for sacrificial animals due to the financial impact of the crisis. Chairman of All India Jamiat-ul-Quresh Sirajuddin Qureshi urged the government to come out with guidelines for carrying out the celebrations in the traditional way. The festival will fall on July 31 or August 1. Buyers and sellers start thronging the animal markets almost two weeks ahead of the festival. But this year only a negligible number of buyers have turned up in animal markets in old Lucknow areas including Nakkhas, according to traders. "It is very difficult to say as to what the government is thinking. 'Qurbani' is a matter of faith for the Muslims. We appeal to the government to deliberate and find a solution. This is a national problem, and our office bearers are speaking to different state governments," Qureshi said. In the absence of guidelines, not many madrassas are buying animals for sacrifice, he said. "The madrasas where collective 'qurbani' is done, are also not coming forward. In Bakrid, along with goats, buffaloes are also sacrificed. The government should ensure that people who are transporting the animals are not harassed by the police," Qureshi said. Prominent Muslim cleric Khalid Rasheed Farang Mahali said he had raised the issue with the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. "I have recently met Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath requesting him to issue guidelines for Bakrid. I am hopeful that the guidelines will be released soon," he said. Rahat Ali, a goat trader from Rajasthan said, thousands of people will be affected due to the reduced demand for animals. "The animal trade works in a chain involving farmers who rear animals, small traders and big traders. "The traders buy the animals from the farmers. These are then sent to various states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. In the absence of demand, I did not purchase animals this year," he said. Sajid, who supplies goats to various districts in western Uttar Pradesh, said the lockdown has affected the livelihood of people and not many have the money to buy animals for sacrifice. "The lockdown has drained the people of their money. As a result, the animals are not getting sold," he said. The Maharashtra government has come out with guidelines for Eid al-Adha, also known as Bakrid or Id-ul-Zuha, noting that there is a ban in place on all religious programmes and people should offer "namaz" in their homes and not in mosques. It also said sacrificial animals should be bought online or over the phone as markets dealing with them will be closed, adding that "qurbani" should preferably be symbolic. There will be no relaxation in restrictions for Eid in containment zones, and people are directed not to congregate in public places on the day of the festival, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/very-few-buyers-and-sellers-in-animal-markets-ahead-of-bakrid-muslim-organisations-urge-govt-to-issue-guidelines-863146.html
19-07-2020||National||Exporters tap rail route to send over 9,000 tonnes of spices to Bangladesh amid lockdown||More than 9,000 tonnes of spices such as chilli, turmeric and cumin were exported to Bangladesh by rail route for the first time as the coronavirus lockdown disrupted road transport, an official said. In the past one month, over 5,000 tonnes turmeric, 4,300 tonnes chilli, and 100 tonnes cumin have been exported by rail to Bangladesh from the Andhra-Telangana belt, the official said. Bangladesh is one of the leading export destinations for Indian spices and accounts for about 9 per cent in volume terms and 5 per cent in value terms of India's total spice exports. During 2019-20, around 1,09,950 tonnes of spices valued at Rs 1,005 crore were exported to Bangladesh and the major items shipped are cumin, chilli, ginger, and turmeric. Earlier, over 95 per cent of India's spice exports to Bangladesh were routed through the ports of Ghojadanga, Mundra, Hili, Mohadipur, Petrapole, Nhava Sheva or by road in small quantities. The official said that for the first time, exporters of turmeric and chilli, who faced a tough time in transporting by road during lockdown, collaborated with the South Central Railways for exporting spices through rail to Bangladesh. "Over the past one month, around 5,250 tonne of turmeric, 4,300 tonne of chilli, and 100 tonne of cumin have been exported by rail from the Andhra-Telangana belt," the official added. According to exporters, the rail logistics is faster, safer and easier for dispatch of bulk quantities, besides bringing in a significant reduction of over 60 per cent in transportation charges when compared to roadways, from Rs 5 to Rs 1.7- 2 per kg. The Spices Board, under the commerce ministry, is initiating a series of measures to facilitate seamless and hassle-free movement of export consignments. Backed by the Ministry of Railways, the board recently convened an online interaction of spice exporters with the officials of the South Central Railway to explain the operational modalities as well as to encourage exporters in utilizing the opportunity to the fullest. During 2019-20, the export of spices from India crossed $3 billion. Further the official said that exports of small cardamom from India to Saudi Arabia has resumed this year after trade issues were addressed by a delegation sent by the Ministry of Commerce for negotiations with the Saudi Food and Drug Authority||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exporters-tap-rail-route-to-send-over-9000-tonnes-of-spices-to-bangladesh-amid-lockdown-863147.html
19-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Congress demands Gajendra Shekhawat's resignation||In today’s episode, The Congress has demanded the resignation of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured all support to Assam in dealing with the flood havoc, At least seven Indian pharma companies are working to develop a vaccine against coronavirus and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's corruption trial will begin in earnest in January.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-congress-demands-gajendra-shekhawats-resignation-863151.html
19-07-2020||National||Rajasthan's political developments put focus on Speaker's office||The political developments in Rajasthan put focus back on anti defection law under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution and the Speaker's office. The open revolt by Congress legislators led by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and the subsequent action by Speaker C P Joshi require a relook on the recent Supreme Court judgements which emphasised on strengthening the anti-defection law and setting up an independent authority to decide upon disqualification petitions as the Speaker continued to remain as a "political person" and failed to maintain the neutrality of the office. In the case of resignation and subsequent disqualification of Karnataka MLAs of Congress and JD(S), the top court in November, 2019 upheld the order passed by the Speaker to reject the resignations. But the decision to disqualify rebel MLAs till the term of 15th Assembly was set aside. However, the top court did not fail to point out its concern, saying "There is a growing trend of the Speaker acting against the constitutional duty of being neutral. Further horse trading and corrupt practices associated with defection and change of loyalty for lure of office or wrong reasons have not abated. Thereby the citizens are denied stable governments." In the case of Rajasthan, the Speaker has given disqualification notice to Pilot and his 18 supporting MLAs on their failure to attend the Congress Legislative Party meetings. The rebel MLAs maintained they were still in the party and their grievances were with the leadership only, and their action fell within domain of fundamental right to exercise freedom of speech and expression. The High Court, in the instant case, would decide their pending plea against the disqualification notice. But it is important to note in Parliamentary democracy, governed by party politics, stability within the government was a sine quo non to ensure good governance. Thus, the Speaker's role becomes all the more critical in making apparent the separating line between dissent and defection, so as to uphold democratic values in balance with other constitutional considerations. In the case of Manipur Congress MLA  Thounaojam Shyamkumar, who switched side to BJP, the Supreme Court in January, this year, rued that its experience with regard to decisions taken by the Speakers on disqualification petitions against rebel legislators has proved the fear expressed in the landmark judgement in 1992 about bias and impartiality of the presiding officer of the House. The minority view in the judgement in Kihoto Hollohan (1992) stated, “The Speaker being an authority within the House and his tenure being dependent on the will of the majority therein, likelihood of suspicion of bias could not be ruled out”. The judgement had then upheld the sweeping discretion available to the Speaker under the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) of the Constitution in deciding cases of disqualification of MLAs and kept such decisions outside the purview of judicial review. In its judgement in Manipur's case, the court favoured an independent body like tribunal headed by a retired judge, to decide on disqualification matters. "It is time Parliament have a rethink on whether disqualification petitions ought to be entrusted to a Speaker as a quasi-judicial authority when such Speaker continues to belong to a particular political party either de jure or de facto,” it had said. In Shyamkumar's case, the top court, subsequently, stripped him of ministerial post and barred him from entering Assembly as the Speaker had failed to act on disqualification plea. Again, it is relevant here to point out a matter related to disqualification of 11 AIADMK MLAs, including deputy Chief Minister O Paneerselvam has been pending before the Tamil Nadu Speaker since March 20, 2017, which was in gross violation of three months outer limit to decide such pleas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthans-political-developments-put-focus-on-speakers-office-863152.html
19-07-2020||National||UP's Covid-19 fight in bad state, CM evading accountability: Priyanka||In a sharp attack on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said the fight against Covid-19 is in a bad state, but the CM is evading accountability by giving "childish statements" like calling it the century's weakest virus. The Congress general secretary has been criticising the state government's response to the Covid-19 crisis repeatedly, alleging that it is indulging in propaganda, instead of dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. "CM Sahib and his officials have repeatedly claimed to have an adequate number of beds and of everything being fine in the fight against coronavirus, but looking at the condition of Lucknow in these media reports, it will be understood that the policy of hiding UP government's inadequate preparedness, poor management and weaknesses, has resulted in this bad state of affairs," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet and tagged media reports on long wait for beds for Covid patients in Lucknow. "Patients are worried, health workers are worried, but the head of the government is evading accountability by making childish statements like 'this is the weakest virus of the century'," she said.  Tagging a video of rainwater pouring down from the ceiling of a coronavirus ward of a hospital in Bareilly, Priyanka Gandhi said a "waterfall has erupted at a Covid-19 ward". Addressing an online yoga workshop last month, Adityanath had said one should not be afraid of the coronavirus. "It is the weakest virus of the century, only the transmission of this virus is fast. You have to protect yourself from this infection, especially children, elderly and those who are already suffering from any disease are most vulnerable to this infection," he had said. Uttar Pradesh reported 24 more deaths due to coronavirus, raising the toll to 1,108, while the infection count reached 47,036 with 1,673 fresh cases, an official said on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ups-covid-19-fight-in-bad-state-cm-evading-accountability-priyanka-863155.html
19-07-2020||National||Monsoon: 6% more rainfall than normal recorded in country so far; deficiency in North India||The country has received six percent more rainfall than normal so far in this monsoon season, but precipitation in parts of north India remains deficient, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. The IMD has four meteorological divisions and rainfall has been more than normal in the south peninsula, central India, and east and northeast India divisions. But the northwest India division, which covers Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan, has recorded a 19 percent deficiency, according to the IMD. Till Sunday, rainfall deficiency was recorded in Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir. Ladakh has recorded large scale deficiency, it said. Monsoon arrived in Kerala on June 1, its normal onset date, marking the commencement of the four-month rainfall season in the country. India is likely to get normal monsoon, according to the IMD's forecast. In its long-range forecast update for Monsoon 2020 released in June, the IMD had predicted 107 percent of rainfall of the Long Period Average (LPA) for northwest India which comes under the 'above normal' category. However, rainfall has been weak over northwest India."There has not been enough rainfall over northwest India. But we still have two more months," IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said. The IMD had predicted rainfall activity over northwest India from July 18 to July 20. It was expected that this would bring good rainfall over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, said Mohapatra. The south peninsula division has recorded 17 percent more rainfall than normal. It covers Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The IMD said Andhra Pradesh has so far recorded rainfall in the 'large excess category', while Tamil Nadu and Telangana have received 'excess' rainfall. The central India division has recorded 12 percent more rainfall than normal. It comprises Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Last week parts of Maharashtra and Gujarat witnessed intense rainfall activity, it said.   The east and northeast division has received rainfall 10 percent more than normal. The division covers east India comprising states of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and the northeast. States like Assam and Bihar have already witnessed floods this season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-6-more-rainfall-than-normal-recorded-in-country-so-far-deficiency-in-north-india-863156.html
19-07-2020||National||Reverse migration, suspension of labour laws on table of Parliamentary Standing Committee meet on Monday||Reverse migration and several state governments' moves to suspend laws related to workers during during the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown will come up for discussion at a meeting of a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Monday. Sources said Standing Committee on Labour will take a briefing from the senior officials of the Ministry of Labour and Employment on the steps taken after the announcement of lockdown to help work force, migrant workers and dilution of labour laws by several state governments during this period. The multi-party panel will be briefed about the number of migrant labourers who returned to home states and the steps taken by the Centre to provide help to them. According to the Ministry's statistics as on July 9, 86.14 lakh migrant workers left their working places for home states after the lockdown was announced while 1.90 lakh stayed back. Among the states, Uttar Pradesh topped the list with 32.49 lakh migrant workers returning home followed by Bihar (15 lakh), West Bengal (13.84 lakh) and Rajasthan (13.08 lakh). States like Kerala (3.11 lakh) and Maharashtra (1.82 lakh) also had substantial number of migrant workers coming back. While trade union leaders and activists point out that these numbers are just a miniscule of the migrant workers in the country, sources said the reverse migration in a way is helping the government to map them. The governments so far had no authentic data on migrant workers. The panel was to meet on July 15 to discuss the issues but was postponed after the panel chairperson Bhartruhari Mahtab went in to self isolation after a Parliamentary staff, who attended a meeting earlier with the senior BJD MP, tested positive for Covid-19. However, several MPs have expressed their inability to attend the meeting due to the pandemic situation and quarantine regulations in their states and have demanded a digital meet instead. Mahtab himself had written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking video conferencing but it was denied citing procedures. The officials will also brief the committee about the "labour reforms" initiated by the states. Officials will also brief about the provision for setting up a portal to create data base for migrant workers including having facility of voluntary submission of data by self employed persons coming to the destination states, sources said adding, only Aadhaar number has been made mandatory. The Labour panel's meeting will be the third meeting in ten days of a Parliamentary panel on Covid-19. The first one was by the Standing Committee on Science and Technology headed by senior  Congress MP Jairam Ramesh on July 10 when top officials told the panel that a Covid-19 vaccine is expected only after a year while the panel on Home Affairs led by Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma asked officials to check black marketing of Covid-19 drugs like Remdesivir. The Standing Committee on Health headed by Samajwadi Party MP Ramgopal Yadav will also meet on August 4 to discuss Covid-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reverse-migration-suspension-of-labour-laws-on-table-of-parliamentary-standing-committee-meet-on-monday-863160.html
19-07-2020||National||Aditya Puri says his preferred successor an internal candidate who spent 25 yrs at HDFC Bank||HDFC Bank's Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Aditya Puri has said that his preferred successor is an internal candidate who has spent 25 years at the lender. However, he did not name the candidate. "He (the successor) has been with us for 25 years… my successor was always in place, at least in my mind," Puri told shareholders at the bank's virtual AGM held on Saturday. Seeking to assuage concerns on training and business understanding, he also said the candidate has "learnt very well". It can be noted that Puri has been widely credited with building the bank as the most valued one by investors over nearly 26 years, and who succeeds him at the corner office is the subject of intense interest in banking and industry circles. Earlier this year, a media report said the bank had selected the names of internal candidates Sashidhar Jagdishan and Kaizad Bharucha, and Citi's Sunil Garg as the probable candidates. In June, the bank said it has given three names in order of their preference to the RBI. "… it is up to the RBI now to decide among what we have given to them," Puri said, reiterating that succession was not a problem for the bank. Jagdishan has been with the bank since 1996 and joined as a manager in the finance function. He was appointed as a "change agent" recently and heads the finance, human resources, legal and secretarial, administration, infrastructure, corporate communications and corporate social responsibility functions. Bharucha has been with the bank since 1995 and presently serves as an executive director in charge of wholesale banking. HDFC Bank is widely recognised as a consumer business-centric bank. On Saturday, Puri also said the economy has sharply recovered after the April trough but warned that the partial lockdowns being implemented across pockets may act as a dampener. The bank expects further rate cuts of up to 0.50 per cent by the RBI in the near term, Puri said. According to him, 12 lakh accounts were opened during the lockdown, which was 80 per cent of the pre-lockdown levels, and added that it will get back to the earlier averages by September. Asserting that no employee has been sacked, Puri said the sales force on the field has been entrusted with the loan collection responsibilities. As of June 30, nine per cent of its customers by value had opted for loan moratoriums, he noted. Jagdishan said in view of the huge quantum of payments transactions that it outsources, the bank has taken a USD 100 million cyber cover, making it one of the few lenders to have such a cover||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aditya-puri-says-his-preferred-successor-an-internal-candidate-who-spent-25-yrs-at-hdfc-bank-863161.html
19-07-2020||National||Sigh of relief for jail inmates appearing in board exams after NIOS cancels test||Jail officials said the pandemic disrupted the academic calendar and classes had to be cancelled in March. Therefore, only 20-30 per cent of the syllabus could be completed before the exams were postponed twice and finally scheduled in July. Earlier, classes were held five days a week by faculties of various NGOs under the NIOS programme at Delhi prisons. Delhi has three prisons in Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini. As soon as the news of the exams being cancelled was shared with the candidates, many of them were more than happy and relieved, jail officials and wardens who interact with the inmates regularly said. Earlier this month, NIOS issued a circular cancelling the exams. The results will now be declared based on the assessment scheme finalised by a committee of NIOS. According to data shared by the Delhi Prisons authorities, a total of 552 inmates from the three jails had enrolled for Class 10 and 62 for Class 12 through the National Institute of Open Schooling, exams for which are held twice a year, between March-April and October-November. Of 552 inmates who have applied for Class 10, 366 are from Tihar, 17 from Rohini, and 169 from Mandoli jail. Forty-five inmates from Tihar, four from Rohini and 13 from Mandoli jail have enrolled for Class 12 this year. Besides them, around 75 inmates from Delhi prisons who did not qualify in their Class 10 exams last year were to reappear in the exams this year. Nineteen inmates were to reappear in Class 12 exams this year, officials said. NIOS has its study centre in Delhi prisons from where a prisoner can pursue his studies and is given certificate for the particular course without mentioning the place of examination, which is jail. "Under the provision of NIOS, the inmates who take admission are provided study materials and teaching facilities here. We also have teachers coming in from NGOs to teach the students. Those who are interested in pursuing studies, we encourage them and motivate them to take admission and continue their studies,” said Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel. “Due to some reasons or circumstances, they took to crime, but now that they are here, this is also an opportunity for them to restart their life afresh and make a living out of it once they leave jails. It is part of our various reformation programmes. Once they get into studies, they stay focused and have a purpose in life once they leave the jail," he said. Most of the inmates who have enrolled for NIOS programmes are from Central Jail No. 5 in Tihar, where inmates of the 18-21 age group are lodged, jail officials said. For nearly three years now, Anil Kumar Sharma has been a visiting faculty at Central Jail No. 5, Tihar. He comes on behalf of an NGO "Care Today" and has been teaching approximately around 100 inmates in separate batches for Classes 10 and 12. The classes were held five days a week -- from Monday to Friday -- between 1 pm and 3 pm for Class 10 students and from 3 pm to 5 pm for Class 12 students. The "Better Life School" in Central Jail No. 5 has a classroom like any other with a projector, black board, desk and bench, he told PTI over phone. Sharma said he only guides students about various subjects available to them. "I leave it to them to choose subjects. Depending on their interest, they are free to opt," he said. Recalling about his classes, Sharma said students are quite enthusiastic in class. They come up with doubts and are always interested in knowing about things related to their subjects. "Some of them come for classes, even before I reach and they don’t disturb the class. These inmates took to crime, whatever may be the reason, but now they feel they need to study and get a degree. They don’t intent to indulge in criminal activities again. Once they leave jail, with this certificate they can apply for ITI and get placements," he said. Even after leaving jail on bail, many students stay in touch and contact Sharma to enquire about their course and exam schedule. "Our classes are more like interactive session. I motivate my students with inspirational stories. I tell them that all is not lost. They still stand a chance to make their future," he added. From Science, English, Social Studies to Hindi and Maths, students opt for various subjects. Some even pursue painting, while others opt for subjects like business studies, psychology, commerce based on their interests. The jail officials said the classes will be resumed with due precautions once the coronavirus situation eases. Till July 15, 57 inmates of Delhi prisons tested positive for the coronavirus. 43 of them have recovered and two died. Out of the 112 prison staffers who tested positive for the virus, 75 have recovered so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sigh-of-relief-for-jail-inmates-appearing-in-board-exams-after-nios-cancels-test-863175.html
19-07-2020||National||North Goa hospital prepares for Covid-19 vaccine trials||A North Goa-based private hospital will begin the process of human trials of a potential Covid-19 vaccine on Monday. Redkar Hospital, located in North Goa's Pernem taluka, is amongst the 12 facilities that are listed for human trials of Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited. "We will select ten volunteers from Goa whose swab samples would be sent to Delhi before starting the actual trials on them tomorrow," said Dhananjay Lad, who is heading the trials at Redkar Hospital, told PTI. "We are not randomizing. We are first checking their eligibility for the tests. We will be conducting the trials after we get reports from Delhi," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-goa-hospital-prepares-for-covid-19-vaccine-trials-863190.html
19-07-2020||National||Only two out of 12 designated medical institutions begin Covaxin trials||The Phase-1 clinical trial of India’s first Covid-19 vaccine has begun in only two of the 12 designated centres, raising doubts on the availability of even the first phase data by August 15 – the original rollout target date for public use as envisaged by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The delay is due to reasons ranging from non-receipt of the ethics committee approval at some hospitals to logistical challenges in shipping the vaccines to the testing centres after their evaluation at Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli.  On 29 June, Bharat Biotech International Limited presented COVAXIN as “India’s first vaccine candidate for Covid-19”, developed in collaboration with ICMR and the National Institute of Virology, Pune. In a sharp advisory to the clinical trial sites, sent on 2 July, ICMR’s director-general Dr. Balram Bhargava has asked for “fast track (of) all approvals related to the initiation of the (vaccine’s) clinical trial and ensure that the subject enrollment is initiated no later than 7 July.” On 17 July, Bharat Biotech announced the initiation of Covaxin’s phase-1 clinical trials “across the country on 15 July.” However, a DH probe revealed that the trials have not begun at most of the 12 medical institutions.     Bharat Biotech sources too confirmed only two test sites – AIIMS Patna and PGIMS Rohtak as have started the trials on 15 and 17 July, respectively. The state-run King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam is awaiting an approval letter from the government of Andhra Pradesh, while a private hospital Jeevan Rekha in Belagavi is waiting for the vaccines. “Since it is Phase-1, our ethics committee of Andhra Medical College and KGH asked for the government’s permission. So, I wrote to the state medical authorities, seeking guidelines and official permission. Once the letter comes, probably by Monday, we can start the trial process,” Dr G Arjuna, superintendent of KGH told DH, adding that they are “planning to recruit at-least 50 volunteers for Phase-1.” There is an in-principle accord for the trails, but a formal letter would set everything in order, Dr. Arjuna says. ICMR officials stated the DG-ICMR letter to the trial site investigators as “meant to cut unnecessary red tape, without bypassing any necessary process, and speed up recruitment of participants.” Dr. K Manohar, director, Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad had earlier told reporters that the phase-1 process began on 7 July. Dr Manohar did not explicitly answer when DH questioned if the trials have actually started at NIMS. Dr. Amit Bhate, director, Jeevan Rekha said that their trials are expected to begin “next week.” “We are ready; we can proceed once we get the vaccines and instructions. I cannot reveal a date now,” Dr. Bhate told DH on Sunday.   Dr. Bhate said they are looking at a sample size of 150-200 for the trials. AIIMS New Delhi’s ethics committee reportedly gave its nod for trials on Saturday. ICMR officials said that in all, Covaxin tests would be conducted on 1125 volunteers - 375 in Phase-1 and 750 in Phase-2. Dr. Bhargava’s letter had created a massive controversy since he stated COVAXIN (BBV152 Covid Vaccine) as envisaged to be launched for public health use by 15 August, “after completion of all clinical trials.” Following criticism from experts and opposition parties that the government was “rushing through an elaborate and time taking vaccine testing process,” the premier research body apparently eased on the Independence Day deadline. “The indigenous vaccine development process has been sought to be insulated from slow file movement. The aim is to complete these phases at the earliest, so that population-based trials for efficacy could be initiated without delay,” ICMR said in a later explanation. “Our trials will be done following the best practices and rigor, and will be reviewed, as required, by a Data Safety Monitoring Board.” The Drug Controller General of India had permitted Phase 1 and 2 human clinical trials after Bharat Biotech submitted results from the preclinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response, the Hyderabad based firm said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-two-out-of-12-designated-medical-institutions-begin-covaxin-trials-863197.html
19-07-2020||National||Some people think building temple will eradicate Covid-19, says Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said some people think building a temple will help eradicating the Covid-19 pandemic, a day after the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust suggested two dates in the next month for laying the foundation stone for a Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The trust had invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone either on August 3 or 5. "Eradication of Covid-19 is the priority of the Maharashtra government, but some people think constructing a temple will help in its mitigation," Pawar told reporters in Solapur when asked about the proposed date for laying of the foundation stone for a Ram temple.  Meanwhile, Arvind Sawant, the Shiv Sena MP from Mumbai South, told PTI thatLord Ram was a matter of faith for his party, and that it will not indulge inany politics over the issue. "Shiv Sena is a leading light of the Ram Mandir movement. (Sena president) Uddhav Thackeray had visited Ayodhya before becoming chief minister and even after taking charge," he said. The Sena, the NCP and the Congress are partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Sawant said ensuring health of people and providing them safety are priorities of the Sena-led state government, which is the concept of 'Ramrajya' (a rule of justice and truth). "....We are doing precisely this in our (the state government's) fight against coronavirus in Maharashtra," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-people-think-building-temple-will-eradicate-covid-19-says-sharad-pawar-863202.html
19-07-2020||National||Justice U U Lalit to become part of Supreme Court collegium||The Supreme Court collegium will have Justice U U Lalit as its new and fifth member, with Justice R Banumathi superannuating as a judge of the top court on Sunday. Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde and Justices N V Ramana, Arun Mishra and R F Nariman are part of the collegium. The apex court collegium, which comprises the five senior-most judges as its members, selects and recommends names for the appointment of judges in the Supreme Court. Justice Lalit, who was directly made a judge of the top court from the Bar on August 13, 2014, will remain part of the collegium till he demits office as the CJI on November 8, 2022. Justice Lalit would succeed Justice Ramana as the CJI on November 27, 2022 and will have a tenure of a little over two months as the head of the judiciary. CJI Bobde will demit office next year on April 23. Justice Bhanumathi, whose last working day was on July 17, was the second-ever woman to be part of the collegium after Justice Ruma Pal in the last 14 years. With the retirement of Justice Banumathi, Justice Lalit becomes number five in the seniority of apex court judges and would automatically become part of the collegium entrusted with the task of selecting and recommending names of judges in the Supreme Court. The collegium which recommends names of persons for appointment of judges in high courts comprises three senior-most apex court judges as its members. There will be another vacancy in the top court and in its collegium as Justjce Mishra is set to retire on September 2. Before being elevated to the top court, Justice Lalit was one of the leading lawyers of the country. He was enrolled as an Advocate in June 1983 and practised in the High Court of Bombay till December, 1985. Justice Lalit was designated as senior advocate by the Supreme Court in April, 2004. The top court had appointed him as the Special Public Prosecutor for the CBI to conduct trial in all 2G matters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-u-u-lalit-to-become-part-of-supreme-court-collegium-863203.html
19-07-2020||National||Bank employee unions press again for 5 day-working week||Bank employee unions have again raised their demand for a five-day working week, stating that reducing the number of working days would help bankers who are at high risk of contracting the coronavirus disease due to their exposure to the public. The Indian Banks' Association (IBA) in January had rejected the unions' proposal for a five-day working week but offered a 19 percent pay hike to employees. At present, banks have holidays on the second and fourth Saturdays every month and on every Sunday. The All India Bank Employees Association in a statement said that the coronavirus threat is haunting bankers, where they are highly exposed to the general public dealing and now a five-day week is the requirement of the hour. The association noted that while the whole world is carving for four-day working, the country is still looking for a way to opt for five-days banking. Talking to PTI, the president of All India State Bank Officers Federation, Deepak Sharma, said, "Moreover, it will also be a positive step in the direction of Digital India in conformity with PM's vision. "The working conditions in the Banks have been strenuous. Poor infrastructure, lack of adequate staff has made the officers work till late in the night, resulting in poor health, huge pressure on the officers, which culminates in serious work-leisure mismatches, lifestyle diseases and of late, repeated acts of suicides being committed by the officers of the Banks." Officers are called upon to work on holidays and Sundays, frequently disrupting the personal life, Sharma claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bank-employee-unions-press-again-for-5-day-working-week-863215.html
19-07-2020||National||Total mismanagement in Bengal's healthcare system: Ghosh||Alleging gross mismanagement in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic by the West Bengal government, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday claimed that healthcare system in the state has "failed" to address the requirements to control the disease. Ghosh alleged that false information was being dished out by the state government on the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients in different hospitals. He claimed that the West Bengal government has not taken any appropriate measures to effectively deal with the pandemic and bring it under control. "There is total mismanagement in the state's healthcare system, the disease cannot be brought under control in this manner," he told newspersons here. Denying the BJP MP's claim, senior state minister Subrata Mukherjee said that the situation in West Bengal was "much better" than in many other states. "He (Ghosh) should visit Gujarat for three months and find out the real situation. We would like to hear him after he pays a visit to that state," Mukherjee said. While admitting that there have been one or two gaffes in dealing with the pandemic situation, he said that overall the state has made the best possible arrangements in Covid care.  He claimed that amongst the worst-affected states, West Bengal is the "best" in managing the Covid pandemic. "I won't say we are the best, but certainly we are the best among the worst (affected states)," the minister said. Taking a dig at Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee's exhortation to members of the party's youth wing to visit households and help the needy amid the coronavirus crisis, the BJP state president said that it seems that he has suddenly remembered the people of the state. "Where was he (Banerjee) for the last four months, now he has suddenly emerged from nowhere and is talking about getting 5 lakh volunteers to work for the people," Ghosh asked while claiming that the BJP workers have stood by the distressed people of the state providing them with ration and cooked food. "We have given foodgrains to 35 lakh people and have fed another 20 lakh people," he said. The BJP state president claimed that the TMC tries to mimic the good policies and initiatives of his party after realising that these have been received well by the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/total-mismanagement-in-bengals-healthcare-system-ghosh-863216.html
19-07-2020||National||Emirates to operate repatriation flights from 4 additional Indian cities to Dubai till July 26||The Emirates airlines on Sunday said it will operate repatriation flights from four additional Indian cities of Ahmedabad, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata to Dubai till July 26. The Dubai-based airline had on July 11 announced that it would be operating special repatriation flights from Bengaluru, Kochi, Delhi, Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) between July 12 and July 26. The airline will now be operating repatriation flights to Dubai from a total of nine Indian cities till July 26. In a press release on Sunday, the airline clarified that the repatriation flights between Kochi, Delhi, Mumbai, Thiruvananthapuram and Dubai are permitted to carry eligible passengers on both the directions. However, the flights from Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata to Dubai "will carry passengers only outbound from India", the airline said.  The Ministry of Civil Aviation had on July 9 said that India and the UAE have come to a bilateral arrangement - also called air bubble - under which airlines of both the countries will operate international flights carrying eligible passengers. Charter flights operated by UAE carriers would now be permitted to bring Indian citizens from the UAE to India and carry "ICA-approved UAE residents" on their return leg, the ministry had said. The ICA stands for the UAE''s Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship. On India to UAE journeys, all these flights will carry only those passengers who are destined for the Gulf country, it noted. India resumed its domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. While scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23, India has established bilateral air bubbles with four countries -- the US, the UAE, France and Germany -- in which airlines of both the countries are permitted to operate international passenger flights with certain restrictions. More than 10 lakh people have been infected and around 26,000 people have so far died due to coronavirus in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emirates-to-operate-repatriation-flights-from-4-additional-indian-cities-to-dubai-till-july-26-863217.html
19-07-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: 2 runaway directors of chit fund firm held after 5 yrs||Two then directors of a chit fund company accused of duping investors in Chhattisgarh of crores have been arrested, five years after the alleged fraud came to light and a case was registered, police said on Sunday. The duo had served as directors of BN Gold Real Estate and Allied Chit Fund Company which ran its operations from 2009 to 2015 in Ambikapur town of Surguja district, said Rahul Tiwari, Station House Officer (SHO), Gandhinagar police station. They had allegedly embezzled Rs 9.83 crore, he said. While Gopal Das Manikpuri (55) was picked up from his native village Kodhari in Korba district, Chaitram Kewat (55) was held from Malhar village in Bilaspur district on July 17, the SHO said. Another accused director of the company had died in 2011, he said. The firm, which had set up its office in Ambikapur in 2009, allegedly lured residents of Surguja and neighbouring districts on the promise of doubling their money in a short span of time. The company received about Rs 9.83 crore from 5,806 investors during its operation, the SHO said. When depositors did not receive returns, they complained to the district administration in 2015 following which the company's operations were shut, he said. A case had been registered under sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and provisions of Chit Funds Act. "Efforts are on to trace some other accused in the case, who were then associated with the company," the police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-2-runaway-directors-of-chit-fund-firm-held-after-5-yrs-863220.html
19-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate now at 62.86%||The number of recovered Covid-19 patients exceeds India's active caseload by 3,04,043 as on Sunday with 6.77 lakh people having recuperated from the disease so far, the Union Health Ministry said. There has been a "sharp increase" of 23,672 Covid-19 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the highest in a day, according to the ministry's updated data updated at 8 AM. "The total number of recovered cases is 6,77,422. The recovery rate as of now is at 62.86 per cent," the ministry said. India's Covid-19 case fatality rate is "progressively falling" and is currently at 2.49 per cent, which is one of the lowest in the world, the ministry said on Sunday, crediting efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases for it.  Proactive measures like aggressive testing and timely diagnosis of the central, state and union territory governments have helped in detecting cases early. "Effective clinical management of the moderate and severe cases through a well executed standard of care protocol has ensured high rate of recovery among the Covid patients," the ministry said. The country's testing infrastructure has been substantially ramped up. The testing strategy prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allows all registered medical practitioners to recommend testing. The Rapid Antigen Point of Care (POC) Test, coupled with the facilitation of widespread gold-standard RT-PCR based testing by states and UTs, has resulted in a surge in the number of samples tested. A total of 3,58,127 samples were tested in on Saturday. With a total of 1,37,91,869 samples tested so far, the testing per million (TPM) for India has reached 9994.1, the ministry said. Consistently expanding diagnostic lab network now comprises 1,262 labs -- 889 labs in the government sector and 373 private labs.  India saw a record single-day jump of 38,902 Covid-19 cases pushing its tally to 10,77,618 on Sunday, while the death toll due to the disease rose to 26,816 with 543 fatalities being reported in a day, according to the data updated at 8 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-now-at-6286-863223.html
19-07-2020||National||DCGI queries pharma company on its claim of FabiFlu use for Covid-19 patients with comorbidities||India's drug regulator has sought a clarification from Glenmark Pharmaceuticals over its alleged "false claims" about the use of anti-viral FabiFlu on Covid-19 patients with comorbidities and also over the "pricing" of the drug, after receiving a complaint from a member of Parliament. In a letter to the Mumbai-based company, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) Dr V G Somani stated that his office received a representation from an MP that the total cost of the treatment with FabiFlu  (favipiravir) will be around Rs 12,500 and that the "cost proposed by Glenmark is definitely not in the interest of the poor, lower middle class and middle-class people of India." "Further it has been mentioned in the representation that Glenmark has also claimed that this drug is effective in co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetics, whereas in reality, as per protocol summary, this trial was not designed to assess the FabiFlu in comorbid condition," the letter dated July 17 read. No clinically sufficient data specific to these conditions are available, the DCGI said in its letter. The 'subject' of the letter was stated as: "Regarding the false claims and pricing of tab FabiFlu 200 mg (favipiravir) by Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited, India". "In view of this, you are requested to provide your clarification on the above points for taking further necessary action in the matter," he said.  There was no immediate comment from the company.   Glenmark Pharmaceuticals had on July 13 said it has cut the price of its antiviral drug Favipiravir, under the brand name FabiFlu, for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate Covid-19 by 27 percent to Rs 75 per tablet.  The company had launched FabiFlu last month at a price of Rs 103 per tablet. The letter sent to the firm by the DCGI encloses the representation made by the MP which refers to an online press conference by Glenmark Pharmaceuticals and media reports that the cost of FabiFlu per tablet is Rs 103.   "As per the claim by Glenmark, a patient has to take the tablet for 14 days, which means one patient will have to take approximately 122 tablets (18 tablets on Day 1 and 8 tablets per day from day 2 to day 14.)  Total cost of the treatment will be around Rs 12,500," the representation read. As per statement by the Glenmark and media reports, the DCGI had accelerated the process for clinical trials and reviews considering the pandemic situation, unmet medical conditions and unavailability of specific therapeutic management against Covid-19 for this drug, it said. However, after all, positive approach, accelerated processes and efforts by DCGI, health ministry and relevant state FDA departments, the cost proposed by Glenmark is definitely not in the interest of the poor, lower middle class and middle-class people of India, the representation noted. "In such a global pandemic where the world is struggling against Covid-19, the government of India should ensure the affordability of the drug to the common people. In fact, 6 out of 12 centres wherein these clinical trials were conducted are government medical colleges from Maharashtra, Gujrat and Delhi. "This indicates that poor and middle-class patients have contributed to the clinical trial as subjects. "Price quoted for this drug is definitely unaffordable to the common people," it stated.  The drug regulator had on June 19 approved anti-viral drug favipiravir for "restricted emergency use" in mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 in view of the emergency and unmet medical need during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-queries-pharma-company-on-its-claim-of-fabiflu-use-for-covid-19-patients-with-comorbidities-863236.html
19-07-2020||National||IAF commanders to review air defence system in the wake of China border row||Top commanders of the Indian Air Force will carry out an in-depth review of the country's air defence system at a three-day conference beginning Wednesday in view of the bitter border row with China in eastern Ladakh as well as evolving regional security scenario, military sources said. The commanders are also expected to specifically deliberate on deployment of first batch of around six Rafale fighter jets which are expected to join the IAF's fighter fleet later this month, they said. The main focus of the commanders' conference will be to deliberate on the overall situation in eastern Ladakh and on ways to enhance the IAF's combat prowess and surveillance over the country's air space in all sensitive sectors including in Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Uttarakhand, the sources said. "The commanders will also review the evolving security architecture in the region and ways to boost IAF's combat capability," said a source. The conference will be chaired by Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is also expected to address the IAF commanders. The IAF has been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in the last few weeks, in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. A number of IAF platforms participated in a military drill in Stakna in eastern Ladakh on Friday during the defence minister's visit to the region. The exercise showcased integrated combat prowess of the Army and the Indian Air Force in dealing with complex security scenarios in the high altitude terrain. The IAF has deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China notwithstanding disengagement of troops by Chinese military from a number of friction points. The IAF has also deployed Apache attack choppers as well as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations The IAF has pressed into service a fleet of C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft as well as C-130J Super Hercules in transporting heavy military equipment and weaponry to several forward bases in the region. The sources said the commanders will also deliberate on preparations to received the first batch of the Rafale jets from France. The jets are expected to reach India by end of this month. The aircraft is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. The disengagement process between Indian and Chinese militaries began on July 6 after a telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi the previous day. Doval and Wang are Special Representatives for the boundary talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-commanders-to-review-air-defence-system-in-the-wake-of-china-border-row-863239.html
19-07-2020||National||West Bengal's Covid-19 death toll reaches 1,112||The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal on Sunday reached 1,112 after 36 people succumbed to the disease, the highest so far in a single day, according to a bulletin released by the state health department. Kolkata recorded the maximum 15 deaths, followed by neighbouring North 24 Parganas nine, Hooghly four, Howrah and South 24 Parganas three each, and Purba Medinipur and Paschim Medinipur one each. At least 2,278 people, the highest in a single day, tested positive for the disease, taking the infection tally to 42,487, the bulletin said. The number of active cases is 16,492. During the last 24 hours, 1,344 people have recovered from the disease, while 13,471 samples have been tested, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengals-covid-19-death-toll-reaches-1112-863240.html
19-07-2020||National||Health Minister urges recovered Covid-19 patients to donate plasma||Despite India having one of the highest Covid-19 recovery rates, plasma donation by recovered patients is yet to pick up, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Sunday, urging people to come forward to help fight the pandemic. Vardhan launched a plasma donation campaign at the AIIMS hospital here during an event co-organised by Delhi police, where 26 police personnel who have recovered from Covid-19 volunteered to donate their blood plasma, the health ministry said. Vardhan said it's "very sad" that a dozen Delhi police personnel died due to the coronavirus but they are "doing a great job" deploying personnel to contain the spread. Of the volunteers, Om Prakash was donating his plasma for the third time Sunday. The health minister saluted the contribution of the volunteers by conferring certificates. Vardhan said these volunteers will inspire others to donate plasma. "Every single donor counts in our journey towards victory over Covid-19 and we need more and more of these plasma warriors to help fight the pandemic till a definitive treatment or vaccine is developed," he was quoted as saying in a ministry statement. "As of now convalescent plasma therapy has been approved for compassionate use with various plasma banks being set up to ensure round-the-clock availability. Despite the fact that India has one of the highest cure rates amongst Covid-19 patients, the plasma donations has yet to pick up," he said. Remembering Delhi police's contribution in the success of Pulse Polio campaign in 1994, Vardhan said tens of thousands of police constables had joined the drive. Plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients contains protective antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 virus. It can provide immunity to patients of Covid-19 when transfused. Considering its potential benefit, plasma therapy is provided to those who are not responding to conventional treatment. Anyone who has recovered from Covid-19, and has completed 28 days after the completion of treatment or home isolation, is between 18 and 60 years of age with a weight of more than 50 kg is eligible to donate their blood plasma, the statement said. The process of donation is completed in 1-3 hours. Plasma therapy has been mentioned under "investigational therapies" in the Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19 by the Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-urges-recovered-covid-19-patients-to-donate-plasma-863246.html
19-07-2020||National||The politics behind the claim for Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden bungalow||In the ever-lasting battle for J Jayalalithaa’s legacy, her palatial bungalow in upscale Poes Garden here worth over Rs 100 crore seems to be the new playground. The battle is now being played out between the Tamil Nadu government and Jayalalithaa’s nephew Deepak Jeyakumar, who along with his sister Deepa, has been declared as legal heirs of the former Chief Minister who died in 2016 after 75 days of hospitalisation. Nearly two months after the court declared him and his sister as legal heirs, Deepak has now approached the Madras High Court seeking keys of the sprawling mansion, thickening the plot. Deepa is silent on the issue and efforts to reach her proved futile. The nephew of Jayalalithaa was the cynosure of all eyes at her burial after he performed the last rites along with V K Sasikala, the long-time aide of the late leader who is now cooling her heels at the Parapana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru. Since then, Deepak has been identified with the Sasikala camp and his moving the court gives room to speculation whether he is acting on behalf of the long-time aide of Jayalalithaa. On the other hand, the AIADMK government, now helmed by Edappadi K Palaniswami, has been quietly moving to take possession of the sprawling mansion and convert it into a memorial for the late leader. The timing of the government’s move is suspect as its efforts come at a time there is mounting speculation over the release of Sasikala from the prison by the end of this year or early next year. From promulgating an ordinance for taking over the prime property for converting it into a memorial to agreeing to the Madras High Court’s suggestion to transform the bungalow into the official residence of the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, the government’s motive seems to be clear. To ensure Sasikala, who lived with Jayalalithaa in the Poes Garden residence since the 1980s, does not stake a claim to the property and the legacy of the late leader. And, it is a fact that Sasikala was staying at the bungalow till February 15, 2017, even after Jayalalithaa’s death, before leaving for Bengaluru to serve her four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. The government, though, will now have to issue notice to the legal heirs and follow the due process to acquire the bungalow. Though Palaniswami, then considerably low-weight politician, was hand-picked by Sasikala to occupy the Chief Minister’s post, the AIADMK leader has been able to establish himself in the party and as head of the government. And by leading his party to victory in two crucial by-elections successfully and cutting to size at least two cabinet ministers when he felt they were overstepping their authority, Palaniswami has demonstrated he is no pushover. And if his government manages to get the bungalow designated as the office-cum-residence of the Chief Minister, what better place for Palaniswami than Jayalalithaa’s abode to claim her legacy a few months before the state goes into the crucial assembly polls in May 2021. “If the government manages to convert the bungalow into the official residence of the Chief Minister, it will certainly be a major boost to Palaniswami. One should remember Poes Garden was the Mecca for AIADMK cadre and throwing open the bungalow for people will only boost Palaniswami’s political stock,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. Poes Garden is not just a property. It was Jayalalithaa’s abode for nearly 50 years from the late 1960s till the day she was wheeled out of the bungalow on a September night in 2016 to be admitted at Apollo Hospitals and served as one of the powerful addresses in Tamil Nadu for nearly three decades. A trip to Poes Garden was nothing short of a pilgrimage for an average AIADMK cadre and this explains why there are multiple claims over the bungalow, which is an inextricable part of the legacy that Jayalalithaa has left behind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-politics-behind-the-claim-for-jayalalithaa-s-poes-garden-bungalow-863249.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Will Congress have its phoenix moment ever?||Old won’t go, young won’t stay Is Congress imploding, with its gen-next leaders searching for greener pastures?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-will-congress-have-its-phoenix-moment-ever-862950.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoles death of US Congressman John Lewis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday condoled the death of US Congressman and civil rights champion John Lewis, saying his legacy will continue to endure and inspire. Described as a civil rights legend, the long-time Congressman died battling cancer. He was 80. "We mourn the loss of US Congressman John Lewis, a champion of civil rights, non-violence and Gandhian values. His legacy will continue to endure and inspire," Modi tweeted. We mourn the loss of US Congressman John Lewis, a champion of civil rights, non-violence and Gandhian values. His legacy will continue to endure and inspire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prime-minister-narendra-modi-condoles-death-of-us-congressman-john-lewis-863038.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Political Crisis: Sachin Pilot shouldn't go Scindia way, has future in Congress, says Digvijaya Singh||Blaming the BJP for the political drama in Rajasthan, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Sunday asked Sachin Pilot not to leave the grand old party. In an interview to PTI, the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said Pilot should not follow Jyotiraditya Scindia into the BJP, as he has bright future in Congress. His remarks follow Pilot's open rebellion against the Ashok Gehlot government, which has been on shaky ground with at least 18 legislators backing the rebel leader. Pilot was sacked as Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the state Congress chief recently and the Congress has accused the BJP of making efforts to topple the Gehlot-led government by indulging in horse-trading. "The BJP is behind the crisis in Rajasthan," Singh said. The Congress veteran said he tried to call Pilot but his calls and text messages went unanswered. "Age is on your side. Ashok (Gehlot) may have offended you, but all such issues are best resolved amicably. Dont make the mistake that Scindia made. BJP is unreliable. Nobody who joined it from any other party has succeeded there," Singh said. He said this is the first time that Pilot hasn't responded to him. "Sachin is like my son. He respects me and I also like him. I called him three-four times and also texted him. He didn't revert. He used to respond immediately earlier," he said. "It is good to be ambitious. How can one move forward without having ambitions, but along with ambition, one must also have commitment to your organisation, ideology and the nation," Singh said. "I heard that he (Pilot) may form a new party. But what is the need for it. Has Congress not given him anything? He was made an MP at 26, a Union minister at 32, the state Congress president at 34 and deputy chief minister at 38. What else does he want? Time is on his side," Singh said. If Pilot had any issue, then as the state party unit president, he should have called a meeting and discussed the matter, he said. Pilot could have involved Congress national general secretary and Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande in talks with Gehlot to resolve differences, he added. "If you have faith in your legislators, why have you have confined 18-19 of them in ITC Grand hotel at Manesar in Haryana," Singh said. This is the same hotel where the BJP kept MLAs from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh (during political dramas in those states), he said. Pilot should forget whatever has happened, come back and sit across the table to discuss how Congress could be strengthened, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-sachin-pilot-shouldnt-go-scindia-way-has-future-in-congress-says-digvijaya-singh-863046.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||Opposition slams BJP over murder-accused appointment as office bearer in organisation with top party leaders||BJP was left red-faced after a man, who was an accused in the killing of a senior Uttar Pradesh police officer, was appointed general secretary of an organisation, which had several top saffron party leaders as its patron. Subodh Kumar Singh, the in-charge of Syana police station in the state's Bulandshahar district, about 500 kilometres from here, had been killed by a frenzied mob, consisting mainly of saffron activists, in a clash in December 2018 following the recovery of animal bones in the area. A Bajarang Dal (BD) office-bearer, a Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) worker and a BJP leader were among 88 people booked in the killing.  The accused, identified as Shikhar Agarwal, who was made general secretary of Bulandshahar district unit of PM Jankalyankari Jagrukta Abhiyan (PMJJA), was handed over the appointment letter by the district BJP president Anil Sisodiya at a function a few days back. The PMJJA claims to be engaged in publicising the various welfare schemes launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi across the country. Its letter pad showed top BJP leaders, including union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Ramesh Pokhariyal, Narendra Tomar and Ashwini Chaubey as patrons. It later turned out that Agarwal was also a member of the BJP. As the pictures of Agarwal being handed over the appointment letter by Sisodiya went viral on the social networking sites, an embarrassed BJP tried to wriggle out of the situation by claiming that PMJJA had nothing to do with the party. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav slammed the BJP for 'patronising' those involved in the killing of the cop and said that it would encourage the criminals. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also launched a scathing attack on the BJP for making an alleged cop killer an office-bearer in an organisation associated with it. Earlier, the main accused and saffron leaders were garlanded and hailed as 'gau rakshaks' (cow protectors) by saffron activists upon their release from Bulandshahar district jail after being enlarged on bail by the Allahabad High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-slams-bjp-over-murder-accused-appointment-as-office-bearer-in-organisation-with-top-party-leaders-863054.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||Veerappan's daughter named Tamil Nadu BJP youth wing leader: Report||The 29-year-old law graduate runs a school of children in Krishnagiri and does social work. She joined the BJP party, which is grasping at last straws in the southern state, in February 2020. “I don’t relate to any particular community, I believe in humanity,” she adds. Vidhya came to know about her appointment through a Facebook post by the state party leadership and almost immediately, the talk was all about her father. Her infamous father made the national headlines in 2000 for kidnapping and releasing Kannada movie star Rajkumar. He was believed to be responsible for the deaths of over 150 people, police and forest officers included, poaching of over 100 elephants and smuggling sandalwood. Four years later, he was killed in a shootout by the Tamil Nadu Police Special Task Force (STF) headed by K Vijay Kumar.  Vidhya met her father once in her life. “I had seen him only once, during a school vacation, when I was at my grandfather’s village Gopinatham, near Hanur in Karnataka. There was a forest nearby, I was hardly six or seven years old. He came to where we were playing, spent a few minutes talking to me, and left. I remember him asking me to ‘do good, study well to become a doctor and serve people’,” Vidhya said. “But by the time I started knowing the world, he had lived his life…I believe it was the situation around him that made him choose a problematic path. But some of the stories I heard about him motivated me to do social service,” she added. Vidhya was born in a Chennai hospital after her mother surrendered to the police. Her mother was lodged in a women’s hostel where she was dubbed ‘Vidhya Rani’ by an STF officer, Kumar in his book Veerappan: Chasing the Brigand wrote. There is a popular narrative which sees Veerappan as the ‘Robin Hood’ figure for the Vanniyars, an influential OBC community that he belonged to.  “He was never into politics but his approach and actions were based on his understanding of the world around him. There are many interpretations about his work for the Vanniyar community,” says Vidhya. She joined the BJP after a local leader introduced her to the then Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan. She admits that the arena of politics is unknown to her. “I was interested in social service, and Radhakrishnan suggested that I do the same work for the party,” she said. Her mother, Muthulakshmi is still affiliated to Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi (TVK), an offshoot of the PMK, a Vanniyar party and NDA ally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/veerappans-daughter-named-tamil-nadu-bjp-youth-wing-leader-report-863066.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||Foreign minister can't be in denial of foreign policy failures: Anand Sharma||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma hit out at External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Sunday, saying he cannot be in denial of the "failures" of foreign policy and should answer them instead. A day after Jaishankar's defence of India's foreign policy, the senior spokesperson of the Congress said engagements with strategic partners demand seriousness and cannot be trivialised and reduced to event management. He also hit out at the external affairs minister for referring to the Balakote and Uri strikes, saying he should not politicise or monopolise the country's armed forces. "Amused by Foreign Minister S Jaishankar's defence of a directionless foreign policy. Rhetoric and tweets do not change ground reality. Neighbourhood first has been a priority of India's foreign policy but sadly derailed by a cavalier approach," Sharma said. Noting that India and Nepal have historically shared a relationship based on trust, friendship and mutual respect, the former Union minister said, "The present drift and tension are a matter of national concern." "The Foreign Minister cannot have the luxury of denial but should answer for the failures," he said in a series of tweets. "Foreign policy must have gravitas and depth. Engagements with strategic partners demand seriousness and cannot be trivialised and reduced to event management. You may create illusions by your optics, but history will judge you by outcomes," Sharma said. Jaishankar hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday for his criticism of the government's foreign policy, saying India's major partnerships are stronger, international standing is higher and it engages China on more equal terms politically under the Narendra Modi dispensation. "Pakistan (that you skipped) surely notes the difference between Balakot and Uri on the one hand, and Sharm-el-Sheikh, Havana and 26/11 on the other. Ask yourself," Jaishankar said, attacking Gandhi over his comments. The external affairs minister's no-holds-barred attack on Gandhi came after the former Congress chief, in a video message posted on Twitter, trained his guns on the government, saying over the last six years, India has been "disturbed and disrupted" with regard to its foreign policy and economy. He shared his thoughts on why China chose to be aggressive now and alleged that Prime Minister Modi's "indiscretions" have weakened the country and left it vulnerable. "Rahul Gandhi has questions on Foreign Policy. Here are some answers: Our major partnerships are stronger and international standing higher. Witness regular summits and informal meetings with US, Russia, Europe and Japan. India engages China on more equal terms politically. Ask the analysts," Jaishankar said in a series of tweets, in which he made a point-by-point rebuttal of the Congress leader's criticism. India speaks its mind more openly now on issues such as the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), China's Belt and Road initiative, South China Sea and UN-sanctioned terrorists, he said, adding, "ask the media". Hitting back at the minister, Sharma said Jaishankar's reference to the Mumbai terror attack was "oddly out of place". As a former ambassador and senior diplomat, he had articulated India's position, which, "for political expediency, he has chosen to criticise and disown", the Congress leader said. "India's response was robust and mobilisation of International support exposed and isolated Pakistan. Why use Balakote, Uri and every brave action of Indian armed forces for partisan propaganda? Every Indian is proud of them. "Do I have to remind that Indian Army, Airforce and Navy existed before May 2014 and their heroics and valour respected globally. Army belongs to the nation and fights under the tricolour. Advising in national interest. Do not politicise or monopolise our defence forces," Sharma said. The Congress has been criticising the foreign policy of the Modi government, alleging that it has become "individual-centric", a charge denied by the government, which has said India's position and voice have strengthened globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/foreign-minister-cant-be-in-denial-of-foreign-policy-failures-anand-sharma-863067.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||Holding Bihar polls amid coronavirus pandemic is fraught with risks||Bihar is facing a double whammy. Of late, there is a spike in Covid-19 cases resulting in imposition of a complete lockdown in the entire state till July 31. Besides that, 18 out of 38 districts are facing a flood threat due to incessant rainfall in Bihar and adjoining Nepal terrain. Amidst this backdrop, the moot point being hotly discussed is: Will it be advisable for the Election Commission to conduct Assembly polls for the 243 seats in Bihar in October-November, for which the EC will have to issue poll notification in September itself? Shortly after the ruling JD(U) said that "if elections in US could be held in November, why can't polls be conducted in Bihar?" the Opposition parties submitted a memorandum to the EC to ensure the Assembly polls do not become a "super-spreader event" amid the Covid-19 outbreak. The letter, submitted by the main Opposition parties in Bihar, including the RJD, Congress, CPI, CPM, CPI-ML, RLSP and the HAM, has asked the EC to rethink how polls could be conducted amid such pandemic as the event may lead to "alarming exponential surge in coronavirus cases". The letter expresses apprehension that the figure of Covid-19 patients in Bihar could substantially increase (after testing is increased from 10,000 per day to 30,000 daily) by the time elections are announced. The Opposition leaders have asked the EC to explain how it planned to ensure social distancing in a state which has 7.5 crore voters out of 13 crore population. (Bihar has so far recorded 208 Covid-19 deaths). "Conducting polls amid such pandemic will be fraught with risks. The coronavirus has affected those residing in the CM's house, Raj Bhavan and Chief Secretary's office. Besides, the state's top bureaucrats and ministers, apart from top doctors, are also affected. Under such circumstances, why can't polls be deferred to February 2021," opined a senior journalist of a national daily. Veteran political scientist Ajay Kumar explained why JD(U) is not keen on poll deferment. "The term of the present Assembly expires on November 29. A new House has to be constituted before that. Or else, President's rule will have to be imposed. And Nitish would never like that the deferred polls are held under Prez rule," the political commentator told Deccan Herald. Senior Congress legislator Prem Chandra Mishra concurred but hastened to add: "The best solution for the EC will be to hold an all-party meet on the issue and arrive at a consensus."The BJP, meanwhile, is in a wait and watch mode. "Holding poll is EC's prerogative. We will abide by whatever decision the EC takes," Bihar BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand told DH on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/holding-bihar-polls-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-is-fraught-with-risks-863113.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||BJP has institutionalised lies: Rahul Gandhi||Stepping up the attack on the BJP, Rahul Gandhi on Sunday accused it of “institutionalising lies” by manipulating the data on novel Covid-19-related deaths, the Gross Domestic Product, and the aggression by China in Ladakh. “The BJP has institutionalised lies – Covid-19 by restricting the testing and misreporting deaths; GDP by using a new calculation method; and Chinese aggression by frightening the media,” the former Congress President said. “The illusion will break soon and India will pay the price,” Rahul said on Twitter tagging a report questioning the low fatalities due to Covid-19 in India. Congress hit out at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s remarks during his visit to Ladakh where he said that he cannot guarantee to what extend the China-India border issue could be resolved through the current talks. “Has the Modi government accepted Chinese transgressions and have also admitted that they have ot solution to push the Chinese back into their own territory behind the LAC between India and China,” Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters at a press conference through a video link. Congress insisted that status quo ante be restored along the Line of Actual control as it existed before May 5, 2020. “How does the Modi government propose to maintain and restore status quo ante... what is its policy, strategy and the way forward. There can never be any compromise on our territorial integrity or national security,” Surjewala said. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma also hit out at the Modi government’s handling of foreign policy accusing of reducing engagement with strategic partners to event management. “You may create illusions by your optics, but history will judge you by outcomes,” Sharma, the deputy leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha said. The former union minister said he was amused at External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s defence of “directionless foreign policy” after Rahul had criticised it in a short video released on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-has-institutionalised-lies-rahul-gandhi-863154.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan political crisis: Congress says Ashok Gehlot confident of numbers, ready for floor test if required||Congress on Sunday asserted that Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had the numbers to prove his government's majority in the State Assembly and was ready to face a floor test if required. Battling a rebellion from former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, Gehlot was also shoring up support to ensure the stability of his government by reaching out to two MLAs of a regional outfit and keeping close tab on the dissidents. Reports from Jaipur said at least two MLAs from the Pilot camp – Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and Bijendra Ola – were keen to return to the Congress, which could further bolster the Gehlot government. “We have support of 109 MLAs,” Randeep Singh Surjewala, Congress chief spokesman and AICC emissary to deal with the political crisis in Rajasthan, told reporters. On Saturday, Gehlot had enlisted the backing of two Bhartiya Tribal Party MLAs and submitted letters of support to Governor Kalraj Mishra. Plans were afoot in Jaipur to convene a special session of the Rajasthan Assembly as early as Wednesday for Gehlot to prove his majority. “To seek a floor test is a decision of the chief minister. The chief minister will take a decision if required,” Ajay Maken, who along with Surjewala, is assisting Gehlot to resolve the crisis situation triggered due to Pilot’s rebellion last week. At the same time, Maken pointed out that even the BJP has not demanded that Gehlot face a floor test in the Assembly. Confident of the numbers, Congress launched an all out attack on the BJP, demanding the resignation of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, accusing him of conspiring to topple the Gehlot government by engineering defections. “Isn’t it the moral duty of the Prime Minister to divest Shekhawat of his portfolio so that he doesn’t interfere in the fair investigation in this case? Also, why is he shying from giving a voice sample despite registration of a case against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” Maken asked. The Rajasthan High Court is set to resume the hearing on Monday on a plea filed by Pilot and 18 MLAs supporting him challenging the disqualification proceedings launched against them by Assembly Speaker C P Joshi under the anti-defection law. The Congress had complained to the Speaker after Pilot and his supporters refused to attend the Legislature Party meeting convened by Gehlot last week. Pilot and the 18 MLAs supporting him were sequestered in two resorts in Haryana, but were shifted from there to luxury hotels in Delhi after the Rajasthan Police team came searching for them in connection with audio clips of purported conversations on toppling the Gehlot government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-congress-says-ashok-gehlot-confident-of-numbers-ready-for-floor-test-if-required-863221.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||Do you want to become PM by joining BJP? Congress veteran Alva asks Pilot||Taking a dig at Sachin Pilot over his rebellion in Rajasthan, veteran Congress leader Margaret Alva on Sunday asked why the former deputy chief minister was in such a "hurry" and whether he was "aspiring" to become the prime minister by 45 years of age by joining the BJP. The former Union Minister also lashed out at Pilot over the timing of his rebellion and said when the entire country is fighting Covid-19 and China in the wake of the border standoff, he is seeking appointment as Rajasthan chief minister. “Congress formed a majority government in Rajasthan and Sachin Pilot became his (Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's) deputy. He got four important portfolios also, as well as the post of PCC (state Congress unit) chief," Alva told PTI Bhasha in an interview. Pilot became an MP at 26, was a Union minister and later he became Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief followed by deputy chief minister, she said. “Where did you want to reach in such a hurry? Whether you wanted to become chief minister at 43 and prime minister at 45 by joining the BJP,” the former Rajasthan governor asked of 42-year-old Pilot. Alva's remarks come amid the raging political firestorm in Rajasthan where Pilot declared open rebellion against the Gehlot government. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and state Congress chief last week. Though Pilot had asserted that he is not joining the BJP, the Congress has accused him of taking support from the saffron party in efforts to topple the Gehlot government. While criticising Pilot for his actions, Alva, however, pitched for giving voice to the young leadership in the party's decision-making process. She also said that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi should be allowed to form a new "young team" to instill "new approach and enthusiasm" in the grand old party. "About 50 percent of our total population is below the age of 25 years. Young voters have different aspirations and approach. What is the average age of so-called decision-makers in the CWC (Congress Working Committee)? Barring four or five, rest are between 75 to 85. They are never allowing Rahul ji to come forward," Alva said. The former Congress general secretary said this is not a "tussle" with state leadership. The young leadership in the party today feels "uncomfortable" as it wants to involved in the decision-making process, she said. "Allow Rahul ji to build his young team in Delhi. Then, the party will have a new approach and new enthusiasm. We need to bring these people in the decision-making process. The younger generation is in discomfort. They think, how long they will keep clapping sitting outside," Alva said. Hailing Gandhi’s leadership as Congress chief, Alva said the party won elections in Goa, Manipur, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar but at a later stage, people's mandate was upended by the BJP. "They are doing the same in Rajasthan. The BJP is not getting popular mandate except in a few states such as Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Assam. They didn't get it in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. They were defeated in Bihar but what happened later we all know. People of this country are watching such kind of politics," she said. On Gandhi stepping down from the post of president after the Lok Sabha polls, she said no one was happy in the party when he resigned as Congress chief. "We all wanted him to continue. When he resigned, the party's rank and file was not happy. It was not right of him to take all the blame on his own shoulder," Alva said. She said the leadership problem exists not only in Congress but also in regional parties. "Be it TDP or TRS or NCP under Sharad Pawar. No one is willing to vacate...see the CPM leadership in Kerala. What I mean to say is that there is a need in every party to relook at the leadership issue," Alva said. Alva, who is no longer in active politics, said if there are differences or any issues within the party, it should be addressed within party forums and senior leaders cannot leave every problem for interim party chief Sonia Gandhi to deal with. "There is a disciplinary committee, there is a working committee, there are general secretaries...what are they doing? What are these senior leaders doing? If you can't do it, leave. Give opportunity to the youth to come forward," she said. "There is a small group which has no mass base, but is taking decisions in every party," the veteran leader said. Asked whether it was the right time for the Congress to have a full-fledged president, Alva said no one was willing to take on the responsibility. "If someone wants, let him come forward...in fact no one is willing to take this responsibility," she said. Alva said she had suggested in the past that Congress should appoint three vice-presidents for North, South and North-East but her suggestions went unheard. "Give these responsibilities to the younger generation," she added. On the rebellion by Jyotiraditya Scindia in Madhya Pradesh, Alva said every demand can't be met and such leaders have no commitment for the party and its ideology. She said Scindia was general secretary of the party and was offered the post of deputy chief minister in Madhya Pradesh, which he refused. Scindia after leaving Congress joined the BJP. "Congress is a big party. There are so many states. Everyone's demand can't be met," she said and added that during the times of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, no one had the courage to seek any "post" for himself or herself. "This is a new era. They are the new generation...There is no commitment for ideology. There is no commitment for problems in the party and for its solutions. Those joining the BJP, have no commitment for the ideology, they are joining it just for the greed and for the sake of power," she said. "But remember one thing, Congress can never be finished. It has a history of 150 years. During these times we won, we lost, we went to jails and we also enjoyed power, but there is none who can finish the Congress," Alva asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/do-you-want-to-become-pm-by-joining-bjp-congress-veteran-alva-asks-pilot-863245.html
19-07-2020||National Politics||Speak on government strategy against Chinese transgressions: Congress tells PM Modi||The Congress on Sunday demanded answers from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his government's policy and strategy to ensure that Indian territory is protected and Chinese "transgressions and construction" in Daulat Beg Oldie and Depsang sector of Ladakh are stopped. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's statement on Friday that there is no guarantee of finding a solution in the talks with China, raises questions on whether the Modi government has accepted Chinese transgressions and has admitted that they cannot push back the Chinese. "What is the meaning of the statement of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, when he said there is no guarantee of finding a solution in the ongoing talks with the Chinese. Has the Modi government accepted Chinese transgressions and has admitted that they have no solution to push the Chinese back into their own territory, behind the Line of Actual Control between India and China," he asked. Posing a set of five questions to the prime minister, the Congress leader said the PM cannot brush aside these important issues of Chinese transgressions and build-up as it threatens "our territory and compromises our territorial integrity". "The prime minister must come forward and answer these questions in light of the statement of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and in the light of the new developments and the satellite imagery," he said at a virtual press conference. Surjewala also asked whether it is correct that China is continuing constructions in Daulat Beg Oldie and Depsang sector, as the same was corroborated by satellite imagery and by defence experts. "What is the policy and strategy of the government to ensure that our territory is protected and the Chinese transgressions and construction in Daulat Beg Oldie as also the Depsang sector are stopped forthwith," he said. After Rajnath Singh's statement, the Congress leader said, the facts emerging on the ground now demonstrate "an extremely worrying and telling picture". He alleged that the Chinese Army has occupied and is continuing to undertake construction in Depsang sector and Daulat Beg Oldie "on our territory, where they have occupied our territory across the line of Actual Control (LAC)". While the government has been saying that no Indian territory has been occupied by the Chinese, Rajnath Singh has said no one can take away even an inch of Indian land. Surjewala also alleged that China is creating obstruction in patrolling by Indian armed forces, between patrolling point 3 and 10, which is Indian territory. He also claimed that while China continues to occupy 8 km "inside our LAC" and territory between "Finger 4 to Finger 8" and about 3,000 Chinese soldiers are present there, and on the contrary Modi government has pushed the armed forces into moving back from ITBP administrative base at Finger 4 to an area between Area 2 and 3. China, he further alleged, has constructed a civilian air base Nari Gunza in its own territory, close to the India border, into a military air strip. "This itself is a possible threat to our territory," he said. China has accumulated two armed divisions of 20,000 soldiers close to the Indian border and has collected artillery and other material, which poses an imminent danger. "Satellite images and army generals clearly establish that the statement of the PM about nobody occupying our territory is apparently false. Did the PM mislead the all-party meeting on June 19. This is a simple question that the nation wants to know," Surjewala said. The status quo ante, as it existed in May 2020, is the sole requirement of every fellow citizen, he said, asking, "How does the Modi government propose to maintain and restore the status quo ante as existed prior to May 2020. What is its policy, strategy and the way forward." Surjewala said there can be no compromise on India's territorial integrity or national security and the Congress party will not allow this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speak-on-government-strategy-against-chinese-transgressions-congress-tells-pm-modi-863266.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||5 killed, 18 hurt in accident at Agra-Lucknow Expressway near Kannauj||At least five people were killed and around 25 injured when a bus rammed into a stationary car on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in the district on Sunday, an official said. The bus was carrying around 45 labourers from Bihar's Madhubani district to Delhi, Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Chhibramau, Gaurav Shukla, said. Both the vehicles overturned and fell off the expressway. The driver of the bus is among the five deceased. Locals rushed to the spot and helped police evacuate trapped passengers. The injured passengers have been admitted to hospitals in Saurikh and Saifai. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the loss of lives in the accident, and instructed officials to ensure proper treatment for those injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-killed-18-hurt-in-accident-at-agra-lucknow-expressway-near-kannauj-862969.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Heavy rains lash Delhi-NCR||The residents of the national capital woke up to heavy rains and rumbling of thunder on Sunday morning. The rains brought the mercury down by several notches. Waterlogging in low-lying areas and roads is likely to affect traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a forecast for Delhi-NCR issued at 6:30 am. Till 5:30 am, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 4.9 mm rainfall. The Palam weather station gauged 3.8 mm precipitation. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said, "Moderate to isolated heavy rains were witnessed in parts of Delhi-NCR." Earlier, the IMD had predicted isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over parts of northwest India. It had said the "entire monsoon trough is most likely to shift northwards, closer to the foothills of the Himalayas during July 19-20". Despite the early arrival of monsoon in Delhi, the rains have remained subdued. According to the IMD, the Safdarjung Observatory has recorded 47.9 mm rainfall in July so far, which is 56 percent less than the normal of 109.4 mm. Palam and Lodhi Road weather stations have recorded 38 and 49 percent less rains in July. Srivastava said the fresh spell of rains will reduce the deficit to some extent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-lash-delhi-ncr-862975.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Waterlogging, traffic snarls across Delhi after heavy rains||Waterlogging in several areas of the national capital due to heavy rains affected movement of traffic in the city on Sunday, officials said. The Delhi Traffic Police posted alerts on Twitter to inform commuters about waterlogged roads. Delhi received its first spell of heavy rains this morning which inundated low-lying areas. Several stretches where construction work is going on also reported waterlogging. Many residents shared on social media videos and pictures of rainwater gushing into their houses and vehicles wading through waterlogged roads. Traffic slowed down from Azadpur to Mukarba Chowk due to waterlogging near GTK Depot, according to police. Traffic snarls were also reported at Minto Road, Mathura Road, Outer Ring Road, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road and Ashram Chowk. "Traffic is affected from Yashwant Place to Ashoka Road due to waterlogging," the Delhi Traffic Police said in a series of alerts posted on Twitter. "Traffic is affected on Ring Road under Dhaula Kuan Flyover, GGP PDR road (both carriageways) and near Mundka Metro station (both carriageways) due to waterlogging," it said. Movement of traffic has also been affected at W point, Ramcharan Aggarwal Chowk and from Ring Road towards Bhairon Road due to waterlogging, the police informed commuters. According to the Delhi fire department, a bus and two autorickshaws were stuck at the Minto Bridge underpass due to heavy waterlogging. "We received a call around 7:54 AM. Our team reached the spot where a bus and two autorickshaws were stuck due to waterlogging. The driver and the conductor of the bus and an auto driver were safely rescued by our personnel," said Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service. There were no passengers on board the bus, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/waterlogging-traffic-snarls-across-delhi-after-heavy-rains-863005.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Three teenagers drown in Yamuna in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district||Three teenagers drowned while bathing in the Yamuna river in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, police said on Sunday. Identities of the deceased, aged between 16 and 19, are being ascertained, they said. The youth drowned while bathing in the river near the Yamuna bridge on the Uttar Pradesh-Haryana border under Kairana police station on Saturday evening, the police said. Circle Officer Pradeep Singh said the bodies were fished out by police divers. They have been sent for post-mortem. It is likely that the deceased came from the Haryana side, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-teenagers-drown-in-yamuna-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-district-863014.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Man dies after mini-truck gets submerged in water in central Delhi after heavy rains||A 56-year-old man died allegedly due to drowning after his mini-truck was submerged in water under the Minto Bridge in central Delhi, following a heavy downpour in the city on Sunday morning, police said. The man, identified as Kundan Kumar, was a resident of Pithoragarh, Uttarakhand. He was driving a Tata Ace from the New Delhi Railway Station to Connaught Place when he got stuck in the waterlogged area, they said. While he was trying to manoeuvre his vehicle through the waterlogged underpass, Kumar got stuck and allegedly died due to drowning, said a senior police officer. He used to drive the vehicle, owned by his cousin Pritam, to transport goods, police said. Kumar used to live near a taxi stand in Shankar Market area and is survived by his wife and two daughters, they said. His body has been shifted to a mortuary at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital wherein it will be handed over to his family after post-mortem. Police said they suspected that he died due to drowning since no external injury marks were found on his body. Inquest proceedings have been initiated in this regard, they said. The national capital received its first spell of heavy rains, which led to waterlogging in low-lying areas and brought traffic to a standstill at key stretches in the city. The Minto Road underpass also witnessed heavy waterlogging, following overnight heavy rains. Meanwhile, a DTC bus and two auto-rickshaws were stuck at the Minto Bridge underpass due to waterlogging, following which three people were rescued, Delhi Fire Service officials said. A call regarding the stranded vehicles at the Minto Bridge underpass was received around 7.54 am. A team from the Delhi Fire Service was rushed to the spot for rescue work, Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service, said. "A DTC bus and two autos were trapped due to water-logging. The driver and conductor of the bus and an auto driver were safely rescued by our personnel. There was no passenger in the bus," he said. The fire service personnel used a ladder to bridge the gap from a footpath and the low floor bus that was almost submerged at the heavily waterlogged underpass, to rescue the stranded. Waterlogging at the concave railway underpass (Minto Bridge) during the rainy season is a recurring issue. Incidents of vehicles getting stuck and people being rescued have been reported in the past as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-dies-after-mini-truck-gets-submerged-in-water-in-central-delhi-after-heavy-rains-863033.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||With 6 more deaths, Covid-19 toll reaches 242 in J&K||Since July 10, J&K has been recording more than five Covid-19 deaths a day. On July 15, 13 deaths were attributed to the viral illness. Officials said the patients who died today include an 80-year-old woman from Srinagar, a 59-year-old man from Shopian, an 84-year-old man from Baramulla, a 50-year-old woman from Rajouri, a 75-year-old woman from Pulwama and a 70-year-man from Baramulla. All of the patients were diagnosed to have developed viral pneumonia, they said.  Srinagar district with 60 deaths has the highest fatalities followed by Baramulla (50), Kulgam (24), Shopian (25), Anantnag (18), Budgam (18), Kupwara (13), Jammu (11), Pulwama (12), Ganderbal (4), Bandipora (5), Doda (2), Rajouri (2) while one death each has been reported from Poonch, Samba, Udhampur and Kathua districts. In the first 115 days (from March 8-June 30), 101 Covid-19 deaths were witnessed in J&K, that included 89 from Kashmir and 12 from Jammu. However, from July 1 till today, 141 more deaths were recorded in the UT. Meanwhile, in what should set alarm bells ringing, Srinagar has recorded just 21.83% coronavirus recovery rate which is lowest in J&K, where the average recovery rate is 54.28%. The situation in the capital city is turning from bad to worse with the number of Covid-19 deaths and infected cases soaring rapidly each day. According to the official data, Srinagar till July 16 has recorded 2,611 Covid-19 positive cases, of which 1,982 are active and 570 have recovered. Since July 1, the number of deaths in the district has doubled. Similarly, the number of positive cases too has witnessed a 100 percent spike in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-6-more-deaths-covid-19-toll-reaches-242-in-jk-863042.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||36% govt-run schools in J&K don’t use LPG for mid-day meals||Over 36% of government-run-schools in Jammu and Kashmir use firewood and other tools to prepare the mid-day meals (MDM) against the suggested Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG). The mid-day meals scheme is a school meal programme of the government of India designed to better the nutritional standing of school-age children nationwide. The Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) in its Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWPB) said that 36.89% of schools providing mid-day meals to students in J&K were using firewood as fuel source to prepare the meals while 63.14% were using LPG. According to the MHRD documents, out of 22,205 schools, only 14,021 were cooking meals by using LPG. The Jammu and Kashmir government in a reply to the queries of MHRD regarding the steps taken to provide LPG as fuel for mid-day meals in all schools said: “Instructions were already conveyed to the Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs (FCSCA) to cover all leftover schools by providing LPG as fuel in MDM in all schools.” The Union Territory authorities also conveyed to the MHRD that there were some schools located in remote and hilly areas where the use of LPG is not feasible because of massive head load and therefore, “the timber is used for cooking of meals in those schools which has been found as the best alternative for those schools.” The problem in the schools across the J&K is not limited to the use of LPG. Official records reveal that out of 11,815 sanctioned kitchens-cum-store, authorities have completed only 7,118 while the balance of 4,697 could not be completed within the existing rates prescribed by the MHRD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/36-govt-run-schools-in-jk-don-t-use-lpg-for-mid-day-meals-863045.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||129 new cases in Indore, Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 case count crosses 6,000-mark||There has been a rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state's industrial hub during the last 10 days. "Out of 1,957 samples tested in the last 24 hours, we have found 129 new patients," Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. In the last four months, 292 patients in the district have died of coronavirus, while 4,238 people have recovered after treatment, he said. According to official figures, the number of Covid-19 cases in the district crossed the 5,000-mark on July 8. In the last 10 days, about 1,000 new cases have been added. The health department estimates that the coronavirus outbreak in the district may reach its peak later this month or early August. An analysis of the data showed the Covid-19 mortality in the district was 4.84 percent on Sunday morning, higher than the national average of 2.49 percent. The fatality rate in Indore has been higher than the national average since a long time. The outbreak of the deadly viral infection was first reported here on March 24, when four patients tested positive for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/129-new-cases-in-indore-madhya-pradeshs-covid-19-case-count-crosses-6000-mark-863050.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Over 64-kg heroin seized from Ravi river along Indo-Pak border in Punjab: BSF||The BSF seized over 64 kg of heroin from the Ravi river that flows along the India-Pakistan international border in Punjab's Gurdaspur on Sunday, officials said. The contraband, weighing 64.33 kg, was found in 60 packets concealed in long fabric cloth tubes and tied to a bunch of water hyacinth floating in the river, they said. The consignment was "pushed" into the river from Pakistan to the Indian side and Border Security Force (BSF) troops deployed at the border outpost in Nangli, near Dera Baba Nanak, spotted it in the wee hours, the officials said. A 1,500-metre-long nylon rope was tied to the consignment of drugs in order to enable someone to pull it towards the bank, they added. According to Rajesh Sharma, Deputy Inspector General, BSF, the troops noticed some suspicious movement in the river around 2 am and swung into action. However, the smugglers managed to flee taking advantage of the darkness, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-64-kg-heroin-seized-from-ravi-river-along-indo-pak-border-in-punjab-bsf-863052.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Under 'Sunday lockdown,' all activities halt in Tamil Nadu||Barring milk supply and health care services, all other activities came to a halt and markets were closed down. Shops, including those selling essential commodities, were shut. But for cargo trucks, other vehicles went off the roads. For sanitary workers, it was business as usual as they continued their clean up work, and personnel of civic bodies conducted door to door surveys to detect people with flu-like symptoms and fever camps were also held. State-run low-cost Amma canteens also functioned. Check posts were set up at key intersections in towns and cities, including 193 here and at district borders as part of measures to effectively implement the complete shutdown. "No vehicle will be allowed to ply on the roads except those for milk distribution, medical emergencies and funerals," Chennai police said in a statement adding any other vehicle found plying without any of these valid reasons would be detained. For any queries, the traffic control room may be contacted at 044-23452330 and 23452362, the release said. Following violations like opening of meat shops in quite a few areas like Virudhunagar district's Aruppukottai, authorities swung into action and closed down the outlets. Greater Chennai Corporation said from May 8 till July 18, as many as 19,151 fever camps were held, in which 11,81,205 people participated, leading to detection of 62,470 people with flu-like symptoms. Local bodies utilise the curbs to reach out to even more people to detect a higher number of flu-like cases. Tamil Nadu police said till date Rs 18.39 crore fine has been levied against violators of curbs and as many as 6.41 lakh vehicles seized across the state. The state is set to witness one more 'Sunday lockdown' on July 26 and authorities expect such measures to augment ongoing initiatives to help slow down the spread of Covid-19 and early identification of people with flu-like symptoms and treatment for those who test positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/under-sunday-lockdown-all-activities-halt-in-tamil-nadu-863055.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Four arrested in mother-daughter self-immolation case in UP||Four people have been arrested in Amethi after a woman and her daughter set themselves on fire outside the chief minister's office in Lucknow alleging police inaction in a case of dispute over a drain, police said on Sunday. The condition of the woman and her daughter continues to be critical, a senior doctor said. Circle officer of Gauriganj Arpit Kapoor said, "Four persons have been arrested in the Jamo police station area of the district. The four persons were arrested yesterday. They are Arjun, Sunil, Rajkaran and Ram Milan. These four persons were involved in a dispute with Safia and Gudia over the usage of a drain." A case was registered against them under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Jamo police station on May 9, Kapoor said. He also said that All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) district president Kadeer Khan was arrested by police late on Saturday night, and has been taken to Lucknow in connection with this case. Meanwhile, Dr Ashutosh Kumar Dubey, medical superintendent of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee Civil Hospital, Lucknow, told PTI on Sunday, "The condition of the mother continues to be critical. Her daughter is out of danger, and is recovering." The Amethi police suspended three policemen on Saturday in connection with the incident. The Lucknow police, however, on Saturday said the women were instigated by Congress leader Anoop Patel to set themselves on fire as part of a "criminal conspiracy" and a case has been filed against him along with three others. No suicide note was recovered from Safia (55) or her daughter Gudia, Amethi Superintendent of Police Khyati Garg said on Saturday. Garg and Amethi District Magistrate Arun Kumar said Safia had a dispute with her neighbour over a drain and the two had even exchanged blows in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-arrested-in-mother-daughter-self-immolation-case-in-up-863062.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Political Crisis: Shekhawat has no moral authority to continue as Union minister, Congress slams BJP||The Congress demanded Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's resignation on Sunday for his alleged involvement in a conspiracy to topple the Asok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. Party leader and former Union minister Ajay Maken said the Anti-Corruption Bureau of the Rajasthan police has registered a case in connection with the audiotapes of a purported conversation between Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Shekhawat and one Sanjay Jain. "If Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is claiming that it is not his voice and the reference in the audio clip is of some other Gajendra Singh, then why is he afraid of giving voice samples?" Maken asked. He said Shekhawat has no moral authority to continue as a Union minister and should resign so that the investigation is not influenced. Maken also alleged that the police in Haryana and Delhi are giving protection to rebel Congress MLAs from Rajasthan. He said the Centre is threatening in the name of CBI because it wants to stop the probe into the conspiracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-political-crisis-shekhawat-has-no-moral-authority-to-continue-as-union-minister-congress-slams-bjp-863071.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Gori river washes away four houses in Uttarakhand||Swirling waters of the swollen Gori river following heavy rains washed away four houses, and large tracts of cultivable land at Chori Bagar village in Bangapani subdivision of the district, an official said on Sunday. However, there was no casualty as occupants of the houses had been evacuated to safety in advance, the official said.  All the main motor roads that link the district headquarters to the subdivisions of Bangapani, Munsiyari and Dharchula in the border district are closed following heavy rains on Saturday night.    "Keeping in mind the imminent danger, we had already shifted the families living in those houses. They are safe," SDM in charge of Bangapani, AK Shukla, said. The affected families have been provided 20 kgs of ration and other essentials besides a sum of Rs 1.19 lakh as compensation, he said. A team of officials has also been rushed to the spot for a first-hand assessment, he said.   Giving details of the roads closed, ADM in-charge of disaster management, Ram Dutt Paliwal, said, "while Tawaghat to Lipulekh road is closed at three places, the roads from Jauljibi to Munsiyari and Munsyari to Thal are closed at two places due to mounds of debris on the roads."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gori-river-washes-away-four-houses-in-uttarakhand-863074.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Two Congress MLAs test positive for Covid-19||Two Congress legislators in Punjab have tested positive for Covid-19, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Sunday. Singh wished both of them a speedy recovery. “My colleagues @INCPunjab Mla Phagwara, Balwinder Dhaliwal ji & MLA Tarn Taran @DrDharambir  ji have tested positive for #Covid19. Wishing them a speedy recovery,” the CM said in a tweet. Earlier, cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa had tested positive for the virus. He was the first minister to have contracted the infection. Later, the minister's wife and son had also got infected. Punjab has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases for the past several days. The state's Covid-19 tally stood at 9,792, with 246 deaths as on Saturday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-congress-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19-863084.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC directs Google, Facebook, Twitter to take down posts, tweets defaming suspended IAS officer||The Delhi High Court has directed US-based Google LLC, Facebook and Twitter to take down or disable certain objectionable posts and tweets on their platforms, which level allegations against a suspended civil servant by a woman. The court has also restrained the woman from publishing or disseminating any news relating to the man in any manner on any website/ newspaper/ TV channels including YouTube/ Facebook/ Instagram till further orders. “Considering the averments made in the plaint (by the man) and the application as also the documents filed therewith, this court finds that the plaintiff (man) has made out a prima facie case in his favour and in case no ad-interim ex parte injunction is granted, the plaintiff would suffer an irreparable loss. The balance of convenience also lies in favour of the plaintiff,” Justice Mukta Gupta said in an order passed on July 15. The court also issued summons to the woman, social media giants Google, Facebook and Twitter Plaint in the suit and listed the matter for further hearing on August 31. "Issue summons in the suit and notice in the application to the defendants," the order said. The suspended IAS officer, in his plaint, has sought damages from the woman for defaming him, besides permanent and mandatory injunction. According to the man, he came in contact with the woman, who was already married, through Facebook in 2017 when he was in Mexico as a part of the Indian Government’s delegation and thereafter, she sent him a number of friend requests which he finally accepted. The man claimed that he informed the woman that he was married, however, at her instance, he met her at a hospital where he was staying and alleged that since February 2018, she started asking money from him. The plaint claimed that the man gave her the money with the sole intention of bailing out a friend in trouble. However, the woman used verbal abuse, physical assault and threatened to commit suicide, the plaint claimed. It alleged that the woman also demanded Rs 20 crore, asked him to buy a flat in Delhi for her and transfer his home in Ahmedabad in her name. The man said the woman has filed a complaint with the Crime against Women Cell and National Human Rights Commission which were all investigated into and nothing was found against him. In view of the online campaign conducted by the woman, different articles and posts on social media platforms have been published and the man sought directions from the court to take down those posts and articles. The court, in its order, said, “Considering the nature of posts put against the plaintiff, defendant No. 2-Google LLC is directed to take down/ disable the posts/ links from the country domain.” Regarding the tweets mentioned in the documents placed by the man, the court directed Twitter Inc. to take down/ disable the tweets from the country domain. The court asked the man to provide the necessary URLs to Twitter which would then take down the eight tweets mentioned in the documents. “The defendant No. 4-Facebook Inc. in the meantime, is also directed to take down the posts from Facebook as mentioned in... the plaint within one week from the date of intimation of the order,” it said. The counsel for Google submitted that the articles and posts are all newspapers’ articles or news channels’ reports which have been uploaded and the authenticity thereof would be only known to the news channels and sought that they may be impleaded as parties in the suit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-directs-google-facebook-twitter-to-take-down-posts-tweets-defaming-suspended-ias-officer-863087.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Five-year-old girl raped by 3 boys in Rajasthan's Baran||A five-year-old girl was left bleeding after she was allegedly raped by three boys in a village in Rajasthan's Baran district, police said on Sunday. While the five-year-old girl was playing outside her house at Tanki Mohalla in Nahargarh town on Friday evening, the three minor boys of the neighbourhood promised to give her a Rs 5 coin and later took turns to rape her in a nearby field, SHO at Nahargarh police station, Dalpat Singh said. The mother was cooking inside the house at the time of the incident, he added. The family members found the girl missing and began searching for her. The mother, then, spotted the girl crying and bleeding on Gogacha Road near their home, the policeman said. Later that night, the mother and the minor daughter reached the police station and lodged a complaint, he further said. The three accused boys are absconding and a search is on for them, Singh said while adding that further investigation into the matter has been forwarded to the DSP and Circle Officer of Kajodmal. A medical board carried out an examination upon the minor survivor on Saturday at Baran district hospital and her statements under Section 164 of CrPC would be recorded before a magistrate on Monday, the SHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-year-old-girl-raped-by-3-boys-in-rajasthans-baran-863096.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||O P Dhankar appointed president of BJP's Haryana unit||O P Dhankar, who was a cabinet minister in the BJP government in Haryana, was on Sunday appointed the president of the party's state unit. By appointing Dhankar, the BJP has continued with a Jat face, the most dominant caste in the state. The BJP, in a statement, said party chief J P Nadda appointed Dhankar the Haryana unit head. The appointment is also seen as an attempt to balance the caste equations in the state, where politics revolves around Jats and non-Jats. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar is also a non-Jat. Dhankar will replace incumbent Subhash Barala, who was also a Jat. Both Dhankar and Barala had lost the Harayana Assembly elections held in October last year. Dhankar was a cabinet minister in the BJP government in Haryana. The appointment has been delayed by more than eight months as it was expected that a new president would be appointed after the announcement of the state Assembly results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/o-p-dhankar-appointed-president-of-bjps-haryana-unit-863099.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal says it is 'not the time' to blame each other after BJP slams AAP govt over waterlogging||This is not the time to play the blame game over waterlogging in parts of Delhi as all agencies have been busy combating the coronavirus, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday after the BJP charged that the first spell of rains has "exposed" the AAP government's preparations. Heavy rains caused waterlogging in parts of Delhi, including at Minto Bridge where a 56-year-old man died allegedly due to drowning after his mini-truck was submerged. BJP MP Manoj Tiwari alleged that the AAP government's preparations have been exposed by the first spell of monsoon rains. In a tweet in Hindi, Kejriwal said, "This year, all agencies, be it Delhi government or MCD (civic body), were busy in prevention of Covid-19. They faced many difficulties due to corona. This is not the time to blame each other. All have to fulfil their responsibilities together. Wherever there is waterlogging, we will try to pump out water immediately." Later, in another tweet, the chief minister said water had been drained from the Minto Bridge. Kejriwal said he had been in touch with the agencies and monitoring the process of removing water from there. Slamming the chief minister, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta in a tweet said that it is just the beginning of monsoon and asked the AAP dispensation to take concrete steps as soon as possible to prevent waterlogging. Gupta also condoled the death at Minto Bridge which comes under the Delhi PWD. He said that if steps were taken in time, the death due to waterlogging could have been prevented. "Minto Bridge area comes under the PWD of Delhi government. There is a pump which was not started in time and the DJB line which carries the lifted water was also choked. We have been raising this issue in the past". Taking on Twitter, Tiwari said that the situation worsened in a few hours of rains and wondered what will happen if there is rains for months. "...Arvind Kejriwal ji your preparations are exposed by the first rains of Monsoon. A solid plan should be prepared to deal with the rains so that Delhi could be prevented from submerging and people saved from difficulties" the BJP MP said. North MCD Mayor Jai Prakash, who visited the Minto Bridge on Sunday morning, claimed that he got North Delhi Municipal Corporation staffers clear water from the area. The national capital received its first spell of heavy rains on Sunday morning which led to waterlogging in low-lying areas and brought traffic to a standstill at key stretches in the city. According to the Delhi Traffic Police, jams were reported from Azadpur to Mukarba Chowk, Yashwant Place to Ashoka Road, at Ring Road, Bhairon Road, and near Mundka metro station due to heavy waterlogging. The driver and the conductor of a bus that got stuck at the Minto Bridge underpass due to waterlogging were rescued by fire department personnel, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-says-it-is-not-the-time-to-blame-each-other-after-bjp-slams-aap-govt-over-waterlogging-863108.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||House collapses due to overflowing drain in Delhi||In shocking visuals that have come from New Delhi’s ITO area, houses believed to be part of a slum collapsed due to heavy rainfall. While no one was present in the houses that collapsed, the loss of property is significant. An overflowing sewage drainage allegedly became too powerful and swept a house along with its flow. The basement of an under-construction building was where the flow of water was headed to. At least eight houses had reportedly collapsed, while complaints of major waterlogging were made until Sunday. The video, that has been shared widely on social media, shocked netizens with its destructiveness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/house-collapses-due-to-overflowing-drain-in-delhi-863109.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Thieves blow up ATM with explosives; steal over Rs 22 lakh||Two persons stole over Rs 22 lakh from an ATM after blowing it up with explosives in Madhya Pradesh's Panna district in the wee hours of Sunday, police said. They held the ATM's guard at gunpoint while committing the robbery, the police said. The incident took place at the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) of a nationalised bank in Simaria town, about 60 km from the district headquarters. "Two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons robbed a State Bank of India (SBI) ATM at around 2 am today after blowing it up using explosives, Superintendent of Police Mayank Awasthi told reporters. He said according to bank officials, the ATM had Rs 22 lakh to Rs 23 lakh, which the robbers took away. "We have started a search operation to nab the robbers and will arrest them soon, the official said. The ATM's guard, Sukhendra Choudhary, told reporters that two persons, who arrived on a black motorcycle at around 2 am, pushed him and one of them later held him at gunpoint before they blew up the machine. They then fled with the money, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-thieves-blow-up-atm-with-explosives-steal-over-rs-22-lakh-863110.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||25 villagers injured after Naxals beat them in Dantewada||At least 25 villagers were injured, eight of them seriously, after being allegedly beaten by Naxals for seeking development in their area in Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Friday night in Parcheli village under Katekalyan police station limits. A police team rushed there on Sunday after being alerted about the incident, Dantewada Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Pallava told PTI. The SP said he and district collector recently visited the area during which some people from Parcheli had demanded construction of roads, setting up of an Anganwadi (government-run women and child care centre) and other development works in their village. The officials had assured the villagers to consider their demands, he said. When Naxals came to know the villagers sought help from the administration for development works in the area, around 10-15 armed ultras convened a meeting on Friday night in Parcheli, located around 440 km from Raipur, and brutally hit the villagers, including women and children, with sticks, he said. A police team along with an ambulance reached there on Sunday morning and shifted 25 injured villagers to a nearby community health centre. Eight of them, including a woman, who received severe injuries were referred to the district hospital for further treatment, Pallava said. The other 17 injured villagers were discharged after being given primary treatment, he said. "Such a mass beating of villagers by Naxals has become frequent in the region and it is due to the frustration of Naxals after some of their accomplices surrendered to police while some were arrested," he said. A case has been registered and search is underway for Naxals involved in beating the villagers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/25-villagers-injured-after-naxals-beat-them-in-dantewada-863115.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Transport commissioner transferred over 'envelope' video||The Madhya Pradesh government has transferred state transport commissioner V Madhu Kumar to the police headquarters in Bhopal. The order came late Saturday night after a video clip purportedly showing the 1991 batch IPS officer taking envelopes from police personnel went viral on social media. "The state government withdrawsthe service of V Madhu Kumar as transport commissioner, and he is shiftedas additional director general to the police headquarters, Bhopal, forthwith till further order," said the state Home departments order. State Transport Minister Govind Singh Rajput and Madhu Kumar could be contacted by PTI for their comments. After Kumar was transferred, Rajput late Saturday night told a local media outlet that a probe will be conducted into the video episode. The video that has surfaced is of the time when Kumar was the inspector general of police, Ujjain range. He is seen taking the envelope but what is in it is not visible, the minister said. "It is going to be probed to get a clear picture, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-transport-commissioner-transferred-over-envelope-video-863126.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Bodies of woman, her two kids found at Delhi home||A 28-year-old woman and her two children were found dead under mysterious circumstances at their home in Nihal Vihar on Sunday, police said. The woman has been identified as Preeti, they said. Police suspect that Preeti's husband was behind the killings. He has been missing since the matter was reported to them. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) A Koan said a case of murder is being registered and an investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bodies-of-woman-her-two-kids-found-at-delhi-home-863135.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Man drowns in waterlogged street, shanties collapse as heavy rains lash Delhi||A 56-year-old pick-up truck driver drowned while trying to manoeuvre his vehicle through the waterlogged underpass at Minto Bridge, many shanties collapsed and low-lying areas were inundated as heavy rains lashed the national capital on Sunday. Delhi received its first spell of heavy rains this morning with 74.8 mm rainfall being recorded till 8:30 am. Many residents shared on social media platforms videos and pictures of rainwater gushing into their houses and vehicles wading through waterlogged roads. According to officials, waterlogging was reported at several places like Minto Road and under the railway bridge, both carriageways of GTK Depot, Azadpur underpass, Guru Nanak Chowk on Jawahar Lal Nehru Marg, South Avenue Road and Pul Prahladpur underpass on M B Road. A spate of incidents were reported in the national capital as several areas were waterlogged. Some shanties collapsed near the WHO building in Anna Nagar on Sunday morning. Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. A small NDRF team was sent to Anna Nagar near ITO to take stock of the situation. The 56-year-old pick-up truck driver who was trying to manoeuvre his vehicle through the waterlogged underpass at Minto Bridge here drowned, police said. The deceased has been identified as Kundan. He was driving a Tata Ace from New Delhi Railway Station towards Connaught Place this morning, they said. A bus and two auto-rickshaws were also stuck at the Minto Bridge underpass due to heavy waterlogging. "We received a call around 7:54 am. Our team reached the spot where a bus and two auto-rickshaws were stuck due to waterlogging. The driver and the conductor of the bus and an auto driver were safely rescued by our personnel," said Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service. There were no passengers on board the bus, he said. Due to waterlogging, traffic snarls were also reported at many places in Delhi. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police has been alerting commuters about traffic snarls due to waterlogging at specific areas across the city. Traffic snarls due to waterlogging have also been reported from Minto Road, Mathura Road, Outer Ring Road, Mehrauli Badarpur Road and Ashram. Several low-lying areas and road stretch where repair is going were flooded. "Traffic disrupted at many places because trees fell down. Among the places which saw trees falling down are: 1. Near Tilak Nagar metro station service lane 2. Prashant Vihar Lancer's Convent school Rohini 3. Dr Zakir Hussain Marg near Oberoi Hotel," the traffic police tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-drowns-in-waterlogged-street-shanties-collapse-as-heavy-rains-lash-delhi-863149.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||UP's Covid-19 tally rises to 49,247 with 2,211 new cases; death toll reaches 1,146||The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh rose to 49,247 on Sunday with the highest single-day jump of 2,211 fresh cases, while the death toll reached 1,146 after 38 fatalities were reported in the state, according to a statement. Eight fatalities were reported from Kanpur, four from Bareilly and three from Rampur, it said. Lucknow, Prayagraj, Sambhal, Gonda, Ballia and Hamirpur reported two deaths each, while Meerut, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Bahraich, Gorakhpur, Etawah, Maharajganj, Bhadohi, Jhansi and Mahoba registered one death each, the statement issued by the UP government said. On Saturday, the Covid-10 tally in the state had reached 47,036. With 2,211 fresh infections, the total number of cases has now risen to 49,247. However, the Uttar Pradesh government in the statement has put the number of fresh cases at 2,250.  There are 18,256 active cases in the state, while a total of 29,845 patients have been discharged from hospitals so far after recovering from the disease. Among the new Covid-19 cases, 392 are from Lucknow, followed by 168 from Kanpur, 125 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, 104 from Jhansi and 100 from Prayagraj. Additional Chief Secretary Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters that 44,130 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of samples tested so far in the state to 14,70,426. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday had said that integrated command and control centres should be established in every district, and through this, monitoring of the operation of ambulances, medical screening, survey work and various other activities pertaining to the prevention of Covid-19 would be done. He had said that along with officials of the police and administration, officials of Panchayati Raj, Urban Development and Health departments would be linked to the command centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ups-covid-19-tally-rises-to-49247-with-2211-new-cases-death-toll-reaches-1146-863158.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi's Covid-19 tally crosses 1.22 lakh, 31 deaths in last 24 hours||Delhi has recorded 1,211 fresh coronavirus cases, the lowest in over a month, and 31 deaths due to the disease in the last 24 hours, authorities said on Sunday. On June 8, the city had recorded 1,007 cases. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is now 1,22,793. The death toll due to the disease is 3,628, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin. As many as 1,03,134 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 16,031 active cases, it said. The bulletin said that as many as 5,762 RT-PCR tests and 14,444 rapid-antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. A total of 8,18,989 tests have been conducted till date, which is 43,104 tests per million population, it said. The total number of Covid-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 8,819, the bulletin said. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by around one per cent every day. For every 100 confirmed cases, three have died due to the virus in the city so far.  The recovery rate has increased to more than 83 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-covid-19-tally-crosses-122-lakh-31-deaths-in-last-24-hours-863164.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Bodies of 2 Covid-19 patients swapped at Amritsar hospital, inquiry ordered||The bodies of two Covid-19 patients got swapped at Amritsar's Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), prompting district authorities to launch a magisterial probe into the matter, officials said on Sunday. The incident came to light on Saturday when family members of a 92-year-old Covid-19 victim insisted on seeing his face before the cremation in Hoshiarpur. They were shocked to find the body of a woman wrapped in a PPE kit. However, the family of a 37-year-old woman in Amritsar, another Covid-19 victim, had already performed the last rites. The two patients succumbed to Covid-19 at the hospital on Friday evening, the officials said, adding that their bodies were shifted to the mortuary. While sending the bodies wrapped in PPE kits to their homes, the staff of the hospital had put wrong labels on the caskets, they said. Describing the incident as highly unfortunate, Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Shivdullar Singh Dhillon said, "This is a serious lapse and truth of the whole matter needs to be ascertained and the responsibility for the same needs to be fixed." "In order to ascertain the full facts of the case and to fix the responsibility in the matter, a magisterial inquiry is hereby ordered," he said. Amritsar's Sub Divisional Magistrate Shivraj Singh Bal will conduct the magisterial inquiry, Dhillon said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bodies-of-2-covid-19-patients-swapped-at-amritsar-hospital-inquiry-ordered-863178.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Six killed in accident on Agra-Lucknow Expressway||At least six people were killed and 33 injured when a bus rammed into a stationary car on Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Kannauj district Sunday, an official said. The bus was carrying around 45 labourers from Bihar's Madhubani district to Delhi, Chhibramau Sub-Divisional Magistrate Gaurav Shukla said. Both the vehicles overturned and fell off the expressway. The bus driver, Rajendra (40), a resident of Faridabad, is among the six deceased. Locals rushed to the spot and helped police rescue the trapped passengers. "The others deceased of the bus have been identified as Asharfi Nishad (50), Lalbabu (40), Laxmi Shah (42) Chandrika (55) and an unknown person," police said in a statement. Six persons travelling in the car received injuries and have been admitted to PGI in Saifai. Nine injured bus passengers have also been admitted to Saifai PGI, while 18 injured persons were hospitalised in Tirwa (Kannauj). Eighteen passengers were sent to their respective destinations after administering first-aid. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the loss of lives in the accident and asked officials to ensure proper treatment for the injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-killed-in-accident-on-agra-lucknow-expressway-863180.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||JD(U) holding ‘vulture rallies’ in Bihar, says Lalu Prasad; ruling party hits back||Slamming the ruling JD(U) in Bihar, RJD president Lalu Prasad on Sunday termed the state's Covid-19 situation as "pathetic, chaotic and explosive", and claimed the party was holding "vulture rallies" making people victims of the disease. He was apparently hinting at the virtual rallies and meetings being held by the Janata Dal (United) and attended by party leaders and workers. "The health system has crumbled. The state government should have become a hawk in order to contain the spread of coronavirus. Instead, the JD(U) is engaged in organising vulture rallies making people the victims (of the disease)," Prasad tweeted in Hindi. The former chief minister is serving jail sentences in several fodder scam cases and is currently lodged in a Ranchi hospital on account of poor health. His Twitter account is handled by his trusted aides. The JD(U), however, hit back at Prasad, saying his comment was "barbaric and violent". The RJD supremo also claimed that Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has not come out of his residence even for four times in the past four months amid the pandemic outbreak. Bihar’s COVID-19 caseload is 24,967 cases with 177 casualties, a health department bulletin said on Saturday. A total of 15,771 people have recovered from the disease, while there are 9,018 active cases in the state, it said. Reacting to Prasad’s tweet, JD(U) state unit spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad termed its language as "barbaric and violent". The entire world has been badly affected by Covid-19 and it has witnessed 10 lakh positive cases in past 100 hours, he said, adding there has been a steady rise in the number of positive cases in nine states, including Bihar, in the past seven to eight days. "This is a challenge but the state's machinery is capable of dealing with the situation. Lalu Prasad's comment brings shame to humanity," the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jdu-holding-vulture-rallies-in-bihar-says-lalu-prasad-ruling-party-hits-back-863195.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||UP Covid-19 hospital ward turns into fountain; Priyanka Gandhi slams 'pathetic condition' of hospitals||Patients admitted to the Covid ward at a private medical college in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly town, about 250 kilometres from here, had a nightmarish experience on Saturday night, when their ward suddenly turned into a fountain. A huge stream of water suddenly started gushing into the ward from a big hole in the ceiling of room flooding the ward within a few minutes much to the shock and dismay of the patients. Terrified patients ran out of the ward thinking that the roof might collapse, according to the reports. It later turned out that the plumbing pipes had broken as a result of which the rainwater began to gush through it in the form of a strong stream. "It was a plumbing problem and was resolved immediately.....the patients were shifted to other room", said a senior district official on Sunday. A video showing the water gushing from the ceiling into the ward went viral on the social networking sites. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tagged the video on her twitter handle and slammed the state government for the pathetic condition of the Covid hospitals. Earlier also several videos were uploaded on the social networking sites showing poor condition of the Covid centres in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-covid-19-hospital-ward-turns-into-fountain-priyanka-gandhi-slams-pathetic-condition-of-hospitals-863207.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Administrative Council approves draft Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules||The Administrative Council of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday approved the draft Jammu and Kashmir Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2020. The rules were drafted under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, which has been recently made applicable to the Union Territory by way of an Adaptation Order issued by Ministry of Home Affairs, an official spokesman said. The Administrative Council, in a meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu, accorded sanctions to the rules to facilitate the establishment of a regulatory authority for the real estate sector. These will also protect the interests of consumers through established adjudicating mechanism for speedy dispute redressal, he said. The new rules make it mandatory for all real estate projects and real estate agents to receive prior registration through a web-based online system, the spokesman said.  As such, details about the promoter in respect of track record, real estate projects executed, litigations, as well as details regarding registered agents, consultants, developmental plans, financial details among others will be made public, he said. The rules, in addition to defining powers of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Authority and the Appellate Tribunal and prescribing penalties, have provisions for filing of complaint by aggrieved persons. The rules also provide for the preparation of budget, maintenance of accounts and filing of annual report by the Authority, he said. The augmented legal framework in Jammu and Kashmir will bring transparency and boost investments in the real estate sector and bring a paradigm shift in working of the real estate industry, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-administrative-council-approves-draft-real-estate-regulation-and-development-rules-863212.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Closely monitoring waterlogging situation; will take steps to cover losses: Manish Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said Sunday that the Delhi government is closely monitoring the situation following waterlogging in parts of the city and appropriate steps will be taken to cover the losses due to heavy rains. "The situation is being constantly monitored and we are in touch with our engineers and taking the report," Sisodia told reporters. He requested BJP to work together and not indulge in blame game. "Instead of pointing out shortcomings or faults of other departments, it is time to work together," he said. BJP MP Manoj Tiwari alleged that the AAP government's preparations have been exposed by the first spell of monsoon rains. Heavy rains caused waterlogging in parts of Delhi, including at Minto Bridge where a 56-year-old man died allegedly due to drowning after his mini-truck was submerged. AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said cleaning of drains is the responsibility of Municipal Corporation of Delhi, Public Works Department and Delhi Jal Board. "Three agencies have the responsibility of cleaning the drains - MCD, PWD and DJB. Different agencies have responsibility for cleaning different drains. No one expected there would be such heavy rainfall and it is not the time to accuse each other," he said. The national capital received its first spell of heavy rains on Sunday morning which led to waterlogging in low-lying areas and brought traffic to a standstill at key stretches. According to Delhi Traffic Police, jams were reported from Azadpur to Mukarba Chowk, Yashwant Place to Ashoka Road, at Ring Road, Bhairon Road, and near Mundka metro station due to heavy waterlogging. In a statement, AAP spokesperson and DJB Vice-Chairperson Raghav Chadha said the water-logging problem has been a huge issue but in the last 2-3 years, after the Aam Aadmi Party government came to power, the situation has drastically changed. "Every year before the monsoon around March and April, the Delhi government executes the desilting of the drains. The municipal corporations of Delhi also execute the same for the drains which are under their jurisdiction," he said. "But due to Covid-19 pandemic this year, this work could not happen effectively. However, after the lockdown, the work started and both the Delhi government and BJP ruled and MCDs have started the work of desilting of the drains," he added. Chadha said it is unfortunate that at a time when all agencies are busy in working to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP is blaming us for the water-logging incidents. The Aam Aadmi Party government does not believe in such a blame game, he said. "I want to request all BJP leaders to stay away from playing politics on this matter. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has immediately taken cognizance of the matter, discussed with the engineers and now there is no water-logging anymore in Minto Bridge area. We believe that this is the time when all the agencies should work together and finish the pending cleaning of drains so that in this monsoon, no such incident takes place," he added. "Lastly, I want to say that we know that one person has lost his life due to heavy showers and water-logging which is very unfortunate but I do not want to name any particular agency or to play politics about this matter. I just want to again request all the agencies to work together," Chadha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/closely-monitoring-waterlogging-situation-will-take-steps-to-cover-losses-manish-sisodia-863230.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||With 701 Covid-19 cases, Jammu and Kashmir records highest single-day jump||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed the highest one-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Sunday as 701 persons tested positive, taking the union territory's tally to 13,899. The number of active cases stood at 5,844 with 7,811 recoveries and 244 deaths. The recovery rate has considerably declined in the past week due to the growing number of cases. According to the daily Media Bulletin of the 701 new cases, 601 were reported in Kashmir while 100 were reported from the Jammu division. Fresh cases were reported from all the 10 districts of Kashmir valley, taking the total tally in the division to 11,112. The previous highest spike in fresh cases – 605 - was recorded on June 7. While the first case was reported on March 9, the first 1,000 patients took 67 days to accumulate till May 15. In the next 16 days till May 31, the total number of positive cases in J&K rose to 2446. In June 5,051 positive cases were reported while in July, 6,402 people have been affected by the Covid-19 so far. On Sunday, Srinagar district alone reported 290 cases, followed by Kupwara in north Kashmir with 84 and neighboring Baramulla with 53. Srinagar with 61 deaths has the highest fatalities followed by Baramulla (51), Kulgam (24), Shopian (25), Anantnag (18), Budgam (18), Kupwara (13), Jammu (11), Pulwama (12), Ganderbal (4), Bandipora (5), Doda (2), Rajouri (2) while one death each has been reported from Poonch, Samba, Udhampur and Kathua districts.  Hospitals in Srinagar are facing the maximum load of patients as many cases are being referred here from other districts of the Valley. The healthcare infrastructure in the Valley is struggling to cope with a surge in new cases. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is over 1100 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is 800. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Kashmir also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-701-covid-19-cases-jammu-and-kashmir-records-highest-single-day-jump-863233.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Noida: 11 arrested, 1,977 vehicles challaned for flouting Covid-19 curbs||Eleven people were arrested and owners of 1,977 vehicles penalised across Noida and Greater Noida on Sunday for allegedly violating curbs imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Gautam Buddh Nagar police said. Also, 19 vehicles were impounded for similar violations during a 24-hour period till Sunday night in Gautam Buddh Nagar as restrictions continued in the district, like the rest of places in Uttar Pradesh, due to lockdown-like curbs imposed on weekends. The restrictions have been imposed as part of the state government's concerted efforts for screening and testing people for Covid-19 and to check the spread of other vector-borne diseases. Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four persons, is also in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, whose urban areas fall in the 'Red Zone' for Covid-19. "Four FIRs were registered on Sunday and 11 people arrested for violating the curbs. A total of 4,708 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 1,977 of them, while another 19 were impounded," police said in a statement.  Altogether, Rs 1,67,050 was collected in fines during the action, they said. The Noida-Delhi border continues to remain sealed for any movement except for essential services and people having passes issued by the district administration, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-11-arrested-1977-vehicles-challaned-for-flouting-covid-19-curbs-863241.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Akali-BJP government tried to 'protect' Dera Sacha Sauda chief in blasphemy case: Punjab Congress chief||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Sunday accused the previous Akali-BJP government of the bid to “protect” Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in a 2007 blasphemy case to get votes, a charge rejected by the SAD as a “malicious lie”. The Sirsa dera chief was booked in 2007 after he allegedly wore a dress similar to Sikh Guru Gobind Singh during a congregation at Salabatpura in Bathinda. Jakhar in a statement here on Sunday alleged that the previous SAD-BJP government had taken a “U-turn” in the court in the 2007 blasphemy case to “protect” the dera chief. Jakhar alleged that the previous government, in which current Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal was the home minister, had filed an affidavit in a court just a few days before the 2012 assembly polls, stating the "dera chief neither came to Salabatpura nor had participated in any function". “Under the pressure of the dera chief, the Akali government, which claimed itself to be totally Panthic, took a U-turn in the court and filed a fresh affidavit merely three days before the assembly polls that the dera chief neither came to Salabatpura in May 2007 nor he had participated in any function,” alleged Jakhar. “For the sake of votes, Sukhbir Badal has always supported the dera chief, thereby, backstabbing the Panth,” Jakhar further alleged. The Punjab Congress chief dared Badal to clear the air regarding his alleged “bonding” with Ram Rahim. Had the previous Akali government acted sternly against him in the 2007 case, then neither the incidents like sacrilege would have taken place nor the firing incident at Behbal Kalan, said Jakhar. Meanwhile, SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema described Jakhar's accusations against Sukhbir Badal as “malicious lies” and asked him to explain why his government had not taken action against any official since the last three and a half years for laxity in prosecuting the dera chief. Cheema said the PCC president was in such a hurry to mouth “malicious lies” against the SAD that he forgot to mention that it was the SAD- BJP government which had sanctioned the prosecution of the the dera head in the Salabatpura case for hurting sentiments of the Sikh community. Not only was a case registered against the dera head for hurting religious sentiments but also for provocation with intent to riot, said Cheema. “The case went up to the sessions court and is still pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” said Cheema in a statement here. “If the Congress government feels the investigation officer or other officials have not represented the state properly, it should have taken action against them. Why were they sleeping till now? Why no inquiry has been ordered into the matter till now”, he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akali-bjp-government-tried-to-protect-dera-sacha-sauda-chief-in-blasphemy-case-punjab-congress-chief-863254.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Soldier dies after stepping on landmine in Kargil sector along Line of Control||An Indian Army soldier was killed along the Line of Control in Kargil sector when he accidentally stepped on a landmine, Army sources said here. The incident took place on Saturday night, they said. The soldier stepped on an old unexploded device, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/soldier-dies-after-stepping-on-landmine-in-kargil-sector-along-line-of-control-863257.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Man held for raping daughter in Greater Noida||A 45-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly raping his teenage daughter in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida, police said. According to officials, the man, who runs a shop in a village in the Jewar area, had been forcing himself on his 15-year-old daughter for over a month now. “Every time she resisted, the accused would threaten to physically harm her mother and continued to rape his daughter,” an official from the local Jewar police station said. The girl's maternal uncle got to know about the incident, and he reported the matter to the police after which an FIR was lodged under Indian Penal Code section 376 (rape) and 323 (causing hurt). “The accused was held from his house on Sunday,” the official added. The man has also been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-raping-daughter-in-greater-noida-863262.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||PM Modi likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for Ram Temple 'bhoomi pujan'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for the "bhoomi pujan" ceremony to begin the construction of a grand Ram Temple, and the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra has begun preparations for it, its members said on Sunday. According to Trust president Nritya Gopal Das, the "bhoomi pujan" will be performed with the placing of a 40-kg silver brick at the sanctum sanctorum. Three-day-long Vedic rituals, beginning August 3, will precede the main ceremony. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aadityanath will also join the "bhoomi pujan" ceremony. "I cannot tell the exact date but we have got information that the PM's visit has been tentatively scheduled for August 5," said Triloki Nath Pandey, the decree holder of the Ram Janmabhoomi mandated by the Supreme Court. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court had on November 9 last year paved the way for the construction of a Ram Temple by a Trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. Talking to PTI, Trust member Anil Mishra said, "An invitation has been sent to PM Modi. However, we still have not received the exact date of PM's arrival." Before the "bhoomi pujan" ceremony, Vedic rituals will be performed by sages from Varanasi as was done during the shifting of the idol of Ram Lalla from the sanctum sanctorum to a temporary structure, said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, the spokesperson of Trust president Nritya Gopal Das. Mahant Kamal Nayan Das said on Saturday, "We have suggested two auspicious dates -- August 3 and 5 -- for the prime minister's visit based on calculations of movements of stars and planets." The decision about the tentative date was taken at a meeting of the Trust members held in Ayodhya on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-likely-to-visit-ayodhya-on-august-5-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-863272.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Woman raped, forced to undergo abortion in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr; 6 booked||Six persons were booked after a woman was allegedly raped and forced to undergo abortion in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district, police said on Sunday. The woman had alleged that she was raped by her aunt's nephew, who also forced her to undergo an abortion, they said. Those booked include a lady doctor, police said. According to the survivor's complaint, the accused allegedly raped her on multiple occasions after she went to her aunt's house in Khurja Dehat area in November 2019, they said. When the woman got pregnant, the accused allegedly brought her to his house in Bhatwara on June 29 this year and promised to marry her, police said. Later, the accused and his associates allegedly forced the woman to undergo an abortion, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-raped-forced-to-undergo-abortion-in-uttar-pradeshs-bulandshahr-6-booked-863278.html
19-07-2020||North and Central||Paid isolation facility at hotels now available for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to allow paid quarantine facility for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in hotels, according to a statement. It has fixed the charges of double-occupancy rooms in hotels at Rs 2,000 per day. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad on Sunday, in the statement, said hotels acquired by the district administration will be used to keep asymptomatic patients, where they will be given medical treatment. The charges of a double-occupancy room has been fixed at Rs 2,000 per day. Citing the government order, Prasad said, "Twenty-five per cent of the rooms of the hotel will be reserved on a single-occupancy basis for women, children and people in the age group of 50-65 years. Rest of the rooms will be given on double occupancy." He also informed that people above the age of 65 years, pregnant ladies, people with incurable diseases and children without parents will not be admitted. All the protocols pertaining to Covid-19 care centre will be adhered at these L1 facilities, Prasad said. If the health of any patient deteriorates, then they will be immediately shifted to L2 and L3 facilities, he said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/paid-isolation-facility-at-hotels-now-available-for-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-in-uttar-pradesh-863290.html
19-07-2020||South||'I could have spoken to him one last time,' an inconsolable sister on her brother, who was killed in police custody||Thirty-three-year-old Persis still rues missing a phone call from her brother Emmanuel Bennix, exactly a month to this day, on the fateful night of June 19. Persis was on another call when Bennix called her, but she did not cut the line to talk to her brother, thinking she would call him later. “I should have attended the phone call and spoken to my brother for one last time. Little did I know that my brother was calling me for the last time, and we would never speak again. I rue not attending his call. If only I had picked up the call…,” Persis chokes as she narrates the family’s struggle for the past one month after losing their only brother and father P Jeyaraj. As fate would have it, Persis did not speak to her father too on the day he was forcefully taken by the police. The father usually spoke to Persis and his two other daughters every few hours. Jeyaraj and Bennix were arrested by police in Sathankulam town, 635 km from here, in Thoothukudi district over an argument on June 19. The father-son duo was allegedly tortured during police custody leading to their deaths, three days later. While Bennix breathed his last on June 22, Jeyaraj died a few hours later in the early hours of June 23. After the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took suo motu cognizance of the case, 10 policemen have been arrested so far and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has taken over the inquiry. Sisters’ love for her brother Persis, the eldest of Jeyaraj’s four children, said her brother always made it a point to call twice every day, mostly video calls to talk to her children. “I thought the phone call on the night of June 19 was one such routine call. I did not know my brother was calling us to inform us that our father had been taken to the police station and that he was rushing there. A few minutes later, my sister Beulah, who lives in Pollachi, called me, and informed me about the incident,” Persis, who lives in Vijayawada, told DH. “After realizing what had happened, I kept trying his number, but he never picked the phone as he was already at the police station. I should have attended the phone call and spoken to him. I would have told him to be calm and not get tensed about our father’s arrest. If I had picked the call, I could have also spoken to my brother for one last time,” Persis said, unable to control her tears.   The mother missing her son and his love Bennix’s mother Jeyarani, Persis said, is struggling hard to come to terms with the sudden loss of her son and husband. The mother lived with Jeyaraj and Bennix in Sathankulam, while the daughters lived in Vijayawada, Pollachi, and Chennai with their respective families. “My mother misses my brother a lot. The loss can never be explained in words. Though he was 31, Bennix would lie on my mother’s lap for a while every day. And now, for a month now, my mother says her lap longs for Bennix and his love. How do we console her? We all know he will never come back. But we do not know what to tell our mother. We live with tears round-the-clock,” Persis said.    For the family, Bennix was the most pampered child as he was the only brother of the three sisters. The 31-year-old was soft-spoken and would speak to his sisters every day, while Jeyaraj would call them every few hours. “My brother had a child-like heart and he was a very cheerful person. He played cricket with people who are way younger to him because at heart, he was always a child. That he has been tortured by the police and he bled to death will always haunt us. We don’t wish such an end on anyone,” Persis said. Bennix’s family was also looking for a bride for him but postponed the search due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “We were actively looking for a bride till about March, but the lockdown spoiled everything. He was the only son of the family and everyone was eagerly waiting for him to get married. But his life has been cut short abruptly,” Vinoth, Bennick’s brother-in-law, said. Pinning hopes on the judiciary for delivery of justice Jeyarani, her daughters and sons-in-law are pinning hopes on the CBI probe which is being monitored by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court to seek justice for their loved ones. They want the policemen who tortured Bennix and Jeyaraj to face the law as “we feel it is the only way to ensure such atrocities by police do not recur in the future.” “It is the judiciary which is our last hope. Since the Madurai Bench has taken this case suo motu, we hope justice is delivered. We have lost two innocent lives who never even spoke ill of others to police brutality. We just hope everyone involved in this heinous crime is punished,” Vinoth told DH. Persis added that the family explained everything to the CBI sleuths who recorded their statements. “We have told them whatever we have to. Now, it is for the investigating agencies and the judiciary to do their job. We are hoping justice is ensured to my father and my brother who did no wrong. We need closure,” Persis said. Before ending the conversation, Persis said: “We will not get our father and brother back. We know that. But if the accused are punished, we can hope that no wife would lose her husband, mother, her son and sisters their brother. A strong punishment would serve as a deterrent and this is what we believe and hope.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-could-have-spoken-to-him-one-last-time-an-inconsolable-sister-on-her-brother-who-was-killed-in-police-custody-862941.html
19-07-2020||South||UAE consulate in Kerala courted controversies earlier too||The UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, which is now under a shadow of suspicions over the suspected involvement of some officials in gold smuggling misusing diplomatic channel, had courted controversies earlier also, right from its establishment. It was following constant demand from Kerala that the UAE consulate was opened in Thiruvananthapuram in 2016 for catering to the needs of South Indian states - Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. But even the selection of the location for the consulate in the busy part of the city had raised many eyebrows. It was situated at Manacaud and there was hardly any parking facility for the visitors. Though the Kerala Government later decided to allow 70 cents land on lease near the Kowdiar palace of the erstwhile Travancore royal family for the consulate to set up building, steps in its regard were progressing only at snail's pace. In 2018, there were allegations that some officials of the consulate were misleading candidates to approach a private agency for obtaining police clearance certificate (PCC) after UAE made PCC mandatory for job visa to UAE. While the PCC was available from Regional Passport Offices for a fee of Rs 500, the private agency was allegedly charging over Rs 5,000. When enquiries were then made to the UAE consulate in this regard, the officials, including then executive secretary Swapna Suresh, refused to give proper clarification. Email queries to the consulate and the UAE embassy in Delhi remained unanswered. Now, the consulate is facing serious allegations as a couple of former employees have been already arraigned in the gold smuggling case, charge d affaires Rashed Khamis Al Ashmia leaving the country soon after customs seeking permission for quizzing him and a gunman of the counsel trying to end life. The Customs already got evidence of many attempts of smuggling gold misusing the diplomatic channel and hence it was essential to get the statement of the charge d affaires as the seized baggage was addressed to the consulate. The Ministry of External Affairs has sent repeated letters to the UAE embassy in hopes that the embassy might take steps for Indian investigation agencies to take the statement of charge d affaires at least through video conferencing. Meanwhile, there were also reports that security agencies in the UAE took Ashmia's statement. The UAE embassy had earlier informed that UAE also launched an investigation and also assured to cooperate with the Indian investigation agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/uae-consulate-in-kerala-courted-controversies-earlier-too-863036.html
19-07-2020||South||Brown sugar worth Rs 3 crore seized in Odisha, one held||The Odisha Police seized brown sugar worth over Rs 3 crore in Mayurbhanj district on Sunday and arrested a drug peddler in this connection, a senior officer said. Acting on a tip-off, a team of the Special Task Force (STF) conducted a search operation in Kuliana area and recovered around 3.28 kg of brown sugar from a dealer, Additional Director General (ADG), Crime Branch, Soumendra Priyadarshi said. The arrested person is being interrogated by the STF personnel as part of efforts to find out details about the drug racket and the involvement of other people in the illegal trade, he said. With its sustained drive against illegal trade of drugs, the STF has seized over 15.64 kg of brown sugar so far this year, the ADG said. A total of 40 people have been arrested by the STF so far in 2020 in such cases, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/brown-sugar-worth-rs-3-crore-seized-in-odisha-one-held-863095.html
19-07-2020||South||Budget for Puducherry to be presented on Monday||The Puducherry budget for 2020-21 is to be presented in the Assembly on Monday. Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi would deliver her customary address and Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, in-charge of Finance would present the budget, a press note from the Assembly Secretary Mounusamy said on Sunday. Considering the prevalence of Covid-19 in the Union Territory, he said no permission for public or visitors would be given to be present on the Assembly premises during the budget session. Officials and staff deployed for duty would have to observe safety norms, he said. Press passes have been prepared to let 24 reporters in, but they have to remain in the press gallery and also in the visitors gallery. The session begins at 9:30 am and the Chief Minister would present the budget at 12:05 pm. Speaker V P Sivakolundhu would present the Tamil version of the Lieutenant Governor`s address.0 The AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan wanted the government to have the session for 10 days as several important issues faced by the people were required to be discussed. He criticised the territorial government for not having a specific plan to combat Covid-19. Anbalagan said in a press release that the Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao wanted total lockdown every Sunday to prevent further spread of the pandemic while the Chief Minister has gone on record saying that the Central government should lift the curbs and ensure flow of tourists, including foreigners, into Puducherry to boost revenue. This showed the lack of understanding between the Chief Minister and the Health Minister, the AIADMK leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/budget-for-puducherry-to-be-presented-on-monday-863145.html
19-07-2020||South||Brain-dead person's organs give fresh lease of life to eight in Kerala||A brain dead person in Kerala has given fresh lease of life to eight persons by organ donation. It is said to be for the first time in Kerala, and perhaps in India, that the organs of one person are being donated to eight others. Kelvin Joy, 39, hailing from North Pravoor in Eranakulam district, met with a road accident recently and suffered brain hemorrhage. He was under treatment at the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences in Kochi where he was declared brain dead on Saturday. As per Kelvin's wish, his relatives, including parents V R Joy and Margret gave consent for organ donation through the Kerala government's organ donation programme, 'Mrithasanjeevani'. Kelvin's both hands were donated to one patient in AIMS. His heart, small intestine, liver and corneas were donated to five patients in AIMS, while his kidneys were donated to two patients at Lourdes Hosptial in Kochi and Kozhikode government medical college hospital. Mrithasanjeevani state nodal officer Dr. Noble Gracious told DH that earlier there was an instance of organs of a single patient being donated to six persons in Kerala. But it seems to be for the first time even in the country that the organs of one person was being transplanted to eight persons. Owing to the spike in Covid-19 cases, organ transplant was not getting much focus. Even then organs of six persons were donated during the last few months. Health Minister K K Shailaja took the initiative in speeding up the procedures. Earlier there were reports that organ donation in Kerala was hit owing to apprehensions over unethical practices in the field, which was triggered by a Malayalam film, 'Joseph'. However, now the situation was changing and in some cases the relatives of the brain dead patients were pressurising to donate organs as per the wish of the deceased, said a doctor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/brain-dead-persons-organs-give-fresh-lease-of-life-to-eight-in-kerala-863166.html
19-07-2020||South||Kerala's Covid-19 tally crosses 12,000 mark, death toll climbs to 42||Kerala's Covid-19 tally breached the 12,000 mark on Sunday with 821 people, including 13 health workers, testing positive for the virus in the highest single-day spurt in the state so far. As many as 629 people were infected through contact, including 203 in Thiruvananthapuram district, Ernakulam 84, Palakkad 70 and Kollam 61. The source of infection of 43 is not yet known. Thiruvananthapuram district, where community transmission has been reported in two coastal hamlets, has the highest number of cases 222, followed by Ernakulam 98. There have been two fatalities on Sunday-- a 75-year-old woman from Uppala in Kasaragod and a 67-year-old man from Ernakulam succumbed to the virus. With these two fatalities, the toll climbed to 42 in the state. Among those who tested positive on Sunday, 110 people had come from abroad and 69 from other states, Health Minister K K Shailaja said in a press release. The total positive cases touched 12,480 and 7063 people are presently under treatment. At least 172 people have recovered from the infection. Over 1.70 lakh people are under observation in various districts of whom 1.63 lakh are in-home and institutional quarantine while 7,309 in various hospitals, including 866 admitted to the hospital today, the release said. In the last24 hours, 18,267 samples have been tested. So far, 5.32 lakh samples have been sent for testing so far of which results of 5,060 samples are awaited. The hotspots as of today have touched 218. Thiruvananthapuram district accounts for the largest number of patients under treatment-- 1884, followed by Ernakulam 771, Alappuzha 600 and Malappuram 577.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-tally-crosses-12000-mark-death-toll-climbs-to-42-863167.html
19-07-2020||South||FCRA violation petition filed against Kerala minister; gold smuggling accused held in UAE||Stepping up the attack against Kerala government over the gold smuggling case, a Congress MP has filed a petition to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi against Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel for accepting Ramadan relief kits from the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Congress MP Benny Behanan said in the petition to the Prime Minister that the minister flouted the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act and hence action may be taken against him. It was while justifying his telephone calls with gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh that Jaleel said that the conversations pertained to 1,000 relief kits worth Rs 5 lakh offered by the consulate as part of Ramadan. Meanwhile, one of the key accused in the gold smuggling case was reportedly held in UAE. Faizal Fareed, a native of Thrissur district, who was suspected to have sent the baggage with 30 kilograms of gold, was reportedly arrested. The Interpol had issued a lookout notice for him the other day. The customs had found that illegal diplomatic baggages were sent by the racket involving the former employees of the consulate at least ten times over the last one year and around 200 kilograms of gold could have been smuggled. Twelve persons were so far held in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fcra-violation-petition-filed-against-kerala-minister-gold-smuggling-accused-held-in-uae-863171.html
19-07-2020||South||Covid-19 scenario continues to be grim in Kerala||The Covid-19 scenario in Kerala continues to be grim as 821 more people tested positive on Sunday, of which 629 were due to local spread, while doctors were also tested positive for the virus. While 12,480 persons so far have been infected with Covid-19 in Kerala, the number of active patients was 7,063. Two more persons died on Sunday- Nafeesa, 75, of Uppala in Kasargod and Ernakulam native Kunjuveeran, 67. The capital Thiruvananthapuram continues to lead the tally with 222 more fresh cases taking the total number of patients in the district to 1,884. Majority of the fresh cases were from the coastal belts where a total local down is in place after community spread confirmed in two ares. Meanwhile, seven doctors and ten other medical staff of the Thiruvananthapuram medical college, which is the major Covid care hospital in the district, got infected. Hence around 100 staff, including doctors had to go on quarantine. The hospital authorities denied reports that it affected the functioning of the hospital. The district was also reportedly facing antigen test kits.  Kerala was initially facing criticism of low number of Covid-19 tests being done daily, around 3,000. However, now the state was conducting over 15,000 tests daily. During the last 24 hours 18,267 samples were taken for testing, health minister K K Shailaja said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-scenario-continues-to-be-grim-in-kerala-863199.html
19-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 tally crosses 1.7 lakh, new single-day high of 4,979 cases reported||Tamil Nadu on Sunday reported a new single-day high of 4,979 fresh Covid-19 cases as the overall tally crossed 1.70 lakh while 78 fatalities propelled the death toll to 2,481. As many as 52,993 Covid-19 samples were tested, the highest so far in a day, and the cumulative tests so far touched 19,32,492, a Health department bulletin said. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash said the city civic body was the first in the country to have conducted five lakh RT-PCR tests. Till July 18 from March, five lakh tests were conducted, he said adding sample testing has been increased to 13,000 per day from about 4,500 (in recent times) in the Corporation areas. Of the dead were two men aged 22 and 37 and two 38-year-old women and in total 75 had co-morbidities and 2,481 people have so far succumbed to the virus in Tamil Nadu. Chennai and nearby Tiruvallur accounted for 1,254 and 405 cases respectively and the rest of the fresh infections were spread across the State. Tamil Nadu's overall tally stood at 1,70,693 and the state capital's share was 85,859. As many as 4,059 patients were discharged from various hospitals following treatment and cumulatively 1,17,915 people have got cured and active cases mounted to 50,294. The number of labs for Covid-19 test increased to 112 with the addition of a government facility in Tiruvannamalai district. There are 57 labs in government and 55 in the private sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-covid-19-tally-crosses-17-lakh-new-single-day-high-of-4979-cases-reported-863204.html
19-07-2020||South||Role of CM's office in gold smuggling case needs to be probed: Chennithala||Senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday demanded that the role of the Office of Chief Minister in the gold sensational smuggling case needs to be probed and Pinarayi Vijayan should be questioned. "Time is ripe for investigating the role of CMO in the smuggling case and even questioning the chief minister himself," Chennithala said. Reports about the close involvement of top bureaucrats at CM's Office with the key accused in gold smuggling "have exposed its inefficiency" and rampant corruption prevalent there, the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly told reporters here. Responding to the claim of Left front that Vijayan was an able administrator, Chennithala said if that was so his office would not have "deteriorated into a haven for smugglers." The gold, worth around Rs 15 crore, was received at the airport here as a diplomatic cargo addressed to an official in the consulate of the United Arab Emirates and the Customs have said they suspected a syndicate misused the diplomatic immunity to smuggle it. The case is being investigated by Customs and the National Investigation Agency, which has booked four people-- Swapna Suresh, Sarith, Sandeep Nair and Fasil Fareed, under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Accusing the Left government of 'failing' to conduct more tests, Chennithala said Kerala did not test enough, fearing it would dent its "PR-built" image. The government did nothing despite the opposition seeking an increase in primary care facilities, quarantine centres, rapid response teams and proper training for volunteers. "Data manipulation by the government is another area of concern," he alleged. Alleging that it was "Consultancy Raj" now in the state, Chennithala said the Congress was not against consultancies, but they should be selected and appointed by following strict norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/role-of-cms-office-in-gold-smuggling-case-needs-to-be-probed-chennithala-863209.html
19-07-2020||South||Man tosses his stillborn child's body into canal as villagers allegedly oppose burial fearing Covid-19 contamination||A man in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh lobbed the body of his stillborn girl child into an irrigation canal on Friday night. Shamshir Shah Ali took the extreme step after he was allegedly prohibited to perform last rites by people of his neighborhood in Kotapadu village of Sirivella mandal, for the fear that the body might be contaminated with Covid-19. Ali took his pregnant wife Madar Bi to the Nandyal government hospital on Friday, where doctors took out the stillborn child through C-section. The stillborn body was found in the Kurnool-Cuddapah irrigation canal by passersby on Saturday morning. The police identified the parents through the hospital’s tag. “Ali claims that his villagers opposed the body from being brought there. As it was also raining at that time, the hapless man threw the body into the canal,” Divakar Reddy, Nandyal taluka inspector told DH. After the police intervention, Ali came to the spot at Chabolu village, retrieved the body, and took it with him for burial. “We did not register any case as Ali, a meager wage earner, was in a pitiable state and requires taking care of his ailing wife,” Reddy said. “The doctors did not confirm the body as Covid-19 positive, but villagers are in tremendous fear as hundreds of cases are in Nandyal. Several of my men have also tested positive and we are discharging duties with a handful of staff,” Reddy said. Kurnool district is the worst affected district of Andhra Pradesh with 6045 Covid-19 positive cases and 123 deaths till now. On Sunday, Andhra Pradesh added its highest single day addition of 5041 new cases and 56 deaths. The state has a total 49650 cases, 26118 of them active and 642 deceased. Last month, the dead body of a pregnant woman was left in the forest by her family from B Nagireddipalle village of Rudravaram mandal in the same Kurnool district as village elders objected to her burial in the village out of superstition and supposed Covid-19 fears. This woman also died at the Nandyal government hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-tosses-his-stillborn-childs-body-into-canal-as-villagers-allegedly-oppose-burial-fearing-covid-19-contamination-863211.html
19-07-2020||South||Upset over power supply issues, villagers tie two electricity employees to pillar in Telangana||Two electricity department employees in Telangana were allegedly tied to a pillar by some residents upset over frequent power cuts before a senior official and police intervened and rescued them in a village in Medak district, police said on Sunday. Two bill collectors of the electricity Transmission Corporation had gone to the village in Alladurg mandal in Medak district on Saturday in connection with electricity bills, they said. The villagers alleged frequent power cuts and poor response to their complaints and that there was only one helper (technician) to look after four villages and demanded a separate helper for their village. The bill collectors reportedly told the villagers that the issue was not under their purview and that they would inform higher officials. The angry protesters allegedly tied them to a cement pillar of an under-construction building with a rope. A bill collector informed a lineman and the latter rushed to the place but his efforts to pacify the villagers were in vain. Later, an assistant engineer of Transco and a sub-inspector of police reached the spot. The assistant engineer assured the villagers that their issue would be resolved as early as possible following which they released the two bill collectors. A case has been registered against five people following a complaint by the two employees, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/upset-over-power-supply-issues-villagers-tie-two-electricity-employees-to-pillar-in-telangana-863232.html
19-07-2020||South||With 5,041 new cases, Andhra Pradesh's Covid-19 tally nears 50,000; death toll rises to 642||A staggering 5,041 Covid-19 cases, the single largest number in a day so far, were registered in Andhra Pradesh as the overall aggregate inched closer to the 50,000 mark on Sunday. Also, the state saw the highest spike in deaths in a day as 56 coronavirus patients succumbed, pushing the toll to 642, a government bulletin said. Among the dead was a 50-year-old journalist working for a Tamil television channel in Tirupati. He had been admitted to a Covid care facility last week and lost his battle against the dreaded virus today. It took three months for the state to register the first 5,000 coronavirus cases, from March 12 when the first one was reported. But it happened in a matter of a day as AP has been clearly witnessing a massive surge in the infection rate, particularly in the last one week when the number rose from 29,168 to 49,650. It said 1,106 patients got cured and discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. After 31,148 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Sunday, the aggregate number of people screened for coronavirus in the state crossed the 13 lakh-mark to reach 13.15 lakh at the rate of 24,635 per million population and a positivity rate of 3.77 per cent. As the number of cases has been shooting up over the past few days, the recovery rate fell further to 46.10 per cent after a total of 22,890 patients got cured, the government data said. There are now 26,118 active cases in the state. East Godavari district now topped the state in the total number of Covid-19 positive cases with 6,146, pushing Kurnool to the second spot with 6,045 cases. Anantapuramu district also crossed the 5,000 cases mark as it showed an overall tally of 5,141 on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-5041-new-cases-andhra-pradeshs-covid-19-tally-nears-50000-death-toll-rises-to-642-863238.html
19-07-2020||South||Man arrested for giving triple talaq to wife||A case has been registered under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act-2019, which prohibits divorce by pronouncing talaq by husbands of married Muslim women, over a complaint by a woman that her husband allegedly harassed her and also stated talaq thrice, police said on Sunday. The accused has been arrested. The case was registered on July 13. In the complaint, the woman stated that her marriage took place in September 2017 and her husband belongs to Mahabubnagar district. The woman said she and her husband later shifted to Hyderabad and that he and his family started harassing her mentally and physically two months after the marriage. Her parents-in-law tortured her for additional dowry and gold, she alleged. In 2018, she gave birth to a baby boy in a critical and emergency situation and she lived at her mothers home for some months. She said they later shifted to another place in the city and that subsequently her husband and in-laws committed theft of her gold. When she asked about the gold, they beat her up badly and injured her. She further said her husband locked her up at home for three months without allowing any communication with neighbours or on mobile phone. They had tortured her to give divorce to him and, many times, he used the word talaq, she alleged. In February last, he argued with her and said if she never gives divorce to him, he can do that and said talaq thrice before dropping her at her mothers house at midnight, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-arrested-for-giving-triple-talaq-to-wife-863259.html
19-07-2020||South||Boy dies of head injuries as he tries to prevent father from assaulting mom in Kerala||A 17-year old boy died of head injuries while trying to protect his mother from being assaulted by his drunk father here, police said on Sunday. The youngster suffered the fatal injury after his head hit against the door when his father shoved him at their home on Saturday. Venu, had come home in an inebriated state and picked up a quarrel with his wife and started beating her up, they said. On seeing this, Alan tried to intervene. Though the boy was rushed to the hospital, his life could not be saved, they added. Venu was arrested and a case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/boy-dies-of-head-injuries-as-he-tries-to-prevent-father-from-assaulting-mom-in-kerala-863269.html
19-07-2020||South||Air traffic disrupted after minor mishap at Renigunta airport||Air traffic was disrupted for about two-and-a-half hours on Sunday after a fire engine skidded and turned on its side on the runway of the Renigunta airport, 20 km from here, an airport official said. Speaking to PTI, airport director S Suresh said the mishap occurred when the speeding fire tender that was on a routine inspection at the airport skidded and fell down on its side this afternoon. The vehicle was immediately removed and air traffic was restored within three hours, Suresh said. This affected an IndiGo flight that was scheduled to land in Tirupati from Hyderabad. The plane had to land in Bengaluru airport. Another IndiGo flight that was scheduled to reach Tirupati from Bengaluru ferried the Hyderabad passengers along with Karnataka passengers in it this evening, the director added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-traffic-disrupted-after-minor-mishap-at-renigunta-airport-863271.html
19-07-2020||State||Centre releases Rs 804 cr to state for GP sanitation works||The Centre has released Rs 804 crore to Karnataka to take up sanitation works in gram panchayats (GPs). As per the 15th Finance Commission recommendations, the grant was released to the state for the 2020-2021 financial year. Upon the recommendations of Ministry of Panchayati Raj and Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation and the  Ministry of Jal Shakti, an amount of Rs 15,187.5 crore has been released, said a release from the Ministry of Panchayat Raj.The respective state governments have to release these funds to GPs within 10 working days. This money should be utilised for sanitation purposes, maintenance of open-defecation free (ODF) status, supply of drinking water, rainwater harvesting and water recycling. However, if any GP has already completed this work, the same money can be used for other developmental works, said the statement. “The release of the funds to rural local bodies comes at the most appropriate time when the local bodies are facing the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic,” Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Rural Development & Panchayati Raj Narendra Singh Tomar said. The 15th Finance Commission submitted its interim report for the period 2020-21 and the Centre accepted its recommendations in respect of the local bodies. The Commission has worked out the total size of the grant to be Rs 60,750 crore for the period 2020-21 for rural local bodies, which is the highest ever allocation made by the Finance Commission in any single year, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-releases-rs-804-cr-to-state-for-gp-sanitation-works-863299.html
19-07-2020||State||Victory over Covid: A whiff of fresh air for family of 3||On June 13, my wife had a fever and cold. Immediately, I called my office and told them I will not be coming in, as my wife is unwell.  On June 15, I took my wife to the Authorised Medical Attendant who attends to Central Government Employees (I am a civilian technician in the Indian Army), who directed us to the fever clinic in Kengeri. As I was feeling feverish, I underwent a check-up as well. We were told it was influenza and were prescribed medicines. Then on June 17, my wife complained of a loss of taste and smell and soon, my 15-year-old daughter had a fever.   We decided to go to a private hospital after seeing social distancing not being practised in the fever clinic. Here we took a Covid-19 test and returned home. On June 18, some ASHA workers came to our house and told us, our daughter has tested positive. When I went to comfort my daughter, she pushed me away saying, “Don’t come near me. I have tested positive. Why are you coming near me?” It was an emotionally difficult time. Soon, I received a call from the doctor, telling us that both me and my wife had tested positive as well.  On hearing this, I was actually happy as it meant that all of us could be admitted in the same hospital.  We were admitted to the Asymptomatic ward at Victoria hospital, as we did not have respiratory issues. My wife and daughter were admitted to the female ward next door.  I was given five different types of medicines: Hydroxychloroquine, Fluvir, Erythromycin and Vitamin tablets.  We were served breakfast at 8.30 am, lunch at 2.30 pm and dinner at 8 in the night. The nursing staff and doctors visited us at least 3-4 times a day. The psychologists called up each day, inquiring about our mental well-being. Among my four ward-mates, there was a farmer, who was mentally strong. Probably, he wasn’t afraid because he hadn’t watched the news as much as we did. The mobile phone helped stave off boredom and maintain contact with the outside world.  I stayed in the hospital for 10 days and was discharged on June 27, along with my wife and daughter. I had regained my sense of taste and smell two days into my stay there and though I lost some weight, I have gained it all back in the few weeks of staying at home.  (As told to Prajwal Suvarna of DHNS)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/victory-over-covid-a-whiff-of-fresh-air-for-family-of-3-863301.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bescom helpline sealed after 8 staff test coronavirus positive||The helpline wing of Bescom was sealed on Saturday after eight employees of the helpline (1912) tested positive for Covid-19. The helpline building will be sealed down for the next 48-hours.  In a statement, Bescom appealed to the citizens to call its personnel directly in case of any queries related to the electricity supply. The contact details of  officials have been published on www.bescom.karnataka.gov.in As the Bescom helpline was also as a helpline for bed availability to Covid-19 patients, Bescom has appealed to the citizens to Whatsapp on 9480812450 or e-mail queries to 1912covidhelpline@gmail.com for Covid-related queries. The helpline's sudden closure on Saturday caused inconvenience to the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bescom-helpline-sealed-after-8-staff-test-coronavirus-positive-862919.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stale data on Karnataka govt's live bed-tracking dashboard leaves many confused||Is the Karnataka government's live bed-tracking dashboard really 'live' in the real sense of the term? It was dubbed as the panacea of all problems related to bed allocation because now citizens can see exactly where beds are vacant and end up in those hospitals without wasting a minute. Not really. Dr Harshit M, an emergency physician in a city-based hospital, which he did not want to name, said, "The dashboard shows ICU beds are available but when you look at which hospital the bed is in, then the dashboard stops working. If you call 1912, they say there are no ICU beds. But when you tell them that the dashboard shows beds are available they say they don't have any such information. When you call the contact number on the dashboard which is 080-22660000, no one picks up the phone even though we held on for more than 30 minutes. Basically, the dashboard looks very rosy and seems like there is no bed problem in the city but when I want an ICU bed for my patient then it is not available anywhere."  On Thursday evening, the dashboard said MS Ramaiah Narayana Heart Centre and MS Ramaiah Hospital have 32 and nine beds vacant, respectively. Shalini Pradeep, the nodal officer for coordinating with various government agencies about the hospital's bed strength, when asked about the figures displayed on the dashboard said they are wrong. "We update to the BBMP war room, the directorate of medical education, private and government medical colleges WhatsApp group about the number of available beds. The SAST portal just doesn't open. The BBMP portal imports data from the SAST portal. The SAST portal has not been rectified in spite of repeated calls to the IT project manager from Friday," she said. Dr B Manjunath, Director of Medical Management, Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST), said, "Our IT project manager is the one who developed the portal. We have integrated it with the BBMP dashboard. We are working on technical glitches." "We have 214 Covid patients. Nothing can be edited on the SAST dashboard. The same is being exported to BBMP portal. Even an Arogya Mitra who came today to the hospital could not rectify the glitches," Shalini said.  Dr Kailash N, Medical Superintendent, Akash Hospital, Devanahalli said, "We are having a lot of problems with the SAST portal. We upload something, it reflects something else altogether. Sometimes, it changes by itself. There is a lot of confusion and a lot of people call asking for beds and we have to deny. We have to tell them there are no beds."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stale-data-on-karnataka-govts-live-bed-tracking-dashboard-leaves-many-confused-863016.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre releases Rs 804 crore to Karnataka for sanitation works||The Centre has released Rs 804 crore to Karnataka to take up sanitation works in gram panchayats. As per the 15th Finance Commission's recommendation, the grant was released to the state for the 2020-2021 financial year. Upon the recommendations of Ministry of Panchayati Raj and Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Ministry of Jal Shakti, an amount of Rs 15187.50 crore, as grants-in-aid, in respect of 2.63 lakh Rural Local Bodies (RLBs) spread in 28 States of the country has been released, said the release from the Ministry of Panchayat Raj. The respective state governments have to release these funds to gram panchayats with in 10 working days. This money should be utilised to sanitation and maintenance of open-defecation free (ODF) status and supply of drinking water, rain water harvesting and water recycling. However if any gram panchayats already completed in this work, same money can be used for other developmental works, said the statement. "The release of this fund to the rural local bodies signifies the most appropriate timing when the local bodies are fighting the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic situation," Union Minister of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Rural Development & Panchayati Raj, Narendra Singh Tomar said. The 15th Finance Commission submitted its interim report for the period 2020-21 and the Centre accepted its recommendations in respect of the local bodies. The Commission has worked out the total size of the grant to be Rs 60,750 crore for the period 2020-21 for the rural local bodies, which is the highest ever allocation made by the Finance Commission in any single year, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-releases-rs-804-crore-to-karnataka-for-sanitation-works-863122.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 4,120 new coronavirus cases, 91 deaths; crosses 10 lakh tests||Sunday recorded another high for the state, with 4,120 new Covid-19 cases being registered. However, it also set a new record for the number of discharges in a single day: 1,290.   The majority of new cases, discharges and deaths were all found in Bengaluru. Health officials discharged 253 patients from city hospitals, recorded 2,156 new cases and said 36 people had died. However, none of the deaths happened on Sunday. In fact, only one of the 91 new fatalities from across the state was actually on Sunday. This was a 59-year-old man from Mysuru, who had tested Covid-19 positive on July 15. Only three times have the statewide figures ever exceeded 4,000 and Sunday was one of them. The other two days were on July 16 and July 18, which currently holds the record of 4,537, the highest single-day spike in cases so far. Outside Bengaluru Urban, the next largest increases were 285 cases in Dakshina Kannada, 171 in Vijayapura, 135 in Chikkaballapur, 134 in Udupi, 126 in Dharwad, 110 in Mysuru, 104 in Shivamogga, 87 in Belgavi, 73 in Ballari and 70 in Bengaluru Rural. As many as 2,532 of Sunday’s state-wide cases are male and 1,588 female. Of these, the largest age group was made up of 951 people in their 30s (589 men, 362 women). The next highest group is 799 people in their 20s (472 men, 327 women). A total of 338 were children, including 125 toddlers under the age of 10.   Some 14.87% of the new cases were people aged 60 and above. This includes a 100-year-old woman from Ballari who was diagnosed with symptoms of Influenza-like Illness (ILI). This is the second person in the state aged 100 or above in the state to come down with Covid-19. The other is a 100-year-old man in Bidar with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. Data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare shows that 156 of the new cases were admitted to private hospitals, out of which only 3.8% (or six people) were admitted to a private hospital in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-4120-new-coronavirus-cases-91-deaths-crosses-10-lakh-tests-863250.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka engages health consortium for remote home isolation monitoring||The Karnataka government on Sunday said it has engaged Swasth, a non-profit consortium of healthcare partners to provide remote home isolation monitoring services, for the sake of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients. The Commissionerate of Health and Family Welfare Services issued a work order on July 17 for Swasth to work with the state to implement a 10-day care package through service providers for patients isolating at home for an initial period of one month, an official release said. It said, this package will include daily monitoring of patients by healthcare professionals, and periodic check-ins by doctors. Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare Pankaj Kumar Pandey had conducted a meeting on July 16 with Swasth to discuss its proposal for implementing a system to monitor home isolation for asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients. As more patients with non-serious Covid-19 symptoms are being advised to isolate at home to ensure the availability of beds and resources for severely-ill patients, the system is intended to prevent the spread of the disease and ensure adequate care for patients in home isolation, the department said.  This package will also feature the provision of home healthcare and safety guidelines to patients and caregivers, as well as linkages to emergency support in case of escalation of symptoms, the release said adding state health authorities will inspect patients' homes to ensure their consent and check that it is feasible to enroll them to the home isolation programme. Authorities will upload patient details and medical history to the Swasth platform, it said adding Swasth will then forward these patient details to service providers who will 'onboard' the patient, allocate a nurse/healthcare professional and doctor to the patient and orient the patient and caregiver on safety measures to maintained during the home isolation period. The doctor may recommend a patient call the 108 ambulance service or redirect them to government services, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-engages-health-consortium-for-remote-home-isolation-monitoring-863253.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Antiquities of Kollur date back to megalithic age’||At a recent exploration at the foothills of Mookasura Betta near Kollur, a menhir, a cupule, a well, cut round shape in hard laterite and pottery of megalithic period was discovered. The site is very near to Mookambika Temple of Kollur, which is one of the famous pilgrimage spots of the Shakta cult in India. The menhirs are very familiar in the adjacent Malnad region, says Prof T Murugeshi, who is serving as an associate professor in Department of Ancient History and Archaeology in MSRS College, Shirva. Mookasura hill has a fort-like structure, constructed using stones. Locals call it Mookasura’s fort or Mookasurana kote. Mookasura according to Indian mythology was a devil king who was killed by a Devi in Kollur to restore Dharma. Hence she takes the name Kollur Mookambika. The menhir found at the foot of Mookasura hill is about 2.10 meter in height, 0.55 meter in thickness, 0.65 meter in width at the bottom and 0.55 meter in width at the tip. The menhir which is laying on the ground originally seems to be oriented to the east. Adjacent to Kollur, at places like Baise, Nilskal and Heragal all in Hosanagara taluk, nearly 40 menhirs were reported by scholars. The place named Baise is also quite interesting. It is a vernacular version of the Sanskrit word, 'Mahisha', said Dr A Sundara.  By this discovery, antiquities of Kollur Mookambika can be dated to 1,000 BC or much earlier. Dr A Sundara dates the megalithic menhir culture of Nilskal, Baise and Heragal to 1,200 – 1,000 BC. Prof. Murugeshi has already reported menhirs from Kurkal, Adkadakatte and Buddhanajeddu of Udupi district and this one is the seventh of its kind. This would be the beginning of the megalithic culture of Kolluru region too, said Prof T Murugeshi. What are menhirs? Menhirs are upright standing stones and slanting. They are installed in memory of a deceased and are usually found near the burial site. They are usually made of granite stones and can be found in various heights between 1.5m to 3m. They are very heavy and weigh in tons. They are locally known as Anekallu, Dibbanadakallu, Nilskallu, GarbiniyaraKallu and so on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/antiquities-of-kollur-date-back-to-megalithic-age-863283.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Coronavirus hits corona warriors hard||The novel coronavirus continues to hit the corona warriors in the state hard. A tahsildar, a police inspector, a private doctor and seven anti-Naxal squad personnel were among those who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Tahsildar of the virus-hit Shiggaon in Haveri district tested positive for coronavirus. Two contacts of tahsildar, including a tahsil office staff, also contracted the virus. Throat swab samples of a staff nurse and a Group-D employee of Shiggaon government hospital have returned positive for the disease on Sunday. Seven anti-Naxal squad personnel at Kerekatte ANS camp near Sringeri, Chikkamagaluru district have contracted Covid-19. According to taluk health officer Dr. T D Manjunath, “A driver and a staff of ANS, natives of Uttara Kannada had joined the camp three days ago, have spread the virus. Also a one-and-a-half years old child of a Forest department employee contracted Covid-19 from the infected staff.” Infections surfaced when the ANS staff were subjected to rapid antigen tests.  The circle inspector of police, Nippani, in Belagavi district tested positive for Covid-19. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbaragi told reporters, “The Nippani CPI has tested positive. There is no need to seal the police station as the officer was tested positive when he was in home quarantine.” Two SP office staff, four Kerur police station personnel and two Bilagi Fire and Emergency services personnel were among 60 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Bagalkot district.  MM Hills reports first case Meanwhile, Male Mahadeshwara Betta (MM Hills) in Chamarajanagar district reported its first Covid-19 case on Sunday with a MM Hills police station staff testing positive for Covid-19. The New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) is grappling with Covid cases. As many as 13 NMPT employees tested positive for the virus. A 55-year-old lady doctor of a private hospital in Puttur, Dakshina Kannada tested positive for Covid-19. Her 65-year-old doctor-husband had contracted the virus on Saturday. The doctor couple is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mangaluru. Dakshina Kannada continued to see a spurt in infections. After logging 500-plus cases on Saturday, the coastal district reported 285 fresh cases and two fatalities on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-coronavirus-hits-corona-warriors-hard-863289.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 risk allowance: Civic workers cry foul||Pourkarmikas (civic workers) have alleged that they had been identified as coronavirus warriors only for namesake and they had been denied special allowance or incentive paid to other warriors. President of the Federation of Pourakarmikas, Narayana, said that civic workers were risking their lives on the line of Covid-19 duty. More than 50 of them contracted the infection and some of them even lost their lives and the government had not recognised their services. "But they have not been paid Covid-19 risk allowance of Rs 10,000 per month declared for other Covid warriors." He demanded that the benefit should be extended to civic workers also. Narayan sought that the civic workers should also be provided with masks, sanitisers and hand gloves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-risk-allowance-civic-workers-cry-foul-863293.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru reports 70 new coronavirus deaths, 110 new positive cases||Mysuru district recorded 11 deaths and 110 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. With this, the total number of deaths increased to 70 and the total cases to 1,624, with 956 active cases. All the 11 deceased suffered from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The patients are above 41 years and below 73 years of age. In all, 598 patients were discharged. The fresh cases include, 49 with contact history with the infected, 12 cases have travel history, 38 ILI, seven SARI and four asymptomatic. The Health department authorities have observed 17,328 persons till date. While 14,267 have completed the quarantine period, 2,105 are under quarantine. The authorities have tested a total of 31,419 samples and 29,624 of them tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-reports-70-new-coronavirus-deaths-110-new-positive-cases-863305.html
19-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hassan district reports 41 new Covid-19 cases, one death||The district recorded 41 new positive cases, including a one-year baby, on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases has increased to 886. Twenty-eight people have died of Covid-19 in the district so far and there are 18 patients being treated in the Intensive Care Unit. While 553 patients have been discharged after recovery, the number of active cases has increased to 305. Out of 41, Hassan taluk topped with 21 positive cases. Arsikere recorded eight cases, Channarayapatna five, Sakleshpur two, Alur, Arkalgud, Holenarasipur one case each. Woman dies A 58-year-old woman from Hassan taluk, suffering from diabetes, blood pressure and breathing problems, died on Sunday. She was admitted to the Covid-19 hospital on July 12 and was treated in the ICU. Her last rites were performed as per the protocol. According to authorities, most of the cases have a travel history to Bengaluru, Chikkamagaluru, Mangaluru and are primary contacts suffering from fever and cough. The contact history of two persons is being traced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hassan-district-reports-41-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-863306.html
19-07-2020||West||Varavara Rao shifted to Nanavati for neurological treatment||Poet and Elgar Parishad case accused Varavara Rao, a Covid-19 patient, was on Sunday shifted to the Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai for neurological and urological treatment, an official said. Rao, 80, was undergoing treatment at the state-run St George Hospital in south Mumbai since Thursday after being tested coronavirus positive. During treatment for Covid-19, doctors found his condition to be stable but also observed he has neurological problems, the official said. Neurologists from the state-run J J hospital checked him on Friday and he was diagnosed as having delirium, a hospital official said. Delirium is an acutely disturbed state of mind characterized by restlessness, illusions, and incoherence, occurring in intoxication, fever, and other disorders. As he required neurological and urological treatment, he was shifted to the private Nanavati Hospital in the wee hours on Sunday, the official said. While at St George hospital, Rao responded well to Covid-19 treatment and his chest X-Ray and ECG were normal, he said adding he also underwent a CT Scan. Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad- Maoist links case, was admitted to the J J Hospital on Monday and was later shifted to St George Hospital, after being tested coronavirus positive. Lodged in the Taloja jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai under judicial custody, Rao was admitted to J J Hospital after his family members and several writers and activists asked Maharashtra government to immediately shift him to hospital for treatment, citing his deteriorating health condition. Rao's Telangana-based family members had asked jail authorities to provide him immediate medical care, claiming that when he contacted them last week, he was in a "delirious state and hallucinating". He is behind the bars for about 22 months and had approached the special NIA court, seeking bail on medical grounds and the prevailing Covid-19 situation. On Monday, he filed two petitions in the Bombay High Court, seeking temporary bail owing to his ill-health and a direction to the jail authorities to produce his medical records and admit him to a state-run or private hospital. Rao and nine other activists were arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, which was initially probed by the Pune Police and later transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/varavara-rao-shifted-to-nanavati-for-neurological-treatment-862970.html
19-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Ex-DU professor G N Saibaba moves bail plea in High Court||After Saibaba filed the bail plea seeking urgent hearing into it, a division bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Amit Borkar on Tuesday issued notices to the Maharashtra government and other respondents to file their replies before July 24, when the court will hear the case. In his bail application, Saibaba said his weak health along with comorbidities makes him vulnerable to contract the coronavirus infection. He is lodged at the Nagpur Central Prison, where over 150 prisoners and 40 jail staffers have so far tested positive for coronavirus. The jail houses nearly 1,800 inmates while 265 police personnel are attached to it. In March 2017, a sessions court in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district convicted and sentenced Saibaba and four others, including a journalist and a Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student, for alleged Maoist links and indulging in activities amounting to waging war against the country. The court held Saibaba and others guilty under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Following the conviction, Saibaba was lodged at the Nagpur prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-ex-du-professor-g-n-saibaba-moves-bail-plea-in-high-court-863023.html
19-07-2020||West||Migrant workers slowly returning to cities; locals being trained to fill immediate gap||Since the country has already entered Unlock 2.0, projects that were stalled due to the lockdown have resumed work, though with just half of their capacity as most of the labourers are yet to return. Engineering firms, which have been hit hard due to non-execution of large infrastructure projects, are taking initiatives to bring back the workforce from states such as Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Gujarat. According to recent data by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, thousands of workers have been brought back by engineering firms to complete the metro projects, including Dahisar East-Andheri East metro 7 line. Among others, real estate players too are taking initiatives to bring back the workforce to complete the stalled projects. "Labourers are coming back as they need jobs. Generally this is the season when they go to their villages for farming or to attend marriages. But they return soon," a labour contractor told PTI. He said these labourers had left cities amid Covid-19 panic, but now they want to return to work since the construction activities have begun. "While some are returning by trains, others are being brought by contractors," he added. Indian Railways had said that it transported over 50 lakh migrants to various parts of the country through special Shramik trains. Meanwhile, some states have started looking for local manpower to bridge the deficit created in the workforce requirements in various sectors. Some real estate developers are sponsoring the return of migrant workers and also facilitating their quarantine as per guidelines. "We want to complete our projects and deliver them on time to our customers. For that we are taking steps to bring back the labourers. We are not just taking care of their journey and 14 days quarantine, but we are also paying them their wages for those days," Puravankara Group managing director Ashish Puravankara recently told PTI. Maharashtra, which has already given a call to the sons of the soil, has undertaken initiatives to invite locals to participate in the infra projects undertaken by the government. Recently, the government's skill development department conducted an online job fair to hire over 17,000 locals for various projects undertaken by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). "We are in constant communications with industry bodies and various government departments to understand if there is a skill gap. We are working on skilling people locally wherever there is a requirement," Maharashtra Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Minister Nawab Malik had recently said. He further said that according to the information they are getting, many workers who had left the state to go to their home towns due to the panic over the pandemic are slowly coming back from states like Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and other places to Mumbai and Pune where they were working. According to CIEL HR Services Director and CEO Aditya Mishra, around 30-40 per cent of people who have gone back home are returning to Maharashtra and Gujarat. "They left in fear but in their villages they were not able to get the basic facilities there. Also, MNREGA was not enough to keep the entire family occupied," he said. When the Unlock 1.0 was announced and construction work began, people started coming back, Mishra said, adding that many companies facilitated their journey back taking all preventative measures as per government guidelines and gave them a secure and healthy environment as part of their CSR initiatives. Mishra further said that not only unskilled workers but also highly skilled technicians are coming back to their places of work. Even new workforce or first timers are joining. However, people from other sectors like travel and hospitality among others are yet to come back as these segments are not fully open, he noted. Industry insiders said local workers are demanding more wages for the same work as they did in the pre-Covid-19 period when the supply of migrant labourers was more. "We are facing a lot of issues with the local labourers. The restrictions due to the lockdown has added to the woes as the locals are unwilling to travel to far places. They are also demanding more wages. Also, now these locals will go to their villages for the Ganpati festival. We are hopeful that by August, more migrant labourers will return and things will get back to normal," Dipti Mehta, an architect, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migrant-workers-slowly-returning-to-cities-locals-being-trained-to-fill-immediate-gap-863025.html
19-07-2020||West||Part of old building collapses in Panaji; three hurt||A portion of an old building collapsed in Panaji city in the early hours of Sunday after heavy rains, a fire and emergency services official said. Three people who were sleeping in the building got trapped under the debris but were rescued immediately, he said, adding that they received minor injuries. "A portion of the one-storey building, which was almost a century old and located next to the Azad Maidan in Panaji, collapsed around 3 am following incessant rains in the coastal state for last four days," the official said. The first floor of the building housed a rented accommodation, while the ground floor comprised several shops, he said. One of the shops got damaged when a part of the building collapsed, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/part-of-old-building-collapses-in-panaji-three-hurt-863039.html
19-07-2020||West||How 20th century epidemics can help museums run in post-Covid-19 era||In a paper on ‘History of Viral Diseases and Museums’, Dr Bhujang Bobade, the curator of Jalgaon-based Gandhi Research Foundation, points out how to meet the challenges in the prevailing and forthcoming scenarios. How museums can help combat Covid-19 with the internet, IT, AI and robotics, would be a big answer to the problems, Bobade told DH.  “The worldwide spread of Covid-19 reminds those of us working in museums just how vulnerable our institutions—not to mention our communities—are during public health crises. Already some museums have positioned themselves as leaders, distributing information and hosting town halls about what to do during a pandemic. Others have cancelled or postponed programs, stepped up sanitation measures, or even gone so far as to temporarily close out of concern for the safety of visitors and staff,” Bobade, one of the foremost museum experts and prolific writer, said in the paper. Reviewing how museums responded to three major 20th-century epidemics and what we learned in the process can help our field chart its way through the coronavirus crisis, he said. “At its peak in the early 1900s, a diagnosis of tuberculosis led to the deaths of one out of seven people. To combat the spread of the disease, public health workers reached out to museums for help. The idea was that multi-lingual didactic material, coupled with large-scale displays, would communicate effectively to a wide audience,” he said. Between 1905 and 1909, the American Museum of Natural History (AMNH) and the Smithsonian developed and hosted two exhibitions about tuberculosis: its aetiology, how it spread, and the damage it could cause in those who contracted it, supplemented by illustrated pamphlets about prevention and self-care in languages like Chinese, Yiddish, and Italian. Big signs read “Don’t Spit.” The shows attracted such large crowds—some say, over one million—that AMNH had no choice but to extend its hours. “Tuberculosis” was the first blockbuster in US museum history, a harbinger for other popular shows with social relevance.  “The 1918 H1N1 (Spanish Flu) pandemic, coronavirus is the global pandemic of our times. But Spanish Flu remains the deadliest in modern history, killing at least 50 million people and infecting more than 500 million. The 1918 H1N1 virus played a critical role in altering the course of India’s history. Mahatma Gandhi, the chief architect of India’s independence, was one of the millions who contracted the Spanish Flu. If he had not survived, India’s struggle to shed the British colonial yoke would have taken a drastically different route. Gandhi went to spearheaded the movement that bought India independence. The flu that killed an estimated 18 million Indians — the largest in any country in the world — was also instrumental in uniting the people against the British,” he said. In Oakland, California, authorities took advantage of large buildings that had been constructed during the “City Beautiful” movement. They converted the Municipal Auditorium, including its art gallery (a precursor to what is now the Oakland Museum of California), into an 80-bed emergency hospital. Gallery director William “Dr Billy” Porter, a trained surgeon, saw his duties amended to include “bringing in the sick and removing the dead” and dispensing free medical advice to artists. Other museum directors were able to use their buildings for more mission-oriented activities. For example, Harold Madison, an ornithologist who ran the Park Museum in Providence, Rhode Island, worked with Rhode Island School of Design and the city’s public libraries to design programs that filled gaps in instruction during forced closures of the public school system. Museum staff offered emergency instructional activities and story-times for children on topics ranging from animal life to nature’s landscapes. The late 20th century AIDS epidemic, raced humankind to develop treatments as medical researchers estimated that between eight and ten million people were living with HIV. “The mortality rate was high, with gay men, African-Americans, and Latinos suffering disproportionately. Misinformation about how the disease was transmitted was rampant; discussions about safe sex and needle practices were highly controversial. People were suffering, stigmatised, isolated, and frightened. Political activists demanded government action,” the paper reads. In 1991, the Center for Disease Control partnered with eight science museums and the American Medical Association to form the National AIDS Exhibition Consortium. The initial idea was to develop exhibitions on the science of AIDS as well as safe preventive practices that would reach a large general audience. This initiative coincided with a time that museums were beginning to tell the stories of people left out of the master narratives of history, art, and science. Science curators and educators chose to tell a more expansive story, one that would encourage compassion. The Consortium’s efforts—starting with the exhibition “What About AIDS” at the Franklin Institute—featured people of all genders, races, and backgrounds who were living with HIV and AIDS. The National AIDS Exhibition Consortium paved the way for subsequent public health exhibitions that integrated humanistic, social, political, personal, and even artistic themes with medical information and provide spaces for reflection and people to share their own stories. Talking about Covid-19, the paper states, as museums around the world have temporarily shut their doors in response to public health calls for physical distancing, many have rallied to develop new ways to keep museums accessible. “These have focused on online exhibitions, tours, and other creative strategies to keep audiences engaged, entertained, and inspired—or ease anxious minds with their most calming art. Such initiatives are admirable, even crucial, during this unprecedented social upheaval. But we would argue there is an opportunity for museums to go deeper, rather than shrinking into a status quo ante where only “highlights” and permanent exhibits go online. Just as the pandemic is laying bare stark global and national inequalities, museums must recognise that they themselves are woven into a social fabric that is proving to be woefully frayed,” it said. Bobade urged museums to view the current ‘state of exception’ not only as a constraint (which it obviously is) but as a moment to experiment. For instance, museums could offer design software that allows exhibitions to be re-curated on a web platform, or re-captioned with new interpretive texts. Imagined shows could be curated whole cloth by aspiring curators, museum critics, students, and community groups. This is also a moment to consider just how accessible museums actually are to a full range of citizens (and non-citizens) in various national contexts, in either digital or analogue form. In the future, when we look back on how museums handled Covid-19, hopefully, we can take pride that once again, our Museum field was responsible, creative, and empathetic in a time when everyone could use a good old-fashioned dose of perspective, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/how-20th-century-epidemics-can-help-museums-run-in-post-covid-19-era-863072.html
19-07-2020||West||MP: OBC man beaten up in Guna; FIR against eight persons||A man belonging to the Other Backward Class (OBC) community was severely beaten by a group of people in Madhya Pradesh's Guna town after he was allegedly caught stealing pesticide from a market, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Thursday, two days after a Dalit couple consumed pesticide and the husband was beaten by police while being evicted from a government land here. A video of the Thursday's incident, which has gone viral on social media in Guna, purportedly showed a bleeding man being beaten and then dragged with a towel tied around his neck while he lay on the ground. The police claimed the man was "a thief and a drug addict" and cases in this connection were registered against him in neighbouring Ashoknagar district. The man, aged around 25, was arrested and sent to jail on Friday for allegedly stealing pesticide a day before that under Kotwali police station limits, Guna Superintendent of Police Rajesh Kumar told PTI over the phone. He is a member of an OBC community, the official said. "On his complaint, we registered an FIR against eight unidentified people on Thursday. We are identifying the people seen in the video to take action against them for beating the man," he said. "At that time, we did not know the man was wanted in a case by police in Ashoknagar district, from where he hails," Kumar said. Asked about the man's background, the official said he was "a thief and a drug addict". He has six criminal cases pertaining to theft, burglary and narcotics registered against him in Ashoknagar district, Kumar said. In one of the cases, an arrest warrant has been issued against him, the official said. All these cases had been registered by the Kotwali police in Ashoknagar. On Tuesday, a Dalit couple allegedly consumed a pesticide while a drive was underway to evict them from a government land. A video of the incident showed some police personnel purportedly beating up the husband with batons, prompting a huge outrage. The state government had transferred Inspector General (Gwalior range), Guna collector and superintendent of police following the incident while six police personnel were suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mp-obc-man-beaten-up-in-guna-fir-against-eight-persons-863081.html
19-07-2020||West||Tilak death centenary: 25-day blood donation camp to be held in Mumbai||A Mumbai-based organisation will hold a 25-day-long blood donation camp in the city to mark the death centenary year of freedom fighter Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak. Tilak, who was born in 1856, died in Mumbai on August 1, 1920. Prakash Silam, founder of the Lokmanya Tilak Swarajya Bhoomi Smarak Samiti, said, "This is the centenary year of Lokmanya Tilak's death." "As a tribute to the social reformer, we have decided to organise this blood donation camp. It will begin on July 23, which is Lokmanya Tilak's birth anniversary, and continue till August 15, the Independence day," he said. All the Ganesh mandals have been asked to identify the blood donors in their areas, he said. "A team of Sion Hospital will be present during the blood donation camp," he said, adding that the collected blood will be used at Sion Hospital and for treatment of coronavirus patients. The camp will be held at the Birla Krida Kendra near the Tilak Memorial at Mumbai's Girgaum chowpatty, Silam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tilak-death-centenary-25-day-blood-donation-camp-to-be-held-in-mumbai-863148.html
19-07-2020||West||Goa: Inquiry ordered as patient says denied treatment at GMCH||The Goa health department has ordered an inquiry after a non-Covid-19 patient from Vasco town in South Goa was allegedly denied treatment at a state-run hospital near here. Talking to PTI, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday said that he has ordered an inquiry and sought a report from the authorities concerned in this connection. In a video that has gone viral on social media, a man claimed that when his wife was taken to the casualty ward of the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), the doctor refused to treat her after she told them she was from Vasco. Vasco has reported maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the state so far. Rane said that the authorities will get in touch with that patient and get the details about the incident. The minister said that considering rising number of Covid-19 cases, all the patients arriving at the GMCH would be screened at the entrance through special facility. "There will be two screening facilities, one a flu OPD and another for the regular patients before they are treated at the hospital," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-inquiry-ordered-as-patient-says-denied-treatment-at-gmch-863214.html
19-07-2020||West||Goa to lift coronavirus lockdown from Monday; night curfew to continue||The Goa government will lift its four-day statewide lockdown on Monday morning, even as the night curfew will continue throughout the state till August 10, an official statement said on Sunday.  "@GovtofGoa has decided to continue #lockdown for #Mormugoa Taluka till 6 am on July 24, 2020 for #containment of #Covid-19.  Formal order will be issued shortly. Rest of #Goa will follow the night curfew till August 10, 2020," the Government of Goa's official Twitter handle tweeted on Sunday evening. The Mormugao sub-district located in South Goa accounts for more than one-third of the active Covid-19 cases in the state, and the tally has crossed 1400. Most of the cases in the sub-district have been detected in the state's first containment zone in the Mangor hill locality.    The complete lockdown was imposed across Goa from July 17 to 20, amid criticism from the Opposition of the state government's handling of the pandemic. The Sawant-led administration's decision to open up the state for tourism from July 1 in wake of the sustained spike was also criticised by the Opposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-lift-coronavirus-lockdown-from-monday-night-curfew-to-continue-863225.html
19-07-2020||West||Maharashtra sees record 9,518 Covid-19 cases in a day||Maharashtra on Sunday reported the highest-ever single-day spike of 9,518 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 3,10,455, the state health department said. This is the first time that the number of new cases crossed the 9,000-mark in a single day. With 258 more people succumbing to the infection, the number of fatalities has risen to 11,854, a statement said. A total of 3,906 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of the recovered cases to 1,69,569, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-record-9518-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-863228.html
19-07-2020||West||Covid-19 patient kills self at care centre in Maharashtra||A 43-year-old Covid-19 patient on Sunday committed suicide by jumping off the fifth floor of a Covid care facility in Thane district of Maharashtra, police said. The deceased, a resident of Dombivali township, was admitted in the Amantra corona care centre, located between Kalyan and Bhiwandi, on July 17, a Bhiwandi police station official said.  "The patient had picked up a quarrel with ward boys and locked himself inside a room this morning. He was late taken to a doctor for check-up and brought back to the room," he said. The patient flung his mobile phone out of the window of the room around 4:30 pm and jumped from the fifth floor, the official said. The cause behind the extreme step cannot be known immediately known, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-kills-self-at-care-centre-in-maharashtra-863234.html
19-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Lockdown extended in Thane's containment areas||The ongoing lockdown in Thane district of Maharashtra, which was supposed to end on July 19 midnight, has been extended till July 31 in select areas in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases, a senior official said. The extended lockdown is applicable for municipal corporations of Mira Bhayandar, Kalyan-Dombivali and Bhiwandi-Nizampur, which all fall under the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), where cases are on the rise. The extended shutdowns will remain in force in existing and new containment zones, stated an order issued by Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar. The number of Covid-19 cases in Thane district stood at 65,927 as of July 18 with 1,870 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-extended-in-thanes-containment-areas-863237.html
