20-07-2020||First Edit||New BBMP boss and multi-tasking||The Covid-19 situation may be worsening in Karnataka with the sharp increase in cases especially in Bengaluru but the government, far from being prepared to deal with the eventuality, continues to maintain a lackadaisical attitude. The apathy could not have been more pronounced than in the appointment of a part-time commissioner to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), when the city needs undivided attention to put it back on the track. The new commissioner, N Manjunath Prasad, will concurrently hold the posts of principal secretary, revenue department and disaster management, both of which demand all his time. With heavy rains lashing the state leading to floods and loss of life, crop and property, Prasad will have his hands full overseeing rescue and relief operations, and it is anybody’s guess how much time he will be able to devote to the city. A city as big as Bengaluru cannot be left in the hands of a part-time BBMP chief, particularly during a crisis. The government should either appoint a full-fledged commissioner or relieve Prasad of his other responsibilities. It is obvious that the previous commissioner, B H Anil Kumar, had for some reason incurred the wrath of the government—an additional chief secretary-level officer, he is now transferred to an insignificant post hitherto held by a secretary much junior to him. The government has not revealed why he has been transferred. It is said that spike in cases in Bengaluru, failure to ramp up healthcare infrastructure and above all, hiring of beds and other peripherals for a Covid Care Centre allegedly at exorbitant costs have gone against him. While the government is at liberty to take such administrative decisions, it is unfortunate that  Yediyurappa’s ministers are indulging in politics and one-upmanship even in times of a pandemic. Anil Kumar’s exit is also said to be the result of a turf war for the control of Bengaluru between Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwathnarayan and Revenue Minister R Ashoka. The latter has won the first round and hopes to control BBMP through Prasad who also continues as the principal secretary (revenue). The transfer has also brought to the fore the intense politics in the IAS lobby where a few select officers corner ‘plum’ posts while many efficient ones are left to linger in unimportant departments. Karnataka was once praised for its efficient handling of Covid-19 and the government clearly does not seem to have learnt any lesson even after the situation has completely slipped out of its hand. It is time for Yediyurappa who is being pulled in different directions by his ministers and MLAs, to demonstrate that he is the boss and take a firm stand. This is not the time for petty politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/new-bbmp-boss-and-multi-tasking-863328.html
20-07-2020||In Perspective||Is population time bomb ticking?||The lifting of lockdown in May has resulted in a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. At more than 8.50 lakh infections, India now has the third-highest number of confirmed cases in the world after the US and Brazil. This was attributed to many reasons - that people did not maintain social distance, followed poor hygiene, that they did not wear masks etc.  Some experts have even said that the poor hygiene coupled with high density of population have been responsible for the spike in cases. Then, is the burgeoning population the cause for many of our problems? Ironically, the World Population Day was observed on July 11 to raise awareness about global population issues.  This year, the theme of the World Population Day was to raise awareness about safeguarding sexual and reproductive health needs and vulnerabilities of women and girls during the Covid-19 pandemic. The World Population Day assumes importance because it highlights the problems of increasing population and raises awareness about the effects of over-population on the environment and planet.  A recent United Nations Fund For Population Activities research highlighted that if the lockdown continues for six more months with major disruptions to health services, then 47 million women in low and middle-income countries may not be able to access modern contraceptives resulting in seven million unintended pregnancies.   World’s population has been growing rapidly in the last couple of decades. Incidentally, it took thousands of years for the world population to grow to one billion and it took only 200 years or so, to grow sevenfold. In 2011, the global population breached the seven billion mark, and today, it stands at about 7.7 billion and is expected to grow to around 8.5 billion in 2030 and 9.7 billion in 2050.  This dramatic growth in population is largely due to increasing numbers of people surviving reproductive age. This has been accompanied by major changes in fertility rates, and increasing urbanisation and accelerating migration. These trends will have far-reaching implications for our future generations.  The recent past has seen huge changes in fertility rates and life expectancy. Sample this - in the early 1970s, women had on average 4.5 children; by 2015, total fertility for the world had dropped to 2.5 children per woman. The average global life expectancy has risen, from 64.6 years in the early 1990s to 72.6 years in 2019. India, with 137 crore people, is the second-most populous country in the world, which means 18% of world’s population lives here.  A United Nations report has said that India is set to overtake China as the world’s most populous country by 2027. While the population density of the world is 20 persons per sq km, India has a population density of 419 persons per sq km. Our population density is less when compared geographically with its more developed Asian counterparts like Singapore (8,000 per sq km), Hong Kong (7,000 per sq km) or South Korea (528 per sq km). What is worrying is the increase in India’s population density over different periods - from 120 persons in 1950 to 419 in 2020 – an increase of nearly 350%.  Dharavi in Mumbai which was a major Covid hotspot, has a density of over two lakh people per sq km! There is a higher incidence of Covid cases in places having a higher density of population. As population increases across major metros, municipal corporations in cities and towns have a torrid time dealing with sanitation, air and noise pollution and large quantities of waste. Population policy  It is against this backdrop that the country needs to have a clear population policy and policy-makers are realising the implications of population explosion only of late. Senior Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi tabled a private member’s bill in Rajya Sabha in March that called for enforcement of a two-child norm through incentives and disincentives.  It needed President’s permission for its introduction in Rajya Sabha as the Population Control Bill, 2020 had monetary implications. President Ram Nath Kovind has since granted the permission. The Bill contains disincentives for those who do not comply with the norms. These include barring them from contesting elections, getting promotions in government services, receiving government subsidy or applying for Group A jobs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in his Independence Day speech last year, gave a clarion call to the Central and state governments to implement policies to control the population growth rate. He also urged couples to have smaller families and praised those who had embraced smaller family norms stating that having fewer children is “an act of patriotism.” India was the first developing country to introduce a national family planning programme in 1951 to control the population growth rate. However, the Union government’s ruthless decision to forcibly sterilise nearly 80 lakh people during Emergency came under fire and so subsequent governments turned a blind eye to family planning and population control.  The National Population Policy, 2000 aims at stabilising the population by 2045.The way forward is to nudge people to have small families. The primary objective should focus on educating women and encouraging them to adopt family planning, which is central to their empowerment and sustainable development. The population time bomb is ticking and policymakers have to take urgent measures before it is too late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-population-time-bomb-ticking-863330.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Transgenders turn into successful farmers||Hardwork and determination during the crisis created by the pandemic have made these transgenders, who chose farming, into successful and independent farmers in Chamarajanagar district. No one has been spared from the wrath of the Novel Coronavirus, including transgenders, who are facing a worst situation, especially during the lockdown.  Five transgenders of Yanaganahalli and the surrounding villages, who were left to fend for themselves during the crisis, turned independent by taking up agricultural activities. These transgenders, with the cooperation of their family members, have turned farmers and have began tilling on their share of ancestral land. Meena, Deviyamma, Kempamma and Tahira have taken agriculture seriously, and Ragini has turned into a dairy farmer, with eight cows. Expanding gradually Speaking to DH, Meena said, “I returned from Mumbai six years ago and was begging to eke out a living. Now, after Covid-19 lockdown, we had to struggle to find food. No one gives us work even on daily wages. I had inherited one-and-a-half acres of land from my father and I decided to work in the fields. Initially, I cultivated horsegram and now, I want to sow ragi and jowar.” Meena has ploughed the land and is awaiting rains, to take up sowing. Deviyamma said, “I was in Bengaluru and possess 35 guntas of land. My brother was engaged in agriculture. After lockdown I returned to my native, as there was no work in Bengaluru. Now, I have sown maize and have become a full-time farmer.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/transgenders-turn-into-successful-farmers-863307.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||One lakh people return to Hassan district after lockdown relaxation||More than one lakh people have returned to Hassan district from other districts and states so far, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, post lockdown relaxation. With lockdown implemented in Bengaluru city and rural districts, the number of people returning to the district has increased in the last four days. Daily wagers, employees of small companies, garment and factory workers have returned permanently by vacating their houses in Bengaluru. Many from Channaryapatna, Shravanabelagola, Hirisave, Belur, Holenarasipur, Arkalgud, Sakleshpur, Arsikere, Alur and Hassan have returned from Bengaluru, Mumbai, Chennai, Odisha and Kolkata. These people used to visit their natives only during annual festivals and family functions. Owing to pandemic, they are forced to return to the district now. Thousands had returned to their respective villages and towns, once the lockdown was announced in March. However, a few went back to the metros after the lockdown was relaxed. With Covid-19 wave rising in Bengaluru and other cities, they have once again returned to their villages. Most of them were working as construction labourers, as garment and factory workers, in hotels and restaurants and in the real estate companies in the metros. Thousands of companies and factories have closed facing huge losses due to the pandemic. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr Sathish Kumar said, “Around 71,905 people from other districts, 4,560 people from other states and 984 from other countries have returned to the district. After a week-long lockdown in Bengaluru city and rural districts, approximately 20,000 people have returned. We have been receiving calls requesting us to quarantine them.” Most of the positive cases earlier were Maharashtra returnees. Presently, even those coming from Bengaluru and the local people have tested positive. It has become difficult to trace the source, the officer said. The villagers are facing the risk of contracting the virus from those returning from Bengaluru. Earlier, they were quarantined. Now, only those coming from other states are under 14 days’ home quarantine. Hence, the locals have started monitoring those returning from other places and even inform Asha workers, suggesting quarantine, Satish said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-lakh-people-return-to-hassan-district-after-lockdown-relaxation-863308.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Task forces to check coronavirus spread in Mysuru: S T Somashekar||With an aim to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city, District in-charge and Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar directed to form task forces led by MLAs and MP at Krishnaraja, Chamaraja, Chamundeshwari and Narasimharaja Assembly segments in the city. At a meeting organised to discuss about the measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 at the Zilla Panchayat here, the minister said, MP Pratap Simha will look after NR Assembly segment as MLA Tanveer Sait has health issues and the MLAs will lead the task forces in their constituencies. ‘Distribute pamphlets’ The minister also directed to prepare pamphlets containing contact details of the officers working to combat Covid-19. The details such as whom to contact during cold, cough and other health issues, details of the hospitals the patients need to visit; contact of the officers, nodal officers along with the mobile phone number must be printed on the pamphlet. The handbills must be distributed to all the houses across the city, he said. The minister also directed the officials to attend the calls from the public without fail and there should be no lapses, he warned. In-charge health officers The minister also directed to appoint in-charge health officers to all the four Assembly segments. For NR Assembly segment, where Coronavirus cases are more, task force and the officers must be appointed immediately. He also directed to hospitalise the patients without any delay. The officials claimed that the numbers of cases are high in the NR Assembly segment and the Covid-19 test report will be issued within 10 hours of the test. The persons, who test positive, will be shifted to the hospital immediately. No delay in handing over body The minister also directed the authorities not to delay in handing over the bodies to the family members of the deceased. As there was shortage of group ‘D’ employees, there was delay in completing the formalities and thus there was delay in handing over the bodies. The minister said, the group ‘D’ employees will be appointed soon as requested by the deputy commissioner. The deputy commissioner has informed that there was a shortage of group ‘D’ employees and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has assured of taking measures to fill the vacant posts, the minister said. Plaint about KR Hospital Somashekar also said that the chief minister has received complaints about lapses in KR Hospital. He also warned the officials of strict action if they involve in any irregularities. No complaints must reach either the chief minister or the Chief Secretary, he said. However, DHO Dr Venkatesh said, there were 300 staff nurses in the hospital and 100 of them have quit job. The hospital is facing shortage of ventilators. He also highlighted various other problems. The deputy commissioner explained about the programmes taken to contain the spread of Covid-19. More numbers of ambulances will be allotted for the respective Assembly segments. The minister also directed the authorities to make special arrangements for ambulance drivers and crew. Separate rooms must be allotted and all the crew must take bath soon after they shift Covid-19-infected patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/task-forces-to-check-coronavirus-spread-in-mysuru-s-t-somashekar-863309.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||PU results: Manasarowar Pushkarini Vidyashrama scores perfect 100||The students of Manasarowar Pushkarini Vidyashrama, Vijayanagar 2nd Stage in Mysuru have excelled in 10th standard exams with cent percent results. Out of 147 students, who appeared for the 10th exams, 31 have scored above 90%, while 40 have scored above 80%, 37 students have scored above 70% and 39 students have scored below 70%. C J Akanksh of Manasarowar Pushkarini Vidyashrama is the district topper and also school topper with an overall 98.2% marks, with a centum in both Mathematics and Social Science. While S U Chinmayee has scored 95.6%, G Harshith has scored 95.6%, with a centum in Social Science, M S Harshitha has scored 95.4%, with a centum in Social Science, Lalithya Govardhan has secured 95.4%, Vedika Sanchi has scored 95.4% and Chinmaya Holla has secured 95.2% marks. Secretary of Manasarowar Pushkarini Vidyashrama K S Swaroopini and principal Harshida Harikumar have congratulated the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pu-results-manasarowar-pushkarini-vidyashrama-scores-perfect-100-863310.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Temples wear deserted look on Aati Amavasya due to lockdown||Normally, people throng Kadri Manjunatha Temple, a hill shrine of Sri Sadashiva temple located at Narahari Parvata, in Bantwal, Somanatha Temple at Someshwara, Sahasralingeshwara Temple in Uppinangady for theerthasnana (dip in the holy pond) on the day of Aati Amavasya. Due to lockdown, the temples wore a deserted look without the devotees. Ropes were tied near the ‘Saptakere’ of the Kadri Manjunatha Temple, to prevent any devotees from entering the pond. Taking a dip in the ponds on this day is considered to be sacred.   On the other hand, people in Tulunadu drank ‘Paale ketteda kashaya’, a bitter Ayurvedic concoction to mark Aati Amavasya, in the households. It is believed that concoction protects the individual throughout the year. The Paale tree or Saptaparni, botanically known as Alstonia scholaris is also known as Devil tree in English, ‘Halemara’ in Kannada, ‘Palemara’ in Tulu.    The collection of the bark and preparation of this juice is very unique. In the past, people used to tie it with a rope around the tree a day earlier, so that they can identify the tree easily on the new moon night. Next day (Aati Amase day) early morning before the sun rises, the person chips off the tree bark with a sharp stone. The concoction is prepared by mixing ingredients of garlic, turmeric, ajwain seeds into it.   Due to lockdown, mass distribution of concoction early in the morning was not held at various places including temples in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/temples-wear-deserted-look-on-aati-amavasya-due-to-lockdown-863450.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Water level at Tungabhadra dam rises after rains||Tungabhadra Dam, the lifeline for farmers of Koppal, Ballari and Raichur districts, saw 33,022 cusecs of water inflow on Monday. The water inflow into the dam had increased on Sunday after a lull for a week. On Sunday, the reservoir recorded 17,138 cusecs of inflow.  The water level increased to 1606.97 feet against the full storage level of 1633 feet. Tungabhadra dam authorities said the inflow into the dam increased as its catchment areas received good rains for the past few days. Inflow into the dam is likely to be increased further in the coming days, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/water-level-at-tungabhadra-dam-rises-after-rains-863456.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||No entry for devotees at Karnataka's B R Hill temple on Saturdays||The Religious Endowment department has temporarily restricted the entry of devotees to the Biligiri Rangana Betta (B R Hill) temple and other temples in the taluk, on Saturdays, during the month of Shravana, as a precautionary measure in the wake of the pandemic. The month of Shravana begins from Tuesday (July 22). As a large number of people visit Ranganatha temple on every Saturday, during Shravana, the taluk administration has taken the decision to restrict the devotees to the temple for a month. Thousands of devotees visit the temple every year. However, this year, they would not be allowed to the temple on Saturdays. They can visit the temple on the other days, but only during the stipulated time. It has been a custom for people to offer their crop produce to the deity. A festive atmosphere prevails in the during this month. "With Covd-19 cases on the rise, the devotees should observe the rituals by staying home on Saturdays. Rituals can be followed in a meaningful manner", said temple executive officer S M Venkatesh Prasad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-entry-for-devotees-at-karnatakas-b-r-hill-temple-on-saturdays-863491.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mob beats Dalit man for touching bike belonging to upper-caste man in Karnataka||Around 540 kilometers from Bengaluru, in Vijayapura Karnataka, a Dalit man was beaten up by a mob of 13 people for allegedly touching the bike of an upper caste man. The man filed a police report under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act along with sections 143,147, 324, 354, 504, 506, 149 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The victim also alleges that his family members were attacked after they tried to intervene to rescue him. A counter-complaint has been filed against the alleged victim, which claims that the crowd attacked the man because he “took off his clothes and made obscene gestures when two girls at the site were washing clothes." “An atrocity case was reported in Talikote on Saturday about assault on the Dalit man from Minaji village. It was alleged that when he accidentally touched the bike of a man who belonged to the upper caste, he and his family members were assaulted by around 13 men,” said senior police officer Anupam Aggarwal. “When an investigation team reached the site of the incident today, they were told that the 32-year-old was beaten up when he took off his clothes and started showing his private parts to two girls who were washing clothes. We have registered a counter case under section 354 of the IPC,” Aggarwal added. The group of attackers in the video are not seen to be following precautionary measures like wearing masks or practising social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mob-beats-dalit-man-for-touching-bike-belonging-to-upper-caste-man-in-karnataka-863552.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Recovery rate in Mumbai-Karnataka region better than state average||With sharp hike in Covid-19 cases across the State, seven districts of Mumbai-Karnataka region also have seen huge increase in positive cases in the month of July, but the overall recovery rate has been better than the state average. When the third week of July month ended, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the region stood at 7,458 by Sunday evening, which was 11.69% of the total cases in the State (63,772). When the recovery rate (discharges from hospitals) was 36.16% at the State-level, it was 44.77% in the region. When the month of June ended, the region's share in State's total Covid-19 cases was 9.24%. State's recovery rate was 51.94%, and this rate in the region was 58.26%. Fifteen days back from then (on June 15), recovery rate at the State-level was 57.32%, and it stood at 70.95% in Mumbai-Karnataka region. The region's share in total cases in the State then was 13.69%. An analysis of the data compiled by the Health & Family Welfare Department shows that, in the region, the best recovery rate is in Vijayapur district (65.17%), followed by Haveri and Uttara Kannada districts. Only Dharwad district has low overall recovery rate (33.13%) in comparison with the State average, as a large number of cases came in recent days. July haunts By June end, a total of 1,409 Covid-19 cases were reported in the region, with highest cases (345) in Dharwad district itself. By July 19, this number in the region rose to 7,458, with above 2,000 cases in Dharwad district, above 1,000 cases each in Vijayapur and Uttara Kannada districts. With so many new cases, overall recovery rate in the region also came down from 58.26% to 44.77% in this period. The region now has more than 4,000 active cases, and over 175 Covid deaths are reported so far. Dharwad district alone has more than 1,300 active cases, and Covid deaths were 62. Dharwad district is under a 10-day lockdown at present, and its usefulness in efforts to contain Covid-19 spread is expected to be visible in coming days. 'Spike came early' Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil told DH that such a spike in Covid-19 cases in the district was expected in August, but it came early. "Every district is experiencing such variations, and it is the behaviour of the pandemic. The lockdown will help us to make better efforts to improve prevention and treatment facilities. According to experts, the number of cases would gradually come down, after reaching the peak," he said. Covid-19 cases are more in Hubballi city, compared to Dharwad, due to more mobility, commercial activities and thick population, Patil added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-recovery-rate-in-mumbai-karnataka-region-better-than-state-average-863579.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gangavathi Tahsildar, Shirastedar in ACB net for taking bribe||The sleuths of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) caught Gangavathi Tahsildar L D Chandrakanth and Shirastedar Sharanappa red-handed while receiving a bribe for including a name in Khata utar (land records) of the land. Sundarraj, a resident of Vaddarahatti of the taluk, had submitted an application to include the name of his father in the land records of his land. Tahsildar Chandrakanth and Shirastedar Sharanappa demanded a bribe of Rs 6,000 to get his work done. Sundarraj then had lodged a complaint with the ACB in this regard. The tahsildar and shirastedar were caught red handed on Monday while accepting the bribe from the complainant. ACB DySP Rudresh Ujjanakoppa said the duo have been arrested and bribe amount has been seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gangavathi-tahsildar-shirastedar-in-acb-net-for-taking-bribe-863585.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gas leaks from pipeline at Navanagar||Tension prevailed for sometime at Navanagar near here on Monday, as gas started leaking from the pipeline at Karnataka Circle area. Residents of the area closed the gas supply control valve immediately, averting a disaster. The gas leakage was found when underground drainage pipeline work was going on, and several residents of the area left their houses in fear. In this area, Indian Oil-Adani Gas Private Limited has given piped gas supply connection to around 300 houses. "When gas leakage started, we informed Fire & Emergency Services Department office. As anybody concerned with the gas pipeline did not come, we broke the lock of the pipeline control room at Panchakshari Nagar, and closed the valve," said Vishwanath Alagundagi and Shivu Pujar. A similar incident occurred on Navanagar Main Road four months back, and citizens prevented a possible disaster then also, they recalled. Fire brigade rushed to the spot, and sprayed foam where gas was being leaked. There was a possibility of fire mishap if there was a delay, said Fire & Emergency Services Department officer Vinayak Kalgutkar. Indian Oil-Adani Gas Private Limited engineer Shripad Kulkarni visited the spot, and residents took him to task. Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) and Indian Oil-Adani Gas Private Limited officials blamed each other for the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gas-leaks-from-pipeline-at-navanagar-863611.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||South Western Railway runs its first long haul train||For the first time in the history of the South Western Railway (SWR), its Hubballi division operated a 1.25 km long train (long haul train) from Hosapete in Ballari district to Tinaighat in Uttara Kannada district on Sunday. Any goods train with composition of more than 59 wagons is defined as a long haul train. The long haul train run by SWR's Hubballi division on Sunday was equivalent to two goods trains, with total 117 wagons, two brake-vans, and four locomotive engines (two leading and two in the middle), between Hosapete and Tinaighat. This train left Hosapete at 2:35 pm and reached Tinaighat at 7:25 pm, covering a distance of 250 km in four hours and 50 minutes, at an average speed of 56 kmph. The success of this pioneer run is expected to help the SWR cope with line congestion on rail routes and ever increasing demand of wagons at loading points. It has an added advantage of increasing the speed of rolling stock as a result of reduction in number of trains, said a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/south-western-railway-runs-its-first-long-haul-train-863617.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shravana: No entry at BR Hill temple on Saturdays||The Religious Endowment department has restricted the entry of devotees to Biligiri Rangana Betta (BR Hill) temple and other temples in the taluk on Saturdays, during the month of Shravana, as a precautionary measure in the wake of the Covid pandemic. The month of Shravana begins on Tuesday (July 22). As a large number of people visit the temple of Ranganatha on Saturdays, during Shravana, the taluk administration has taken the decision to restrict the devotees for a month. Thousands of devotees visit the temple every year. However, this year, they would be allowed to enter the temple only during the stipulated time, on other days. Many offer their crop produce to the deity, as thanksgiving. The temple would be abuzz with activity, during Shravana month. With Covid cases on the rise, devotees should offer prayers and observe the Saturday rituals at home. The religious rituals should be followed in a meaningful manner, said temple executive officer S M Venkatesh Prasad. Meanwhile, Kambada Narasimhaswamy temple in Nagamangala taluk too has cancelled all special rituals of Shravana, as a precautionary measure, according to temple seva samiti president Narasimhamurthy. Narasimhaswamy temple here attracts a large number of people from across the state and also from other states. As a precautionary measure, all temple rituals have been cancelled from July 21 to August 19, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shravana-no-entry-at-br-hill-temple-on-saturdays-863632.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Medicos advise people to be more cautious this monsoon||With the rainy season picking up and also the rampant spread of Covid-19, doctors have urged the citizens to take extra care this monsoon. Though the monsoon season gives a relief from the scorching heat, it brings several diseases, due to harmful viruses and Covid is a new addition. Common diseases during rainy season include viral fevers, stomach infections, malaria, dengue and typhoid. According to Dr M G Satish Kumar, the risk of getting various diseases is high, owing to unhygienic conditions and other factors. Many monsoon diseases remain undiagnosed until they progress to uninvited complications. Therefore, early diagnosis and treatment of diseases during rainy season is important. Waterborne diseases see a spike during monsoon season, he said. The major sources of the diseases are exposure to dirt, contaminated water, poor sanitation and lack of proper drainage system, leaving people with poor immune systems more susceptible to infection. Another source of danger is food that is prepared un-hygienically. A doctor attached to the Health department claimed that the people need to take extra care, particularly during the Covid pandemic. The situation is risky not only for the people but for medical professionals. The department has taken all necessary measures to check the spread of waterborne diseases, but unless people are alert, it is not easy to contain the spread of any infection, he said. The doctors are under severe pressure due to outbreak of Covid-19 and it is better for the people to take care of themselves. The doctors advise the people to avoid eating food or drinking water outside and suggest consumption of boiled water. The people must ensure that their hands are thoroughly cleaned, maintain good toilet hygiene. The medicos also advise to use mosquito repellent and wear full-sleeved clothes, while stepping out of the house. Wear proper footwear and wash feet after walking in flooded areas, avoid visiting crowded places to reduce risk of viral infections. The doctors also recommend to avoid touching nose or mouth with hands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/medicos-advise-people-to-be-more-cautious-this-monsoon-863633.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rain recedes in coast, but no let-up in north Karnataka, Malnad||Rain receded in coastal districts, but many parts of north Karnataka, central plains and Malnad districts continued to experience heavy showers, coupled with thunder activity, on Monday. An elderly woman and a 10-year-old boy were killed in two separate rain-related incidents in Vijayapura district. In an incident reported late, Umar Faroque died after a portion of his house wall collapsed on him at Koravar in Devarahippargi taluk. Lalbi Nabisab Shabadi (75) died instantly when the roof of her house came crashing down at Huvinahippargi on Sunday night. Meanwhile, the swollen Hagari river in Ballari wreaked havoc on farms in Siruguppa taluk. The overflowing river has left vast tracts of paddy fields inundated. Ballari town experienced a brisk rain on Monday. The showers left many low-lying areas waterlogged. Motorists had a tough time in negotiating the flooded road under the rail overbridge on the district stadium road. Hosapete and Harapanahalli taluks witnessed heavy showers on Monday. More than 10 houses have suffered a partial damage in the rain in Harapanahalli. The standing crops on over 50 acres have been destroyed in the taluk. Three Kalyana Karnataka districts Yadgir, Kalaburagi and Koppal  also registered good rains in the last 48 hours. Three central districts - Davangere, Chitradurga and Tumakuru - also recorded intermittent spells of heavy showers. Tovinakere in Koratagere taluk, Tumakuru district, recorded a whopping 116.4 mm of rain on Monday. Kumudwati river in the parched district has come alive following the incessant rain in its catchment areas in the last few days. The water-level in Bhadra and Tunga rivers has increased considerably on Monday, thanks to torrential rain in Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts. There was no let up in rains in Mysuru and surrounding areas on Monday also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-recedes-in-coast-but-no-let-up-in-north-karnataka-malnad-863639.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||APMC traders seek cut in market fee; may launch stir||The APMC traders in Karnataka are gearing up to launch an indefinite trade bandh if the government fails to meet their demand for a reduction in market fee to 0.20% from the present 1% levied at APMC markets across the state. Following an amendment to the APMC Act recently through an ordinance, the state Cabinet on July 9 decided to reduce the market fee to 1% from the earlier 1.5%. Already, around 5,000 traders in north Karnataka districts such as Bidar, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Vijayapura and Yadgir have shut down their trade in demand for the reduction in the market fee. Following a suggestion from the centre, the state government promulgated an ordinance amending the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act to remove restrictions on the sale of farm produce. This was done by the government to help farmers hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. The legislation enables farmers to sell their products anywhere in the state and they need not depend on APMC yards in the state. The amendment was aimed at freeing farmers from the intermediaries and curb their exploitation. With this amendment, the large private traders and e-commerce companies can go up to the doorstep of the farmer and purchase agricultural produce directly without going through the APMC markets. Under the provisions of the amendment, buyers of agriculture produce need not pay any market fee outside the physical boundaries of APMC markets. “There will be no choice left for us if the government does not respond to our demands. We will go on a protest by not operating within APMC premises for an indefinite period. A decision will be taken on July 23 in this regard,” Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, Chairman of APMC Committee, FKCCI told DH. FKCCI, in a memorandum to the government, has sought a reduction in the market fee. The reduction in market fee will, however, cause loss of revenue to the state government. Till last fiscal year, the state government earned close to Rs 1,000 crore from market cess levied in the APMCs. With the reduction in the cess to 1%, the government’s revenue will drop below Rs 600 crore per annum. If it is reduced to 0.20%, the revenue will further drop to around Rs 250 crore. “We have told the government that there is a need to create a level playing field. It would be sufficient for the government to maintain its market yards even at 0.20% fee,” Lahoti said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/apmc-traders-seek-cut-in-market-fee-may-launch-stir-863642.html
20-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Will resign if corruption charges are proved: B Sriramulu||The B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government got into an overdrive on Monday to categorically deny claims of irregularities in the procurement of equipment and supplies for Covid-19. Health Minister B Sriramulu said he would resign if any of the corruption charges were proved. The government also ruled out any probe into the charges. In a marathon press conference, Sriramulu along with Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan gave out expenditure details incurred by Karnataka State Drugs, Logistics and Warehousing Society (KDLWS), while lambasting Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for his claims. The duo, however, was mum on the expenditure incurred by various other departments in procuring equipment and services to battle Covid-19. "I will resign even if there is an irregularity of one rupee in procuring equipment. The allegations by the opposition are far from truth and out of desperation caused by losing power in the state," Sriramulu said. There was a surge in the prices of equipment required to fight the Covid-19 pandemic due to increased demand and lack of supply. But everything was procured transparently, Sriramulu said. Dismissing Siddaramaiah's allegations that the government had procured ventilators at a cost of Rs 120 crore against a market price of Rs 40 crore, Sriramulu said that 108 ventilators with varying specifications were procured at only Rs 10.61 crore. The government did not have to pay for the 640 of the 2,149 ventilators as they came from the PM-CARES fund, he said. On PPE kits, Sriramulu said that 9.65 lakh of them were procured by KDLWS at a cost of Rs 79.35 crore, while the Opposition alleged procurement worth Rs 150 crore. Similar allegations regarding procurement of other N-95 masks, gloves and other equipment were baseless. All allegations are far from the truth, he said, adding that "God will punish those who indulged in corruption during the pandemic." Narayan said that the basic purpose of such allegations was to create fear among people. "There was scarcity of all equipment (causing prices to surge). Many developed nations too had to face this problem as the world was dependent on China's supply chain," he added. To a question on whether the government would initiate a probe, he said that the question did not arise. "There are no grounds for the allegations made by the Opposition," he said. On expenses incurred by departments other than Health & Family Welfare, he said that the Medical Education Department had spent Rs 33 crore to procure ventilators. However, there was no information provided regarding expenditure by key departments such as Revenue and Labour Departments, or the cost incurred for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-resign-if-corruption-charges-are-proved-b-sriramulu-863566.html
20-07-2020||Main Article||Fix accountability||The custodial death of Jeyaraj and Benicks Emmanuel in Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu on June 23 shocked the nation. The father-son duo were brutally tortured for the mere offence of having kept their shop open after the permissible time in the evening during the lockdown period. Night-long torture by a posse of policemen of Sathankulam police station left them almost lifeless with their clothes soaked in blood due to severe bleeding.  They were taken the following day to a hospital, followed by their relatives, where they were administered medicines and detained for about three hours for the bleeding to subside, after which a medical certificate was obtained. They were then produced before the judicial magistrate, who having seen them from a distance, remanded them to judicial custody. All this while, they were ringed by policemen to prevent any relative coming close, except to change their blood-soaked clothes frequently due to excessive bleeding.    The state-wide protests had still not subsided when another case of custodial death surfaced – that of Kumaresan, an autorickshaw driver who died on June 27 at the Tirunelveli Medical College. He had been detained in Veerakeralamputhur police station in Tirunelveli district on May 10 during which he was so brutally beaten that his lungs and kidneys were damaged.    Custodial deaths are not unique to Tamil Nadu where 76 persons died in custody in 2018. It is rampant across the country and the figures released by the National Human Rights Commission and the National Crime Records Bureau show no signs of abating. Between 2010 and 2015, as many 591 custodial deaths were recorded. In 2016, the death toll in police custody was 96, which shot up to 100 the following year. The figure for 2018 was 147.  Despite several directions by various courts to reduce the custodial deaths, no heed is paid and the figures continue to be appalling. The figures do not include several unreported cases as most victims fear further harassment and torture if they venture to squeal about the treatment meted out to them in the police station.  Another custodial death of Mahendran surfaced because of the furore generated by the torture-related death of Jeyaraj and Benkis.  He was tortured on May 24 and died on June 13. His mother Vadivu had been warned that if she dared to ever complain, her other son Durai, who was under investigation in a murder case, would be arrested along with his wife on some trumped-up charges. She was forced to complete his burial without post-mortem – a must in all unnatural deaths. Though cases are at times registered against policemen for custodial deaths, rarely are they convicted. Although 89 cases were registered against police personnel in 2018 for custodial deaths, not one was convicted. This is largely due to the fact that the witnesses are threatened at the time of hearing in the courts.      Policemen feel emboldened to torture their victims because they have the full backing of not just their comrades in khaki but also their superiors. With impunity, they go about beating, maiming or even killing people in custody.  Only four Mumbai policemen were convicted between 2010 and 2016 for custodial deaths.   Though there were 97 custodial deaths in 2015, only 33 cases were registered against the policemen. Since investigations are done by their own colleagues, almost all of them go scot free. Nobody is accountable – neither the police station in-charge, nor his superiors, or anyone higher in the hierarchy right up to the DGP or the home minister.   Police reforms Way back in 2006, the Supreme Court had directed all states to set up Police Complaints Authority  (PCA) in the Prakash Singh Vs Union of India case on the subject of police reforms. Though they have been set up in most states to lodge complaints against recalcitrant policemen, their efficacy leaves much to be desired.  Sadly enough, it is often the junior functionaries who are taken to task for crime by policemen. Action is seldom taken against the SPs or higher-ranking officers.  As supervisory officers, the responsibility devolves on them to ensure that police personnel under their command carry out regular checks and inspections of police stations and attend to the grievances of the citizens at the police stations. A series of cases of police high-handedness at Satankulam police station should have spurred the DySP and the SP to take action against them.  But they chose to ignore and thereby gave their consent to such atrocities in a subtle manner. Transfer or suspension is no punishment for policemen who are accused of serious charges of murder. With fading public memory, they are reinstated with all accruing benefits.  In such serious cases as happened in Satankulam police station, the states should exercise the powers of dismissal under Article 311 (2) of the Constitution as a formal enquiry would not be possible when the policemen threaten the witnesses and thereby sabotage the whole process for an impartial inquiry.  A lady head constable of  Sathankulam police station who was brave enough to come out with the truth about the torture of the father-son duo  on June 19 has felt threatened and thanks to the Madurai bench of Madras High Court, she has been provided the security.  All efforts are said to have been made by the policemen of the station to destroy the evidence that could lead to their conviction.  In all custodial death cases, action should necessarily be taken against the doctors who issue fake certificates, the judicial magistrates who remand the arrested person to judicial custody without serious considerations and also the jail authorities who accept a person with serious ailments or injuries. The police-judiciary-medical officials nexus to harass and torture common citizens needs to be snapped lest they assume alarming proportion. (The writer is retired Inspector General of Police, CRPF)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/fix-accountability-863329.html
20-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 20||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 10 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.    On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 11,46,168 as of July 20 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 28,189 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 6,53,751 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-20-863337.html
20-07-2020||National||Former judges, lawyers demand diverse representation on criminal law review panel||A group of former judges and bureaucrats, lawyers and academicians have demanded reconstitution of a government-appointed committee looking into criminal law reforms, saying it has no representation of women, Dalits and minorities in the panel tasked with recommending wide-ranging changes in the statutes.  As the five-member 'Committee for Reforms in Criminal Laws' initiated an online consultation process, the group shot off a letter to panel head National Law University-Delhi Vice Chancellor Ranbir Singh, saying that the six-month deadline set for completing the task was not fair.  "Humanity requires that the Committee not commit to an exercise of this scale when 600 Indians are dying every day and when large swathes of the country are in lockdown or containment," the letter signed by 123 people, including senior lawyers Raju Ramachandran, Indira Jaising and Kamini Jaiswal. The MHA had set up the committee in May this year to undertake a review of criminal laws and the committee has started online consultation with experts spread over 83 days, starting July 4. The letter also found fault with the composition of the committee of five members -- Dr G S Bajpai, Dr Balraj Chauhan, Mahesh Jethmalani and G P Thareja besides Singh -- saying it does not reflect diversity. "Given this committee's wide remit and given that the final product of this committee’s efforts is set to reconfigure fundamentally the relationship between citizens, and between citizens and the State, it is of utmost importance that the composition of the committee reflects at least some of India’s rich diversity," it said. The letter said the committee must include representation from social groups and communities that have hitherto been failed by the justice delivery system.  "In the 21st century, how can a committee that is set to rewrite criminal law not have a woman? Is the Dalit community represented on the Committee? One cannot think of rewriting criminal law without ensuring that the life experiences of the Muslim community are adequately represented at every stage of that process," it said. The group also felt that Adivasis, transgenders, trade union leaders and legal historians and constitutional law scholars should also be included in the committee. "If this seems like a call to include a wide array of stakeholders and persons affected, it is because such a root and branch rewriting of the three most important laws under the Constitution must be an exercise in extensive public deliberation with the widest representation at the high table to ensure rigorous procedure and robust outcome," it said. The letter noted with concern that the resources on the committee's website –  criminallawreforms.in – are a collection of 89 reports of the Law Commission, seven reports of other committees and 35 articles by the Convenor-Member Bajpai.  "Surely, it cannot be that the committee studied nothing but the Law Commission Reports and the publications of the esteemed member of the Committee before framing its questionnaire? Of the six researchers listed on the website of the committee, one of them appears to have co-authored six articles with the committee’s Convenor-Member, another has co-authored three op-eds with the Convenor-Member, and a third has co-authored one op-ed with the Convenor-Member. All six researchers appear to have been drawn from NLU-D alone," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-judges-lawyers-demand-diverse-representation-on-criminal-law-review-panel-863348.html
20-07-2020||National||Citizenship Act: India rounds up critics under cover of coronavirus crisis, say activists||After spending several anxious days in prison, Natasha Narwal, a student activist accused of rioting by New Delhi police, thought her ordeal was nearing an end. A judge ruled that Narwal had been exercising her democratic rights when she participated in protests earlier this year against a divisive citizenship law that incited unrest across India. But shortly after the judge approved Narwal’s release in late May, police announced fresh charges: murder, terrorism and organizing protests that instigated deadly religious violence in India’s capital. Narwal, 32, who has said that she is innocent, was returned to her cell. “I felt like crying,” said her roommate, Vikramaditya Sahai. “We are grieving the country we grew up in.” As India struggles to quell surging coronavirus infections, lawyers accuse authorities of rounding up government critics and keeping them in detention in the middle of a pandemic. It is part of a strategy, they say, to stifle activists who are protesting what they see as iron-fisted and anti-minority policies under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In recent weeks, Narwal and nearly a dozen other prominent activists — along with potentially dozens of other demonstrators, though police records are unclear — have been detained. They are being held under stringent sedition and anti-terrorism laws that have been used to criminalize everything from leading rallies to posting political messages on social media. India’s coronavirus restrictions, some of which are still in effect, have blocked pathways to justice, lawyers and rights activists said. With courts closed for weeks, lawyers have struggled to file bail applications, and meeting privately with prisoners has been nearly impossible. Law enforcement officials in New Delhi, who are under the direct control of India’s home ministry, have denied any impropriety. But rights groups said the arrests have been arbitrary, based on scant evidence and in line with a broader deterioration of free speech in India. In a lengthy report released this month, the Delhi Minorities Commission, a government body, accused police and politicians from Modi’s party of inciting brutal attacks on protesters and supporting a “pogrom” against minority Muslims. Meenakshi Ganguly, the South Asia director of Human Rights Watch, said cases against activists appeared to be “politically motivated” and that police had devised a formula for keeping people like Narwal in jail: When a judge orders the release of a prisoner for lack of evidence, new charges are introduced. “The urgency to arrest rights activists and an obvious reluctance to act against violent actions of the government’s supporters show a complete breakdown in the rule of law,” she said. Before the pandemic hit, Modi was in the throes of the most significant challenge to his power since becoming prime minister in 2014. After Parliament passed a law last year that made it easier for non-Muslim migrants to become Indian citizens, millions protested across the country. To critics, the citizenship law was more evidence that Modi’s Hindu nationalist government planned to strip the country’s Muslims of their rights. Tensions peaked in February when sectarian violence and rioting broke out in New Delhi. The vast majority of people killed, hurt or displaced were Muslim, and police were involved in many of those cases. After Modi announced a nationwide lockdown in late March to contain the coronavirus, shutting down businesses and ordering all 1.3 billion Indians inside, the protests disbanded. Lawyers said police then moved to detain demonstrators while skirting complaints against government allies. Among those in custody are a youth activist who raised awareness about police brutality against Muslims; an academic who gave a speech opposing the citizenship law; and Narwal, a graduate student who co-founded Pinjra Tod, or Break the Cage, a women’s collective that organized some of the largest rallies. Nitika Khaitan, a criminal lawyer, said the crackdown had also pushed beyond higher-profile critics to include ordinary residents of riot-hit neighborhoods. She recently challenged those arrests in a jointly signed letter to the Delhi High Court. Lawyers have tracked a few dozen such arrests under the lockdown, though Khaitan said the true figure could not be verified because police reports had not been made public. Many detentions were “not in compliance with constitutional mandates,” she said. In a recent interview, Sachidanand Shrivastava, the police chief in New Delhi, said his officers were conducting fair investigations. In May, authorities said they had detained about 1,300 people for involvement in the protests and riots, including an equal number of Hindus and Muslims. Recently, police arrested a group of Hindus for forcing nine Muslim men to chant “Hail Lord Ram,” a reference to a Hindu god, before killing them and throwing their bodies into a drain. “It is very important that the police force remain impartial,” Shrivastava said. “And we are following this principle from Day 1.” But members of India’s judiciary have questioned the official numbers, accusing police of withholding information about the arrests under national security protections and singling out Muslims for many of the harsher charges. In court proceeding notes reviewed by The New York Times, a judge hearing a case against a Muslim protester wrote that police appeared to be targeting only “one end” without probing the “rival faction.” During the riots, police were accused of abetting Hindus and, in some cases, torturing Muslims. Khalid Saifi, a member of United Against Hate, a group that works with victims of hate crimes, was arrested after he tried to mediate between police and protesters, according to his lawyers. Police charged him with being a “key conspirator” of the riots. His wife, Nargis Saifi, said he was tortured in custody. “His only crime is he is a Muslim,” she said. M.S. Randhawa, a police spokesperson, denied that Khalid Saifi had been tortured, adding that he has regular opportunities to speak to a judge if abuse occurs. “These are just allegations,” Randhawa said. “He would have told the magistrate if he had been tortured.” But rights advocates accuse Modi’s government of shielding party officials — and more broadly, of Hindus involved in the violence. Narwal, who was detained in May, could face at least several years in prison for helping organize demonstrations that blocked a busy road in northeast Delhi, where February’s bloodiest battles between Hindus and Muslims broke out. Police have accused her of playing a leading role in the riots, charging her with murder, attempt to murder and being part of a “criminal conspiracy.” At the same time, police have been accused of ignoring complaints against Kapil Mishra, a local politician with Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party who gave a fiery speech threatening to remove Narwal and other protesters forcibly if authorities did not take action. Hours after the ultimatum, the streets erupted. But charges were never filed against Mishra, who has denied a role in starting the riots.  A New Delhi police superintendent, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said some officers had wanted to act against Mishra, but they were pressured by the force’s leadership not to touch “the warriors of the government.” “We did not even try,” the superintendent said. “The directions were clear: Don’t lay your hands on him.” Through an intermediary, Mishra declined to comment. Narwal’s father, Mahavir Narwal, said the government was moving India closer to authoritarianism and demonizing anybody who questioned its policies. For weeks, prison officials ignored his calls and emails to Tihar Jail, where Narwal is being held. With coronavirus restrictions in place, she was moved into an isolation ward at one point, where she stayed for 17 days, said her father, a retired scientist. Lately, communication has smoothed out. But he said the subtext of his daughter’s arrest seemed clear: “If you protest, you will be called a terrorist. “All she did was fight to keep the soul of India alive,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/citizenship-act-india-rounds-up-critics-under-cover-of-coronavirus-crisis-say-activists-863362.html
20-07-2020||National||Covid-19 community spread has started in India: IMA Chairman||"This is now an exponential growth. Every day the number of cases is increasing by more than around 30,000. This is really a bad situation for the country. There are so many factors connected with it but overall this is now spreading to rural areas. This is a bad sign. It now shows a community spread," Dr V K Monga, the Chairman of IMA Hospital Board of India told ANI. On Monday, India saw a record single-day jump of 40,425 Covid-19 cases, pushing its tally past the 11-lakh mark, while the total number of recoveries crossed 7 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The death toll due to the disease rose to 27,497 with 681 fatalities reported in one day. The data updated at 8 am on Monday showed that the total number of Covid-19 cases stands at 11,18,043. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 11-lakh mark, just three days after it crossed the ten-lakh mark. Concurring with the IMA chairman, Dr Arvind Kumar, Chairman of Centre for Chest Surgers at Delhi's Ganga Ram Hospital said he was not only a 100 percent certain there was community spread but that it has been there for some time. "This should not come as a surprise. It is not a new discovery, the IMA has only stated it for everyone to see," he said. Dr Monga further said that the Covid-19 is penetrating into towns and villages where it will be very difficult to control the situation. "In Delhi, we were able to contain it, but what about interior parts of the country in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Goa, Madhya Pradesh (which may be the new hotspots)?” he asked.  Dr Monga cautioned that these issues are very important and the state governments should take full care and seek help of the Central government to control the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-community-spread-has-started-in-india-ima-chairman-863405.html
20-07-2020||National||Record single-day spike of 40,425 Covid-19 cases; India's tally crosses 11 lakh||India saw a record single-day jump of 40,425 Covid-19 cases, pushing its tally past the 11-lakh mark on Monday, while the total number of recoveries crossed 7 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to the disease rose to 27,497 with 681 fatalities reported in one day. The data updated at 8 am on Monday showed that the total number of Covid-19 cases stands at 11,18,043. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 11-lakh mark, just three days after it crossed the ten-lakh mark. There are 3,90,459 active cases in the country, while 7,00,086 people have recovered and one person has migrated. The recovery rate stands at 62.61 per cent. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. This is the first time that the single-day spike has crossed the 40,000-mark. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,40,47,908 samples have been tested up to July 19 with 2,56,039 samples being tested on Sunday. Of the 681 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 258 were reported from Maharashtra, 91 from Karnataka, 78 from Tamil Nadu, 56 from Andhra Pradesh, 38 from Uttar Pradesh, 36 from West Bengal, 31 from Delhi, 20 from Gujarat and 15 from Madhya Pradesh. The total fatalities in one day include nine from Bihar, eight each from Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, six each from Rajasthan and Telangana, five each from Haryana and Odisha, four from Assam, three from Jharkhand, two from Kerala, and one each from Goa and Ladakh. Of the total 27,497 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 11,854 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,628 deaths, Tamil Nadu 2,481, Gujarat 2,142, Karnataka 1,331, Uttar Pradesh 1,146, West Bengal 1,112, Madhya Pradesh 721 and Andhra Pradesh 642. So far, 559 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 415 in Telangana, 349 in Haryana, 254 in Punjab, 244 in Jammu and Kashmir, 217 in Bihar, 91 in Odisha, 57 in Assam, 52 in Uttarakhand, 49 in Jharkhand and 42 in Kerala. Puducherry has registered 28 deaths, Chhattisgarh 24, Goa 22, Chandigarh 12, Himachal Pradesh 11, Tripura 5, Arunachal Pradesh 3, while Meghalaya, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, and Ladakh have reported two fatalities each. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 3,10,455 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,70,693, Delhi at 1,22,793, Karnataka at 63,772, Gujarat at 48,355, Uttar Pradesh at 49,247, Andhra Pradesh at 49,650 and Telangana at 45,076. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 42,487 in West Bengal, 29,434 in Rajasthan, 26,164 in Haryana, 26,569 in Bihar, 23,999 in Assam and 22,600 in Madhya Pradesh. Odisha has reported 17,437 infections, Jammu and Kashmir 13,899, Kerala 12,480, while Punjab has 10,100 cases. A total of 5,535 have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand, 5,407 in Chhattisgarh, 4,515 in Uttarakhand, 3,657 in Goa, 2,878 in Tripura, 1,999 in Puducherry, 1,911 in Manipur, 1,483 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,178 in Ladakh. Nagaland has recorded 988 Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh 717, Arunachal Pradesh 740 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 605 cases. Meghalaya has reported 450 cases, Mizoram 284, Sikkim has registered 283 infections so far, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has recorded 203 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding, state-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-single-day-spike-of-40425-covid-19-cases-indias-tally-crosses-11-lakh-863427.html
20-07-2020||National||You as a state have to uphold the rule of law: SC tells Uttar Pradesh government on Vikas Dubey's encounter||The Supreme Court Monday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to consider adding a former apex court judge and a retired police officer in the inquiry committee which is probing the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey. The top court also said it was "appalled" that the gangster got bail despite so many cases against him. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, hearing a batch of pleas seeking court-monitored probe into the encounters of Dubey and his alleged associates, told the Uttar Pradesh government that they have to “uphold rule of law”. “You as a state have to uphold the rule of law. It is your duty to do so,” the top court said. The bench said it cannot spare a sitting top court judge to become a part of the inquiry committee. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, sought some time to take instruction and get back to the court on the issue. “We are appalled to the fact that a person like Vikas Vikas Dubey got the bail despite so many cases,” the bench said. “This is the failure of the institution and the person, who should have been behind the bars, got bail,” the bench observed during the hearing which is going on. Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area, the police had said. Prior to Dubey's encounter, five of his alleged associated were killed in separate encounters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/you-as-a-state-have-to-uphold-the-rule-of-law-sc-tells-uttar-pradesh-government-on-vikas-dubeys-encounter-863438.html
20-07-2020||National||43 hospitals across 11 states covered under AIIMS video consultation programme: Health Ministry||Having covered 43 hospitals across 11 states this month, the AIIMS Delhi teleconsultation guidance programme for state doctors on Covid clinical management would reach out to ICU doctors at smaller healthcare facilities in the coming weeks, the Health Ministry said on Monday. To strengthen the government's efforts to reduce Covid mortality, the AIIMS Delhi had started the 'e-ICU' video consultation for state doctors on Covid clinical management earlier this month. In a statement, the Health ministry said four sessions have been held till date covering 43 institutions across 11 states. These include ten institutions in Mumbai, three in Goa, three in Delhi, three in Gujarat and two in Telangana, the statement said. The video consultation program in the coming weeks would cover ICU doctors from smaller healthcare facilities across the country, it said. Each of these sessions conducted through video conference span over 1.5 to 2 hours. The discussions have covered the entire range of issues related to management of Covid -19 patients, the Health ministry said. "Some of the important issues that have been stressed upon are the need for rational use of 'Investigational Therapies' like Remdesevir, convalescent plasma and Tocilizumab. The treating teams have discussed current indications and possible harm due to their indiscriminate use and the need to limit social-media pressure based prescriptions," it said. The ministry said the use of proning, high flow oxygen, non-invasive ventilation and ventilator settings for advanced disease have also been a common discussion point. "The role of various testing strategies in diagnosing Covid -19 has also been an important topic of shared learning. Issues such as the need for repeat testing, admission and discharge criteria, management of post discharge symptoms, and return to work have been addressed," it added. Some of the other common concerns have been the methods of communication with patients, screening of health-care workers, managing new-onset diabetes, uncommon presentations such as stroke, diarrhoea and myocardial infarction etc, it said. "The team from AIIMS, New Delhi was able to act as a bridge for new knowledge from one group to the other at each VC, apart from advising from its own experience and the extensive literature reviews done by the domain experts," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/43-hospitals-across-11-states-covered-under-aiims-video-consultation-programme-health-ministry-863441.html
20-07-2020||National||'CISF should undertake regular threat assessments to ensure security to India's economic assets'||The CISF should undertake regular threat assessments and enhance its capacity to ensure that the economic assets of the country are secured at a time when global security dynamics are changing rapidly, Union minister G Kishan Reddy said on Monday. He said the role of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in ensuring the security of vital assets of the country is very important as India is one of the fastest-growing economies in the world. Addressing a batch of 100 newly-commissioned officers and sub-officers of the paramilitary force through a webcast, the minister of state for home affairs said the CISF needs to undertake regular threat assessments and enhance its capacity, especially at the civil airports under its cover and other vital installations. "Global security dynamics are undergoing a massive change and we need to regularly undertake threat assessments and accordingly, enhance our capacity. "A timely security audit with the help of cutting-edge technology and data analysis will prepare us for possible attacks and we will be able to take preventive steps," Reddy said. The 100 officers and sub-officers -- 11 assistant commandants, 79 sub-inspectors, 10 assistant sub-inspectors -- graduated from the National Industrial Security Academy of the CISF in Hyderabad on Monday. The CISF was raised in 1969. It has a strength of about 1.62 lakh personnel, who are tasked with guarding 63 civil airports in the country, the Delhi Metro, historical monuments such as the Taj Mahal and the Red Fort, apart from a number of vital installations in the nuclear and aerospace domains. Reddy said it was due to the CISF that people feel safe at airports and other public facilities and countries across the globe are "willing to invest in India" due to the security ensured by the force. "In the last few years, due to the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India has emerged as one of the fastest-growing economies. "The CISF has to work to ensure the safety and security of our economic assets," he added. Reddy said vigilance is of "utmost importance" for the force and this needs to be constantly strengthened by introducing better technology. "Vigilance is very important for all of you, especially those posted at airports need to be extra careful and working in tandem with other agencies, and you should develop intelligence to identify terrorists, anti-nationals and criminals, who are enemies of the humankind," he said in the web address relayed from his North Block office here. Reddy said the responsibility of the force has increased substantially and the personnel have a "challenging job". He also talked about the ongoing combat against the coronavirus in the country. "India is facing the pandemic like the rest of the world but under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and the collective will of the people of the country, we will win the battle against coronavirus," Reddy said. CISF Director General Rajesh Ranjan, who also addressed the newly-commissioned officers and sub-officers from his Delhi office, said their motto should be "service with a smile". "Our forte is our core competence in the domain and that should continue with ethics, honesty and dedication," he said. A senior official said the 100 officers and sub-officers will soon be posted to various CISF units across the country after they undergo the mandatory Covid-19 quarantine procedure. The personnel were trained at the academy for about a year in various domains of combat, intelligence gathering, law and industrial security, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisf-should-undertake-regular-threat-assessments-to-ensure-security-to-indias-economic-assets-863462.html
20-07-2020||National||Shekhawat questions audio tapes' authenticity after Rajasthan Police seeks his voice sample||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Monday questioned the authenticity of the audio clips, cited by the Congress to allege his involvement in a purported bid to topple the Rajasthan government, and sought to know its source and how the state police got it. The Rajasthan Police SOG (special operations group), which is probing the case, had earlier sent a notice to Shekhawat, asking him to give his voice sample and record his statement. Shekhawat said, "They (police) should first clear about the authenticity of these tapes. Who recorded it and where did the SOG get it from. The investigation should be carried out to find out if these tapes are genuine or not." His remarks indicated that he is unlikely to join the probe amid a raging political controversy over the audio clips. The Congress has alleged that the BJP leader's voice figure in them, a charge refuted by him. The BJP has called these clips "manufactured" and demanded a CBI probe, questioning if the state police tapped phones of politicians in violation of rules. The FIR registered by Rajasthan Police mentions details of alleged conversations of rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma with Gajendra Singh and a third man, named Sanjay Jain. The police have arrested Jain. The Congress claims Gajendra Singh, the name mentioned in the FIR, is a reference to Union minister Shekhawat. Rajasthan plunged into a political crisis after Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's deputy Sachin Pilot rebelled. The Congress later removed Pilot as the deputy chief minister and also as the party's state unit head||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shekhawat-questions-audio-tapes-authenticity-after-rajasthan-police-seeks-his-voice-sample-863478.html
20-07-2020||National||20% increase in use of online spying and stalking apps during lockdown in India, says Avast||A global leader in digital security and privacy products, Avast, has found that globally, there has been a 51% increase in the use of spy and stalkerware since the lockdown in March until June, in comparison to January and February 2020. In India, since March, Avast has protected over 4,000 users from apps capable of spying, mostly stalkerware, with the monthly average up 20% vs the first two months of the year. Stalkerware is unethical software that allows people to track someone's location, access their personal photos and videos, intercept emails, texts and app communications such as WhatsApp and Facebook, as well as eavesdrop on phone calls and make covert recordings of conversations over the internet, without the target's knowledge. Among the entire range of spy and stalkerware, Avast has also observed a number of Covid-19-related apps designed to spy on users, which collected more information about its users than required to function, according to a press statement issued here on Monday. Avast threat analysts have found three stalkerware apps in India that are named after India's official Covid-19 app, Aarogya Setu, and use an icon looking like, or reminding of the official app’s icon. When downloaded, the official Aarogya Setu app gets installed along with the stalkerware app. The stalkerware apps use the original app to get approval from the user to allow the collection of sensitive information. To spy on the user, it then uses the AcessibilityService of Android to get various permissions and gets the ability to make phone calls, get SIM serial number, read contacts, read phone state, read and send text messages, record calls/audio, queries call log, access device location and ID. The apps can also hide their icon, making it hard for the victim to notice it, and also have the capability to mute the ringer. Jaya Baloo, chief information security officer, Avast said, “Stalkerware is a growing category of domestic malware with disturbing and dangerous implications. While spyware and infostealers seek to steal personal data, stalkerware is different: it steals the physical and online freedom of the victim. Usually installed secretly on mobile phones by so-called friends, jealous spouses, ex-partners, and even concerned parents, stalkerware tracks the physical location of the victim, monitors sites visited on the internet, text messages and phone calls, undermining a person’s individual liberty and online freedom.” Avast has protected over 43,000 users globally from such malware since March 2020. Country specific data indicates 3,531 users have been targeted in the United States, 1,648 in France, and 3,048 in Brazil. This growing digital threat identified by Avast is set against a backdrop of an increase in domestic violence during lockdown, called a “shadow epidemic” of the coronavirus by Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, executive director of UN Women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-increase-in-use-of-online-spying-and-stalking-apps-during-lockdown-in-india-says-avast-863479.html
20-07-2020||National||SC rejects plea to preserve artefacts found in Ayodhya digging; imposes cost, warns of CBI probe into petition||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed with Rs one lakh cost each two PILs seeking to preserve the artefacts recovered from excavation from Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari pulled up petitioner Satish Chindhuji Shambharkar and others for filing "absolutely frivolous" petitions to scuttle the Ayodhya case verdict delivered by a five-judge bench on November 9, 2019. The court also warned the petitioners of CBI probe into their filing of petitions.  "Are you saying that there is no Rule of Law and the judgement on Ayodhya case will not be followed and no action will be taken," the bench asked the petitioners. The petitioners sought a direction to the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government to secure and protect the ancient monuments and artefacts found during digging and leveling of birth land of Lord Ram for construction of temple in May. They also wanted further direction to excavate and level the land under the supervision and control of Archeological Survey of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-to-preserve-artefacts-found-in-ayodhya-digging-imposes-cost-warns-of-cbi-probe-into-petition-863490.html
20-07-2020||National||India offers safety to Afghan Hindu and Sikh minorities facing attacks||The Indian government said it will expedite visas and the possibility of long-term residency for Afghanistan’s tiny Hindu and Sikh minorities, shrunken by decades of persecution and decimated by attacks in recent years amid the Afghan war. “India has decided to facilitate the return of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan to India,” the Indian Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement Saturday. The statement, on the rescue of an Afghan Sikh leader who was abducted in eastern Afghanistan last month, did not provide further details.   An Indian official in Kabul said the decision meant that any of the roughly 600 Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan, an overwhelmingly Muslim country, would be given priority visas and the opportunity to apply for long-term residency once they arrived in India. In interviews, many welcomed the emergency option, but said it posed an agonizing dilemma. In Afghanistan, they have livelihoods — shops and businesses passed down through generations — but spend their days dreading the next attack. Making a new start in India would most likely mean living in poverty, they said, particularly during an economic slump exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic. Lala Sher Singh, 63, who lives near a Sikh temple in Kabul that was attacked in March, said the community had shrunk so much that his thoughts were occupied “day and night” by a fear that the next assault might not leave enough people who can perform the final rituals for the dead. “I may get killed here because of these threats to Hindus and Sikhs, but in India I will die from poverty,” he said. “I have spent my whole life in Afghanistan. In this neighborhood close to the temple, if I run out of money and stand in front of a shop and ask for two eggs and some bread, they will give it to me for free. But who will help me in India?” There was no official reaction from the Afghan government to India’s offer. A senior Afghan official, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the news media, said that violence affected all Afghans, and that an offer of safety to Hindus and Sikhs put religious diversity in Afghanistan in doubt. The official said the move appeared aimed at a domestic audience in India, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tried to move the country away from its secular, multicultural foundations and give it a more overtly Hindu identity, while projecting itself as a champion of persecuted Hindu minorities elsewhere.   The Hindu nationalist government recently amended India’s laws in a way that critics say blatantly discriminates against Muslims, giving a fast track to citizenship for migrants who are Hindu or members of five religious minorities — but not Muslim migrants. The law is one reason Muslims feel increasingly demonized and marginalized in India, though they are the second-largest religious group, making up one-seventh of the population. The status of Afghan religious minorities is more uncertain than ever, as the United States withdraws troops after more than 18 years and the Taliban, who ruled oppressively in the 1990s, prepare for talks with the government over power-sharing. The battlefield has grown more chaotic, joined by more extreme groups such as a branch of the Islamic State that specifically target vulnerable minorities. The Hindu and Sikh communities in Afghanistan once numbered in the tens, if not the hundreds, of thousands, with well-established businesses and high-ranking positions in the government. But nearly all have fled to India, Europe or North America over decades of war and persecution. In the eastern province of Nangarhar, only 45 families remain from thousands before. In Paktia, another eastern province, only a single family remains: Jagmohan Singh, an herbal doctor, and his wife and two of their children. Their other two children have decamped for Kabul. “A few decades back, there were around 3,000 families of Hindus and Sikhs in different areas and districts of Paktia,” Singh said. “Except my family, all of them fled.” As their numbers have shrunk, Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan often live in the same large compounds and sometimes also share a place of worship. Just over 600 Hindus and Sikhs now live across Afghanistan; two major attacks in the last two years have killed about 50, leaving practically every family scarred. The most recent attack was a six-hour siege by Islamic State militants on a Sikh temple and housing complex in Kabul, in March, that left 25 people dead, including young children. After the attack, as community leaders expressed alarm, Afghan officials, including the national security adviser, promised new safety measures. But Narendra Singh Khalsa, the community’s representative in the Afghan parliament, said the temple remained shut and unrepaired. Except for a few additional police officers in the area, they had not received any support that would ease their concerns. “They have made some checkpoints where a number of police officers are present,” said Warjet Singh, 22, who runs a shop outside the temple, where his mother, father and brother were killed. “But the officials know that they cannot prevent any attack with a police officer standing in front of the temple,” he added. “There is no change in our situation,” he said. “I am still risking my life when I come out every morning for work; I am still worried about another attack on our compound.” Singh, who received financial assistance from the Afghan government, said life had become unbearable since the attack took his family and deprived him of a place of worship. His wife, who is pregnant with their first child, has dreaded going to the hospital because a maternity ward was recently attacked and mothers and babies were killed. “When India provides a long-term visa, I will go and live there until the security situation is better in my own country so I can return,” Singh said. “No one will take my country from me, but it’s important for me to survive so I can come back when things are good.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-offers-safety-to-afghan-hindu-and-sikh-minorities-facing-attacks-863498.html
20-07-2020||National||Consumer Rights Act comes into force; expands definition of 'customer', includes fine for false advertisement||The Consumer Protection Act of 2019 comes into effect today, replacing the Consumer Protection Act of 1986. One of the most significant changes has been the widening of the definition of the word “customer”. With the new Act, even those who purchase goods and services online, through telemarketing, teleshopping or other electronic means, would be protected. The previous act did not include e-commerce transactions. The State Commission and NCDRC would have the power to void unfair contracts. The two parties can solve disputes by agreeing to the terms of a mediator, these will be seen as an order of the court. Under the Act, the consumer would be allowed to file a case wherever they reside. They do not necessarily need to have legal representation in the form of a lawyer. A fixed timeline would also be followed for mediation. The act also aims to set up a body called the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) that would enforce the rights of consumers. It would intervene in the case of unfair trade practices and initiate a recall and return of substandard products. A fine and jail time for misleading advertisers is also in the books and while there is no provision of incarceration for celebrities who act in misleading ads, they could be banned from advertising for doing so. The Act also roughly defines “unfair trade practices”, which includes sharing confidential information provided by the customer. The product liability division would prevent service providers from delivering sub-standard devices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consumer-rights-act-comes-into-force-expands-definition-of-customer-includes-fine-for-false-advertisement-863507.html
20-07-2020||National||'Faceless' internet assessment becomes face of Tax department||There is no need to meet the local Income Tax Department officer in case one receives a scrutiny notice, the tax department said in its latest public message on the new faceless assessment scheme. With the internet-based faceless assessment being used now, the "face of the Income Tax Department is changing", it said. The department said a person or an assessee need not worry if they receive a tax scrutiny notice from the department. "Faceless income tax is here to help. No need to meet your local income tax officer to explain your income and tax. "Reply electronically on the income tax department portal," it said. Such replies will be reviewed by a faceless income tax team located in different cities of India, it added. "Faceless income tax will ensure a just and fair order for you. Faceless income tax is already helping 58,000 such taxpayers," the message stated. According to an official source, the department has disposed of 7,116 cases under the first phase of the faceless assessment scheme that was launched in October last year. Out of the total 58,319 cases assigned randomly to tax officers across the country till now, the source said, 7,116 cases have been disposed of with assessment orders issued without any additions. As many as 291 cases, wherein additions are proposed to be made, are being processed. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the faceless income tax assessment scheme in her budget speech on July 5 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/faceless-internet-assessment-becomes-face-of-tax-department-863511.html
20-07-2020||National||India should focus on food security, use its rural population to battle Covid-19: American economist Richard Wolff||Wolff, who believes climate change, inequality, racism, instability and the Covid-19 pandemic have converged to make the global economic crisis more acute and long-lasting, said India’s anti-pandemic programmes should not just involve funding but also focus on constructing social distancing protocols for rural conditions. “In predominantly rural economies like India, lower (non-urban) population densities should be made to work against the viral (coronavirus) spread and likewise stress on building up food security should be more manageable," Wolff, professor emeritus at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst faculty, told PTI in an email interview. Elaborating, he said, India’s anti-pandemic programmes should involve funding but also systemic assistance in two key areas -- to construct social distancing programmes and protocols for rural conditions and to prioritise the creation of growing, processing, and storing food across the country for a “secure food system". The economist was sceptical whether large emergency stimulus packages, including India’s Rs 20 lakh crore that is equivalent to the 10 percent of its GDP, would help sustain economically backward classes and “offset historically accumulated social deficiencies and exclusions”. "In many countries, including India, mass poverty for a long time has undermined the health, housing, education, and related conditions of huge populations. They consequently suffer more than the average from both viral pandemics and economic crashes. “Even large emergency stimulus packages like that of India’s package (10 percent of its GDP) and the US’s (considerably larger) cannot offset historically accumulated social deficiencies and exclusions. It would take both much more money and a willingness to undertake major structural changes if today’s response to the crisis is to better protect societies from repeated crises in the future," Wolff said. In his view, governments re-employing workers who have lost their jobs in the private sector and re-training them to contain the pandemic, should be part of the roadmap for countries trying to stem the economic slide. "The logical response to this crisis would have been to keep all workers employed doing all that was necessary to contain the pandemic. This means, for example, governments rehiring those fired by private employers, massively training them to test entire populations, to take care of the sick, and to otherwise build what society needs (infrastructure, education, housing, etc) under pandemic conditions of social distancing, masks, gloves," he elaborated The 78-year-old and author, whose most recent book is “Understanding Socialism”, predicted that the current global recession due to Covid-19 may go deeper than the ones earlier this century.    "We need to remember that it is the third capitalist crash in this century. The first one was the “dotcom crisis'  in early 2000 and then the one triggered by widespread sub-prime mortgage default in the US in 2008. The crash was one of the worst in capitalism’s history, second only to the crash of the 1930s. And now, in 2020 and we have a far deeper crash than in 2008," he said. Capitalism’s periodic downturns (such as crashes, recessions, depressions, crises, business cycles and busts) occur on average every four-seven years, Wolff said, attributing each one to a different trigger that has the effect of distracting attention from the system’s inherent instability. “It also distracts from other basic problems that global capitalism has never solved. Those have now exploded together converging on this capitalist downturn to make it extreme," he added. "The five converging crises of climate change, inequality, racism, instability and the ongoing viral pandemic persuade me that today’s global crisis will cut deeper and last longer than most current predictions." According to him, small and medium businesses with limited resources are more vulnerable compared to larger corporations that will gain the most from bailouts and stimulus programmes. "As happens in most capitalist societies, the bigger the enterprise the greater its resources to cultivate political friends. The current crises find small and medium businesses more vulnerable and with fewer resources to enable survival than large corporations usually possess. “That is why, despite the World Economic Forum’s and many governments’ statements on the importance of maintaining and supporting small and medium enterprises and despite stimulus programmes aimed at them, the systemically unequal competition between big business and other businesses will dominate the situation. Thus the bailouts and stimulus programmes benefit large corporations at the expense of medium and small businesses everywhere," he elaborated. The post-pandemic world, the economist cautioned, has to face the need to not return to the pre-pandemic 'normal'. “Instead, major structural changes in national economies, world trade, and finance need to be decided and implemented. Chief among these is a much less unequal global distribution of wealth and income," he suggested. Wolff, also a visiting professor at New School University, NYC, held the US government responsible for not adopting the policy of re-employing workers leading to the massive unemployment, economic losses in that country. "This is not the policy adopted in the US where instead massive unemployment of tens of millions was allowed. That quarter of the labour force has suffered massive economic losses, is now agonised over whether their former jobs will be available and under what wages and conditions. Massive unemployment invites every employer to recoup losses by cutting wages, benefits, job security," Wolff said. "That has already gotten well underway across the US. The suffering is greatest for the poorest, exacerbating already extreme inequality and aggravating racist tendencies to socially explosive levels," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-focus-on-food-security-use-its-rural-population-to-battle-covid-19-american-economist-richard-wolff-863516.html
20-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 case tally crosses 11 lakh; recoveries now over 7 lakh||The death toll due to the disease rose to 27,497 with 681 fatalities reported in one day. The data updated at 8 am on Monday showed that a record single-day jump of 40,425 Covid-19 cases had taken the total number of cases to 11,18,043. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 11-lakh mark, just three days after it crossed the 10-lakh mark. This is also the first time that the single-day spike in cases has crossed the 40,000-mark. There are 3,90,459 active cases in the country, while 7,00,086 people have recovered and one person has migrated. The recovery rate stands at 62.62 percent. As many as 22,664 Covid-19 patients have recovered from disease in the last 24 hours. The number of recovered Covid-19 patients exceeds India's active caseload by 3,09,627, as on Monday. Medical attention is being provided to all the 3,90,459 active cases in hospitals and in-home isolation, the health ministry said. The case fatality rate in the country continued to register a steady decline, dropping to 2.46 percent on Monday, the ministry said, noting that India has one of the lowest case-fatality rates in the world. "Effective clinical management of moderate and severe cases through a well-executed standard of care protocol has ensured a high rate of recovery among Covid-19 patients. The Centre is handholding and supporting State/UT governments in collectively combating Covid-19," it said. "One such initiative is e-ICU programme of AIIMS, New Delhi. Aimed at reducing mortality, AIIMS has mentored and supported 43 big hospitals in 11 states through shared experiences and technical advice from domain experts in clinical management of ICU patients," the ministry said. This has substantially boosted their capacity in treatment of critical care patients, it added. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 1,40,47,908 samples have been tested up to July 19 with 2,56,039 samples being tested on Sunday. Of the 681 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 258 were reported from Maharashtra, 91 from Karnataka, 78 from Tamil Nadu, 56 from Andhra Pradesh, 38 from Uttar Pradesh, 36 from West Bengal, 31 from Delhi, 20 from Gujarat and 15 from Madhya Pradesh. The total fatalities in one day include nine from Bihar, eight each from Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, six each from Rajasthan and Telangana, five each from Haryana and Odisha, four from Assam, three from Jharkhand, two from Kerala, and one each from Goa and Ladakh. Of the total 27,497 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 11,854 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,628 deaths, Tamil Nadu (2,481), Gujarat (2,142), Karnataka (1,331), Uttar Pradesh (1,146), West Bengal (1,112), Madhya Pradesh (721) and Andhra Pradesh (642). So far, 559 people have died of COVID-19 in Rajasthan, 415 in Telangana, 349 in Haryana, 254 in Punjab, 244 in Jammu and Kashmir, 217 in Bihar, 91 in Odisha, 57 in Assam, 52 in Uttarakhand, 49 in Jharkhand and 42 in Kerala. Twenty-eight people have died in Puducherry, 24 in Chhattisgarh, 22 in Goa, 12 in Chandigarh, 11 in Himachal Pradesh, five in Tripura, three in Arunachal Pradesh, while Meghalaya, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, and Ladakh have reported two fatalities each. The Union health ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 3,10,455 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,70,693, Delhi at 1,22,793, Karnataka at 63,772, Uttar Pradesh at 49,247, Andhra Pradesh at 49,650, Gujarat at 48,355 and Telangana at 45,076. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 42,487 in West Bengal, 29,434 in Rajasthan, 26,164 in Haryana, 26,569 in Bihar, 23,999 in Assam and 22,600 in Madhya Pradesh. Odisha has reported 17,437 infections, Jammu and Kashmir has 13,899 cases, Kerala has 12,480 cases, while Punjab has 10,100 cases. A total of 5,535 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand, 5,407 in Chhattisgarh, 4,515 in Uttarakhand, 3,657 in Goa, 2,878 in Tripura, 1,999 in Puducherry, 1,911 in Manipur, 1,483 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,178 in Ladakh. Nagaland has recorded 988 Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh 717 cases, Arunachal Pradesh 740 cases and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 605 cases. Meghalaya has reported 450 cases, Mizoram has 284 cases, Sikkim has registered 283 infections so far, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has recorded 203 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding, state-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-case-tally-crosses-11-lakh-recoveries-now-over-7-lakh-863517.html
20-07-2020||National||UPSC to reimburse airfare of Civil Services aspirants attending interviews; help with lodging and transport||Civil Service aspirants appearing for personality test from Monday will be reimbursed to-and-fro airfares by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) as a "one-time measure" as train services are not fully operational due to Covid-19 pandemic. The UPSC said the state governments have been asked to allow the candidates holding e-summon letters for the interview, the third and final stage in the Civil Services Examination to move in and out of the restricted zones. It will also help the candidates reaching Delhi for the personality test with their lodging and transport requirements, a UPSC statement said on Monday. The UPSC had chosen 2,304 candidates for the personality tests and in the midst of this exercise when the Centre announced a lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. It had then decided to defer the personality tests for 623 candidates of the CSE-2019 from March 23. "As train services are not fully functional, the Commission, as a one-time measure, has decided to reimburse the lowest 'to and fro airfare' to the candidates coming for the PTs (personality tests). State Governments have been requested to allow the candidates holding e-summon letters for PTs to move in/out of the restricted zones for the purpose of attending the same," the UPSC said. So far, only train fares were given to candidates. Candidates reaching the UPSC office for the test will also be provided with a 'sealed kit' consisting of a face mask, face shield, a bottle of sanitiser and hand gloves. The UPSC has also made arrangements for "contactless" interviews to shield the interviewers, who generally comprise of senior advisers, as well as interviewees. The UPSC staff involved in the exercise are also given protective gear. "Arrangements have been made for regular sanitization of all the rooms, halls, furniture and equipment. Seating arrangement for the candidates at all venues will ensure safe physical distancing. Protocol/guidelines to be followed by the candidates for appearing in the interview have been communicated to them," the it said adding that the UPSC is committed to ensure the highest standards of health safety even as it fulfils its constitutional mandate for selecting the most suitable candidates through its examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-to-reimburse-airfare-of-civil-services-aspirants-attending-interviews-help-with-lodging-and-transport-863534.html
20-07-2020||National||Railways says bullet train on track, rules out renegotiation on loan with JICA||Amid worry over delay in land acqusition and escalation of cost of Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train, the Indian Railways has said the project is on course. The railways also ruled out any plan to renegotiate the terms and condition of loan with funding agency Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), the implementing agency, is facing a number of issues, including delay in land acquisition and rising cost. So far only 60 per cent of land has been acquired for the project, which has a deadline of December 2023. Of the estimated cost of Rs 1.10 lakh crore for the 508-km-long high-speed rail corridor project, Rs 88,000 crore will be given to India as loan by JICA. While admitting there will be cost escalation, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav also denied that there was any renegotiation on the loan with JICA. “Yes, there is cost escalation, but this is not the right time to review costs. That will be done when we finalise tenders. As in any project, we finalise the estimated cost based on historic cost. But the actual cost is known only when tenders are invited. That is the time when we come to know what the project cost is shaping up,” Yadav told reporters. He also said the physical work on the project will begin after 90 per cent of the land has been acquired. Tenders have also been invited for nine packages so far, he added. “I want to confirm that there is no renegotiation as far as the terms and conditions of the loan is concerned,” Yadav said. As far as cost escalation is concerned, in some projects the cost bound to increase due to various factors including inflation or due to change in design, he said. Earlier, speaking at India Global Week event, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal had indicated that the financial aspect of the ambitious bullet train project between Mumbai and Ahmedabad was being reviewed. “Certainly Covid-19 has been a little bit of spanner in terms of the ambitions that we had around the bullet train project and we are relooking at all the projects in terms of the post-Covid world that will entail a lot of tightening of the belt, a lot of cost cutting,” Goyal had said in response to a question on the status of the ambitious project. The bullet train project was launched at a ceremony in Gandhinagar in Ahmedabad in September 2017 attended by the Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, along with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-says-bullet-train-on-track-rules-out-renegotiation-on-loan-with-jica-863535.html
20-07-2020||National||Babri mosque demolition case: Advani to record statement on July 24||A special CBI court on Monday set July 24 for recording the statement of former deputy prime minister L K Advani in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case. The 92-year-old BJP leader's statement under section 313 of CrPC will be recorded through video conferencing. In his order, Special Judge SK Yadav also fixed July 23 for recording the statement of BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi through video conferencing. The court is recording the statements of the 32 accused under Section 313 of CrPC to enable them to plead their innocence if they so want. The court, which is conducting day-to-day hearings to complete the trial by August 31 as directed by the Supreme Court, set July 22 for former Shiv Sena MP Satish Pradhan to depose before it through a video link. On Monday, it recorded the statement of accused Sudhir Kakkad who appeared in person, though earlier he wanted to depose through a video link. Like the other accused, Kakkad claimed that he was innocent and was falsely implicated by the then Congress-led central government for political reasons. The court will record the statement of accused Ram Chandra Khatri on Tuesday. BJP leader Uma Bharti had earlier this month appeared in person before the court. She had also accused the then Congress-led central government of framing her due to political vendetta. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992, by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple had stood on the same site. Advani and Joshi were leading the Ram temple movement at that time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-mosque-demolition-case-advani-to-record-statement-on-july-24-863538.html
20-07-2020||National||JU departments be allowed to set their own parameters for admitting students to UG courses: Teachers' body||Asserting there should not be a uniform policy to decide the merit of candidates, a teachers' body in Jadavpur University (JU) on Monday demanded that departments in arts and science faculties be allowed to set their own parameters for admitting students to undergraduate courses. As class 12 examination results have been declared, the institute must decide on policies, principles, norms and modalities with respect to the admission of students to arts and science courses, Jadavpur University Teachers' Association (JUTA) general secretary Parthapratim Roy said in a statement. The university must also decide on formulae for preparing the merit lists, it said. "These formulae may not be uniform and may vary quite widely from department to department. This must not be discouraged as the needs of each subject and the expectations from candidates, in terms of their academic performance, will vary from subject to subject. There cannot be a single uniform policy for deciding merit," the statement said. While preparing their formulae for determining the merit of the aspirants, departments may consider aspects of a candidate's performance in the class 10 examinations and marks obtained in a particular subject or several subjects, it said. Citing an example, the JUTA said the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE) did not conduct examination for the physics paper this year and awarded marks for the subject based on a student's performance in other subjects. "In this particular case, if a JU department decides to give some weightage to a candidate's performance in mathematics or physical science papers in class 10 examinations, it should be allowed," the statement said. The JUTA also demanded that the departments are allowed to decide on the allotment of seats to candidates from different boards and a uniform policy should not be imposed. Since board examinations for several papers could not be conducted due to the Covid-19 outbreak, it has become "practically impossible" to take admission tests in those subjects, even in the online mode, the statement said. Pro-Vice-Chancellor Professor Chiranjib Bhattacharya said the university will decide on the modalities of admission to undergraduate courses by next week. "We will hold discussions with stakeholders including faculty members by next week and then arrive at a decision mutually agreeable to everyone concerned," Bhattacharya told PTI. The process for admission to undergraduate courses offered by JU is scheduled to begin in August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ju-departments-be-allowed-to-set-their-own-parameters-for-admitting-students-to-ug-courses-teachers-body-863542.html
20-07-2020||National||Draw up immunisation strategy now itself for Covid-19 vaccine: Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw||India needs to draw up its immunisation strategy now itself on the administration of vaccine for Covid-19 on the population when it comes out, says biotechnology industry veteran Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw. "Vaccine is anybodys guess. Right from the end of this year to the middle of next year is the prediction, the Executive Chairperson of the city-headquartered biopharmaceuticals major Biocon Ltd said on the time-frame vis-a-vis its availability. She said some vaccine programmes have just started phase 3 clinical trials, with phase 1 and phase 2 ones having shown mixed signals. So, we are not sure, she said and, citing reports from the US, added: It looks like every vaccine needs two doses (per person). So, its not cheap, she told PTI here in an interview. If the government can make sure that at least 20 percent of the most high-risk population is immunised, then we can sort of create a control on the virus. But Mazumdar-Shaw also noted 20 percent of Indian population is a huge 200 to 300 million people. Will the government bear it (cost)? she asked. So, one has to look at pharmacoeconomics point of view and immunological rationale, and find a balance between the two. Epidemiologists have to work out the model as to what is the minimum number of people who need to be vaccinated when the vaccine comes out. We cannot obviously vaccinate 1.3 billion people (the country's total population) in such a short time because there won't be enough vaccine, she said. Even if the vaccine producers were going to make a billion doses, it cannot be done in one month. "Maximum you can produce is 80 million to 100 million doses per month. So, which are the first 100 million people that will be vaccinated? Those are the kinds of planning we need to do now, she said. If the Bharat Biotech vaccine, or Zydus Cadila vaccine starts showing good, promising results, we could also have it (vaccine) by the end of the year, Mazumdar-Shaw said. On when she expected coronavirus cases to peak in the country, she said there were various forecasts and projections, and each part of the country was at a different level. They (forecasts and projections) are basically saying in the next two-and-half-months to four months, various parts of the country should be peaking. By the end of the year, all parts of the country would have peaked. "By early December, we should have crossed the peak across the country. Every part of the country will peak at a different time", she said. Mazumdar-Shaw hastened to add: And then people dont know about the next wave. That is another worry. As on Monday morning, the country's Covid-19 cases tally stands at 11,18,043 and the death toll reached 27,497.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/draw-up-immunisation-strategy-now-itself-for-covid-19-vaccine-kiran-mazumdar-shaw-863545.html
20-07-2020||National||SC refuses to stay criminal proceedings by IT authorities against DK Shivakumar||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to stay the criminal proceedings initiated by the Income Tax authorities against former Karnataka minister and state Congress president D K Shivakumar for alleged recovery of undisclosed wealth following raid conducted at his premises in 2017. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna issued notice to the Income Tax department on a special leave petition filed by Shivakumar. In his plea, the petitioner challenged validity of the Karnataka High Court's order of November 2019, declining to give him relief. The HC had then dismissed his criminal revision petition against the order passed by Additional Sessions judge, Bengaluru, rejecting his plea for discharge in a complaint filed by deputy director, Income Tax investigation for having committed offence under the tax laws and provisions of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-stay-criminal-proceedings-by-it-authorities-against-dk-shivakumar-863547.html
20-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Rahul Gandhi hits out at PM Narendra Modi||In today’s episode, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi once again trains his guns at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Supreme Court asks Uttar Pradesh government to consider having a former apex court judge and a retired police officer in the inquiry committee probing the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey, and 84 people killed in Assam floods.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rahul-gandhi-hits-out-at-pm-narendra-modi-863549.html
20-07-2020||National||Family seeks clarity on Covid-19 positive Varavara Rao's health condition; wants to be with him||The family members of Elgar Parishad case accused Varavara Rao, a Covid-19 patient, on Monday demanded that the Maharashtra government allow one of them to attend to the poet since he is reportedly not in a position to do anything on his own, even as they sought clarity on his health condition. Alleging that there was no communication about his health, the family in a statement here said the government should share information on his health condition as some media reports suggest that he suffered a head injury. "It is the family right to get official transparent updates on his health status, line of treatment and probable risks, but the prison, police and health administrations in gross dereliction of their duties have not come out with the much-needed information," they alleged. They demanded that the Maharashtra government allow a family member to assist/attend the poet "since he is reportedly not in a position to do anything on his own." The family also wanted the government to immediately direct the hospital or prison administration to provide transparent, official updates on Varavara Rao's health status and line of treatment on a regular basis once or twice in a day as long as he is in hospital. The family also demanded that the government make all his medical records accessible and to remove hurdles and "enable the judicial process to grant regular bail or interim bail on health, age and the grounds that he is suffering from Covid-19 so that his family will take care of his health in a hospital of their choice." Rao, 80, was undergoing treatment at the state-run St George Hospital in south Mumbai since July 16 after testing positive for the coronavirus infection. He is behind the bars for about 22 months and had approached the special NIA court, seeking bail on medical grounds and the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Rao and nine other activists were arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, which was initially probed by the Pune Police and later transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/family-seeks-clarity-on-covid-19-positive-varavara-raos-health-condition-wants-to-be-with-him-863559.html
20-07-2020||National||Supreme Court warns of strong action for recalculation of AGR dues||The Supreme Court on Monday asked Telecom companies, saddled with over Rs 1.47 lakh crore dues as adjusted gross revenue, to come up with a reasonable timeline of payment, saying they were "dragging us to a corner where it would have no option" but to take strong action against them. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah said the Telecom companies were earning much more than pending dues but were hiding details. The top court reserved its order on time line for payment of dues. The bench also made it clear that it would not hear any arguments on reassessment of dues, take adverse action against Telecom companies and will impose heavy cost on them. "Why should we give relief to telcos behaving dishonestly on pending dues? Telecom companies are still challenging AGR calculation by Department of Telecommunications," the bench asked. "How can this be done? Who has the temerity to do it? How can you reduce their liability? We will send your client directly to jail. This is gross contempt of our orders," the bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, even as he maintained that there was no recalculation of dues. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Vodafone Idea, agreed for Rs 58,000 crore as AGR dues. Bharti Airtel, for its part, represented by senior advocate A M Singhvi claimed pending dues of Rs 25,000 crore, and Tatas 12,000 crore. Rohatgi, who sought 20 years time for clearing of dues due to wiping out of Rs one lakh Crore equity, agreed to scale down the time to 15 years. Mehta, however, preferred to stick to 20 years time, saying the decision was taken in view of its cascading effect on economy and to prevent it from going haywire. It posted the matter for further hearing on August 10. It also sought details of insolvency proceedings initiated by RCom, saying the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code can't be misused to escape liabilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-warns-of-strong-action-for-recalculation-of-agr-dues-863561.html
20-07-2020||National||Delhi's fresh Covid-19 cases fall below 1000-mark but due to less number of tests||The number of fresh Covid-19 cases fell below 1,000-mark for a single day in the national capital for the first time in 50 days but mainly due to the number of sample tests sliding to the lowest in 69 days, according to a medical bulletin on Monday. The bulletins provide information about the previous day's statistics. The trend observed is that the number of cases reflected in Monday bulletins are less compared to other days because less number of tests are done on Sundays. The July 20 bulletin issued by the Delhi government showed that the single-day cases have come down to 954 cases through testing of 11,470 samples and with a positivity rate of 8.31%. On June 1, Delhi had 990 cases -- the previous time when the cases slid below 1,000-mark --  when the tests done were 4,753. The July 19 bulletin reported 1,211 cases as against 20,206 tests (5.99% positivity rate) while on July 18, there were 1,475 cases from 21,568 tests (6.81% positivity rate). This shows that the July 20 bulletin shows that despite the total number of cases has dipped, the positivity rate has increased. Without referring to the numbers, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted an image of a TV visual "a big win for Delhi in the fight against Covid-19" and commented, "Just as the people of Delhi have done so many great things in the last five years, similarly, they are defeating Covid-19.  Pray to God that Delhi will get rid of Covid-19 completely due to the efforts of the people of Delhi." An analysis also showed that the Monday bulletins had less number of tests to record compared to other days of a week. On July 6, there were 13,879 tests in which 1,379 people were tested positive (9.93% positivity rate) while on July 13, it was 12,171 tests and 1,246 cases (10.23% positivity rate). Except for these three days and on July 1, the number of tests in the capital were above 20,000. Also, Monday's bulletin shows that the number of tests were lowest since June 19 when 13,074 tests were done, the first time the number of samples tested crossed 10,000-mark. Since June 18, the number of tests have been ramped up with the introduction of Rapid Antigen Tests. So far, 8,30,459 samples have been tested. So far, the capital has recorded 1,23,747 Covid-19 cases, since the first case was reported on March 2. It had crossed the one-lakh mark on July 8. In July so far, 37,668 cases have been reported, which is 30.43% of the total cases. In June, 67,696 cases were reported while May had 16,326 cases while the total hit 87,360. As on May 31, there were 19,844 cases and as on June 30, there were 87,360 cases. The Monday bulletin also said the death toll has climbed to 3,663 with the addition of 35 deaths. Since July 6, the number of daily deaths were below 50 except for July 7 and July 16. The analysis also showed that July 17 and 18 recorded the lowest number of deaths at 26 each this month. So far, 1,04,918 people have been discharged and only 15,166 are under treatment. Of this, 8,379 are in home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-fresh-covid-19-cases-fall-below-1000-mark-but-due-to-less-number-of-tests-863567.html
20-07-2020||National||BSF personnel weighing 160 kg dies during fitness training, probe ordered||A BSF personnel weighing 160 kg attending a fitness course in Rajasthan has died, prompting the paramilitary force to order an inquiry as to how he was "declared fit" to undergo the course. Constable Vinod Singh (45) breathed his last on July 17, two days after he joined the course at the BSF Subsidiary Training Centre in Jodhpur. Singh is survived by his mother, wife and two sons. BSF chief S S Deswal, who is holding the additional charge, ordered the inquiry into the incident and directed Inspector General Amit Lodha to submit a report. Deswal, who is also ITBP chief, has ordered that all fat and obese personnel in the 2.5-lakh-strong force should be identified and sent for physical training. According to a BSF spokesperson, Singh "felt giddines in the evening hours of July 17 near his barracks" and was immediately taken to the BSF hospital from where he was shifted to MDM Hospital. He was declared brought dead at MDM Hospital. "Singh, who works as a water carrier in 114th Battalion, was a Low Medical Category having weight of 160 kg with BMI (Body Mass Index) 52.98. However, it has been found that the deceased constable was declared fit for the above course. An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the circumstances under which the individual was declared fit for the course," the spokesperson said. The spokesperson said physical fitness is an integral and essential component of BSF to maintain a high level of professional standard and is given great importance in career progression also. "Hence, the courses in STC and Training Institutions are being conducted to improve and enhance the fitness of personnel in all ranks," he said. The BSF chief and all ranks "are grief-stricken with the untimely demise of our comrade constable Vinod Singh. Prahari pariwar (border guards family) will always stand firm with the family members of the deceased", the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-personnel-weighing-160-kg-dies-during-fitness-training-probe-ordered-863587.html
20-07-2020||National||Human trials of coronavirus vaccine candidate Covaxin begin at two more medical centres||The phase-1 clinical trials of Covaxin, India’s first indigenous vaccine candidate for Covid-19, have begun in two more designated trial sites of the country, on Monday. Bharat Biotech International Limited has, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, developed the vaccine. 12 medical institutes across the country including AIIMS New Delhi were designated as the clinical trial sites for the Phase-1 and 2 tests, to test the vaccine’s suitability for public health use. AIIMS Patna and PGIMS Rohtak have started the trials on 15 and 17 July, respectively. On Monday, these trials on humans also began at the SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Chennai and the Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad. “The volunteers in the institute have been given the first dose of vaccine. They will be given the second dose of vaccine after an interval of 14 days,” SRM said in a statement. At the NIMS, a government hospital, the first dose was administered on two volunteers. “We are planning to give the dose to another 5-6 people on Tuesday,” NIMS director Dr K Manohar told DH. “Getting healthy volunteers suitable for the trials has become difficult. But we are looking at a sample size of at least 30 in Phase-1.” Authorities at the King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam said they are awaiting the authorization letter from the Andhra Pradesh government. The letter would allow the ethics committee of the government general hospital to approve initiation of the vaccine trial process, Dr G Arjuna, KGH Superintendent told DH. Phase-1 trials are a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial on 375 volunteers across India. Double blind denotes a trial process especially of a drug where the dose content (test vaccine or placebo) is unrevealed neither to the subject/volunteer nor the administrator. 750 volunteers would participate in the Phase-2 tests. In an advisory to the trial site investigators on 2 July, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava envisaged COVAXIN (BBV152 Covid Vaccine) for public health use launch by 15 August. Following criticism from experts and opposition parties that the government was “rushing through an elaborate and time taking vaccine testing process,” the premier research body apparently eased on the Independence Day deadline. The Drug Controller General of India had earlier permitted the two phased human clinical trials after Bharat Biotech submitted results from the preclinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response, the Hyderabad based firm said. (With inputs from ETB Sivapriyan in Chennai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/human-trials-of-coronavirus-vaccine-candidate-covaxin-begin-at-two-more-medical-centres-863592.html
20-07-2020||National||India asks Thailand, Myanmar to share details of probe on seized illegal arms originating from China||After the Royal Thai Army recently intercepted a huge consignment of illegal arms and ammunition, which had its origin in China and was being smuggled into Myanmar, New Delhi has requested Bangkok and Nay Pyi Taw to share findings of the probe. New Delhi is keen to know more about the renewed flow of illegal weapons, which originate from China and make its way through South-East Asia and end up in the neighbourhood of India. What India is trying to find out is whether illegal weapons are again being smuggled from China into its restive north-eastern region, which has been a hotbed of militancy and where insurgent outfits in the past received support from China. New Delhi’s envoy to Bangkok, Suchitra Durai, on Monday had a meeting with Unsit Sampuntharat, the governor of Tak province of Thailand near the country’s border with Myanmar. The local police chief and immigration officials were also present among the officials of the Thailand Government in the meeting. It was at Mae Tao in Tak that the Royal Thai Army and local police had recently seized the illegal consignment of weapons just before it would have been smuggled onto Myanmar. The weapons intercepted by the Royal Thai Army recently included 33 M16 and AK47 assault rifles, M79 grenade launchers and machine-guns, as well as a large amount of ammunition of different calibres. Two Thai and six Myanmarese nationals were arrested. The seizure of such a huge consignment of weapons sent the alarm bells ringing in Nay Pyi Taw and both the Thai Army and Myanmar Army are of the view that the consignment originated in China. A source in New Delhi told the DH that the security agencies of India were in touch with the counterparts in Myanmar and Thailand to find more about the origin, the route and the destination of the illegal weapons. “The insurgent organizations of India’s north-eastern states, like Assam, Manipur, Nagaland and Mizoram, earlier received support from China,” said the source, adding: “Though several militant organisations in North-East are now pursuing peace-processes with the Government of India, we have to keep watch if any fresh attempt is being made to trigger unrest and destabilise the region again.” The preliminary probe led Nay Pyi Taw to believe that the weapons were possibly being procured by the Arakan Army or the Kachin Independence Army – both insurgent organizations operating in Myanmar. What, however, keeps New Delhi worried is the fact that the rebel organizations in Myanmar in the past provided training and weapons to the militants of the north-eastern region of India. “The possibility that some of the weapons would have ultimately reached the militants in our North-East cannot be ruled out,” said another source. “This seizure revealed that an illegal arms bazaar has been revived in our neighbourhood. And that’s something we would have to keep watch on.” New Delhi has been receiving reports about continuing contacts between China’s intelligence agencies and Paresh Barua, the elusive leader of a faction of the militant organization United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA), who was charged by Bangladesh Government for an abortive bid to procure a huge consignment of weapons through the Port of Chittagong for his organization in 2004. The consignment was seized by the law-enforcing agencies of Bangladesh. The intelligence agencies of the communist country in the past also had links with the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isac-Muivah) as well as several other militant organizations of Manipur and Nagaland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-thailand-myanmar-to-share-details-of-probe-on-seized-illegal-arms-originating-from-china-863603.html
20-07-2020||National||Will take call on supporting Gehlot govt after there is clarity on floor test: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Monday said it will make a decision on supporting the Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot-led government once it becomes clear when the floor test will be held in the Rajasthan assembly. This comes days after Balwan Poonia, one of the two CPI(M) MLAs in the state assembly, pledged his support to Gehlot, who is embroiled in a power struggle with his former deputy Sachin Pilot. The Bhadra MLA had told reporters at his residence here on Friday that he will vote in favour of the Congress government in case there is a floor test in the assembly. "What is the necessity for the party to take a decision now about our support? Nothing is known about a floor test as of now. We will take an appropriate decision when the floor test is held," CPI(M) state secretary Amra Ram told reporters here. "If any MLA goes against our decision, then action will be taken," he said. Ram said the "political lockdown" in Rajasthan is "unfortunate" and accused the BJP and Pilot of indulging in horse-trading to topple the Congress government. "The CPI(M) strongly condemns the manner in which the BJP and the former Congress state president are colluding in horse-trading of legislators," he said. Asked about Poonia announcing his support for Gehlot, Ram said it is a "sheer lie". "Our MLAs are with us," he asserted. On Poonia's presence at the Congress Legislature Party meeting, he said disciplinary action will be taken against anyone who does not toe the party line. Meanwhile, CPI(M) MLA from Dungargarh Girdhari Mahia said he will follow his party's decision. He said neither has anyone offered him money to take sides nor can anyone dare to do so. There is speculation that Gehlot may seek a floor test in the state assembly early next week to prove that the majority of the MLAs are with him. The speculation was triggered by his 45-minute meeting on Saturday with Governor Kalraj Mishra, officially on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Including Pilot and 18 MLAs loyal to him, the Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member assembly. If the 19 Congress dissidents are disqualified, the current strength of the state assembly will be reduced to 181, slashing the half-way mark to 91 and making it easier for Gehlot to retain majority support. In the past, the ruling party has claimed the support of 13 independents, two MLAs each from the CPI(M) and the Bhartiya Tribal Party, and one from the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-take-call-on-supporting-gehlot-govt-after-there-is-clarity-on-floor-test-cpim-863608.html
20-07-2020||National||'New option' for holding Monsoon Session being explored||Holding sittings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on alternate days or one House meeting in the morning and the other in the afternoon are among the "new options" being explored for the Monsoon Session of Parliament, sources said on Monday. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla mulled over the proposal during a two-hour meeting on Monday, as the Covid-19 pandemic has put a spanner on holding the Parliament Session. Usually, the Monsoon Session is held in the second half of July. The Budget Session was curtailed on March 23, as the pandemic situation worsened, and the Parliament has to be convened within six months, as per the Constitution. The new proposal on the table was that the Lok Sabha MPs will be seated in the chambers of both the Houses while the Lower House is in session and it would be the same for Rajya Sabha members, when the Upper House holds proceedings to ensure physical distancing. Lok Sabha chambers and its galleries can accommodate about 290 MPs while the facilities of Rajya Sabha can arrange seating for 127 lawmakers. Members of each of the two Houses who could not be accommodated in the chambers and galleries of respective House could be seated in the chamber and galleries of the other House, sources said, explaining the proposal. If this is accepted, the proceedings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha would be held on alternate days. In such a scenario, it is to be seen whether one of the Houses works on Saturday when the Parliament usually does not function. There is also discussion about holding the proceedings of one House in the morning hours and the other in the afternoon but this could lead to logistical problems like sanitising the area and the House sitting in the afternoon getting advantage of more working hours. Parliament sitting begins at 11 AM and the morning session lasts for two hours while the afternoon session starts at 2 PM and goes on depending on the business. Sources said various logistical and technical issues were identified that need to be addressed, including enabling participation of the MPs of a House seated in the other House through necessary audio-visual connectivity with and display in the other House, audio facilities for members seated in galleries, simultaneous interpretation, taking vote if required, enabling live telecast of proceedings of each House and arrangements for media persons. Secretaries General of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been directed to "examine each and every issue to the last minute detail" for taking a final decision after its evaluation against other options under consideration. Earlier, Rajya Sabha mulled over limited virtual participation of MPs during the yet-to-be announced Monsoon, as only 127 lawmakers could be accommodated inside Upper House's Chamber and galleries while adhering to Covid-19 physical distancing norms. In June, the Parliament Secretariat also examined the possibility of shifting the proceedings of the Rajya Sabha to Lok Sabha and the Lok Sabha to the Central Hall but it was found impractical. After this, the option of using visitors' galleries in both the Houses were explored along with the Chambers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-option-for-holding-monsoon-session-being-explored-863609.html
20-07-2020||National||SC asks MoF to respond why personal guarantees not invoked in case of loan defaulters of big corporates||The Supreme Court has asked the Ministry of Finance to respond to a plea why personal guarantees of big corporate loan defaulters were not invoked in case of their failure to repay the loan amount. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and Navin Sinha told a PIL petitioners, Saurabh Jain and Rahul Sharma to approach the Ministry with a representation within a period of two weeks. The petitioners, led by senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra and advocate Durga Dutt, contended sought a direction to the Union government and the RBI to invoke personal guarantees given by the promoters, directors, managerial personnel of large corporate houses which have defaulted in repaying loans advanced to them by such Public Sector Banks (PSBs) amounting to approximately Rs 1,85,000 crores. They also sought initiating of proceedings against such promoters, directors, managerial personnel for the recovery of the said loans. After going through the matter, the bench said, "the Ministry of Finance itself has, by a Circular, directed personal guarantees issued by promoters, managerial personnel to be invoked. According to the petitioners, despite this Circular, Public Sector Undertakings continue do not invoke such guarantees resulting in huge loss not only to the public exchequer but also to the common man." The court asked the petitioners to withdraw the plea and approach the Ministry which was directed to respond to representation within a period of four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-mof-to-respond-why-personal-guarantees-not-invoked-in-case-of-loan-defaulters-of-big-corporates-863613.html
20-07-2020||National||Experts suspect flaws in antigen test behind decreasing Covid-19 figures in Delhi, Ahmedabad||Inherent flaws in the rapid antigen test now being used across India may have contributed to the dwindling Covid-19 figures reported by erstwhile hotspots Delhi and Ahmedabad, suspect public health specialists. The national capital that reported 31 per cent positivity rate (out of 100 tests, 31 was Covid-19 positive) in the second week of June, now has a positivity rate of less than 10 per cent. The same has dipped in Ahmedabad too in the recent weeks though the Gujarat capital was considered one of the hotspots in June. Experts suspect widespread use of the rapid antigen test may have contributed behind such happy numbers, notwithstanding the policy measures taken by the local governments to get a grip on the Covid-19 scenario. RT-PCR is a nucleic acid test that looks for replication of the viral RNA in samples collected from nose or throat swabs. The antigen test detects viral proteins in similar samples. But there is a vast difference in efficacy between the two. “RT-PCR, the gold standard test to detect Covid-19 has a sensitivity of 60-65 per cent. If rapid antigen test is applied on the RT-PCR positive results, only about 70 per cent of them are picked up by the quick diagnostics, which has a sensitivity of 50-85 per cent. So only about half of the positive cases would be diagnosed with rapid antigen tests,” K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India and a member of the ICMR task force on Covid-19 told DH. The consequence would be a drop in the positivity rate. To avoid such erroneous conclusions the Indian Council of Medical Research guideline suggests that those who tested negative in rapid antigen test must again be checked with RT-PCR. But no one knows whether such guidelines are being followed scrupulously as neither ICMR nor the state authorities have publicly released the disaggregated data. “By ICMR protocol, people who have symptoms but test negative on the antigen test should be retested using the PCR, but there could be slips in the way this protocol has been followed. Bringing in the antigen tests may have partly contributed to this decline in the numbers and percentage of positive cases,” said Meenakshi Gautham, a research fellow with the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. “But this is not to say that the containment and strengthened contact tracing have not had an effect. They must have but it's difficult to say how much of the decline is true and how much is superficial.” In Ahmedabad, the rapid antigen test data is not regularly shared by the administration, said Dileep Mavalankar, director of Public Health Foundation of India, Gandhimagar. “Ideally ICMR should have come out with guidelines on identification of the suspect cases and anyone with influenza like illness or severe acute respiratory illness should be checked with RT-PCR.” The public health specialists said clinical judgment of a doctor should always precede the tests and all the suspected cases should be recorded separately. “Doctors should act on clinical judgment and testing, which alone can not be the single window to initiate Covid-19 treatment” noted T Sundaraman, former executive director at the National Health Systems Resources Centre, Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-suspect-flaws-in-antigen-test-behind-decreasing-covid-19-figures-in-delhi-ahmedabad-863616.html
20-07-2020||National||India adding new infections fast, active Covid-19 cases may double in a fortnight||India is adding new Covid-19 cases at a much faster pace than a fortnight ago as total infections crossed 11.18 lakh, signaling the shortcomings in implementing the containment measures to combat the spread of infection. According to the Health Ministry, 3,90,459 patients were under active medical supervision and experts believed that the number could double within the next fortnight. “There are hotspots, even in cities where there is spike of cases and it very likely that local community transmission in those areas is happening,” AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria told reporters here. However, he said there was not much evidence of community transmission happening at the national level. On Monday morning, India reported an increase of 40,425 new infections, the highest in a single day so far, taking the total cases to 11,18,043. “Active cases are now growing at 4.1 per cent – so India will have 7.8 lakh active cases by 6th August. Containment policy clearly failing in several states,” Shamika Ravi, senior fellow, Brookings Institute said. The number of patients having recovered from Covid-19 crossed the seven-lakh mark with the recovery rate declining marginally to 62.62 per cent on Monday from 63.02 per cent a week back. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh continued to report large numbers of new infections daily. Among major cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai continued to show improvement in recovery, while Bengaluru was yet to get a grip on the infectious disease. Daily new cases were on a decline in Delhi and Chennai, while Mumbai had hit the plateau on fresh infections. On the other hand, new cases in Bengaluru were witnessing a sharp increase. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria told the media that certain areas in the national capital have hit the peak of Covid-19 cases and were reporting a decline, while some areas were yet to scale the peak. According to a DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had a total 11,48,875 confirmed cases of Covid-19 at 8:30 p.m. on Monday, while 27,944 persons had succumbed to the disease. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the case fatality rate in India was on a steady decline and had dropped to 2.46 per cent on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adding-new-infections-fast-active-covid-19-cases-may-double-in-a-fortnight-863627.html
20-07-2020||National||Have asked varsities to hold final year exams, All India Council for Technical Education tells Bombay High Court||The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) on Monday informed the Bombay High Court it has asked all deemed universities and institutions affiliated to it to follow guidelines issued by Universities Grants Commission (UGC) and conduct final year degree exams. The AICTE's affidavit was in response to a public interest litigation filed by a retired professor seeking to quash the decision of the Maharashtra government to cancel final year degree exams of professional and non-professional courses in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The affidavit said AICTE has decided to follow safety guidelines issued by UGC since it takes into account the interest of the students, the necessity of conducting exams and also the health and safety of the students. "In view of this, the AICTE requested all deemed universities, technical institutions and polytechnics affiliated to AICTE to follow the UGC guidelines to conduct examinations in offline (pen and paper) or online or blended (offline plus online) mode," the affidavit said. The state government, in its affidavit filed last week, said it had taken the decision to cancel exams in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and due to the risk of spread of the virus through paper. The petition by Dhananjay Kulkarni, retired teacher and ex-senate member from Pune, said the state government has no power to take such a decision. He challenged the June 19 government resolution saying under Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, the Chancellor has overall jurisdiction and the state has no power to take a decision about exams. As per the plea, the UGC had, on April 27, directed all universities to conduct exams and declare its schedule. However, after a student organisation wrote to state minister of Higher and Technical Education, the exams in the state were postponed and then subsequently cancelled by way of the resolution. As per the resolution, there are 7,34,516 final year students in non-professional courses and 2,83,937 students in their final year in professional courses in Maharashtra. The high court is expected to take up the petition for hearing on July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-asked-varsities-to-hold-final-year-exams-all-india-council-for-technical-education-tells-bombay-high-court-863631.html
20-07-2020||National||First five Rafale jets likely to be inducted by July end: IAF||Indian Air Force is set to induct its first batch of five Rafale fighter aircraft at Ambala air base. “The first batch of five IAF Rafale is likely to arrive in India by the end of July, 2020. The aircraft will be inducted at Air Force Station Ambala on July 29, subject to weather conditions,” an IAF spokesperson said in a statement. “IAF aircrew and ground crew have undergone comprehensive training on the aircraft, including its highly advanced weapons systems and are fully prepared now. Post arrival, efforts will focus on operationalisation of the aircraft at the earliest,” he said. The IAF announcement comes amidst the ongoing India China stand-off at eastern Ladakh, which is showing no sign of getting abated. Official sources said the Rafale jets were likely to be deployed in the Ladakh sector as part of the IAF's efforts to enhance its operational capabilities along the Line of Actual Control with China in view of the border row with the country. In a separate statement, the IAF spokesperson said the top commanders of the force would take stock of the current operational scenario and deployments at a three-day conference here beginning Wednesday. The commanders conference will be chaired by the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. "The plan of action for operational capability enhancement of the IAF in the next decade will also be discussed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-five-rafale-jets-likely-to-be-inducted-by-july-end-iaf-863635.html
20-07-2020||National||Assam govt using Covid-19 for political purposes: Leader of Opposition||The Leader of Opposition in Assam assembly, Debabrata Saikia Monday staged a sit-in protest in the House campus to highlight issues of incarceration of peasant leader Akhil Gogoi and non-release of pending funds by the Centre to Assam for flood relief. He also protested against the alleged use of Covid-19 by the state government for political purpose and steep increase in the prices of essential commodities in the state. Saikia claimed that the Centre had not released any aid to Assam under the NDRF during the last three-four years. Congress leaders of Assam had submitted memoranda to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and the DoNER Minister Jitendra Singh in August last year requesting them to urgently release central funds to tackle the perennial flood problem in the state. "They had urged the prime minister to declare Assams flood crisis as a 'national problem' but their appeals fell on deaf ears", he said. "The result of the Centres apathy and the state governments timidity in wresting Assams dues was that embankments could not be repaired on time and those affected by the ongoing bout of floods are not receiving adequate relief materials," Saikia said. He also alleged that there is ample evidence of the state government's failure to halt the spread of Covid-19 in Assam. Apart from the negligence which was exposed in the Guwahati central jail, there are countless reports of wrong test results, premature release of coroavirus patients, faulty implementation of quarantine norms from across the state. "At the same time the state government was trying to gain political mileage out of the situation. The opposition leaders are being prevented from reaching out to the public on the pretext of Covid-19, but BJP leaders are being given a free run to interact with the public without maintaining even basic safeguards. "As a result, numerous people in certain areas have either been infected by the disease or have had to undergo quarantine after coming into contact with BJP MLAs and other leaders," he alleged. Averring that lockdowns have deprived countless families of regular income, the Congress leader stated the skyrocketing prices of foodstuff, vegetables, medicines and fuel are compounding the plight of the common man. Claiming the KMSS leader's arrest was "vindictive incarceration by the state Government ", Saikia demanded immediate steps for resolution of the issues. Demanding immediate release of Akhil Gogoi on bail, the leader of opposition said, "although even the NIA had failed to furnish any proof so far, the BJP-led government in Assam is slapping case after case on the KMSS leader because of his resolute opposition to the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act and other anti-Assam acts of the BJP". "The BJP-led alliance came to power with a vote share of 41 per cent, which means that 59 per cent votes were cast against it. In spite of this fact, the government is trying to forcibly prevent opponents from highlighting issues which are crucial for Assam. This exposes the BJPs utter disregard for democracy and the Constitution", Saikia asserted. Meanwhile, the CPI(M) state unit in a press release has charged the Centre of failing to extend flood package to Assam and send a central team to assess the deluge situation. The Left party demanded compensation to the flood affected people and their rehabilitation, declaring Assam floods as a national problem and earmarking of special funds for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-govt-using-covid-19-for-political-purposes-leader-of-opposition-863648.html
20-07-2020||National||State govts cannot increase working hours beyond eight, Centre tells par panel||Working hours cannot be increased beyond eight hours a day without paying for overtime as some states have tried to do by diluting the labour laws, top officials of the Centre indicated to a parliamentary panel on Monday. The top brass of the Ministry of Labour and Employment on Monday briefed the parliamentary standing committee on labour, chaired by BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab, on changes in the labour laws effected by state governments during lockdown and issues faced by migrant workers amid the pandemic. About nine states proposed to increase the working hours from eight to twelve by diluting the labour laws, but later rolled back the decision after facing flak from various stakeholders, especially the trade unions. The parliamentary panel on labour had written to various state governments seeking explanation for diluting the labour laws. The panel members led by Mahtab questioned the central government officials about dilution in labour laws, especially increasing the working hours from eight to twelve, a source in the panel said. Responding to the panel, the labour ministry officials said the changes attempted by state governments have to be according to the proposed four labour codes. They said since India is a signatory to the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the country cannot go beyond the stipulated eight hours, sources in the panel told PTI. The officials also informed the panel that if the working hours have to be increased, it has to be done with the consent of workers and they need to be compensated with overtime or compensatory leaves, they said. The panel also questioned about the plight of migrant workers during the lockdown, to which the officials conveyed that they are widening the ambit of the definition of ‘migrant workers’. The panel members also suggested to include self-employed people such as hawkers, rickshaw-pullers and others in the definition of migrant workers, and that they should get all those benefits which they are entitled to in their native states. The panel also suggested to ease the conditions for availing benefits of the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) and Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) so that the migrant workers can avail these benefits, sources said. ESI and EPF are self-financing and welfare scheme for workers. The members also pitched for removal of the criteria on minimum number of employees and wages to avail these two social security schemes, to which the officials responded positively, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-govts-cannot-increase-working-hours-beyond-eight-centre-tells-par-panel-863651.html
20-07-2020||National||Delay in framing CAA rules by Ministry of Home Affairs||The Act, which evoked massive protests across the country, cannot be implemented or be enforced if the MHA doesn’t formulate rules or give a reason to the Parliament for the delay. In light of this, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Subordinate Legislation has decided to write to the Ministry on the status of the CAA rules. Chairman of the committee K. Raghu Rama Krishna Raju told the newspaper, “We will be writing a letter to the MHA as there is no request for extension of time (for notifying the rules), will send them a reminder to give us a status [report]. As per norms, MHA should have framed the rules within six months or seek an extension.” The MHA initially had said that the Act will be enforced from 10 January.  The much-debated Act provides citizenship on the basis of religion to members of the six non-Muslim communities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who had settled in India on or before 31 December 2014. The Manual on Parliamentary Work states that “statutory rules, regulations and bye-laws will be framed within a period of six months from the date on which the relevant statute came into force.” It also provides for an extension of not more than three months if the committee is unable to do so.  The Home Ministry has not commented on the reason for the delay for formulating the rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delay-in-framing-caa-rules-by-ministry-of-home-affairs-863657.html
20-07-2020||National||Man found hanging at Congress headquarters in Delhi||A 45-year-old man was found hanging inside the Congress headquarters' servant quarters here, police said on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Prakash Singh, they said. According to police, they received information regarding the incident from the Congress headquarters at 24, Akbar Road on Sunday. The deceased's brother informed police that Prakash has kept himself locked in his room since Friday evening and was not responding to his calls, a senior police officer said. When a police team reached the spot, it found him hanging in the room, he said. The body was shifted to a mortuary at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, police said. A suicide note was recovered from the spot which revealed that he was depressed due to marital discord, they said. Preliminary enquiry revealed that he was addicted to drinking and was suffering from depression as his wife and children were residing separately, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-found-hanging-at-congress-headquarters-in-delhi-863661.html
20-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Centre warns against use of N95 masks with valved respirator||In a letter to state governments, the Director-General of Health Services (DGHS) has favoured the use of home-made protective cover for face and mouth to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “It is to bring to your knowledge that the use of valved respirator N95 masks is detrimental to the measures adopted for preventing the spread of coronavirus as it does not prevent the virus from escaping out of the mask,” DGHS Rajiv Garg said in a letter to principal secretaries of state governments and union territories. “In view of the above, I request you to instruct all concerned to follow the use of face/mouth cover and prevent inappropriate use of N95 masks,” he said. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan pitched for the use of a triple-layer mask made out of cotton cloth. “The N95 mask fitted with a perforated respirator does not comply with the rules adopted to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” Vardhan said. He urged everyone to use a triple-layer mask made of cloth and encourage others to do the same. The Centre had earlier issued an advisory for use of home-made protective cover for the face and mouth to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The advisory said that such covers must be washed and cleaned each day and that only cotton cloth must be used.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-warns-against-use-of-n95-masks-with-valved-respirator-863662.html
20-07-2020||National||S Jaishankar says era of non-alignment gone, as US, Indian warships conduct joint drills||The non-alignment was a term of a bygone era, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Monday, even as the warships of the Indian Navy and the United States Navy conducted a joint drill off Andaman and Nicobar Islands – sending out a message to China.  “Non-alignment was a term of a particular era and geopolitical landscape,” Jaishankar said during a discussion on a TV channel. “The era of great caution, the era of greater dependence on multilateralism…that era is to a certain extent behind us,” he said, responding to a question if India was moving away from the principle of non-alignment and moving closer to the US.  His comment came on a day Indian Navy’s warships INS Rana, INS Sahyadri, INS Shivalik, and INS Kamorta had a cooperative exercise with USS Nimitz Carrier Strike Group in the Indian Ocean off Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Apart from the USS Nimitz, the other US Navy ships like guided-missile cruiser USS Princeton and missile destroyers USS Sterett and USS Ralph Johnson joined the Indian Navy ships to conduct high-end exercises designed to maximize training and interoperability, including air defence.  The joint drill and the comments by the External Affairs Minister came at a time when China’s aggression along its disputed boundary with India fuelled speculation that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi might have to review its policy of maintaining strategic ambiguity and move full steam ahead for greater India-US strategic convergence in Indo-Pacific to counter expansionist aspirations of President Xi Jinping's regime in Beijing.    The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) just had a two-month-long stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations. Though they started withdrawing troops early this month, it might take several more weeks to complete the “disengagement” process.  “If we are to grow by leveraging the international situation, then we have to exploit the opportunities out there. You cannot do that by saying 'I'm going to stay away from it all and when I find it useful, I'll step out.’ Either you are in the game or you are not in the game,” External Affairs Minister said. He, however, added that India was never a part of any alliance and would never be.    The joint exercise by US and Indian warships closer to Malacca Strait was intended to send out the message to China that the sea lane, which is vital for the communist country, could be choked in case of a conflict in the region.     The USS Nimitz was one of the two carriers the US Navy had deployed in the South China Sea earlier this month, with the other being USS Ronald Reagan. The US Navy ships conducted several tactical exercises to maximize air defence capabilities. The move was part of the US response to China’s aggressive military posturing in the South China Sea.  The US last week rejected most of China’s territorial claims in the South China Sea as “completely unlawful”. The US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo denounced Beijing’s bid to turn the South China Sea as its “maritime empire”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-says-era-of-non-alignment-gone-as-us-indian-warships-conduct-joint-drills-863666.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||2,426 firms 'looted' Rs 1.47 lakh crore from banks, will government launch probe: Rahul Gandhi||Alleging that 2,426 companies have "looted" people's savings to the tune of Rs 1.47 lakh crore from banks, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday asked if the government will conduct a probe into it to punish those guilty.  2426 कम्पनियों ने लोगों की बचत के 1.47 लाख करोड़ रुपये बैंकों से लूट लिए। क्या ये सरकार इस लूट की तहक़ीक़ात करके दोषियों को सज़ा देगी? या इन्हें भी नीरव और ललित मोदी जैसे फ़रार होने देगी? "2,426 companies looted 1.47 lakh crore rupees of people's savings from banks. Will this government investigate this loot and punish the culprits?" Gandhi said on Twitter, without elaborating. "Or will it allow them to flee like Nirav and Lalit Modi?" he asked. Gandhi's attack came after media reports claimed that the All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) had released a list of 2,426 borrower accounts that have been categorised as “wilful defaulters” with dues amounting to Rs 1,47,350 crore to the banking system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/2426-firms-looted-rs-147-lakh-crore-from-banks-will-government-launch-probe-rahul-gandhi-863334.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Of politics, horse-trading & phone tapping||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-of-politics-horse-trading-phone-tapping-863346.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan crisis: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat alleges CM Ashok Gehlot framing him to avenge son’s defeat - Report||Shekhawat said that "a fabricated audio clip released last week by the Rajasthan Congress was engineered by chief minister Ashok Gehlot to avenge the defeat of his son in 2019". The Jodhpur MP had defeated Gehlot's son and Congress candidate Vaibhav by about 2.7 lakh votes in the Lok Sabha polls 2019.  The minister, who is now at the centre of the raging controversy, told the publication that the contents of the tape were "malicious and defamatory".  "Neither the voice (in the recording) is mine, nor the accent. I have heard the entire conversation in the three audio clips. The person who is being referred to as 'Gajendra' has the accent of a man from the Sri Ganganagar region while I speak with a heavy Jodhpur Marwari accent. Second, it's laughable that content in the clip is being seen as seditious in nature." Meanwhile, the Congress on Sunday demanded the resignation of Gajendra Singh Shekhawat from the Union Cabinet, saying he has no moral authority to continue when he is heard on audio clips that suggest a BJP conspiracy to topple the government in Rajasthan. Last week, the Congress had released three audio clips purportedly about horse-trading of legislators to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan. Shekhawat was alleged to have been one of the three men doing the talking, the other two being Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and Sanjay Jain. On Friday, the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police registered two FIRs under IPC sections 124-A (sedition) and 120-B (conspiracy) to probe into the complaint related to horse-trading of MLAs and the alleged audio recordings.  The name 'Gajendra Singh' too featured in the FIR. To this Shekhawat said, "The source of the recording is unverifiable. The case is being built against me only to bully and instil fear in the minds of Congress MLAs held at the Fairmont Hotel in Jaipur by Gehlot to thwart a potential rebellion. There is no probe by the Rajasthan government regarding how and where that audio originated on social media or who recorded it. Instead of verifying the clip’s veracity, authenticity or even its source, CM Gehlot has chosen to send his state cops to record my statement and collect my voice sample out of vendetta for 2019. He wants to send a message to his MLAs that if he can frame a Union minister, he can frame them too.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-crisis-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-alleges-cm-ashok-gehlot-framing-him-to-avenge-son-s-defeat-report-863413.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Political Crisis: Phone tapping an assault on personal freedom, says Shiv Sena||Phone tapping is an assault on personal freedom and bringing down a democratically-elected government using money amounts to "treachery", the Shiv Sena said on Monday referring to the Rajasthan political crisis. It needs to be decided which one of this is a bigger crime, an editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said, claiming the Rajasthan telephone tapping episode has exposed many. It said a lot of revelation will come to the fore in case someone hears secretly the conversations among Congress leaders and those (conversations) reach party leader Rahul Gandhi's ears, and claimed some people are hell-bent to not let the Wayanad MP work properly. This, in effect, hurts the entire opposition, the Shiv Sena said. Its comments came in the wake of the Centre seeking a report from Rajasthan chief secretary on allegations of phone tapping after two audio clips of conversations purportedly regarding a conspiracy to topple the states Congress government emerged. The FIR registered by Rajasthan Polices Anti- Corruption Bureau mentions details of conversations of (Congress rebel MLA) Bhanwarlal Sharma with Gajendra Singh (Congress claims it is a reference to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat) and a third man called Sanjay Jain. The BJP on Saturday asked if the Congress government in the state resorted to unconstitutional methods to tap the phones of politicians, and demanded a CBI probe into what it called a saga of illegalities and concocted lies. Rajasthan plunged into a political crisis after Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's deputy Sachin Pilot rebelled. The Congress later removed Pilot as the deputy chief minister and also as the party's state unit head. "Phone tapping is an offence and assault on personal freedom. It is treachery to bring down a democratically- elected government using money. Hence, it needs to be decided which one is a bigger crime, the Shiv Sena said. "The deal which was on between the BJP and Sachin Pilot was to the extreme of exchanging money. That means it was decided that the Rajasthan government would be brought down by offering money and purchasing majority engaging in horse trading," it alleged. "Chief Minister Gehlot exposed that Sachin Pilots rebellion against injustice was a lie (not genuine) and for that, brought to light the phone conversation between Pilot and BJP leaders. It is shocking and equally sensational," it further said. "The central powers pressure and money was used to bring down the Gehlot government," the Shiv Sena charged, adding that the Congress foiled it. It further said phone tapping is an assault on ones personal freedom and the Centre ordering a probe into the episode was right. "Now the question is what was the emergency in the country or the state that led to the Gehlot government hearing the conversations? Activities were on in Rajasthan to bring down a majority government and MLAs were being bought at increasing prices, the Shiv Sena alleged. Pilots rebellion was driven more by money than morality. This is nothing but corruption and the Gehlot government has registered an offence against Union minister Shekhawat based on evidence, it said. The BJP is not ready to speak about the serious offences and allegations against Shekhawat, it further said. Why those who are seeking Presidents rule in Rajasthan have not made Shekhawat resign? First make Shekhawat resign, atone for poaching of MLAs and then point a finger towards the Gehlot government, the Shiv Sena said. It said phone tapping is not limited to Rajasthan only. Allegations are being made about shadows of invisible Emergency hovering over the country, it said. "Games are being played these days to debilitate opponents politically, socially and mentally by dislodging them from their governments (in the states), it claimed. The Shiv Sena, which formed government in Maharashtra with the NCP and Congress last year, alleged that the dramatic events, unfolding before the Maha Vikas Aghadi regime was established in the state, were tinged with phone tapping of leaders of the three parties. It also said disputes within the Congress are unending and are raked up by certain people, as if to not let Rahul Gandhi succeed. The Congress lost power in Madhya Pradesh out of such disputes, while the Rajasthan government has been saved for the moment, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. The Rajasthan phone tapping episode has exposed many. But a lot of revelation will come to the fore if someone hears secretly conversation among Congress leaders and takes it (conversation) to Gandhi. Some people have been hell-bent on not letting Gandhi work properly. This is hurting the entire Opposition, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-phone-tapping-an-assault-on-personal-freedom-says-shiv-sena-863433.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||West Bengal governor to meet Amit Shah over situation in state||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Monday that he will be meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah to brief him about the present situation in the state. The meeting, scheduled at 12 pm, comes amid growing animosity between the Raj Bhawan and Nabanna over a host of issues relating to governance and policies, the latest being the state's education system. In a series of tweets, the governor said that he will brief the home minister about the situation in the state and the way the administration is being run under Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. He said the discussions will be held in compliance with Article 159 of the Constitution that provides for the oath or affirmation by a governor. Dhankhar further said the welfare of the people of the state is his priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-governor-to-meet-amit-shah-over-situation-in-state-863448.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||LAC dispute a Chinese design to attack 56-inch strongman's image, Rahul attacks PM Modi; BJP hits back||In a sharp attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rahul Gandhi on Monday said his “fabricated strongman image” has become “India’s biggest weakness”, remarks that drew a strong rebuttal from the BJP. “PM fabricated a fake strongman image to come to power. It was his biggest strength. It is now India's biggest weakness,” Rahul said on Twitter, sharing a short video on the border crisis with China. The former Congress President claimed that the Prime Minister has succumbed to his image of a strong man while dealing with China. “The worry I have is, the Chinese are sitting in our territory today and the Prime Minister has said publicly they are not, which to me tells me that he is worried about his image and defending his image,” Rahul said. The Congress leader’s remarks drew a sharp rebuttal from BJP President J P Nadda, terming the video as “yet another (failed) edition of ‘Project RG Relaunch’.” “We saw yet another (failed) edition of ‘Project RG Relaunch’ today. Rahul Gandhi Ji was, as usual, weak on facts and strong on mudslinging,” Nadda said. “Attempts to politicise defence and foreign policy matters show one dynasty’s desperation to wash their past sins of 1962 and weaken India,” the BJP President said. In the video, Rahul said if the Prime Minister allowed “the Chinese to understand that they can manipulate him because of his image, the Indian Prime Minister will no longer be worth anything for India”. Rahul said the Chinese actions in Ladakh could reflect its larger thinking of “doing something with Pakistan in Kashmir” as they were disturbed by the highway India was building in the region. “So it is not simply a border issue. It is a border issue designed to put pressure on the Prime Minister of India. And they are thinking of putting pressure in a very particular way. And what they are doing, is that they are attacking his image,” Rahul said. “They understand that in order for Mr Narendra Modi to be an effective politician; in order for Mr Narendra Modi to survive as a politician, he has to protect the idea of ‘Chhapan Inch’,” the former Congress President said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lac-dispute-a-chinese-design-to-attack-56-inch-strongmans-image-rahul-attacks-pm-modi-bjp-hits-back-863471.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||One dynasty trying to destroy Prime Minister Modi: BJP chief JP Nadda slams Congress||Hitting out at Rahul Gandhi for criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief J P Nadda on Monday said that the Congress leader tries to politicise foreign policy issues by making statements that are "weak on facts" and "strong on mudslinging". He also said that for years, one dynasty is trying to destroy the prime minister. The BJP chief's reaction came after Gandhi, in a sharper attack on Modi, said the LAC standoff in Ladakh is not simply a border dispute but a design by China to attack his image as a "56-inch strongman". "In recent years, be it Doklam or the present, Rahul Gandhi Ji prefers briefings from the Chinese instead of believing India's armed forces. Why does one dynasty want a weak India and a strong China? Many leaders in the Congress also disapprove of one dynasty's shenanigans!” Nadda tweeted. Dubbing the latest video of Gandhi on the Ladakh stand-off issue as a failed attempt to relaunch himself, Nadda said, as usual, the Gandhi scion is "weak on facts" and "strong on mudslinging". "Attempts to politicise defence and foreign policy matters shows one dynasty’s desperation to wash their past sins of 1962 and weaken India," he said in series of tweets. Nadda alleged that since the 1950s, China has made "strategic investments in one dynasty that has given them rich dividends." The BJP chief said as a result of that China captured land during the Congress-led UPA tenure. "For years, one dynasty has been trying to destroy the PM," Nadda said while hitting back at Gandhi for his criticism of Modi. Underlining that Prime Minister Modi’s connect with 130 crore Indians is deep-rooted, Nadda said Modi lives and works for the people and "those who want to destroy him will end up only further destroying their own party".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/one-dynasty-trying-to-destroy-prime-minister-modi-bjp-chief-jp-nadda-slams-congress-863475.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||Ram temple is matter of faith not politics: Shiv Sena||Amid reports that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would perform the bhoomi-pujan of the grand Ram mandir at Ayodhya on August 5, the Shiv Sena on Monday said that it does not want to do politics over the issue.  Shiv Sena spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut said that it was Shiv Sena which paved the road towards realisation of  grand temple dedicated to Lord Rama.  "The Shiv Sena removed the roadblocks," said Raut,  the Executive Editor of Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece.  "Construction of Ram mandir is a matter of faith, not politics and for the larger cause of Hindutva," Raut told reporters.  When asked whether Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray would visit Ayodhya,  he said: "Uddhav ji always goes to Ayodhya...he went to Ayodhya before he became the chief minister, and after becoming the CM also." The relation and bonding between Shiv Sena and Ayodhya is not a political relationship. "We do not go to Ayodhya for politics," he said. He said that it needs to be seen who all are invited by Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshtra Nyas for the bhoomi-pujan. "It needs to be seen what political social distancing is observed," he said. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader and Mumbai South MP Arvind Sawant said that it needs to be mentioned that Shiv Sena has donated Rs 5 crore for construction of temple. "Whether the invite has come or not, we are not aware....Uddhav saheb will decide all these," he said. The statements of Raut and Sawant came in wake of reports on the bhoomi-pujan ceremony scheduled on August 5 and the reaction of NCP founder-President Sharad Pawar.Thackeray heads the Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government of which the architect is Pawar. The NCP surpemo had said: "...some people think building a temple will help eradicate Covid-19 pandemic....The fight against Coronavirus is being fought by our doctors in white aprons,  whom we call devdoots."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ram-temple-is-matter-of-faith-not-politics-shiv-sena-863489.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||Govt, society, cinema, media become part of Covid-19 solution: Union Minister Naqvi||History is witness to the fact that Indian media and cinema has always played a crucial and constructive role during crises, he said while speaking on "Role of Journalism, Media and Cinema in Nation and Generation Building” at a session of the Centre for Professional Development in Higher Education of the University of Delhi. The minority affairs minister said that during the 1960s and 70s, cinema was full of nationalism and patriotic feelings, and it still mesmerises people. The patriotism of the media during that time remains ideal for the present generation, he said. In times of crisis, the government, society, cinema, and media act as "four bodies, one soul", Naqvi said. "History is witness to the fact that whenever there has been a crisis in the country, before or after Independence, all these four sections have come together and performed their respective responsibilities with complete honesty in national interest and for human welfare," he said. Noting that the entire world is facing a crisis in the form of the novel coronavirus pandemic, he said the society, government, cinema and media and have played a mature role and have become a part of the solution to the problem. Naqvi said there have been revolutionary changes in the work culture, character and commitment of the establishment, society, cinema and media during the last six months. "Reforms don’t take place due to only regulation, they take place due to resolution. Today, in the coronavirus pandemic, every section has been witnessing a drastic change in the work culture and lifestyle," he said. Naqvi said that even during the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown period, people did not ignore films and media. However, he rued that most of the news channels and digital platforms, to some extent, failed to fulfil their responsibility to give an effective and constructive message to society during the crisis. "Films and media have not only become an indispensable part of our lives, they also have the strength to influence society," he said. Media has a more important role to play in nation-building with print, electronic and digital media having a reach to about 80 percent of the country's population, Naqvi said. "Newspapers, television, radio, digital platforms have played a laudable role in spreading the information to the remotest parts of the country from towns to villages. Digital media has also made a space for itself in our life," he said. The media not only creates awareness among people through news and various information, but it also makes the government system cautious through constructive criticism, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-society-cinema-media-become-part-of-covid-19-solution-union-minister-naqvi-863497.html
20-07-2020||National Politics||Has Congress closed its doors to Sachin Pilot?||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's public outburst against Sachin Pilot on Monday has virtually dashed hopes of reconciliation with the rebel leader, according to a section of Congress leaders. Congress sources indicated that Pilot has been in touch with the leadership and efforts were continuing to pacify him and get him back to the party fold. However, some party leaders feel that Gehlot calling Pilot names and going public against him in the media has dealt a huge setback to the party's efforts at rapprochement. Senior party functionaries said the leadership does not approve of adverse remarks against anyone, including political rivals, and has issued an advisory to leaders to avoid personal comments. However, some insiders say Gehlot could not have slammed Pilot in public of his own and without the knowledge of the central leadership. "With the chief minister's attack on his former deputy today, all possibilities of rapprochement seem to have come to an end. It is quite unfortunate that despite the best efforts put in by the party leadership to make things work, matters have come to such a passe," said a senior Congress leader. Another leader said that with Pilot's supporters continuing to stay in a hotel under the BJP's watch and the bitter internal factionalism out in the open, hopes of the rebel leader's return have dimmed. The Congress is, meanwhile, keeping an eye on the outcome of Rajasthan High Court hearing on the petition of rebel MLAs' challenging the Assembly Speaker's disqualification notices. Senior leaders said the result of the court hearing and the dissidents' next moves would be factored to formulate the party's future strategy. AICC sources added that Chief Minister Gehlot would soon convene a session of the state assembly to corner the rebels and prove his majority. No date for the assembly session has been fixed yet. The Congress has claimed the support of 109 MLAs in the 200-member House and Gehlot has said that he has the majority. The chief minister on Monday called Sachin Pilot 'useless' using Hindi word 'nikamma' in a no-holds-barred attack on his former deputy with whom he has been locked in a power tussle since December 2018 when the party came to power in Rajasthan. Referring to the dissident leader's tenure as the Pradesh Congress Committee president, Gehlot claimed nobody had raised questions on his functioning for the sake of the party even when they knew he was not delivering. "We knew he is 'nikamma' (useless), he is 'nakara' (idle) and not doing any work," the chief minister told reporters, in uncharacteristic acerbic remarks against Pilot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/has-congress-closed-its-doors-to-sachin-pilot-863658.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Political Crisis: Hearing on petition filed by Sachin Pilot, 18 other Congress MLAs resumes in HC||The hearing on a writ petition filed by Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident Congress MLAs from Rajasthan, challenging the disqualification notices issued to them by the state Assembly speaker, resumed in the high court here on Monday. The petition was taken up by a bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta on Friday and arguments were heard. The proceedings resumed at 10 am. The counsel representing the Assembly speaker opened the arguments . The notices to the MLAs were served after the party complained to the speaker that the lawmakers had defied a whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings last week on Monday and Tuesday. The Pilot camp, however, argues that a party whip applies only when the Assembly is in session. In its complaint to the speaker, the Congress had sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2(1)(a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they "voluntarily" give up the membership of the party that they represent in the House. Pilot was sacked as the Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the president of the state Congress unit after he rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-political-crisis-hearing-on-petition-filed-by-sachin-pilot-18-other-congress-mlas-resumes-in-hc-863383.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain to resume work after Covid-19 recovery||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who has recovered from COVID-19, will resume work from Monday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. Jain will be resuming work after a month. The minister had tested positive for the novel coronavirus on June 17. In his absence, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia was looking after health and home departments, and PWD headed by Jain. "Our Health Minister Satinder Jain has recovered. He will join work from today. He was always on the field visiting hospitals and meeting health workers and patients. "He contracted corona. After one month, he joins back today. Welcome back Satinder and best wishes!."Kejriwal tweeted. The 55-year-old minister had been administered plasma therapy after which his condition improved. He was discharged from hospital on June 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-to-resume-work-after-covid-19-recovery-863416.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Kanpur ambush: Slain gangster Dubey's close aide, accomplice arrested||After being detained for 15 days, slain gangster Vikas Dubey's close aide Jai Bajpai and one of his accomplices were arrested on Monday morning, police said. The arrests were made on charges of criminal conspiracy and helping Dubey in his nefarious design by providing him cash and cartridges hours before the Bikru village ambush, in which eight police personnel were killed and seven others, including a civilian, left seriously injured, the police said in a statement issued here. A police probe revealed that Dubey had made a phone call to Bajpai on July 1. The next day, along with his aide Prashant Shukla alias Doublu, a resident of Kohna, Bajpai went to Bikru to hand over Rs 2 lakh in cash and 25 cartridges of .32 bore revolvers to Dubey, the statement said. Dubey had briefed Bajpai about his plan to launch an attack on the police party that had gone to the village to arrest him. He had also asked Bajpai to arrange for at least three sports utility vehicles (SUVs) for him and his gang members. Accordingly, Bajpai took three SUVs to pick up Dubey and his men and take them to safer places, but failed to do so due to intensive police patrolling, the statement said. On July 4, Bajpai left his vehicle in the Kakadev area and went underground, a police official said. Soon after seizing the three vehicles, police raided the possible hideouts of Bajpai and nabbed him within hours, a senior official said on the condition of anonymity. Subsequently, he was handed over to the Special Task Force (STF) of the Uttar Pradesh police and taken to its headquarters in Lucknow, where he was kept in detention for 15 days, the official said. Bajpai was handed over to the Nazirabad police on Sunday and subsequently let off, another official said, adding that he was arrested again following frequent tweets and posts on social media platforms about his release. A police communique confirmed that Bajpai and Shukla were booked under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence commit­ted in the prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (Punishment for dacoity), 412 (dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment (CLA) Act read with section 120B (criminal conspiracy), IPC. A separate FIR under sections 29 and 30 of the Arms Act has also been registered against Bajpai for providing cartridges to Dubey illegally, the police statement said. Dubey, the prime accused in the killing of the eight policemen in Kanpur's Bikru village on July 3, was killed in a police encounter on July 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-ambush-slain-gangster-dubeys-close-aide-accomplice-arrested-863443.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||SC asks UP govt to reconstitute judicial panel to probe Vikas Dubey encounter||The Supreme Court on Monday said it was "appalled" that gangster Vikas Dubey with 64 cases was out on parole and killed eight policemen in Kanpur on July 2, saying it showed a failure of the system. The top court sought a report from the Uttar Pradesh government on the orders passed in case of Dubey, terming it as "institutional failure". Hearing a batch of matters for probe into killings of policemen and subsequent encounter of Dubey and his henchmen, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to reconstitute the judicial inquiry commission by allowing it to be headed by a former Supreme Court judge and comprised a retired DGP. Mehta, appearing for the state government, agreed to do it by Tuesday. During the hearing, the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, also asked Mehta to look into statements made by the chief minister and deputy chief minister preceding the encounter, wherein they allegedly indicated to eliminate those involved in policemen's killings. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh police chief, contended that this was not a case which required judicial intervention, saying such an inquiry would demoralise the police. He also pointed out the Telangana case and the present case was on different footings. This was a case where the man was arrested for having slaughtered policemen. Mehta, for his part, said the investigation was going on in the matter. Dubey was out on parole and when the police tried to investigate an FIR, he fired shots at them and mutilated their bodies. The bench, however, told Mehta, "There is a difference in who was killed here and in Hyderabad but you as the State is responsible to maintain law and order. It requires arrest, trial and sentencing". The court asked Mehta to add a retired Supreme Court judge and a former DGP in the panel. The state had earlier constituted a judicial commission headed by former Allahabad High Court judge, Justice Sashi Kant Agarwal, to inquire into incidents between July 2 and July 10, when Dubey was killed while he allegedly tried to escape when the vehicle met with an accident on their way from Ujjain to Kanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-up-govt-to-reconstitute-judicial-panel-to-probe-vikas-dubey-encounter-863461.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Family of 3 killed, 6 injured in cloudburst in Uttarakhand||A family of three was killed and six others injured as a cloudburst hit two adjacent villages in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh district on Monday, officials said. Eleven people are also reported missing, they said. Sher Singh, his wife Govindi Devi and daughter Kumari Mamta were killed after their house in Gaila village caved in due to heavy rains triggered by the cloudburst. The incident took place around 2 am, when the family was fast asleep, Pithoragarh District Magistrate (DM) V K Jogdande told reporters. Two of the bodies have been recovered, while the search for the third is underway, he said. Five others were injured in the village, he said. One person was rescued in Tanga village and he told authorities that 11 others were washed away in a swollen rivulet, Jogdande said. The two villages fall in the Bangapani sub-division of the district. Relief and rescue operations have been launched by police and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel with help from locals, the DM said. Two other villages were also hit by the cloudburst, resulting in damage to five houses, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/family-of-3-killed-6-injured-in-cloudburst-in-uttarakhand-863464.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Plea to record children's statements via video-conference: HC asks Delhi govt to file reply||The petition also seeks that Covid testing of such children be done at the child care institutions or homes where they are lodged or at the office of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), instead of transporting them to government hospitals for the same. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Delhi government and police, seeking their stand on the plea moved by NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) by July 28. During the hearing via video-conference, the NGO's counsel, Prabhsahay Kaur, urged the court to direct that till the next date of hearing, the children will not be taken to court for recording their statements before a magistrate. However, this concern of the NGO was assuaged by the Delhi government counsel, who told the bench that till the next date of hearing, no child will be taken to court for recording his statement. The government counsel also told the bench that the administration is considering recording the statements via video-conference and suggested another option -- magistrates going to child care institutions or homes for the purpose. The government lawyer said the physical presence of a magistrate was necessary to console the kids and counsel them on how their statements would be recorded. With regard to Covid testing at the SDM office or at the homes, the government lawyer said it may not be feasible and added that in hospitals, the tests are conducted following all precautions. The bench, thereafter, asked the Delhi government and police to file their replies to the petition and listed it for hearing on July 28. The NGO, in its plea, has said it carried out a raid recently with the authorities and rescued several children from child labour. Thereafter, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) directed the police to record the children's statements before a magistrate in accordance with section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The petition has contended that both the CWC and the Investigating Officer (IO) of the case are "irrationally" insisting that the children be physically taken to the Karkardooma Court for recording their statements, despite the concerns related to Covid-19 raised by the officials of a home run by the NGO -- Mukti Ashram. The plea has said the children have already been taken to the court complex twice and the IO has said he would again take them there for recording their statements. It has contended that the actions of the CWC and the IO are contrary to the Supreme Court's April 3 order to arrange for online sittings or video-conferencing in cases involving children in need of care and protection. The petition has said even the Juvenile Justice Rules of 2016 provide for recording of statements under section 164, CrPC via video-conference. It has contended that the authorities and subordinate courts have all the facilities required for video-conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-to-record-childrens-statements-via-video-conference-hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-file-reply-863477.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey's post-mortem report says he died of excessive blood loss||Slain gangster Vikas Dubey's post-mortem report, which was put in the public domain on Monday, confirmed that he had died of excessive blood loss. The autopsy findings confirmed that the dreaded gangster had received three bullet injuries. Dubey succumbed to the injuries sustained in a police encounter in the Sachendi area on the outskirts of Kanpur on July 10. The post-mortem was performed by a panel of three senior doctors and the entire process was videographed. According to the post-mortem report, there were a total of 10 wounds on Dubey's body, said an official on the condition of anonymity. "Six were entry and exit wounds of bullets, while the four other wounds were on the right side of the body," he said. These wounds on the head, elbow, ribs and abdomen were due to falling on the ground after Dubey was shot thrice, the official added. The first bullet pierced through the right shoulder, while the other two went through the left side of his chest, he said. Dubey also had a small wound and swelling on his head and his elbow was bruised. He had a slightly deeper wound and swelling in the stomach. "The post-mortem report, however, does not mention any blackening," the official said and added, due to this, it could not be deciphered from how much distance the firing was done on Vikas." Dubey, the prime accused in the killing of eight policemen in Kanpur's Bikru village on July 3, was gunned down in an encounter on July 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubeys-post-mortem-report-says-he-died-of-excessive-blood-loss-863483.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 will not be controlled by 'jugaad': Mayawati to Uttar Pradesh government||The pandemic, she said, will be controlled by making proper arrangements and not by 'jugaad'. "The way in which Covid-19 pandemic is assuming a horrible shape in UP -- the most populous state in the country, which is poor and backward -- is a matter of serious concern," she said in a tweet in Hindi. The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh rose to 49,247 on Sunday, with the highest single-day jump of 2,211 fresh cases, while the death toll reached 1,146 after 38 fatalities were reported in the state, according to a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-will-not-be-controlled-by-jugaad-mayawati-to-uttar-pradesh-government-863488.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot targets 'useless' Sachin Pilot; smells corporate conspiracy to topple him||Firing fresh salvos, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday accused “innocent faced” Sachin Pilot of being part of a “corporate conspiracy” to topple his government and “backstabbing” the Congress while leading it in the state. While Gehlot termed Pilot as “useless” and “rejected”, Congress MLA Giriraj Singh Malinga claimed that the rebel leader had offered him Rs 35 crore to defect to the BJP, a charge rejected by Pilot. Breaking his silence, Pilot said he was “saddened, but not surprised” to be at the receiving end of such “baseless and vexatious allegations” against him. “This is done solely to malign me and to stifle the legitimate concerns that I had raised against the party leadership of the state, as a member and MLA of INC. This attempt further aims at defaming me and attacking my credibility,” Pilot said in a statement. “I will be taking appropriate and strictest possible legal action against the MLA who was made to make these accusations. I am sure more such concocted allegations will be thrown at me to cause aspersions on my public image. But I shall be unfettered and remain firm in my beliefs and convictions,” Pilot said. Addressing the media in Jaipur, Gehlot claimed several corporate houses from Mumbai had sponsored Pilot’s candidacy for the post of the AICC President and the same groups are now de-stablising his government to please Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The lawyers he (Pilot) has engaged Mukul Rohtagi and Harish Salve charge Rs 40 lakh-Rs 50 lakh per appearance. Where is the money coming from. Corporate houses are behind this,” Gehlot said. The chief minister alleged that Pilot along with the BJP had been conspiring for the last six months to topple his government. “Nobody believed me when I used to say that a conspiracy is being hatched to topple the government. I am not here to sell brinjals. I am not here to sell vegetables, I am the chief minister,” Gehlot said. The chief minister claimed that MLAs supporting Pilot were held captive in five star hotels with no access to phones. “Several were reaching out to me using mobile phones of waiters and hair dressers, crying that they want to come back,” Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-targets-useless-sachin-pilot-smells-corporate-conspiracy-to-topple-him-863493.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Congress MLA in Rajasthan alleges Sachin Pilot offered him money to join BJP||Congress MLA from Rajasthan Giriraj Singh Malinga alleged on Monday that rebel party leader Sachin Pilot had offered him money to join the BJP. He said talks were held at Pilot's residence and subsequently, he had alerted Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot about the conspiracy to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan. "I had a talk with Sachinji. He offered me money to join the BJP, but I refused, saying I will not join the saffron party," Malinga told reporters here. He did not disclose the amount that he was allegedly offered to join the saffron party. Asked if it was between Rs 30 crore and Rs 35 crore, Malinga said he was offered the "going rate". He said he would not join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) even after resigning as an MLA. "How will I face the people of my area? What will I tell them?" he asked. The former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Badi, along with five other legislators of the Mayawati-led party, was inducted into the Congress in September last year. The lawmakers had handed over affidavits to state Assembly Speaker CP Joshi to merge the legislative party with the Congress. Replying to a question on why did he not raise the issue when he was offered money, Malinga said he had alerted Gehlot ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls that a conspiracy was going on to topple his government. He said efforts to topple the government were going on from December last year. Malinga said he did not give any audio clip to the chief minister, claiming that he does not even know how to record an audio. The MLA said he is ready to appear before any investigating agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mla-in-rajasthan-alleges-sachin-pilot-offered-him-money-to-join-bjp-863502.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||SC dismisses 2 PILs for preserving artefacts found at Ram Janmabhoomi, imposes cost||The Supreme Court Monday dismissed as “frivolous” two PILs seeking preservation of artefacts recovered from the Ram Janmabhoomi site at Ayodhya. The top court also imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh each on the two petitioners and asked them to pay it within one month. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishan Murari said that a five-judge bench has already given its verdict and this is an attempt through PIL to overreach the judgement. The counsel appearing for the petitioners said the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust has also accepted that there are many artefacts in the area that need protection. The bench sought to know as to why the petitioners have come before the Supreme Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. “You should stop filing such frivolous petition. What do you mean by this petition? Are you saying that there is no rule of law and the five-judge bench judgement of this court will not be followed by anyone,” the bench said, adding that it intends to dismiss both the petition. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the court should also consider imposing costs. The bench then said that a cost of Rs 1 lakh each is imposed on both the petitioners which should be paid within one month from Monday. Petitioners Satish Chindhuji Shambharkar and Dr Ambedkar Foundation have moved the top court seeking preservation of artefacts recovered from the disputed site during the court-monitored excavation done during hearing of the contentious issue at Allahabad High Court. They have also sought preserving of artefacts which would be recovered after digging the foundation for the new Ram Temple at Ayodhya and said that it should be done under the supervision of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). On November 9, settling a fractious issue that goes back more than a century, the Supreme Court in a historic verdict backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town. Delivering a unanimous judgement on a case that has long polarised the country and frayed the secular tapestry of Indian society, a five-judge bench of the apex court headed by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi said the faith of Hindus that Lord Ram was born at the site was undisputed, and he is symbolically the owner of the land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-dismisses-2-pils-for-preserving-artefacts-found-at-ram-janmabhoomi-imposes-cost-863503.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Six-year-old seen pushing stretcher in UP hospital in video; mother says staff demanded money||Unable to pay Rs 30 to the staff as bribe, a woman and her six year old son were forced to push the stretch carrying her injured father to the dressing room for changing the bandage at a government hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Deoria district, about 350 kilometres from here. According to the reports, one Chedi Yadav, a resident of Gaura village in the district, assaulted by some people a few days back. Chedi, who sustained serious injuries, was admitted to the district hospital last week. Bindu Devi, Chedi's daughter said that he was required to be taken to the dressing room from male surgical ward of the hospital for changing the bandage every day. ''The staff demands Rs 30 for taking my father to the dressing room on the stretcher....I am a poor woman....I do not have money to pay the amount every day,'' she said. ''Myself and my six year old son now take my father to the dressing room....I drag the stretch from the front while my son pushes it from behind,'' she said. In the video, which went viral on social networking sites, the child was seen pushing the stretcher from behind. Bindu was seen in the front with another child on her shoulder. The chief medical superintendent of the hospital said that he was not aware of the incident though he added that he had seen the video. ''We will investigate the matter and take action against the guilty,'', he said. The opposition Congress, which shared the video on its twitter handle, said that it 'exposed' the 'pathetic condition' of the government hospitals in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-year-old-seen-pushing-stretcher-in-up-hospital-in-video-mother-says-staff-demanded-money-863521.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Farmers in Punjab hold protest against agri ordinances||Farmers in Punjab on Monday held a statewide protest against the Centre over the issues of ordinances related to the agriculture sector and rising fuel prices. The protesting growers, owing allegiance to different farmers' outfits, parked their tractors on the side of the roads for two-three hours as a mark of protest against what they described as "anti-farmers" policies. The farmers said they took all precautions and followed all safety norms including wearing marks and maintaining physical distance in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) and BKU (Rajewal) factions and some other outfits held agitation. The protests came despite Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's appeal to farmers' outfits to postpone them because of the restrictions in place to check the spread of novel coronavirus. Farmers are against the three ordinances-- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, which the Centre had promulgated. "We followed all guidelines (related to coronavirus). Farmers wore masks and physical distance was also maintained during the protest,” said BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal. He said farmers took out their tractors and parked them on the side of Samrala-Ludhiana road. There was no disruption of traffic, he added. BKU (Rajewal) faction also held the protest in a similar fashion. Onkar Singh general secretary BKU (Rajewal) said the protests were held at several places including Nabha, Khamano, Faridkot and Ferozepur. The farmers later submitted memorandums in support of their demands to the authorities concerned in several districts. Farmers have been expressing apprehension that because of the three ordinances passed by the Centre, the minimum support price mechanism and assured marketing system would be disbanded. "We have fears that the MSP system will be dismantled after a certain time once these ordinances are implemented," said Lakhowal. The farmers also apprehended that the companies, which had been allowed to procure crop from farmers without paying any tax, would "exploit" growers in the absence of any "foolproof" dispute redressal mechanism. "The mandi board will also cease to exist which will eventually lead to exploitation of farmers at the hands of big corporates," claimed Onkar Singh of BKU (Rajewal) faction. The farmers also protested against the rising fuel prices, saying it would lead to an increase in their input cost. They also opposed the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, stating that it could adversely affect subsidized power or free power to different sections of society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-in-punjab-hold-protest-against-agri-ordinances-863537.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt must pay compensation to families of people who died in rain-related incidents: BJP||The Arvind Kejriwal government should pay compensation to families of the four people who died in rain-related incidents and the people whose houses were damaged due to heavy rainfall and waterlogging on Sunday, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said. The first heavy monsoon rainfall in Delhi claimed four lives on Sunday, including that of a 56-year-old man from Uttarakhand who drowned after his mini-truck got stuck under a waterlogged Minto Bridge in central Delhi. Gupta alleged that there was waterlogging on roads as the Delhi government did not desilt drains. It must release the list of drains cleaned so far, the BJP leader said. "The city became Venice after first monsoon rains. Delhi government agencies did not desilt drains. We demand government to pay compensation to four persons who died in rain-related incidents on Sunday and those in Anna Nagar whose houses were damaged," he said in a press conference. Waterlogging was reported from several areas on Sunday including at Minto Road, Azadpur underpass, South Avenue Road, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Azad Market, Moolchand underpass and near Batra Hospital, according to the Delhi Traffic Police. AAP leaders, including Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, had asked the BJP to desist from blame game over waterlogging and work together to solve the problem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-must-pay-compensation-to-families-of-people-who-died-in-rain-related-incidents-bjp-863551.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Special Operations Group serves notice to Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||Probing into an alleged plot to topple the state government, the Special Operations Group of the Rajasthan Police has served a notice to Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat under a CrPC section which requires him to appear before the investigation officer when called. The subpoena was sent to the personal secretary of Shekhawat under Section 160 of the CrPC in connection with the audiotapes, in one of which the minister is allegedly heard during a purported conversation to topple the Rajasthan government. However, the FIR does not identify “Gajendra Singh” referred in the clip as Union minister Shekhawat, a senior BJP leader from Rajasthan. Shekhawat had earlier denied that he figured in the audio clip and said he is open to a probe. On Monday, he questioned the authenticity of the audiotapes and said, "They (police) should first clarify about authenticity of these tapes. Who recorded it and where did the SOG get it from. Investigation should be carried out to find out if these tapes are genuine or not." Meanwhile, ADG (SOG) Ashok Rathore told PTI, "It is correct that a subpoena was sent to the PS of the Union minister on July 18 through WhatsApp, e-mail and phone call." He said as investigation involves high dignitaries, the SOG, with all humility and responsibility, is observing due care and caution not to malign the image of any person or party. Rathore clarified that reports of the SOG team visiting the minister's official residence on the intervening night of July 18 and 19 are incorrect and misleading. Replying to the action of the SOG team in Haryana, Rathore said it is working in close coordination with the Haryana and Delhi Police. Two days ago, a team had reached Manesar of Haryana to quiz rebel Congress legislator Bhanwarlal Sharma, who too allegedly figured in the audiotapes. The team was allegedly stopped by the Haryana Police outside a hotel where Congress legislators were said to be holed up. "The SOG team is working in close coordination with the Delhi police and Haryana Police. The Rajasthan DGP has written to the Delhi police commissioner and the Haryana DGP for coordination," Rathore said. The SOG has so far registered three FIRs on complaints related to horse-trading to allegedly dislodge the Congress government in the state. The Congress has accused the BJP and its dissident leader Sachin Pilot of horse-trading. In the first FIR registered on the basis of phone surveillance activity, police on Sunday served a notice through the Banswara district SP on Karni Singh, who is said to be a BJP leader there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-special-operations-group-serves-notice-to-union-minister-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-863582.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Muzaffarpur shelter home: Brajesh Thakur moves Delhi High Court against jail for life for sexual assault||Brajesh Thakur, who was sentenced to life imprisonment till his last breath for sexually assaulting several girls in a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district, has approached the Delhi High Court challenging his conviction and jail term. The high court is likely to take up this week his appeal seeking to set aside trial court’s January 20 judgment convicting him in the case and February 11 order sentencing him to life imprisonment till his last breath. A trial court here had sentenced Thakur to "rigorous imprisonment till remainder of his life" and imposed a hefty fine of Rs 32.20 lakh on him, saying he was the "kingpin" of a "meticulously planned" conspiracy and "displayed extreme perversity". Besides him, the trial court has also sent others to jail for life in the case. Advocate Pramod Kumar Dubey, who represented Thakur before the trial court, confirmed that the appeal has been filed on his behalf. Thakur, in the appeal, contended that the trial was conducted in a “hurried manner” by the special judge (POCSO), Saket, which was a flagrant violation of his right to a free and fair trial as guaranteed under the Constitution. He claimed that his applications and submissions were dismissed in a mechanical manner without due application of judicial mind with a view to somehow conclude the trial. The appeal, filed through advocates Nishaank Mattoo, Anurag Andley and Shreed Krsna, claimed that the conviction judgement and sentencing order were passed by the trial court in a prejudiced and mechanical manner having been swayed by the gruesomeness of the allegations levelled against Thakur and the public perception. The appeal also raised the issue that potency of an accused is one of the foundational facts which the prosecution has to establish in a case related to rape and said neither the Bihar Police nor CBI had conducted the potency test of Thakur. “The trial court has failed to appreciate that in a case relating to rape, the prosecution must first and foremost establish that an accused is potent and thereby capable of committing the alleged act… “The trial court has failed to appreciate that there is no presumption under law that a person who is more than 50 years of age and admittedly suffering from high blood sugar has to be potent…. Without establishing the potency of the accused specially one who is more than 50 years of age the accused cannot be convicted of the offence of rape,” it contended. “The Special Judge, (POCSO), Saket while convicting the appellant (Thakur) has relied upon legally inadmissible evidence and has assumed the role of a prosecution witness by giving possible explanations which have neither been stated by the prosecution witnesses nor have been recorded in evidence and have further not even been argued by the prosecution during the course of final arguments,” it alleged. The appeal claimed that the trial court’s verdict was “illegal, incorrect, perverse and contrary to the evidence on record” and hence liable to be set aside. The trial court on January 20, had convicted Brajesh Thakur, who once unsuccessfully contested assembly polls on Bihar People's Party (BPP) ticket, of several offences including aggravated penetrative sexual assault under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and offences of rape and gang rape under the Indian Penal code (IPC). Besides Brajesh Thakur, it had sentenced Dilip Verma, then Chairman of Child Welfare Committee; Child protection officer of District Child Protection Unit Ravi Roshan; member of Child Welfare Committee Vikas Kumar; Guddu Vijay; Kumar Tiwari; Guddu Patel; Kishan Kumar and Ramanuj Thakur to imprisonment for remainder of life in the case. It had also send three women -- Minu Devi, Kiran Kumari and Shaista Praveen -- to jail for life for abetment to rape. The trial court had sentenced Rama Shankar, Ashwani, Manju Devi, Chanda Devi, Neha Kumari and Hema Masih to 10 years in prison, and Indu Kumari to three years jail term. It had imposed varying fines on the convicts. It had also granted a compensation of Rs 5.50 lakh to three of the rape victims; Rs 6 lakh to one of the victims, Rs 9 lakh to another victim, Rs 40,000 each to two of the victims and Rs 25,000 to another victim. Former Bihar Social Welfare Minister and the then JD(U) leader Manju Verma had also faced flak when allegations surfaced that her husband had links with Brajesh Thakur. She resigned from her post on August 8, 2018. The case was transferred on February 7, 2019 from a local court in Muzaffarpur in Bihar to a POCSO court at Saket district court complex in Delhi on the Supreme Court's directions. The matter had come to light on May 26, 2018 after Tata Institute of Social Sciences submitted a report to the Bihar government highlighting the alleged sexual abuse of girls in the shelter home for the first time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muzaffarpur-shelter-home-brajesh-thakur-moves-delhi-high-court-against-jail-for-life-for-sexual-assault-863614.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Over 10,000 labourers arriving in Kashmir tested for Covid-19 from July 14-18: J&K admin||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday said it has tested over 10,000 labourers arriving in the Valley for Covid-19 from July 14-18. A total of 10,581 samples of labourers arriving at Qazigund toll post from other states and UTs were collected for coronavirus testing in the five days, an official spokesman said. As many as 1,012 samples were collected on July 14, of which only six tested positive, he said. The results for the remaining 9,569 of the total 10,581 samples collected are awaited, he added. The administration was apparently responding to criticism from various quarters as to why thousands of labourers from other parts of the country are being allowed into the Kashmir Valley without being first tested for Covid-19. There are apprehensions that these labourers are not observing the quarantine guidelines until their test reports are available. "As per the official data received in this regard, the samples are being collected from the labourers who are arriving at Jammu and Kashmir from several other states and UTs," the spokesman said. Giving the break-up, he said 2,227 samples were collected on July 15, 2,099 on July 16, 2,350 on July 17 and 2,893 on July 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-10000-labourers-arriving-in-kashmir-tested-for-covid-19-from-july-14-18-jk-admin-863619.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Caste induced clash breaks out in a village in Ayodhya, at least six injured||Two FIRs were registered and the investigation is underway, said the police. “The skirmish occurred in Samardheer Village under Haiderganj police station limits. It began as a fight between children of the either community near a pond and escalated further. People from both sides pelted stone(s) on each other in which few people got injured,” the Circle Officer (CO) Komal Prasad Mishra said. Both the communities have filed complaints against each other over the incident and eight men were named in each of the FIRs, the CO said. The police have also registered the upper caste men for violating the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989. “The situation in the village is currently peaceful. We also organised a peace committee meeting at the village and a police picket has also been deployed there,” the CO said. Police are yet to make any arrests in the case. “The accused are absconding and we are trying to arrest them,” said the CO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/caste-induced-clash-breaks-out-in-a-village-in-ayodhya-at-least-six-injured-863637.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||As Covid-19 cases rise, MP to enforce 2-day lockdown per week||There will be lockdown for two days every week, including Sundays, in districts with a high incidence of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday. The government has also decided to enforce the night curfew in every district from 8 pm to 5 am in view of rising cases. "In a bid to prevent coronavirus infection, there will now be lockdown in districts with high infection rate for two consecutive days in a week. All activities, except essential services, will be restricted during this period," Chouhan said in a review meeting. The two-day lockdown will include Sundays, but another day, either Saturday or Monday, will be decided by the district crisis management group, he said. The number of Covid-19 cases in the state stood at 23,310 as on Monday while the death toll mounted to 738. As per the state health department, all 52 districts have active cases as on Monday. Chouhan said all offices of the state and Central governments will function with 30 per cent to 50 per cent capacity in all districts, except in the unaffected districts where offices will function with their fullest strength. Private offices and business establishments will also function with 30 per cent to 50 per cent of capacity. "However, if a positive case is detected, private offices and establishments would be shut for seven days," the CM said. Chouhan said government employees found flouting norms like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing will be punished. He also urged people to celebrate upcoming festivals inside their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-cases-rise-mp-to-enforce-2-day-lockdown-per-week-863649.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||11 army, 18 ITBP jawans among record 110 new Covid-19 cases in HP||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 110 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike in infections, bringing the virus count to 1,632 in the state, officials said. Of the fresh cases, 42 were reported from Solan, 23 from Shimla, 21 from Sirmaur, 12 from Kangra, three from Bilaspur, two each from Una, Hamirpur, Mandi and Chamba and one from Kullu, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. Eleven army and 18 ITBP jawans, and two apple labourers are among the new cases. The coronavirus has claimed 10 lives in Himachal Pradesh so far, while 1,062 people have recovered from the infection and 15 have migrated out of the state. In Shimla, 18 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawans in Rampur Bushahr tehsil tested positive for the novel coronavirus, a district official said, adding they had been institutionally quarantined after returning from various states. Two migrant apple labourers tested positive in Rohru tehsil, he said, adding they had come from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh for work during ongoing apple season and were quarantined at the home of an orchardist in Mehandli area. In Kangra, 11 army jawans tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said. Ten army jawans have been quarantined at Yol cantonment in Dharamshala and another was admitted to Palampur military hospital, he said. Besides, a 31-year-old man of Kandor village in Fatehpur tehsil, who returned from Kolkata recently, tested positive for the infection, Prajapati added. In Kullu, a 70-year-old Delhi return woman tested positive, Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said, adding she was institutionally quarantined. In Mandi, two men aged 31 and 41 of Shala in Chachiot and Jail Road Mandi Town respectively tested positive, a district official said. Eight more patients -- three in Kangra, two in Una and one each in Bilaspur, Chamba and Kinnaur-- recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours, Dhiman said. The state's active Covid-19 case count now stands at 475. Solan has the highest number of active cases in the state at 196, followed by 49 in Sirmaur, 48 in Kangra, 47 in Shimla, 39 in Una, 23 in Chamba, 19 in Bilaspur, 17 in Kinnaur, 14 in Kullu, 12 in Mandi and 11 in Hamirpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-army-18-itbp-jawans-among-record-110-new-covid-19-cases-in-hp-863653.html
20-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau asks dissident Congress MLAs to appear before it within three days||The Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau on Monday issued notices to dissident Congress MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh to appear before it within three days for investigation into an alleged plot to topple the state government. The ACB had registered an FIR against Bhanwarlal under the Prevention of Corruption Act on July in connection with two audiotapes, which allegedly indicate a plot to bring down the Congress government in the state. Vishvendra Singh, who was earlier removed from the state Cabinet, has too been summoned for investigation with regard to the audiotapes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-anti-corruption-bureau-asks-dissident-congress-mlas-to-appear-before-it-within-three-days-863668.html
20-07-2020||Opinion||Thinking about how to donate right during an emergency||Inundated with requests for money donations after the migrant distress situation and Cyclone Amphan, people like us had two questions: Is it alright if I do not make a contribution; and how do I decide which one to support among the appeals in front of me? With floods now ravaging Assam and Bihar, these questions will resurface. The first question is relatively easier to address. As long as they are not breaking laws, individuals are entitled to do what they want to with their money, and this includes whether or not they want to make any donations. There are several good reasons why people can deny donation seekers: They may be worried about their future income streams, or have already committed time or resources to good causes, or, surprising as it sounds, may not find the appeals compelling enough. That said, ‘I have done my bit as a taxpayer’ argument is specious. It turns a blind eye to the special, ultra-pressing circumstances of an emergency. Tax payments are statutory obligations covering for the usual, rule-bound business of government, not expressions of care and support designed to enable rapid and flexible responses to calamities. When it comes to the second question – that of deciding between competing appeals – the answer will depend on what the objective of the donation is. Remember we are weighing appeals from six quarters: (a) the government; (b) political outfits and their front organisations; (c) religious, caste, and spiritual organisations; (d) established NGOs/ charities, which need not be large or high profile organisations and which are distinguished from (b) and (c) on account of their apolitical and inclusive mandate; (e) informal citizens’ collectives steered or recommended by trusted acquaintances; and, (f) unheard-of do-gooders popping up on timelines and inboxes. One imagines all donors want their contribution to reach the neediest, fast and without siphoning, but that may not be the overriding consideration for everyone. Individuals can also view donations as opportunities to declare their affinity to a specific social or political project or oblige an acquaintance they wish to curry favor with. For such individuals, the selection is easier, and since people can use their money as they deem appropriate and an emergency is the wrong time to be looking a gift horse in the mouth, we should probably accept their choices, sub-optimal as they are likely to be in terms of alleviating suffering. The decision is harder for individuals who do not see their donation as an opportunity for political or social signaling, whose primary interest is in an early, leakage-free transmission of their contributions to the most vulnerable. What makes the choice hard is the absence of credible information in the public domain on the expertise and accountability record of competing donation seekers and the little time available to run personal research on the subject. So, how do we decide – and decide quickly – where our money should go? Three kinds of donation seekers can be eliminated from the calculus straightway. The unheard-of do-gooder knocking digital doors is quite likely a scammer. Political, religious, spiritual, and caste outfits are not easily weaned off their agendas and constituencies, not even in emergencies, and risks of resource mis-direction and mis-targeting are particularly high with them. There is however an honorable exception to this, and I will come to that later. There is no guarantee that the remaining others – the government, established NGOs/ charities, and informal collectives – are leakage proof, but a sense of public duty (however notional), concerns over reputational risk, and, in the case of governments and NGOs, available financial control and oversight mechanisms, can keep a lid on gross swindling. The choice among these three options then is best made based on their expertise to respond to the situation. Established NGOs/ charities, with their experience of direct work with communities during normal times and during emergencies and the vulnerability assessment and rapid response protocols they generally develop in the course of such work, represent the best bet. Informal collectives often have the right intent and energy but can be hobbled by lack of capacity when they have aspirations for venturing directly into the epicenter of an emergency. They are a prudent choice however when they are reaching out on behalf of NGOs/charities from locations we know little about. Their most appropriate role however may not be in emergency situations but in mobilizing citizen voices on contentious civic and governance issues that others may be hesitant to raise, or may even be resisting. The government, for all the powers and hands it commands, does often struggle to deal with its inertia and procurement and fund release rules and can therefore be constrained in mounting a rapid response. That said, it remains an option in locations where established NGOs/ charities are unavailable. More importantly, the case for medium to long-term support for governments in building capacities for emergency preparedness and infrastructure and livelihood reconstruction remains. Having established a pecking order of sorts, we still have a second order problem. How exactly to find a suitable NGO/ charity or collective? Given the absence of relevant public data, a workable way is to go by reputation and/ or advice of acquaintances with some knowledge of the NGO sector. If nothing helps, reach out to a gurudwara. Chances are they will already be doing something meaningful. Get behind that. I never met anyone who regretted it. (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/thinking-about-how-to-donate-right-during-an-emergency-863472.html
20-07-2020||Panorama||Will the approaching festival season turn out to be a washout?||The Covid-19 situation is showing no signs of receding in the volume of damage it has done. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has predicted that Covid cases will peak in November which means one of India’s money-spinners - the festival season - will be whitewashed. Starting from July 25 with Nagara Panchami in the south, the string of festivals ending with Tulasi festival is now under jeopardy. In between these two festivals, Krishna Janmashtami, Ganesh Chaturthi, Navarathri and Deepavali are lined up and all these are festivals with a high level of participation. Over 70% of people are directly involved in the festivals in some way and nearly 20% of them indirectly in providing logistics and services.  According to C R Janardhana, president of the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry, “There will be a marked effect, not just because of the Covid-19 situation but also because of the socio-economic conditions that will prevail due to lockdowns and slowdowns. These will contribute quite heavily in accrued losses to the trade and industry. Bengaluru city alone, especially on Avenue Road, Chikpet, Nagarpete, C T Pete, Mamoolpete and Sirsipete, do business of Rs 100 crore per day during the festive season in silverware, silk sarees, utensils, poojaware (brass and silver) and gold jewellery. In the rest of Karnataka especially in Mysuru, Mangaluru, Hubballi, Dharwad, Belagavi etc, the turnover is a few times more.” Janardhana, however, says the lockdown, currently on, will be a dampener. “In the run-up to the festive season, lockdown will not augur well, and I do not know how many more to follow, but the losses to the trade and industry can safely be put at Rs 5,000 crore in a typical seven-day lockdown.”   The trading community and the industrialists are worried that despite the government permitting the long process manufacturing and logistics to continue to function in the lockdown period, the festival season is also that time of the year when workers will expect a little extra than their wages from their employers. “Some of them are working with me for 20 years and never was there a year when I did not pay them a bonus, but this time, the approaching festive season is giving me shivers as the company has done badly due to migration of labour and I cannot face my workers especially when they look at me with expectant eyes,” says G M Suresh, owner of a small scale enterprise in Dasarahalli in Bengaluru.  When it is time for festivals, it is also time for flowers in the flower growing areas of North Karnataka and few districts of South Karnataka. Karnataka accounts for 75% of India’s total flower production the range is also extensive - chrysanthemum, jasmine, crossandra, rose, tuberose, aster, marigold, champaka and many local varieties. Remarked G M Divakar, President of the K R Market Flower Merchants Association, Bengaluru: “We are experiencing a horrendous development as the organised market has vanished. The growers are not willing to coming to the central facility at K R Market in Bengaluru for selling in the wholesale market. This is understandable as they have to deal with time limits, distances, market fees and brokerage.” He added: “We have allowed them to do so considering the prevailing conditions. This will continue till the end of the festival season in November.”  Karnataka has the country’s only organised flower market where over 6,000 flower growers not just from Karnataka but also from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu sell flowers.  Krishna Janmashtami is a big draw in Udupi – no devotee leaves the car street that day with without his own hamper of Ashtami laddoos and chaklis. Thousands of them participate in the Janmashtami celebrations called Vitla Pindi. Youth masquerading as tigers, paint their bodies with colours of tiger and roam the city enchanting children and elders with their `tiger dance’.  Dahi Handi Similarly in Mumbai, the ‘Govindas’ move from place to place making human pyramids and bringing down the ‘Dahi Handi’ which is witnessed by lakhs of people crowded on the streets and from the building tops. It is most likely that all these forms of celebrations on Janmashtmi or Gokulashtami will be done away and relegated to a minimum scale this time. Festivals like Ugadi and Mahashivarathri earlier this year have been held quietly within the safety of the houses. Similarly, Id-ul-Fitr which is the last day of Ramzan in May, was not celebrated with the usual spirit.  “Another big festival for Muslim fraternity - Bakrid - will also be held in a similar subdued fashion by July-end. We have to forego the usual mass gatherings and celebrations. But if the government allows at least a few people to hold festive Namaz in each Jamaat as per the Standard Operations Protocol of the Central government, we will be much obliged. However, our Zakat contribution to the poor and the needy continued mostly in cash and kind, which we are happy about” senior cleric Qatib Rafiq Madani opines. The Christian fraternity is just hoping that the Covid situation will wither away by Christmas so that they can hold Christmas in the usual joyous manner. The Catholic Bishops Council of India (CBCI) has already appealed to Parish-level leaders to maintain all Standard Operations Protocol, which has been followed diligently.  All communities prepare for the festival well in advance. In Karnataka, preparation of Ganesha idols has already begun in the coastal region. Unlike the moulded Ganesha idols like Bayaluseeme Ganesha makers, the coastal people use only handmade idols - the makers have to stock clay and other materials at least three months in advance.  Likewise, the Navadurga idols also need a long time to complete but this time the orders are becoming thinner, the idol makers complain. Only those who have taken vow (Harake) are interested. They are also waiting for the government to roll out the guidelines on Ganesha Chaturthi and Navarathri gatherings.  (The writer is a senior journalist based in Mangaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/will-the-approaching-festival-season-turn-out-to-be-a-washout-863331.html
20-07-2020||Panorama||Inside Johnson & Johnson's hunt for Covid-19 vaccine||Each workday morning in March, Noe Mercado drove through the desolate streets of Boston to a tall glass building on Blackfan Circle, in the heart of the city’s biotech hub. Most residents had gone into hiding from the coronavirus, but Mercado had an essential job: searching for a vaccine against this new, devastating pathogen. Parking in the underground lot, he put on a mask and rode the empty elevator to the tenth floor, joining a skeleton crew at the Center for Virology and Vaccine Research at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. Day after day, Mercado sat at his lab bench, searching for signs of the virus in nasal swabs taken from dozens of monkeys. The animals had been injected with experimental vaccines Mercado had helped create. The monkeys then had been exposed to the coronavirus, and now Mercado was finding out whether any vaccine had protected them. One morning, after he loaded all the data into a software program, a single telling graph set his heart beating: Some of the vaccines, it appeared, had worked. Mercado hurried around the lab to share the news. Given the times, there were no hugs, no high-fives. And he did not bask in glory for long. Making a vaccine demands patience, attention to detail — and a tolerance for bitter failure. “Yeah, I’m excited, but I’m also thinking about the next step,” Mercado later recalled. “What if it doesn’t pan out?” The coronavirus has now infected about 13.8 million people worldwide and killed at least 590,000. Millions more may die. The only hope for a long-term protection, literally the only shot at a return to normal life, is an effective vaccine. In January, researchers at the vaccine center dropped everything they were doing to find one. The man heading up the effort is Mercado’s boss, Dr. Dan Barouch, the director of the center and one of the world’s leading vaccine-makers. Now they are about to take a major step forward. Janssen Pharmaceutica, a division of Johnson & Johnson, has been collaborating with the Beth Israel team to craft a coronavirus vaccine based on a design pioneered by Dr. Barouch and his colleagues ten years ago. Next week, clinical trials of the vaccine will begin in Belgium. Dr. Barouch’s team will soon start up a trial in Boston. The past six months have been a blur of long weeks and late nights, of strict safety measures and scarce lab supplies. “Everything has been orders of magnitude more challenging than in the pre-pandemic era,” Dr. Barouch said. Researchers around the world have been making vaccines of their own, some with dead viruses, others with protein fragments and strings of DNA. As of July, there are over 135 vaccines in preclinical tests, and another 30 in clinical trials on people. Never have so many vaccines moved so quickly into trials for one disease. Since January, Dr. Barouch’s team in Boston has run experiments in cells and monkeys, while Janssen’s researchers in the Netherlands have raced to find a recipe for producing the new vaccine in huge quantities. Already they have started producing a batch for the clinical trials. If the vaccine proves safe in initial tests, a trial for efficacy will launch in September. If that experiment is successful, Johnson & Johnson will manufacture hundreds of millions of doses for emergency use in January. Over the course of next year, the company plans to produce up to a billion doses. While Johnson & Johnson is one of the world’s biggest companies, with a market capitalization over $370 billion, it’s a fairly small player in the vaccine market. On July 1, its Ebola vaccine received approval from the European Commission. The company’s vaccines for other diseases are still in clinical trials. Even so, the United States government has given $456 million to Johnson & Johnson, funding from the Trump administration’s Operation Warp Speed; the company has invested another $500 million in the coronavirus vaccine project. Dr. Barouch and his colleagues are now finishing up tests of the final formulation in monkeys. In the next few months, they will begin to see how people respond to the injection. It is a monumental task to develop a vaccine so quickly against a pathogen that no one had heard of before this year. But, Dr. Barouch said, “I’m even more optimistic now than I was several months ago.” As January wore on, Dr. Barouch realized that Covid-19 was going to be far graver threat than SARS. “We would not be able to stop this virus by traditional public health measures,” he said. “It was absolutely clear that we needed a vaccine.” He emailed to Johan Van Hoof, the head of vaccines at Janssen. “I am writing today because the coronavirus outbreak in China is looking bad,” Dr. Barouch wrote. “Are you interested in making a rapid Ad based vaccine like we did for Zika in 2016-2017?” Two minutes later, Dr. Van Hoof replied: “Would a call work now?” And four days after the call, they signed an agreement to collaborate. The Center for Virology and Vaccine Research has a staff of dozens of researchers, ranging from medical doctors and senior scientists to postdoctoral researchers, grad students and assistants just out of college. Dr. Barouch’s team turned away from projects on H.I.V. and other diseases, and divided up the work to make a coronavirus vaccine. Mercado and his colleagues fashioned copies of the coronavirus gene that directs production of its spike protein. They came up with ten variations to see which would produce the best immune response. Meanwhile, Katherine McMahan, a research assistant at the center, worked on the team building a test for spike antibodies in the animals that would receive the vaccine. Creating it took up most of her waking life. On some days, she didn’t get around to eating lunch till nighttime. In late February, researchers injected the spike genes into mice and then sent Ms. McMahan blood from the animals. Ms. McMahan’s test confirmed that they were making coronavirus antibodies. Ms. McMahan was near tears: “It began to feel like a war that we could win.” Outside the lab, though, there was no sense that a war was coming. She urged family and friends to stock up on food and other supplies, without much luck. The nasal swabs that Mercado examined revealed that some versions of the vaccines only partially protected the monkey, but others worked much better. As the investigators reported in the journal Science, they couldn’t detect the virus at all in eight of the 25 monkeys who got experimental vaccines. The results gave Dr. Barouch hope that one of his team’s vaccines — or one of those developed by another group — might work. “It’s the real deal,” he said. More monkeys were injected with the Ad26 virus, now equipped to produce the spike gene. Dr. Barouch predicts that this vaccine will induce higher levels of antibodies than the prototypes did. The experiment will also provide crucial clues about how the immune system responds to the Ad26 vaccine. Some vaccines confer protection mostly by triggering the body to make antibodies that attack a virus. But others can stir virus-hunting immune cells to join the attack. The results of the latest round of experiments will be published within a few weeks. For all the progress made by Dr. Barouch’s team, the Ad26 vaccine has its skeptics. John Moore, a virologist at Weill Cornell Medical College, said other types of vaccines tested in animals have produced higher levels of antibodies. These vaccines, made of viral proteins, would be his choice for a weapon against the coronavirus. One drawback of viral-protein vaccines is that they take more time to produce in huge quantities. Other vaccines, like Johnson & Johnson’s Ad26, will come more quickly, and Dr. Moore acknowledged that they may work well enough to provide protection. If so, there may not be a need for a better but slower vaccine. “If Plan A works, then you don’t need a Plan B,” Dr. Moore said. Amid a pandemic, critics say Johnson & Johnson should not be allowed to set the terms. “If we get a vaccine, it should be free and available to everybody,” said the Rev. Dr. William J. Barber II, the president of the North Carolina N.A.A.C.P. and a critic of Johnson & Johnson’s drug pricing. “How do you get these big, massive awards to produce a vaccine without any rider on the money saying it must be used in a way that it’s affordable to everybody?” he asked. For now, no one knows if the vaccine will actually work. Dr. Barouch and his colleagues are getting ready to inject the Ad26 vaccine into hundreds of volunteers in Boston in late July. Researchers will not only observe whether the vaccine is safe but also look at the antibodies it prompts the volunteers to make. If those trials produce promising results, Johnson & Johnson will run a much larger one in the fall to see if the vaccine is effective. At the same time, Dr. Barouch and his colleagues are planning a third round of experiments on monkeys. They want to inject the animals with antibodies against the coronavirus and then infect them. By giving different monkeys varying doses, the investigators hope to figure out what level of antibodies in the human body is required to prevent Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/inside-johnson-johnsons-hunt-for-covid-19-vaccine-863332.html
20-07-2020||Panorama||Off the record: July 19||Covid-19 tourism The worldwide outbreak of Covid-19 may have brought the world to a standstill, tourism, perhaps, has been the worst affected of all major economic sectors. However, Kashmir has been reopened for tourism. Ironically, the order came on the same day when the administration imposed restrictions in parts of the valley, including Srinagar --the worst affected district. The valley residents have ridiculed the decision which has come when the region is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 positive cases and deaths. Tourists will have to undergo a Covid-19 test on arrival in Kashmir. If someone tests positive, he/she will be immediately sent for treatment to a medical facility as per the protocol. Can this be called Covid-19 tourism? Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar Rhino block  As 85% of Kaziranga National Park (KNP) in Assam remains under floodwater, a rhino found itself caught in the water, struggling to reach the National Highway 37 on Saturday morning. It was so exhausted that it sat on the highway near Bandordubi village, partially blocking traffic for about an hour in the morning and again in the afternoon. Police personnel had to be deployed to control vehicle movement to ensure that no harm was caused to the rhino. A medical examination was conducted by a team of veterinary experts from Guwahati, and on Sunday morning, the rhino slowly got back reentered the park. A total of 108 animals including eight rhinos have either drowned in floodwater or died in vehicle hits. Animals rush to Karbi Anglong hills on the other side of the highway to avoid floods.  Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Game plan Having toppled the Kamal Nath government four months ago, the Shivraj Singh government faces no threat as it has a comfortable majority. Yet, the BJP is on a poaching spree. It has already poached two Congress MLAs in the last one week and is desperately trying to woo more opposition lawmakers. The desperation reportedly stems from the party’s internal assessment that most of the 22 Scindia-supporters, who helped form the government, are going to lose in the coming by-elections. The chief minister is keen to reduce dependence on Scindia whose dominance in the cabinet has annoyed the BJP old guard. The BJP needs only nine more seats to win in the forthcoming by-elections for 26 seats to retain a majority. To this end, the party has chalked out a plan to get at least half a dozen Congress MLAs to resign and to get them re-elected on BJP ticket in the by-polls.  Rakesh Dixit, Bhopal  New milestone  BJP supporters went gaga hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a global leader after he notched up more than 60-million followers on Twitter. Modi, who had taken to social media quite early, is known to use the platform extensively to reach out to supporters directly. According to BJP, Modi added 10 million supporters in the last 10 months. Among global leaders, US President Donald Trump has 83 million followers, while his predecessor Barack Obama has 120 million followers on Twitter. Congress took a jibe at the BJP saying had Modi dealt with issues such as the Covid-19 outbreak, economic crisis and the Chinese aggression effectively, his followers would have increased manifold. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi A diversion  Even though Kerala managed to flatten the Covid-19 curve swiftly in the initial phases of the outbreak, numbers are increasing alarmingly. This has become a serious cause for concern for the state. But the left-front government has some political reasons to heave a sigh of relief over this development. The government is on the defensive, owing to links of the CM’s principal secretary’s association with the gold smuggling accused. Though the Opposition is trying to make it a major issue, the alarming spike in Covid-19 is becoming a hurdle as they fear that attacking the government at the time of a pandemic may not go down well with the masses. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-july-19-863333.html
20-07-2020||Second Edit||Worsening floods in Assam||Floods in Assam are worsening by the day. Almost a hundred people have been washed away by the floods so far and 27 of the state’s 33 districts are impacted. The sharp deterioration in the situation on the ground is evident from the fact that the number of people affected by the floods has surged from three lakh to nearly 40 lakh over a span of a few days. Nearly 90% of the Kaziranga National Park is reportedly underwater and scores of animals including its famed rhinos, tigers and hog deer have drowned. While floodwaters are receding somewhat in Upper Assam, the situation is dire in Lower Assam and likely to worsen in the coming days as river Brahmaputra has crossed the danger mark at several places. Central and state disaster rescue and relief teams have been deployed across the state and they have saved the lives of many people stranded by the floods. This is a difficult time for Assam as the state is already grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials are preoccupied with the public health crisis and have little time or resources to support victims of the floods. Moreover, because of the need to impose social distancing, relief centres are not able to house a large number of the displaced. Many are therefore stranded without a roof over their head. It is distressing that although flooding during the monsoons happens every year and across many states in India, authorities react only after the disaster strikes. During and immediately after flood, ministers take to the skies to survey the damage and then grandly promise funds for relief. Little happens thereafter until the next year when the same tragic drama unfolds. To control floods India has depended on building dams and embankments. But dams release excess waters and in the process only push the flooding problem further downstream, while embankments regularly give way when rivers swell. Experts are calling for an ‘integrated river basin management’ approach which brings on board all basin-sharing states and countries. To prevent flooding in Assam and Bangladesh, measures are needed in catchment areas and these must take into account not just the volume of water in the river but the preservation of the basin’s ecology and ecosystem. The immediate task before the government is rescue of stranded victims and shelter for the displaced. Outbreak of diseases can be expected in the coming weeks. The focus thereafter is to put in place the much-needed integrated basin approach.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/worsening-floods-in-assam-863327.html
20-07-2020||South||Former Tirupati Temple head priest succumbs to Covid-19||The former Chief Priest of Tirumala Tirupati Deavasthanam (TTD), Peddinati Srinivasa Murthy Dixith died of Covid-19 infection on Monday morning. The 75-year-old former Chief Priest of the famous hill shrine in Andhra Pradesh was ailing from high fever for the last four days.  Subsequently, Dixith had also developed severe respiratory congestion on Saturday. He was rushed to Venkateshwara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS). Upon diagnosis, Dixith had tested positive for the Covid-19 and breathed his last on Monday morning, according to sources in TTD.  More than 15 priests, out of the 50 priests at the TTD, had tested positive for Covid-19 and several priests are being treated at a hospital in Chennai. A few days ago, another former Chief Priest-Ramana Dixith had appealed to the TTD Board to close the doors of the temple for a few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-tirupati-temple-head-priest-succumbs-to-covid-19-863411.html
20-07-2020||South||Elderly woman succumbs to Covid-19 in Puducherry, 93 fresh cases reported||A 75-year old woman succumbed to Covid-19 in Puducherry while 93 fresh cases were reported on Monday taking the overall tally in the union territory to 2,092, the Health department said. The elderly woman succumbed to the virus at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital in neighbouring Kadirkamam, taking the death toll to 29. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a bulletin that the woman who died of the virus was admitted to the hospital on July 9, had comorbidities. She died on Sunday. The 93 fresh cases were identified at the end of the examination of 798 samples, Mohan Kumar said. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the Union Territory stood at 2,092 of which 798 cases were active. As many as 1,265 patients have recovered and been discharged so far. The Health Department Director said with 93 fresh cases being reported after examination of 527 samples the rate of positivity stood at 17.6 per cent while fatality rate was 1.4 per cent. Of the 31,420 samples tested so far as many as 28,975 samples were found negative and results of the examination of the remaining samples was awaited. Eighty-two of the 93 new cases were admitted to hospitals including the IGGMC and centrally-administered JIPMER in Puducherry while Karaikal had the remaining 11 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elderly-woman-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-puducherry-93-fresh-cases-reported-863445.html
20-07-2020||South||Bedi sticks to her guns, doesn't deliver customary LG address in Puducherry Assembly||Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi on Monday stuck to her decision to not to turn up at the Assembly to deliver the customary address to mark the start of a session, on the grounds that the budget was not sent to her for approval. The House had been convened to meet at 9.30 am today with the Lt Governor's customary address before the presentation of the budget. Arrangements had been put in place, including the deploying of personnel to accord a customary guard of Honour to her. Bedi had already informed Chief Minister V Narayanasamy last night the reasons for her decision not to present her customary address. The session, however, commenced 15 minutes behind schedule at 9.45 am with the Speaker V P Sivakolundhu reading out a couplet from the Thirukkural. The Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister K Lakshminarayan rose to move a resolution requesting the Speaker to keep in abeyance the address of the Lt Governor scheduled for today. Ruling Congress legislator T Jayamoorthy seconded the motion. The Speaker announced that the Lt Governor's address had been kept in abeyance. He said the session was convened in keeping with the rules governing the business and procedure. The Speaker further said the Lt Governor's address was now kept in abeyance and the House would resume its sitting at 12.05 pm and the Chief Minister would present the budget for the fiscal 2020-'21. He said any delay in bringing in the budget in the current Covid-19 situation would only affect people at large and hence it was decided that the budget would be presented today itself. AIADMK legislator A Anbalagan said his call attention motion on the pandemic situation should be taken up while the BJP legislators said it would not be proper to go ahead with the session without the customary address by the Lt Governor. The Chief Minister had in a letter to Bedi on Sunday night pointed out that the annual financial statement had been duly recommended by the Administrator (Lt Governor) and approved by the President. "There is, therefore, no infirmity of any rule of law in this regard. Hence the approval of the Administrator for placing the Annual financial statement before the Assembly (as was maintained by Lt governor in her letter to the Chief Minister) did not arise and will be redundant. This practice is being followed in this Union Territory for many decades," he had said. In her letter, Bedi had stated that she had not received the budget and it had no approval which is a 'serious omission' on the part of the government. Narayanasamy, on his part, told the Lt Governor that there was no omission committed by the Assembly secretariat or by the government as alleged by Bedi. "Already it had been 20 days since the lapse of a vote on Account 2020-2021. Any further delay would only affect the administration in its fight against the pandemic and ultimately the people of Puducherry would suffer. "I believe your good self would appreciate the facts and deliver your speech as scheduled and uphold the values of Constitution of India and spirit of democracy," he had said. Bedi, in a reply to the Chief Minister today, said the budget is presented to the Assembly "after the government firms up its proposed expenditure for the year. Without firming up the demand for grants, the question of presenting budget does not arise. Therefore only after getting approval under the Union Territories Act 1963 budget can be presented." "You are therefore requested to kindly send the file without further delay for laying Annual Financial statement and demand for grants before the Assembly, for me to accord a considered approval and to give a fresh date for presenting the budget as well as for the inaugural address," she wrote. The Lt Governor and the Narayanaswamy-led government in the union territory have been at loggerheads since Bedi assumed office in 2016 over various issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bedi-sticks-to-her-guns-doesnt-deliver-customary-lg-address-in-puducherry-assembly-863452.html
20-07-2020||South||As Covid-19 cases rise, Kerala gears up to treat 50K patients at a time||Kerala has made arrangements to treat around 50,000 Covid-19 patients at a time, doubling the first-line treatment centres to 56 as it battles the third wave of the infections that has pushed the active cases to over 7,000 in the last over two months. State Health Minister K K Shailaja said experts have forecast a surge in the number of cases next month but sounded confident that the government can manage any such situation with the measures being taken by it. After successfully containing the spread of the infections since it reported the country's first Covid-19 case in January, the southern state has been witnessing a sharp increase in fresh cases since May with thousands of people returning from overseas and other parts of the country. Though the caseload is still lower compared to neighbouring states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, the state is gearing up for any contingency and has ramped up the Covid care infrastructure by adding more first line treatment centres (FLTCs) besides deciding to recruit temporary staff for them so that it can treat up to 50,000 patients at a time. "We already have two Covid hospitals in each district. Then as the number increased, we opened one FLTC for each Covid hospital. Thus we already have 28 FLTCs. Now we have given direction to increase the number to 56. That is one Covid hospital will have two FLTCs," Shailaja told P T I.  She also said the government had already given directions to open in each of the 941 panchayats at least one FLTC where a special medical team would take care of asymptomatic and less complicated patients. Some FLTCs have up to 500 beds and at least 2,000 people can be accommodated in each of the 14 districts in the state. While the country's three first Covid-19 patients in the state recovered, effective steps, including triple lockdown in areas such as Kasaragod, which witnessed high number of cases early, brought down the active cases to just 16 on May 8, that marked the end of the second spell of Covid-19. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had then declared that the coronavirus curve has been flattened, though he had cautioned a third wave cannot be ruled out when the lockdown norms are eased and people allowed to return to the state. As predicted by him, the state has been witnessing a steady spike in new cases with people stranded due to the lockdown in various parts of the globe, especially the Gulf nations, and other states returning home. Vijayan last week admitted community transmission has occurred in two coastal regions in Thiruvananthapuram -- Poonthura and Pulvilla -- declared as clusters with high cases. According to officials, clusters are formed when there is an "unexpected surge in Covid-19 cases" at a particular area and it occurred just before community transmission. Kerala reported 821 fresh cases on Sunday, the highest single day count so far. While the tally has risen to 12,480, the active cases stood at 7,063. The death toll is 42. According to officials, at least 60 per cent of the patients are asymptomatic in the state, making things more difficult for the health department. Explaining the functioning of the FLTCs, Shailaja said the idea was to decongest medical college hospitals where seriously ill patients would be treated. "It can be schools, hostels or any other large building. The government has already released funds for purchase of necessary furniture and equipment at these centres. All districts have been given Rs 10 crore each. The panchayats have been given Rs 50,000 as an advance fund to set up the FLTCs," the Minister said. When asked about reports on a surge in the number of cases in coming months, the Minister said a particular number cannot be predicted at any time. "We cannot predict that a particular number of cases will be reported within a particular time period. But experts are predicting a surge in the number of cases in August. But we hope the surge can be controlled with our effective mitigation process," she said. In order to overcome the shortage of human resources in the FLTCs, the state government has decided to recruit temporary staff. "Till now, our containment strategy, testing process and quarantine method have helped us in controlling the spread and reducing the death rate. We need to effectively continue with that," Shailaja said. "Till May 4, when the lockdown was lifted, we had 499 cases and the death rate was under 0.56 per cent. We had reported three deaths. But after that, people started pouring into the state from everywhere. Till the first week of June, we had a high number of imported cases," she said. The Health Department was able to contain the "local spread below ten per cent" and the aim was to bring it down to five per cent, the Minister said. On the formation of local clusters in Thiruvananthapuram, Shailaja said people from bordering Kanyakumari district in Tamil Nadu depend on hospitals here for treatment. Besides, many also come to the state capital for their livelihood. One person who came from Tamil Nadu infected many in Kumarichantha area. The government was implementing a "cluster care" method to contain the spread of the virus in such clusters by strengthening testing, treatment and quarantine. Such areas will be divided into three zones with an IAS officer, a senior police official and a medical officer assigned to handle the situation, Shailaja said. She also said a similar situation emerged at Kayamkulam in Alappuzha district and Chellanam and Aluva fish markets in Ernakulam districts and the spread contained. On declaring community transmission in a region when no other state has done it yet, Shailaja said "it was always better to be transparent" with the people. "If people come to know about the seriousness of the situation, they can behave accordingly for their own safety. Even in these two regions, where the community transmission has taken place, the authorities have managed to keep the mortality rate under check," the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-covid-19-cases-rise-kerala-gears-up-to-treat-50k-patients-at-a-time-863473.html
20-07-2020||South||Professor Rishikesha T Krishnan takes charge as Director of IIM-Bangalore||Professor Rishikesha T Krishnan took charge as Director of Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore on Monday following the superannuation of Professor G Raghuram. Professor Krishnan had served as Director of IIM Indore and is known as a thought leader on the management of innovation, IIM-B said in a statement. Expressing his pleasure over the appointment of Prof Krishnan, Devi Shetty, chairperson, board of governors, IIM Bangalore, said, "As a well-regarded faculty member of IIM-B and a proven administrator during his term as Director of IIM Indore, Professor R T Krishnan combines academic and administrative excellence. Under his leadership, IIM Bangalore is sure to set impressive standards in innovation and technology." Professor Krishnan said, "It is an extraordinary privilege to lead India's best management institution, IIM Bangalore, at this most challenging time when there is an opportunity to re-define management education." Emphasising that an important priority for IIM-B is to further enhance impact, he listed multiple platforms, such as engaged digital learning through MOOCs and the outstanding research capabilities of its faculty that can enable the school to achieve its vision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/professor-rishikesha-t-krishnan-takes-charge-as-director-of-iim-bangalore-863486.html
20-07-2020||South||Kerala gears up to treat 50,000 patients at a time as coronavirus cases rise||State Health Minister K K Shailaja said experts have forecast a surge in the number of cases next month but sounded confident that the government can manage any such a situation with the measures being taken by it. After successfully containing the spread of the infections since it reported the country's first Covid-19 case in January, the southern state has been witnessing a sharp increase in fresh infections since May with thousands of people returning from overseas and other parts of the country. Though the caseload is still lower compared to neighbouring states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, the state is gearing up for any contingency and has ramped up the Covid care infrastructure by adding more first line treatment centres (FLTCs) besides deciding to recruit temporary staff for them so that it can treat up to 50,000 patients at a time. "We already have two Covid hospitals in each district. Then as the number increased, we opened one FLTC for each Covid hospital. Thus we already have 28 FLTCs. Now we have given direction to increase the number to 56. That is one Covid hospital will have two FLTCs," Shailaja told P T I. She also said the government had already given directions to open in each of the 941 panchayats at least one FLTC where a special medical team would take care of asymptomatic and less complicated patients. Some FLTCs have up to 500 beds and at least 2,000 people can be accommodated in each of the 14 districts in the state. While the country's three first Covid-19 patients in the state recovered, effective steps, including triple lockdown in areas such as Kasaragod, which witnessed a high number of cases early, brought down the active cases to just 16 on May 8, that marked the end of the second spell of Covid-19. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had then declared that the coronavirus curve has been flattened, though he had cautioned a third wave cannot be ruled out when the lockdown norms are eased and people allowed to return to the state. As predicted by him, the state has been witnessing a steady spike in new cases with people stranded due to lockdown in various parts of the globe, especially the Gulf nations, and other states returning home. Vijayan last week admitted community transmission has occurred in two coastal regions in Thiruvananthapuram -- Poonthura and Pulvilla declared as clusters with high cases. According to officials, clusters are formed when there is an "unexpected surge in Covid-19 cases" at a particular area and it occurred just before community transmission. Kerala reported 821 fresh cases on Sunday, the highest single-day count so far. While the tally has risen to 12,480, the active cases stood at 7,063. The death toll is 42. According to officials, at least 60 percent of the patients are asymptomatic in the state, making things more difficult for the health department. Explaining the functioning of the FLTCs, Shailaja said the idea was to decongest medical college hospitals where seriously ill patients would be treated. "It can be schools, hostels or any other large building. The government has already released funds for purchase of necessary furniture and equipment at these centres. All districts have been given Rs 10 crore each. The panchayats have been given Rs 50,000 as an advance fund to set up the FLTCs," Minister said. When asked about reports on a surge in the number of cases in coming months, the Minister said a particular number cannot be predicted at any time. "We cannot predict that a particular number of cases will be reported within a particular time period. But experts are predicting a surge in the number of cases in August. But we hope the surge can be controlled with our efforts."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gears-up-to-treat-50000-patients-at-a-time-as-coronavirus-cases-rise-863505.html
20-07-2020||South||Kitten burned alive in Hyderabad; HSI announces reward for info on culprits||In another spine-chilling instance of animal cruelty, a kitten was burnt alive with a lighter in Hydrabad. The horrifying incident was also recorded, and the video soon went viral. Videos and images of the badly burnt body of the animal were shared on Twitter, with several people urging others to not circulate the graphic images. The Indian chapter of the animal protection organisation - Humane Society International announced a cash prize of Rs 50,000 to anyone who could provide information that would lead to the arrest of the perpetrators. It appeared that some form of fire accelerant was used since the kitten caught fire quickly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kitten-burned-alive-in-hyderabad-hsi-announces-reward-for-info-on-culprits-863540.html
20-07-2020||South||Paid Covid-19 test, 14-day quarantine made mandatory for all migrant workers returning to Kerala||With migrant workers, who left Kerala in the wake of Covid-19, starting to return to the state, the state government has made rapid antigen testing and 14 day quarantine mandatory for all. An advisory issued by the Kerala government in this regard on Sunday said that contractors or agents or entrepreneurs or the migrant workers themselves would have to bear the test cost. It also directs that those who are bringing back the migrants themselves would have to arrange the quarantine facility. The state government had opened an online registration facility on Covid Jagratha portal for migrant workers returning to the state. Already many from neighboring Tamilnadu reportedly reached the state. Nearly three lakh migrant workers from Kerala left the state by Shramik trains. Many had also left the state by other means like hiring buses. However, a section of migrants, especially those employed in shops, had stayed back. Now a major chuck of those who returned are desperate to come back, mainly due to financial crunches. Many key sectors like construction that were badly hit by unavailability of manpower were also wooing the migrants to return. Shibin Jose, director of Kochi based KLR facility management, said that major chuck of their former employees who returned to their native places were now eager to return. But unavailability of transport facility was the hindrance. He also said that finding proper quarantine facility for all would be a challenging task for the employers and hence the government may preferably arrange institutional quarantine facility and the employers could be billed for it. Meanwhile, the state government directive that all migrants should undergo antigen test at their own expense might not go down well with the migrants. Benoy Petre, executive director of the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, said that mandating paid COVID test for all migrant workers could not be considered reasonable as at present tests were done only on those having any symptoms. Despite the COVID spike, if migrants are returning, it is due to their financial crunches. Many migrant workers were being brought back by contractors for major projects. In such cases the employers would bear the cost of test. But a major chunk of migrant workers in Kerala were daily wage casual workers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/paid-covid-19-test-14-day-quarantine-made-mandatory-for-all-migrant-workers-returning-to-kerala-863546.html
20-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu signs MoUs with 8 companies worth Rs 10,399 crore||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) with eight companies to set up their manufacturing units in the state bringing an investment of Rs 10,399 crore. The new investments which have been promised even as the state battles the coronavirus pandemic with over 1.7 lakh cases, promises to generate employment opportunities for over 13,500 people. The units would come up in Kanchipuram, Ranipet, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Erode and Villupuram districts. Vikram Solar, Yotta Infrastructure, ELGi Equipments and CGD Satharai Private Limited are some of the companies that signed MoUs with the Tamil Nadu government. This is the second time MoUs are being signed by the state government attracting investments during the Covid-19 lockdown. The investments have come at a time the Tamil Nadu government is working hard to woo companies that plan to move its facilities out of China and shift to India to come and invest in the state. The government has already constituted a Special Task Force headed by Chief Secretary K Shanmugam to attract new investments from companies that are likely to exit from “certain countries” and relocate their manufacturing bases in countries like India to “diversify” their supply chain. The 13-member Special Task Force includes top bureaucrats, nominees from trade organisations of some of the aforementioned countries and representatives from top companies from these countries who have already set shops in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-signs-mous-with-8-companies-worth-rs-10399-crore-863550.html
20-07-2020||South||Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram crosses 2,000 Covid-19 cases||The number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram crossed the 2,000 mark to reach 2,062 on Monday, which is much higher that any other district in the state. Licence of two major hyper markets in the city were suspended on charges of flouting social distancing norms and leading to many people getting infected. Of the 794 fresh cases reported in Kerala on Monday, 519 were infected through local sources. The exact source of infection of 24 cases could not be ascertained. The total number of active Covid-19 cases in Kerala reached 7,611, while the death toll increased to 43 with the death of a 73 year old nun in Kochi. In Thiruvananthapuram, 182 fresh cases were reported on Monday, of which 170 were due to local contacts. The recovery rate in the district was also very low on Monday as only two of the 245 recovered in the district were from Thiruvananthapurm. As many as 2,118 persons are under hospital quarantine with symptoms of Covid-19 in the district. Thiruvananthapuram city mayor K Sreekumar said that the licence of the two hypermarkets were suspended as violation of Covid protocol by these hypermarkets caused local spread of the disease. About 80 staff of one of the hypermarkets were found to be infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-capital-thiruvananthapuram-crosses-2000-covid-19-cases-863573.html
20-07-2020||South||Veerappan’s daughter in politics to 'give back love' to society||For Vidhya Rani, her father, notorious sandalwood smuggler Veerappan whose name spelled terror in parts of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, is a “hero who gave direction to my life” in just half-hour they met for the first and last time. Till date, Vidhya Rani, who pursued a 5-year-course in law in Bengaluru, was identified only as Veerappan’s daughter. But today, the daughter stands on her own and is proud that she has been appointed as the vice-president of Tamil Nadu BJP’s youth wing. Vidhya Rani Veerappan, as she calls herself, was studying third standard when she met her father at her grandfather’s house in Gopinatham on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border. “That was the first and last time I met him. We spoke for 30 minutes and the conversation is still fresh in my mind. He held me and asked me to pursue medicine and serve the people. That conversation directed me to where I am today,” she told DH. She studied law to pursue her dream of joining the civil services to serve the people but could not clear the exams. Though Veerappan was feared by almost everyone, Vidhya Rani said, the society never looked her from the “prism of my father” and gave immense love and affection to me. “I think politics is a tool for me to give back what society gave to me. I was always loved by people. No one had any prejudice against me and that helped me reach where I am today,” she added. Talking about her stay in Bengaluru for half a decade, Vidhya Rani the city gave her life-long friends, and none discriminated against her despite knowing who she was. “My friends knew who I was. They were very good to me and helped me become stronger in life. Whatever one might stay about my father, he was a good man. Improving livelihood of people who lived near the forests was his motive,” Vidhya Rani said. Asked why she chose BJP to take a plunge in politics, Vidhya Rani said she was inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for the nation and hence chose the saffron party, though it hardly has any base in Tamil Nadu. “To be honest, I never had intention of joining politics until I interacted with former Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan two years back. It was Mr Radhakrishnan who motivated me to serve the motherland. And in February this year, I formally joined the BJP,” she said. Vidhya Rani’s mother Muthulakshmi is part of a political outfit run by former MLA T Velmurugan. Though she pursued law, Vidhya Rani says running a kids’ school in Krishnagiri gives immense satisfaction to her. “Getting to help children mould from their very young age is kind of a blessing. I consider this as my primary social responsibility and hence enjoy running the school,” she said. Veerappan, who was killed by the Tamil Nadu Special Task Force (STF) on October 18, 2004, in an encounter, earned notoriety for poaching elephants, smuggling sandalwood, kidnapping high-profile people like Kannada Thespian Raj Kumar and former minister Nagappa, and killing policemen and others who came his way.   The bandit ran an empire inside the forests along the Sathyamangalam forests spread across Erode and Mysore districts of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/veerappan-s-daughter-in-politics-to-give-back-love-to-society-863589.html
20-07-2020||South||Madrassa teacher, friends accused of raping minor daughter at Kasargod||A 16-year-old girl at Kasargod in Kerala was allegedly raped by her father, who is a Madrassa teacher, and three of his friends. There were also allegations that the girl's mother concealed the crime. The incident took place at Nileshwaram in Kasargod. According to the Nileswaram police, a case under sections of POCSO was registered on Sunday on the basis of the girl's statement and her father and three others were arrested. The allegations that her mother tried to conceal the crime were being probed. The girl said in her statement that she was raped by her father over the last three years and his friends sexually abused her recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madrassa-teacher-friends-accused-of-raping-minor-daughter-at-kasargod-863600.html
20-07-2020||South||Tirupati goes into lockdown till August 5 to check Covid-19 spike||With a spike in Covid-19 cases in recent days, this temple town of Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh was brought under complete lockdown from Monday till August 5 to check its spread, Chittoor District administration said. However, the lockdown would not affect pilgrims proceeding to the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at nearby Tirumala, it said. The decision to enforce the lockdown, after curbs were eased from June 1 when Unlock-1 came into being, was taken at a special meeting held by District Collector Narayana Bharath Gupta in which Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy, Municipal Commissioner P S Girisha and other officials took part. Shops selling vegetables and groceries will be permitted to open between 6 AM and 10 AM daily while all commercial establishments would remain closed during the lockdown, Gupta told reporters here, adding public would be allowed to shop for domestic needs only during the four-hour window. Medical and milk shops can function throughout the day while essentials services would be exempted from the purview of lockdown. Gupta told media persons here that of the total 5,400 Covid-19 cases in Chittoor district, Tirupati corporation areas alone has about 1,700 cases. The surge in the virus cases here has prompted the administration to keep it under complete lockdown until August 5, Gupta said. The pilgrims' vehicles proceeding to Tirumala hills would function, as usual, he added. Already, most pilgrims coming in their vehicles had been taking the bypass route, skipping Tirupati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-goes-into-lockdown-till-august-5-to-check-covid-19-spike-863640.html
20-07-2020||State||A flash mob to beat the Monday blues amid Covid-19||To chase away the tediousness of being confined in a Covid Care Centre, asymptomatic patients organised a flash mob in Bellary, Karnataka, on July 19. The patients can be seen enthusiastically dancing to a popular Kannada song called “Mastu Mastu Hudgi” while wearing face masks. The state has 59,625 positive cases as of July 20 with 1,331 casualties. Total number of positive cases, including deaths, in India as of July 20 is at 11,09,894.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/a-flash-mob-to-beat-the-monday-blues-amid-covid-19-863487.html
20-07-2020||State||I-T case: SC refuses to stay proceedings against DKS||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to stay the criminal proceedings initiated by the Income Tax authorities against former Karnataka minister and state Congress president D K Shivakumar for alleged recovery of undisclosed wealth following raid conducted at his premises in 2017. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices R Subhash Reddy and A S Bopanna issued notice to the Income Tax department on a special leave petition filed by Shivakumar. Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and S Ganesh appeared for the petitioner. The court sought response from the I-T authorities within four weeks. In his plea, the petitioner challenged validity of the Karnataka High Court’s order of November 12, 2019, declining to give himrelief. The HC had then dismissed his criminal revision petition against the order passed by additional Sessions judge, Bengaluru, rejecting his plea for discharge in a complaint filed by deputy director, Income Tax investigation for having committed offence under the tax laws and provisions of the IndianPenal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/i-t-case-sc-refuses-to-stay-proceedings-against-dks-863641.html
20-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka forms seven teams for Covid-19 hospital admissions||The state government on Sunday formed seven teams of officials to facilitate the admission of Covid-19 patients referred to private hospitals in Bengaluru. Each team will be headed by a senior IAS and IPS officer and will attend to matters concerning hospitalisation and reserving beds, said the order issued by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar. Among other things, the teams have been tasked with ensuring that Covid patients referred by the BBMP are not denied beds reserved under the government quota. The teams will also monitor admissions at private hospitals to ascertain whether they are adhering to guidelines regarding the “admission of mainly moderately and severely ill patients in hospitals and that they do not block hospital beds needed for moderate and severely symptomatic Covid patients by admitting asymptomatic Covid patients,” the order read. They will also ensure that the directions of the High Court — which has asked hospitals to display phone numbers of officers to whom a patient/relative can complain if any hospital fails to admit a patient — are implemented. The seven teams are: Uma Mahadevan (IAS) and Sunil Agarwal (IPS), Mohammad Mohsin and Harishekharan, Ekroop Kaur and Alikana S Murthy, Maheshwar Rao and KT Balakrishna, Kapil Mohan and Ramachandra Rao, Harsha Gupta and D Roopa, and Gaurav Gupta and Alok Kumar.  The government also deputed Director of Medical Education Department to ensure that government quota of beds in private medical institutions is available for patients referred by competent authorities throughout the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-forms-seven-teams-for-covid-19-hospital-admissions-863312.html
20-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government issues SOP for CET 2020||Deciding to go ahead with the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) 2020, despite the increasing clamour among students to defer the exams, the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) has released Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the safe conduct of the CET on July 30 and July 31. After a high-level meeting on Monday, the KEA has issued SOP asking all the examination centres to follow the same. As per the SOP, there shall not be any exam centre in the containment zones. Further, the KEA has directed that no centres chosen to hold CET shall be used for quarantine purposes. The KEA has also given exemption for students coming from outside Karnataka from quarantining. However, the district heads have been instructed to allocate separate room for such candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-issues-sop-for-cet-2020-863624.html
20-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: MAHAN to provide 350-bed facility||As the Covid-19 cases are on the rise, the authorities have opened fever clinics at St Joseph’s Hospital, Narayana Multispeciality Hospital and Columbia Asia hospital. In addition, Mysuru Association of Hospitals, Nursing Homes, Diagnostic Centres and Clinics (MAHAN) have decided to provide 350-bed facility. MP Pratap Simha visited the hospitals and inspected the fever clinics. The MP said that all the three hospital authorities have assured of serving the Covid-19 patients. The members of MAHAN, Vikram Hospital, B M Hospital, St Joseph’s Hospital, Narayana Hospital will create a 350 bed facility to treat Covid-19 patients. Besides, Brindavan Hospital authorities have assured of allotting a 75-bed facility for the patients, the MP informed. As the N R Assembly segment has more number of Covid-19 patients, the testing would be expedited and more patients covered. All measures have been taken to ensure the safety of the people, he said. The MP said that the district needs 3,500 antigen kits and a proposal has been sent to the state government. The MP also criticised former MLA, also Congress party leader Vasu for questioning the government on allocating the responsibility of N R segment to him. Pratap Simha said, “NR Assembly MLA Tanveer Sait could not attend any meeting from the beginning due to health issues. Hence, I was given the responsibility,” he said. District Health Officer Dr. Venkatesh and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-mahan-to-provide-350-bed-facility-863630.html
20-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SoP for CET released; no quarantine for non-Karnataka students||Deciding to go ahead with the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) 2020, despite the increasing clamour among students to defer the exams, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has released Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the safe conduct of the CET on July 30 and July 31. After a high-level meeting on Monday, the KEA issued the SOP asking all the examination centres to follow the same. As per the SOP, there shall not be any exam centre in the containment zones. Further, the KEA has directed that no centre chosen to hold CET shall be used for quarantine purposes. The KEA has also given exemption for students coming from outside Karnataka from quarantining. However, the district heads have been instructed to allocate separate rooms for such candidates. The candidates have to be present at the exam centre two hours before the scheduled time. They should bring their own water bottles. Wearing of masks is mandatory for students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sop-for-cet-released-no-quarantine-for-non-karnataka-students-863638.html
20-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC notice to Karnataka, Kerala over check post closure on border||The Karnataka High Court on Monday ordered the issuance of notices to Karnataka and Kerala state governments on a PIL by villagers in Kasargod district seeking access to one km of road in Karnataka. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M Nagaprasanna ordered the notice on the PIL filed by Radhakrishna Nayak and others. The petitioners are residents of Saya, Chavarkadu and Bagilapadavu villages in Manjeshwara taluk, Kerala.  The villagers contended that they have to travel to Perla town in Kerala for ration, agricultural activities and medical facilities. The petition stated that the distance between Perla town and Saya, Charwakadu villages is around 15 km. In order to reach Perla, the villagers have to pass through Saradaka police check post at Bantwal taluk in Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka. The petitioners claimed that due to the Covid-19, the police check post at Saradka has been closed. According to the petitioners, Enmakaje Panchayat has passed a resolution on June 10, 2020, to request the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district to open the check post. However, the check post is still closed, the petitioner contended. “Government of Karnataka has allowed inter-state transportation after the lockdown is removed. The persons who are travelling from Mangaluru to Kasargod are permitted to travel. However, the Saradka check post is not opened for the public to reach either Perla or Bantwala,” the petition said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-notice-to-karnataka-kerala-over-check-post-closure-on-border-863644.html
20-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Consider directing private hospitals to admit more patients: HC to government||The Karnataka High Court on Monday asked the government to consider issuing directions to private hospitals not to deny admission to Covid-19 patients even beyond the reserved beds, if the patients are willing to pay. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Alok Aradhe passed the direction, while hearing a batch of PILs on issues surrounding Covid-19. During the hearing, the Additional Advocate General (AAG) informed the court that directions have been issued to the private hospitals under the Disaster Management Act (DMA) to reserve 50% of beds for Covid-19 patients. The bench said there should be a mechanism to allow Covid-19 patients to find a hospital, before the BBMP team reached the patient’s house. “The state government can consider whether a direction can be issued to private hospitals not to deny admission to any Covid-19 patient if beds are available and the patient is willing to pay charges. In our view, it is necessary to issue directions that private hospitals shall not insist on production of report of laboratory and they will be under the obligation to admit even on production of an SMS or Aarogya Setu App regarding positive status,’’ the bench said. Non-Covid patients The bench also directed the state to issue necessary directions to the private hospitals not to insist on Covid-19 negative reports to admit patients. Here again, showing a SMS on negative results should be made sufficient to admit a non-Covid patient, the bench said. ‘Cut delay in test results’ About the delay in providing the test results, the bench said the state and BBMP should ensure that time lag between test reports and visit of BBMP team needs to be curtailed to the minimum. The counsel appearing for Karnataka State Legal Services Authority submitted that of the 70 quarantine centres in Bengaluru city, only eight are beingput to use. The bench observed that delay in test results has direct connection with the spread of virus. Every home may not be suitable for isolation and the person awaiting the result should be informed to reach a public or private Covid Care Centre (CCC). “This grey area shall immediately be addressed by the state government and the BBMP. A person who goes to a testing centre and falls in category ‘B’ is immediately advised home quarantine. If his home doesn’t qualify for home quarantine, he should be shifted to a CCC,’’ the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/consider-directing-private-hospitals-to-admit-more-patients-hc-to-government-863650.html
20-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Soil from Udupi to be sent for Ayodhya temple||Admaru Mutt Aadalitha Mandali said that soil from Udupi will be sent to the site where Ram Mandir will be built in Ayodhya. The VHP had decided to use soil from different places including from the river bed before initiating the work on Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Accordingly, soil from Udupi will be sent. On Monday, Paryaya Admaru Mutt seer Eshapriya Theertha Swami offered Mangalarathi to the soil and placed sandalwood paste and offered prayers for construction of Ram Mandir without any hindrance. The soil filled in a brass tumbler was handed over the leaders of VHP. Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Teertha Swami, who is also a trustee in the 15-member Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, will not be able to attend the groundbreaking ceremony for Ram Mandir on August. The seer is on Chathurmasyta vratha, which prevents him from attending the ceremony, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/soil-from-udupi-to-be-sent-for-ayodhya-temple-863665.html
20-07-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||No lockdown will be imposed in Belagavi to fight Covid-19: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Speaking to reporters after the Covid-19 situation review meeting at Circuit House here on Monday, Jarkiholi said himself and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa were not in favour of lockdown. He said that if people take precautions, the chain of infections could be broken. District administration until now has taken sufficient measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic, he added.  Regarding complaints of patients not getting proper treatment at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital, which led to deaths of few patients, he said the serious situation in the government health facility was reviewed and officials have been warned against such anomalies. Directions have been issued to prevent recurrence of such incidents. CCTV cameras in Covid-19 wards To ensure transparency in the functioning of District Hospital, CCTV cameras will be installed in all Covid-19 wards and its output will be displayed near reception. People can come to the reception and witness the treatment and conditions of patients, he stated. Jarkiholi said Deputy Commissioner, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer and Superintendent of Police have been asked to visit the District Hospital every three hours and review the situation. Hospital management has been ordered to improve the quality of food given to the patients. During the meeting, it was also decided to convert District Hospital into complete Covid-19 hospital. It will make 759 beds available for Covid-19 patients. Patients with other ailments coming to the hospital will be referred to private facilities. List of private such facilities was being readied, he said. Regarding the shortage of ambulances in the district,  he said that officials have been asked to use maxi cabs, which are standing idle due to Covid-19 situation, as ambulances to meet medical emergencies and shift patients to hospitals. Covid-19 positive patients will be categorised into A, B and C categories. Only A category patients will be shifted to District Hospital and rest will be treated at respective taluk places, he informed.  Regarding private hospitals not admitting serious patients and demanding Covid-19 negative certificate, Jarkiholi said the administration has been asked to make rapid testing kits available to private hospitals. Results of the test will be available within five minutes and patients could get treatment. Action will be taken against private hospitals if they refuse treatment despite test reports, he said.  "Private doctors and non-government organisations have come forward to offer their services to overcome Covid-19 situation. We shall avail their services," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/no-lockdown-will-be-imposed-in-belagavi-to-fight-covid-19-ramesh-jarkiholi-863432.html
20-07-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Ramesh Jarkiholi urges Centre to notify Mahadayi, Krishna awards||Karnataka Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that he has urged the Centre to notify Mahadayi Tribunal and Krishna Project phase-3 awards. Jarkiholi informed reporters here on Monday that during his recent visit to New Delhi, he held discussion with Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh and requested him to notify the projects aimed to meet drinking water requirements. "We hope that the awards will be notified soon," he added. Jarkiholi said he also held a meeting with state legal team led by Mohan Katarki regarding the Mahadayi case coming in the Supreme Court for hearing tentatively on August 24. He said the state has its legal team and it has not been disbanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/ramesh-jarkiholi-urges-centre-to-notify-mahadayi-krishna-awards-863439.html
20-07-2020||West||Maharashtra minister Aslam Shaikh tests positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra minister and senior Congress leader Aslam Shaikh tested positive for Covid-19. The 47-year-old Shaikh, a three-time MLA from Malad West, holds the textiles, fisheries and ports folios, besides being the guardian minister of Mumbai City district. “This is to inform you that I have tested positive for Covid-19. I am currently asymptomatic and isolating myself,” Shaikh said in a tweet. I request all those who have come in close contact with me to get themselves tested. I will continue to work from home to serve the people of my state. 🙏🏻 He also urged people who have come in close contact with him to get tested. “I will continue to work from home to serve people of my state,” he said. Shaikh is the fourth minister in Maharashtra to have tested Covid-19 positive – the others being Jitendra Awhad, Ashok Chavan and Dhananjay Munde.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-aslam-shaikh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-863388.html
20-07-2020||West||BMC urges mandals to follow 'one ward-one Ganpati' concept||The Mumbai civic body has urged Ganesh mandals in prominent areas like Andheri, Juhu and Versova to follow the concept of 'one ward-one Ganpati' during the festival this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Vishwas Mote, the assistant municipal commissioner of K-West ward, which covers Andheri-West, Juhu, Versova and other areas, made this appeal in a letter to the Ganpati mandals last week. The 10-day festival begins on 'Ganesh Chaturthi', which falls on August 22 this year Mumbai is one of the worst hit by coronavirus with over one lakh cases and more than 5,500 deaths due to the disease. Nearly 150 big Ganpati mandals are located in the K- West civic ward, which has so far reported 5,813 Covid-19 cases and 258 deaths, according to data of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). It is currently ranked fourth in the number of coronavirus cases among the 24 civic wards in the city. Mote in his letter said he has already urged all corporators in the K-West ward to implement the concept of 'one ward-one Ganpati'.  He said as the height of Ganapati idols has to be restricted to four feet, ample number of artificial lakes will be created in the ward for the immersion of idols. Assuring to provide all facilities at the artificial lakes, he appealed to citizens to perform immersion of idols in those water bodies only. "To avoid overcrowding and for maintenance of social distancing, there is also a plan of accepting Ganapati idols at the society gates for immersion," Mote said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-urges-mandals-to-follow-one-ward-one-ganpati-concept-863442.html
20-07-2020||West||Train brushes truck at Kandivali shed in Mumbai, no injuries reported||A loco of a passenger train brushed a truck at the Kandivali shed of the Western Railway in Mumbai on Monday. There were no injuries to anyone. There was no impact to movement of trains - local or upcountry. The truck climbed onto the tracks from a narrow opening near the station and collided with the engine of the train. The truck belonged to a railway contractor. The truck driver was apprehended and the vehicle has been seized. According to WR's chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur, an inquiry has been ordered. Four WR personnel have been suspended - Kandivali station superintendent B V Samant, Kandivali pointsman Bharat Solanki, traffic Inspector - M S Shaikh, Kandivali station superintendent Vinod Dalvi. A case has been registered against the driver Prakash Sambhali Thoke. V L Satya Kumar, divisional railway manager of Mumbai Central division, along with other senior officers visited the spot of incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/train-brushes-truck-at-kandivali-shed-in-mumbai-no-injuries-reported-863595.html
20-07-2020||West||Gujarat BJP appoints a 'Patil' as party chief; safe ploy to thwart any infighting?||In what seems like an attempt to "neutralize Patidar" factor from the state's political landscape as well as growing "internal rifts between top leaders, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday announced the appointment of parliamentarian C R Patil as President of Gujarat unit. The development is said to have left the party workers "surprised" and equally "perplexed" considering the fact that Patil is not only considered a "non-Gujarati" but also hails from south Gujarat where the party stands the strongest. Patil, a former controversial constable who has been to jail at least twice in criminal cases, is 65 years old who has roots in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. He is replacing Jitendra Vaghani also known as Jitu, a Patidar leader, the most dominant community in the state. He is considered close to both-Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah and known for organising most of the grand events for the party. Patil, a third-time MP from Navsari about an hour drive from Surat, also looks after development works of Modi's parliamentary constituency- Varanasi. "Everyone is surprised at his elevation to state party chief. He wasn't on the list of probables. I think even he must be surprised as we all know that Patel was eyeing for a ministerial berth," said a BJP source requesting not to be quoted. He added, "Uper sab decide karte hain, hum logon ko toh hawa bhi nahi lagti (People on top decide everything, we don't get even wind of it)." Party sources said that "This is a result of infighting and Patil has been appointed as an attempt to neutralise those rifts and also possible rebellion over the appointment of any leader based on caste lines. Patil's caste in the state is as insignificant as the chief minister Vijay Rupani's (a jain)." Sources said that in a state dominated by Patidar voters, who can make or break any political equation, BJP is playing "smartly" by making caste redundant for the time being. BJP doesn't have any immediate electoral challenge since Assembly polls are due in 2022. By appointing Patil, the party doesn't seem to have bothered about upcoming Assembly bypolls on eight seats which were all held by Congress MLAs who resigned ahead of Rajya Sabha polls and many of them have joined BJP. The Congress, on the other hand, has given prominence to Patidar leader Hardik Patel by elevating him to the post of party's working president. Patil started as a constable who had several run-ins with the law after his name was associated in an illegal liquor business and was suspended at least twice. He was a prime accused in a multi-crore scam known as "Diamond Jubilee Co-operative Bank" in which he is accused of defaulting bank payment of Rs50 crore to a Surat-based bank. He remained in jail for several months. After joining BJP in the early 90s, he continued to rise politically from president Surat district BJP to becoming MP from Navsari for the first time in 2014. "He is immensely popular in south Gujarat and is known as a down to earth leader and continues to be easily accessible. He is the first parliamentarian in the country whose office received ISO certification 9001:2008 for implementing government schemes. However, he doesn't have a base outside south where BJP continues to be the strongest party," said another BJP leader while adding that "we need to see how he takes everyone along."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-appoints-a-patil-as-party-chief-safe-ploy-to-thwart-any-infighting-863606.html
20-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra adds 8,240 new cases; deaths top 12,000||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,18,695 on Monday with the addition of 8,240 new cases, while the death toll crossed the 12,000-mark, the state health department said. With 176 new deaths in a day, the state's fatality count increased to 12,030, the department said. A total of 5,460 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered persons to 1,75,029, the department said in a statement. There are 1,31,334 active cases in the state at present, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-adds-8240-new-cases-deaths-top-12000-863618.html
20-07-2020||West||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai metropolitan region cross 2 lakh||The Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) crossed the two lakh mark on Monday. The MMR, comprising five districts,  spread over 6,300 sq km, now has recorded 2,03,279 positive cases and 8,302 deaths. Of these cases,  the total in Mumbai stands at 1,02,423 and 5,755 deaths. Maharashtra's coronavirus tally stands at 3,18,695 and 12,030 deaths. On Monday, 5,460 patients discharged taking the total to 1,75,029  patients discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 54.92%. As many as 8,240 new cases in the state on Monday. Total of 176 Covid-19 deaths reported in the state on Monday. The case fatality rate in the state is 3.77% Out of 16,00,667 laboratory samples, 3,18,695 have been tested positive (19.91%) for Covid-19 until date. Currently, 7,65,781 people are in home quarantine and 45,434 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-cross-2-lakh-863626.html
