21-07-2020||First Edit||An indictment of Delhi Police||A fact-finding commission appointed by the Delhi Minority Commission to probe the communal riots in Delhi in February has confirmed the charges made then and later that the riots were pre-planned and violence was deliberately unleashed on Muslims, with help from the establishment. The report is the first from a credible agency on the riots that rocked parts of Delhi for five days, caused at least 53 deaths and much damage to property. Most victims were Muslims. The report says that the riots were planned in retaliation for the anti-CAA protests, which were held in Shaheen Bagh and other places in Delhi. The report is an indictment of Delhi Police and other law enforcement authorities who not only failed to prevent or stop the spread of the riots but were actually complicit in them.  There has been criticism of the handling of the riots by Delhi Police and the report finds it true. Though some BJP leaders had made provocative speeches which amounted to incitement to violence, Delhi Police did not take any action and said that there was no evidence indicating any role played by any politician in the riots. The violence was organised and systematic, and Muslim individuals and their houses, businesses and mosques were selectively attacked. The police was not only inactive but even facilitated the attacks in some places. The investigations which were later held were partisan and, in some cases, the “victims themselves were arrested, especially when they filed or attempted to file complaints against named individuals”. Shoddy and inadequate charge-sheets were filed, and the report quotes an internal order of the police directing senior officers to “suitably” guide investigating officers in light of “resentment among the Hindu community” over the arrest of “some Hindu youth”. The report is based on testimonies from victims and others, information collected by various means and inquiries made by the Commission. It has noted that the payment of compensation to the victims has been delayed and even the verification of damage and losses has not been done properly. It has also criticised the Delhi administration for its failure to rehabilitate the victims. It has recommended the constitution of another panel to address issues like the non-registration of FIRs, non-recording or wrong recording of victims’ statements and filing of incomplete charge-sheets that “have left out many facts” and to ensure expeditious and suitable compensation to victims. It shows not only a failure of justice but its subversion by those whose responsibility it is to ensure that it is done. There is need for corrective action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/an-indictment-of-delhi-police-863696.html
21-07-2020||Gadag, Haveri, Ballari||11 Ballari DC's office staff test positive for Covid-19||Two staff of the office tested positive for the virus a few days ago.  Due to this reason, all staffs of the deputy commissioner's office were subjected to Covid-19 test. Of which, the infection was confirmed in 11 people. With this, the number of employees who have tested Covid-19 positive rose to 13. Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul who is under home quarantine and is working from home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gadag-haveri-ballari/11-ballari-dcs-office-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19-863832.html
21-07-2020||Gadag, Haveri, Ballari||3 policemen test positive for Covid-19 in Ballari||The trio had taken an infected person from Maharashtra into their custody a week ago and produced him before the court.  They were then kept under home quarantine for 10 days, said a police source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gadag-haveri-ballari/3-policemen-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ballari-863877.html
21-07-2020||In Perspective||Hagia Sophia: Erdogan is undoing Ataturk’s Turkey||“He is a weak ruler who needs religion to uphold his government; it is as if he would catch his people in a trap. My people are going to learn the principles of democracy, the dictates of truth, and the teachings of science.” Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, ‘Father of modern Turkey’   A sixth-century Byzantine-era structure, originally built as an Eastern Orthodox patriarchal cathedral by Byzantine Emperor Justinian I, was converted into a mosque by Ottoman Sultan Mehmet II after capturing Constantinople, the present-day Istanbul, in 1453. After the Kemalist revolution, the Hagia Sophia became a symbol of the modern Turkish Republic, founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in 1923. To restructure Turkish society and polity on the model of European nation-states, the founding father of modern Turkey adopted secularism as one of the constitutional principles of the new Republic. As part of the top-down secularisation reforms in the country, which banned the wearing of fez, made purdah illegal and abolished the Caliphate, Ataturk also closed down the imperial mosque Hagia Sophia in 1930 and reopened it as a museum in 1934, with a cabinet decree to strengthen Turkey’s secular credentials and establish a clean break from its Ottoman past. Today, President Erdogan’s decision to reconvert the Hagia Sophia into a mosque strikes at the heart of Turkey’s secular values. At the same time, it also indicates the triumph of religious conservatives in Turkey vis-à-vis the legacy of Kemal Ataturk, also known as the ‘Father of Turks’. Interestingly, since Ataturk is still a revered figure in Turkey, President Erdogan has never directly attacked him in any of his speeches. On the contrary, he constantly targets the Left-leaning and secular CHP, Turkey’s grand old party formed by Ataturk, for monopolising Ataturk’s legacy. However, since coming to power in 2002, President Erdogan has repeatedly undermined everything that Ataturk had built and prized -- most significantly, Turkey’s secular history in favour of its Ottoman and Islamic heritage. On the domestic front, he has embarked on a plan of Islamising the State through various social engineering tools such as lifting the burqa ban, limiting the sale of alcohol, attempting to criminalise adultery, initiating a programme to Islamise the country’s education system. On the foreign policy front, in his speeches, Erdogan frequently claims all former Ottoman lands -- from North Africa to Sarajevo. In 2012, euphoric about the possibility of the fall of the Assad regime in Syria, he famously declared: “Inshallah, we will go to Damascus to hug our brothers. That day is close. Inshallah, we will read al-Fatiha at the tomb of Salahuddin and pray at the Emevi mosque there.” President Erdogan’s conversion of the Hagia Sophia into a mosque goes against the idea of ‘The Alliance of Civilizations’ (AoC), a UN initiative, which Turkey launched in collaboration with Spain in 2005. The initiative aimed at reducing the mutual suspicion, fear and polarisation between the Islamic world and Western societies. The decision on Hagia Sophia also indicates how President Erdogan’s pan-Islamist ambitions have taken Turkey in a direction opposite to what Ataturk had envisioned for the country. Today, Turkey is acting more like a revisionist power rather than a consolidated liberal democracy. Its continuous interference in the internal affairs of the countries which were previously part of the Ottoman territories, such as Libya and Syria, are already having damaging repercussions for peace and stability of the whole region. Further, President Erdogan’s authoritarian tendencies, his constant attack on modern liberal values such as human rights, secularism and pluralism have tarnished the ‘Turkish Model’ -- an idea which his party AKP has promoted relentlessly under its ‘soft power’ approach – at the global level. At the same time, it has reduced Turkey’s hopes of joining the European Union even further, and has estranged Turkey from its Western allies. On Hagia Sophia, Pope Francis stated that he felt “pained” by Turkey’s decision, a declaration which is going to reverberate throughout the Western world for a long time. All this comes at a time when President Erdogan’s approval ratings within Turkey are at an all-time low due to the country’s increasing economic woes. By taking recourse to religion, such as by the reconversion of Hagia Sophia into a mosque, President Erdogan is aiming to distract the masses and dilute the opposition towards his government’s performance. However, without bringing the Turkish economy back on track, any such appeal to religion will be futile. It is interesting to recall that the success of political Islam in Turkey became possible only because unlike the previous Islamist parties in Turkey, Erdogan’s AKP, albeit due to the European Union conditionality process, was initially able to converge Islam with liberal values such as democracy, rule of law, pluralism, and secularism. However, over time, President Erdogan’s ambition to hold onto power perpetually has taken Turkey onto an authoritarian path. At the same time, Erdogan has done great damage to political Islam -- a cause which he deeply reveres -- as his policies in Turkey have further strengthened the argument that Islam and democracy are inherently incompatible. (The writer is a Research Associate with Vivekananda International Foundation, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/hagia-sophia-erdogan-is-undoing-ataturk-s-turkey-863698.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Forest Minister Anand Singh's driver tests Covid-19 positive||A car driver of Forest Minister Anand Singh tested positive for Covid-19. He has been admitted to the Covid-19 hospital here. The same driver drove the car when Anand Singh visited VIMS Hospital last week. Health Department officials said the driver tested positive. The minister, his other car drivers and assistants have been home quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-minister-anand-singhs-driver-tests-covid-19-positive-863688.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Farmers fear wild elephants more than coronavirus in Hassan||A herd of around 16 elephants are camping in the region for the last four months. In its search for food, the jumbos have destroyed coffee plantations, paddy and other crops, causing losses amounting lakhs of rupees. A youth escaped narrowly in a wild jumbo attack at Kirehalli on Monday. Earlier, a contract employee of the Forest Department, Mahesh was involved in chasing the elephants, when a tusker tried to attack him. In an effort to escape from the jumbo, Mahesh ran to safety and injured his leg. Hassan district planters' association vice president Girish said that the wild jumbos are on the constant move destroying paddy saplings. It has also destroyed coffee, areca nut, coconut and other crops causing huge losses to the farmers. The government should immediately release compensation for the crop loss, he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-fear-wild-elephants-more-than-coronavirus-in-hassan-863826.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Complete lockdown in some areas of Shivamogga||Speaking to media persons on Tuesday, City Corporation Commissioner Chidananda Vatare said the lockdown would be enforced in wards 12, 13, 22, 23, 29, 30 and 33. The decision has been taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases in the city. Lockdown restrictions will be in force on B H Road, Amir Ahmed circle, Ashoka circle, KSRTC bus terminal road, new Thirthahalli road, by-pass road and Tunga new bridge road. He asked people of these areas not to step out of their homes during the lockdown. Similarly, people of the other areas must not enter these areas. However, hospitals, medical shops and milk outlets are exempted from these restrictions. Vegetable, grocery and fruit shops are permitted to function from 5:00 am to 10:00 am. The remaining shops will remain closed as per the directions, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-complete-lockdown-in-some-areas-of-shivamogga-863854.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Puthige mutt seer Sugunendra Theertha Swamiji tests positive for Covid-19||Puthige Math seer Sugunendra Theertha Swamiji has been tested positive for Covid-19. He is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Manipal. As the seer was suffering from fever for last two days, his swab was collected for testing. The swab report tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday night. Puthige Math is one of Ashta mutt in Udupi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/puthige-mutt-seer-sugunendra-theertha-swamiji-tests-positive-for-covid-19-863890.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Anganwadi worker dies as she fails to get ventilator||A 50-year-old Anganwadi worker who was suffering from breathlessness died on the way to a hospital in Hyderabad on Tuesday morning as the hospitals of the city allegedly refused to treat her. The deceased has been identified as Akkanagamma Dayamani, a resident of Honnakiranagi village of the district. Chatrapati, the deceased husband, said his wife developed breathlessness at around 2 am on Tuesday. She was immediately brought to the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) but refused to admit her. Then, she was taken to ESIC hospital where the doctors denied treat saying there are no ventilators. Akkanagamma was also taken to two private hospitals in the city only to be refused admission, he alleged. "Last rites of Anganwadi worker was performed without subjecting her to Covid test. Stern action should be taken against the doctors of government hospital who refused to admit her", demanded Karnataka Pranta Raitha Sanga State Vice President Maruthi Manpade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anganwadi-worker-dies-as-she-fails-to-get-ventilator-863960.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur wins Covid-19 battle, discharged from hospital||Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur, his wife and son who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Bengaluru were discharged from the hospital on Monday upon recovery. Speaking to reporters, the MLA said he, his wife and son availed treatment at a private hospital in Bengaluru after they tested positive for the coronavirus. "We tested negative after the treatment and now came home," he said. "Doctors advised us to be in home quarantine for 15 days. I will return to my constituency after the completion of the quarantine period", he told. "Instead of fearing for Covid-19, precautions play an important role and self-confidence is also vital to overcome the disease. The people of the constituency offered pooja praying the God for a speedy recovery of my family. We won Covid-19 with their blessings," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sedam-mla-rajkumar-patil-telkur-wins-covid-19-battle-discharged-from-hospital-863980.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||No nod for new schools this academic year||The 2020-21 academic year will be considered a "Zero year" as the Primary and Secondary Education Department will not grant permission for opening of any new school - government or private - during the year. The department had received more than 1,800 applications seeking permission for opening new schools. However, the processing of the application has been stalled. According to a source, given the uncertainty over reopening of schools and colleges, the government has directed to halt the entire process of approving new schools in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-nod-for-new-schools-this-academic-year-864005.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||PGCET and Diploma CET postponed||The PGCET scheduled for August 8 and 9 and diploma CET to be held on August 9 have been postponed since the final-year degree examinations are yet to be completed, according to a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pgcet-and-diploma-cet-postponed-864007.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Industrial townships planned at 10 locations in state||The state government has plans to set up industrial townships at 10 locations across the state, Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar has said. "Industrial areas have been set up in Peenya, Dobbspet, Belur (Dharwad sitrict), Gokul Road and other places. There has been a long-standing demand for setting up industrial townships in these areas. One such township will come up in Haveri on an vast expanse of 1,000 acres and it will be a model one for the entire state," Shettar said. He was addressing a press meet here on Tuesday. He said that in order to reduce the pressure on industrial areas in Bengaluru, it was being planned to promote industries in tier-II and tier-III cities in North Karnataka.  The obstacles for setting up industries have been removed by bringing in amendments to Land Reforms Act and Karnataka Industries Facilitation Act. "The new regime will herald a revolutionary change in the industrial sector. There are no restrictions on land purchase in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Maharashtra. Similarly, Karnataka too has simplified the process for setting up industries," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/industrial-townships-planned-at-10-locations-in-state-864008.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga records 62 new coronavirus cases, two deaths||The district recorded 62 new Covid-19 cases and two more deaths on Tuesday. With this, the number of cases rose to 933 so far and the death toll to 17. According to media bulletin released by the deputy commissioner, of the 62 cases, 36 are from Shivamogga, ten from Bhadravathi, six from Shikaripur, five each from Sorab and Thirthahalli taluks. The district has 394 active cases. Of them, 188 are in district Covid hospital, 178 in Covid Care Centres, 18 in private hospitals and ten in home quarantine. Of the total 933 cases,  522 patients are discharged from the hospital after recovery. Of the 268 declared containment zones, 45 had been denotified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-records-62-new-coronavirus-cases-two-deaths-864012.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Employers can defer VDA payment until next March||Giving relief to employers, the Labour department has permitted establishments to defer payment of variable dearness allowance (VDA) to their employees until March next year. In an order, the department has said that employers will have time till March 31, 2021 (effective from April 1, 2020), to pay VDA to their workers. This will apply to all workers under the purview of the minimum wages notification. The department has taken this decision even as the Centre had directed all employers to pay wages including VDA to their employees during the lockdown period.  According to the department, considering the hardship faced by the organisations, this decision was made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/employers-can-defer-vda-payment-until-next-march-864033.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 test in Narasimharaja Assembly constituency an eye-opener||The rapid tests for Covid-19, taken up in Narasimharaja (NR) Assembly constituency, under the cover of a partial lockdown, has revealed that the incidence of the infection might be much more than what it is perceived to be. The lockdown is in force from July 17, 6 am to July 24, 6 am in select areas of the constituency. Since four days, tests have been conducted on 507 persons, using rapid antigen kits in areas like Muneshwara Nagar, KHB Colony, Udayagiri, Rajeev Nagar, Beedi Colony, Azeez Sait Nagar and Sathgalli Layout and 22.5% or 114 of them have tested positive. Till July 20, Monday in Mysuru, a total of 32,205 were tested and 1,773 of them tested positive, which is 5.51%. Initially, when the proposal for a partial lockdown was floated in NR Assembly constituency, there were plans to conduct massive tests. A partial lockdown was imposed by the district administration, in consultation with people’s representatives and a few health professionals, following an increase in the number of Covid positive cases in the areas, where Muslims are a majority. It has to be noted that Muslim organisations have opened four Covid Care Centres (CCC), under the NR constituency — Farooqia College in Udayagiri, Andalus Public School at Rajeev Nagar, Beedi Workers Hospital at Azeez Sait Nagar and Bibi Ayesha Milli Hospital on Bengaluru Road — under Quba Covid Care Centre and Quba Covid-19 Care Centre. The Health Department has been conducting Covid tests since July 18 and up to July 21 evening (Tuesday), in four centres of the NR segment, and a total of 507 persons were subject to tests. Among them, 114 persons have tested positive, which means 22.5% of the total tested samples have been positive.  Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Shankar said, “It is a good indication, as we have been able to find out 114 cases, which otherwise might have slipped the notice and deteriorated health wise. Each positive patient identified early is a promise towards lesser mortality.” District Health Officer Dr Venkatesh said that there is no reason to panic, but care should be taken to check further spread. Former corporator K C Showkath Pasha said, "As the incidence of positive cases is high among the rapid samples in NR segment, the number of tests should be increased and should be done on a war-footing. The positive cases should be identified and isolated as soon as possible, to check further spread."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-test-in-narasimharaja-assembly-constituency-an-eye-opener-864034.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Total coronavirus cases inch towards 2,000-mark in Mysuru||The total Covid-19 positive patients number is nearing the 2,000-mark, with 135 persons testing positive on Tuesday. With this, the total number of positive cases, up to Tuesday, is 1,908. Five patients succumbed to the infection on Tuesday, taking the total death toll to 80. Among those who died on Tuesday, four are men and one is a woman. This includes a 65-year-old retired government doctor, an ENT specialist. All of them were severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) patients. However, 49 patients have recovered and were discharged on Tuesday. Thus, the total number of recovered patients, up to Tuesday, is 674. The active positive cases, as on Tuesday, is 1,154. Among 135 positive patients identified on Tuesday, 68 have contact history, while 33 of them were with Influenza-like illness (ILI), eight of them were with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), 19 of them have travel history and seven of them are asymptomatic. According to the district health bulletin, a total of 17,526 persons have been observed till Tuesday. A total of 30,810 samples have been tested in government laboratories while 2,194 samples have been tested in private laboratories.  While a total of 15,689 persons have completed 14 days’ isolation, 683 more persons are isolated at home for 14 days, at present. Out of the total 1,154 active cases, as on Tuesday, 221 are isolated in Dedicated Covid Hospital, 98 are isolated in Dedicated Covid Health Care Centre, 245 are isolated in Covid Care Centers, 172 are isolated in private hospitals and 418 are isolated in their respective homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/total-coronavirus-cases-inch-towards-2000-mark-in-mysuru-864040.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka High Court takes up suo motu case to protect judicial officer||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday registered a suo motu criminal petition for quashing a private complaint filed against a sitting judge in Ballari district. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the Registrar General to place the petition for hearing before the first court. One C M Manjunath had filed a private complaint against Vijayakumar J S, Civil and JMFC Judge in Ballari district, and nine others for the offences punishable under sections 166, 205 120 (A), 211, 219 and 499 of IPC. The Civil and JMFC Judge has been shown as accused number one in the private complaint. Based on the private complaint, the court of Principal District and Sessions Judge in Ballari had posted for sworn statement of the complainant. Before filing the private complaint, Manjunath had written a letter to the Chief Justice with grievances on the administrative side. The grievance was about the alleged statement made by Judge Vijayakumar J S, while remanding Manjunath to 14-day custody in a case. There was also another grievance about dismissal of his protest petition during the remand proceedings. In response to the complaint, the secretary to the Chief Justice had replied to Manjunath, stating that the remedy available for him was on the judicial side. However, Manjunath has mentioned this letter from the office of the Chief Justice as a permission to prosecute the judge. The Chief Justice observed that the private complaint could not have been entertained in view of absolute protection granted to the judicial officers. "In view of the absolute protection granted to the judicial officers under section 3 (1) of Judges (protection) Act 1985, the complaint could not have been entertained and registered as against a judicial officer,’’ the Chief Justice said. The Chief Justice directed the Registrar General to register suo motu criminal petition under section 482 of CrPC (saving of inherent powers of High Court), seeking to quash the proceedings against the judge in the private complaint. The hearing has been posted to July 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-high-court-takes-up-suo-motu-case-to-protect-judicial-officer-864050.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sale of orange turns sour for farmers in Kodagu||Covid-19 pandemic has further discouraged orange cultivators in Kodagu. Kodagu orange is known for its unique aroma and taste and is in great demand not only in Karnataka but also outside the state. Normally, oranges are ready for harvest twice a year-- once in the rainy season and another during the winter. Compared to oranges harvested during the rainy season, the ones harvested during the winter are in great demand as they taste better. Normally, oranges are grown as an alternative crop in the coffee plantations in the district as it brings an additional income to the growers during the rainy season. Over a period of time, the district was left with very few orange cultivators, after a disease hit the crop, which had spread from neighboring Kerala, in 1999. Until then, oranges were grown in around one lakh hectares in the district and around 1,000 containers of oranges were sold per year. But, due to the disease the harvest has came down drastically in the last two years. Even though the citrus greening disease affecting the oranges has been controlled, the orange trees which lack care, are affected by yellow leaf disease and eventually wither away. This time, the orange cultivators had to face another blow due to Covid-19 pandemic. Growers are not able to transport the fruits owing to restrictions on the inter-state borders. Locally, the demand for orange has come down forcing the growers to sell them at low prices, which would eventually lead to losses. Owing to fall in price, many growers have chosen not to harvest the crop from their plantations. The harvesting of oranges in Kodagu is done by contractors, who enter into an agreement with the growers. Earlier, apart from Kodagu, oranges were in great demand in the neighboring states like Kerala. Also, the Kodagu oranges were in demand from the tourists who visited the district in the past. The growers fetched Rs 30 per kg for oranges which were sold for Rs 50 per kg in the market. But, as both inter-state transportation and tourism have been hit, the contractors too, did not show any interest to purchase the oranges from the growers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sale-of-orange-turns-sour-for-farmers-in-kodagu-864062.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||BIEC isn’t fully ready for patients: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said on Tuesday that the Covid Care Centre coming up at the Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) needed more work.  Siddaramaiah, who visited the facility, said it was not fully ready yet in terms of infrastructure.  “The CM said that the BIEC would be Asia’s biggest centre. So, I came to see how things are. But the facilities here aren’t up to the mark. The government should take note,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. “I am told that the registration at BIEC will start from Friday. Officials say that asymptomatic patients will be admitted here. But with such facilities, it remains to be seen how the government will manage,” he said.  For instance, Siddaramaiah pointed out, the government was still in the process of recruiting the required doctors and other personnel for the facility.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, during his address to the state, requested Siddaramaiah to give suggestions. “Earlier, I visited BIEC and decided that we should purchase the 6,500 beds at a cost of Rs 7 crore, instead of renting them at Rs 800 per steel bed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/biec-isn-t-fully-ready-for-patients-siddaramaiah-864048.html
21-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Allow virtual PAC meetings, inspection: H K Patil||Public Accounts Committee chairman H K Patil has urged Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to allow it to hold meetings using online tools. "In this hour of Corona crisis the PAC should perform its duty. It should seek explanations from officials. (I) Request (you) to give access to conduct meetings through Webex, Zoom and e-inspections...," he said. Patil said that the activities of PAC had come to a standstill following the second lockdown. While directions from the Speaker have prevented us from conducting meetings or spot inspections owing to Covid-19 fears, he should allow us to convene virtually and also conduct e-inspections, he said. The next meeting of the PAC is scheduled on Tuesday (July 28). Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Speaker has barred all House committees from holding meetings or inspections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/allow-virtual-pac-meetings-inspection-h-k-patil-864049.html
21-07-2020||Main Article||Karnataka: Governance is crucial||After receiving applause for its handling of the pandemic crisis in the initial phase, Karnataka has slipped badly. The state is now India’s fourth most-affected in terms of Covid-19 cases. Bengaluru, in particular, has witnessed a surge in the number of cases and deaths. Why have things come to such a pass? The explanations given for the deteriorating situation are: Lack of adequate health infrastructure such as beds in hospitals, testing equipment, masks, personal protective gear, etc; lack of adequate manpower -- doctors and other health workers; inflow of people from highly infected states and abroad after the first lockdown was lifted and restrictions relaxed; non-observance by many people of government guidelines on wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently; and, deficiencies in the three Ts -- tracing, testing and treatment. While all these may be correct, the question is whether the government could have dealt with the situation more effectively. In other words, has there been a governance failure? In a crisis situation, governance essentially involves organising the resources required to implement a set of measures aimed at providing relief to the people and minimising risk. This is not as easy as it sounds when confronted with a pandemic that has affected the whole world and for which there are no clear solutions. All countries in the world are tackling the problem in their own ways, as are the states in India. Let us see how the situation developed in Karnataka. In Bengaluru, a ‘war room’ was set up at BBMP, and in the districts, Deputy Commissioners were made responsible. Each district was assigned to a minister for the purpose of monitoring. At the state level, the responsibility was shared between the Minister for Health and the Minister for Medical Education, with the chief minister providing overall leadership. The cabinet was reviewing the position periodically. This arrangement seemed to work well in the initial stages when the number of cases were low and we were patting ourselves on the back and wondering why states like Maharashtra and Delhi were faring so badly. As the number of cases started mounting, problems multiplied. We discovered that the number of beds in government hospitals was insufficient and then decided to approach private hospitals. It took some time to persuade them to earmark 50% of their beds for Covid-19 patients. Thereafter, the rates had to be negotiated. Some patients, refused admission in one place after another, were running from pillar to post and in the process, some lost their lives. Making arrangements for quarantining, especially for those coming from abroad added to the woes. While those who could afford were lodged in hotels, others were accommodated in places with poor facilities, causing much dissatisfaction. Dealing with migrant workers who lost their jobs posed another kind of problem. First, they were encouraged to go back to their hometowns and villages; a few days later, they were asked to stay back; and some days later, they were again allowed to go. In the midst of all this, health workers decided to go on strike. Doctors serving on temporary basis demanded regularisation, ASHA workers wanted a raise in their wages, and the medical community as a whole was unhappy being denied personal protective equipment (PPEs). When BBMP wanted to recruit new doctors, only 11 turned up for the walk-in interview, reflecting either their disinterest to serve during the prevalence of Covid-19 or their reluctance to serve in the municipal organisation. While appreciating the complex problems to be tackled, it is necessary to take note of the failures. First, the lack of clarity in defining the roles and responsibilities of functionaries at different levels. What exactly is the role of the BBMP ‘war room’? A perusal of the related website reveals only the newsletter showing the data pertaining to the number of cases, with details like positive cases, recovered, deaths and some comparative figures with other states. Is BBMP responsible for all matters relating to Covid-19 in the city? Are there any other agencies generating data? Some experts have questioned the accuracy of government data. For instance, a patient reported dead was listed as having been discharged 11 days later. Hearing a batch of writ petitions, the High Court observed that BBMP had failed to answer vital questions pertaining to real-time online data on availability of beds, ventilators and the timeline fixed for getting test reports from laboratories; further, it had failed to implement the standard operating procedures (SOP) in containment zones.  Secondly, lack of proper communication leads to confusion in the minds of people. Ministers speak in different voices and official spokespersons keep changing. Too many ministers representing Bengaluru may be adding to the problems of the chief minister. During a crisis, what is required is decisiveness, quick implementation and clear channels of communication. Third, we possibly missed the opportunity during the earlier longer lockdowns to prepare ourselves in terms of procurement of materials and mobilising additional manpower. Perhaps, it was presumed that we would not have to sail in boats similar to Delhi and Maharashtra at a later date. Call it complacency or naivete, we are paying the price today. Finally, government could have benefited from adopting a decentralised approach in dealing with problems at the ground level. The ward committees could have been involved in executing the containment policies, and resident welfare associations used to provide information about the compliance with government guidelines and to educate people at the grassroots. While waging a war, nothing can be taken for granted. Indeed, we must be prepared for the worst. We set up the first ‘war room’ in the country to fight a mighty but unseen enemy, but we failed to foresee the coming dangers and perhaps declared victory too soon. Nevertheless, the government has shown seriousness by declaring another lockdown, which though brief, provided the time to redesign strategies and act with renewed vigour. Let us not forget that in this war, we the people, are also soldiers and must follow the rules of the game in our own interest and in the interest of society. (The writer is a former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/karnataka-governance-is-crucial-863697.html
21-07-2020||Mysuru||Cow injured after eating explosive-filled food euthanized||A cow, who sustained grievous injuries in its jaws and larynx after eating explosive-filled food at Bettadabeedu village of HD Kote taluk on Monday was euthanized as the injury was beyond recovery. A similar incident had occurred at Dahad village of Bilaspur district in Himachal Pradesh on June 6 where a pregnant cow was fed eatables mixed with explosives by miscreants. Earlier, a pregnant wild elephant was killed at Palakkad using explosives-stuffed food, and another elephant died in Kollam district, after consuming explosives-packed pineapple in Kerala. The three-year-old cow of farmer Narasimhegowda of Bettadabeedu was grazing on the fields when it might have fed on explosives-packed in some food material laid to hunt for wild boars, as there is a forest nearby. Veterinarians were summoned from Mysuru, as People for Animals (PFA) received a call for help. The veterinarians rushed with an ambulance and administered pain killers to the cow. However, as the injuries were beyond recovery, the cow was euthanized, said Savitha of the PFA. Dr Amardeep Singh, a veterinarian of PFA, said, the damage was so extensive that the whole tongue, along with the jaw was blown off into pieces. “Besides, the whole of the larynx was also severely damaged. The prognosis for the survival of the cow was very low. A decision was taken to euthanize the cow because it was suffering and wild animals like hyenas or leopards could attack it during the night,” he said. The villagers demanded action against the miscreants, who had placed the explosives on the field. They feared such explosives or traps might harm more animals and also human beings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/cow-injured-after-eating-explosive-filled-food-euthanized-863891.html
21-07-2020||National||ED freezes 60 bank accounts in India on Brazil's request||The Enforcement Directorate is understood to have initiated a process to freeze over 60 bank accounts in the country on the request of the Brazilian government in connection with a money laundering case in that country, offiicials said on Monday. They said the agency has undertaken the action under the provision of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in pursuance of a mutual agreement between the two nations to combat financial crimes. The over 60 bank accounts are held by some individuals and businessmen based in the country, they said. The probe, they said, is linked to some high profile people of Brazil. The suspected accounts sought to be frozen by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), on behalf of the Brazilian government, are stated to be of banks in Delhi and Mumbai, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-freezes-60-bank-accounts-in-india-on-brazils-request-863690.html
21-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 21||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 11.55 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 11,81,143 as of July 21 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 28,388 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 6,53,751 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-21-863704.html
21-07-2020||National||DH Toon | What 'NADDA CARES' fund has in store for Oppn||Hitting out at Rahul Gandhi for criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief J P Nadda on Monday said that the Congress leader tries to politicise foreign policy issues by making statements that are "weak on facts" and "strong on mudslinging".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-what-nadda-cares-fund-has-in-store-for-oppn-863705.html
21-07-2020||National||UN stands ready to support Indian Government as floods ravage Assam||The United Nations stands ready to support the Government of India if required as devastating floods in Assam have displaced lakhs and killed more than 100 people, a spokesperson for the UN Secretary General said. "Our humanitarian colleagues tell us that nearly 4 million people were displaced in the state of Assam in India and neighbouring Nepal due to heavy flooding from monsoon rains, with the death toll at 189. The United Nations stands ready to support the Government of India if required,” Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General, said at the daily press briefing on Monday. He noted that in Nepal authorities have urged people living along riverbanks and low-land areas in the Terai region to move to safe sites due to the possibility of floods. “Access is the biggest challenge, with search-and-rescue efforts being hampered by landslides in remote areas,” he said. The World Food Programme (WFP) is working on reaching impacted communities, with helicopters being the only viable option at present. “We stand ready, of course, to provide additional humanitarian support to the most vulnerable communities in Nepal,” Dujarric said. The Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) has said that over 24.3 lakh people have been impacted across 24 districts in Assam due to the floods. The total number of people losing their lives in this year's flood and landslide has gone up to 111 across the state, of whom 85 people were killed in flood-related incidents and 26 died due to landslides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-stands-ready-to-support-indian-government-as-floods-ravage-assam-863777.html
21-07-2020||National||Single-day spike of 37,148 Covid-19 cases; India's tally rises to 11,55,191||India recorded 37,148 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, pushing its tally to 11,55,191 , while the total number of recoveries increased to 7,24,577, according to Union health ministry data on Tuesday. The death toll due to the disease rose to 28,084 with 587 fatalities reported in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 4,02,529 active cases of the coronavirus infection currently in the country, while 7,24,577 people have recovered till now. Thus, 62.72 per cent people have recovered so far, it said. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. This is the sixth consecutive day when Covid-19 cases increased by more than 30,000.                   Of the 587 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 176 are from Maharashtra, 72 from Karnataka, 70 from Tamil Nadu, 54 from Andhra Pradesh, 46 from Uttar Pradesh, 35 each from West Bengal and Delhi, 20 from Gujarat, 17 from Madhya Pradesh and 10 from Jammu and Kashmir. Nine fatalities have been reported from Rajasthan, followed by eight in Punjab, seven in Telangana, six each in Haryana and Odisha, four in Jharkhand, three in Uttarakhand, two each in Tripura and Meghalaya, and one each in Assam, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/single-day-spike-of-37148-covid-19-cases-indias-tally-rises-to-1155191-863781.html
21-07-2020||National||Vice President Naidu, PM Modi condoles death of Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday condoled the death of Madhya Pradesh governor and BJP veteran Lalji Tandon, saying he will be remembered for his untiring efforts to serve society.   Tandon, 85, died at a Lucknow hospital this morning where he was admitted last month. "Shri Lalji Tandon will be remembered for his untiring efforts to serve society. He played a key role in strengthening the BJP in Uttar Pradesh," Modi said in a series of tweets. Tandon made a mark as an effective administrator, always giving importance to public welfare, Modi said. The prime minister recalled that Tandon was well-versed with constitutional matters. He enjoyed a long and close association with late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Modi said. "Anguished by his passing away. In this hour of grief, my condolences to the family and well-wishers of Shri Tandon. Om Shanti," the prime minister said. Shri Lalji Tandon was well-versed with constitutional matters. He enjoyed a long and close association with beloved Atal Ji. In this hour of grief, my condolences to the family and well-wishers of Shri Tandon. Om Shanti. In his message, the vice president described Tandon as a "people's leader" who worked relentlessly for the upliftment of the downtrodden. "He will be remembered as a dedicated social worker, great thinker, able administrator and a distinguished parliamentarian," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-pm-modi-condoles-death-of-madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandon-863793.html
21-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to address India Ideas Summit tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday deliver the keynote address at the India Ideas Summit, an event which will see discussions on India-US cooperation and their relationship in a post-pandemic world. The virtual summit is being hosted by the US-India Business Council and this year marks the 45th anniversary of the formation of the council. The theme for this year's India Ideas Summit is 'Building a Better Future', a statement from the Prime Minister's Office said on Tuesday. The summit will feature high-level presence from Indian and US government policymakers, state-level officials, and thought leaders from business and society, it pointed out. Other key speakers at the summit include External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Senator of Virginia and co-chair of Senate India Caucus  Mark Warner, former US ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, among others. "The summit will witness discussions on areas including India-US cooperation and future of the relation between the two counties in a post-pandemic world," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-india-ideas-summit-tomorrow-863835.html
21-07-2020||National||NCERT adds scrapping of Article 370 to Class 12 textbook chapter, drops portion on separatist politics in J&K||The abrogation of Article 370 and re-organisation of Jammu and Kashmir have made it to the political science text book for Class 12, recently revised by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). The new textbook also dropped the topic ‘Separatism and Beyond’ and instead makes a reference to it by way of violence witnessed in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, in spite of the special status it enjoyed under Article 370. The chapter on ‘Regional Aspirations’ in the textbook “Politics in India since Independence” for the academic session 2020-21, finds a mention to the scrapping of Article 370, which gave the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir special status. The revised portion, where the chapter talks about Jammu and Kashmir, says, “Jammu and Kashmir had a special status under Article 370 of the Indian Constitution. However, in spite of it, the region witnessed violence, cross-border terrorism and political instability with internal and external ramifications”. “The Article resulted in the loss of many lives, including that of innocent civilians, security personnel and militants. Besides, there was also a large scale displacement of Kashmiri Pandits from the Kashmir valley,” it read. “On August 5, 2019, Parliament had approved a resolution abrogating special status to J&K under Article 370 of the Constitution. The state was also bifurcated into two Union territories - Ladakh with no Legislative Assembly and Jammu and Kashmir with one,” the revised portion read. The revised textbook takes into account the developments that took place in Jammu and Kashmir from 2002 onward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncert-adds-scrapping-of-article-370-to-class-12-textbook-chapter-drops-portion-on-separatist-politics-in-jk-863850.html
21-07-2020||National||FabiFlu more economical, effective treatment option for Covid-19: Glenmark||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Tuesday said its generic version of antiviral drug Favipiravir, FabiFlu, is more economical and effective than other drugs available in the market approved for emergency use for treatment of Covid-19. The company was reacting to a letter sent by India's drug regulator DCGI seeking clarifications on the concerns raised and allegations made by a Member of Parliament. DCGI on Sunday had sought clarification from Glenmark over its alleged "false claims" about the use of FabiFlu on Covid-19 patients with comorbidities and also over the "pricing" of the drug, after receiving a complaint from a Member of Parliament.  "Compared to other therapies approved for emergency use in Covid-19, FabiFlu is much more economical and an effective treatment option...," Glenmark said in a filing to BSE. The price of the drug is much lower when compared to other countries where it is approved, it added. While the price of the drug by the company is Rs 75 per tablet, in Russia it is Rs 600 per tablet; Japan ( Rs 378), Bangladesh (Rs 350 ) and China (Rs 215 per tablet), Glenmark claimed. The company  has already reduced the price of FabiFlu from Rs 103 per tablet to Rs 75 per tablet. The price reduction was made possible through its efforts to obtain better yield and better scale, and with both API and formulations manufactured at the company's own facilities in India, the letter to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) V G Somani said. The company also denied making any false claims that Favipiravir is effective in Covid-19 patients with comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension as Phase 3 clinical trial was designed to evaluate the efficacy in these comorbidities. It pointed out that, "none of the product promotional literature, Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) or Product Information leaflet makes any such claim that Favipiravir can be used in mild to moderate Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions  such as diabetes and heart disease". The reference to comorbidity was based on data from Japanese registry – the largest collection of real-world evidence on clinical use of Favipiravir in Covid-19, it added. The company also denied having made any such claim at any point in time that “Favipiravir alone” is effective in treatment of Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate disease, it said. Glenmark's FabiFlu is a generic version of Avigan of Japan's Fujifilm Toyama Chemical Co Ltd, a subsidiary of Fujifilm Corporation. Shares of Glenmark Pharmaceuticals were trading at Rs 414.70 per scrip on BSE, down 0.98 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fabiflu-more-economical-effective-treatment-option-for-covid-19-glenmark-863871.html
21-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to lay foundation stone of Ram Temple at Ayodhya on August 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya on August 5 at 12:15 pm, at the auspicious time when the faithful believe that Lord Ram was born. “The bhoomi pujan will be held precisely at 12:15 pm on August 5. This is the auspicious time that Lord Ram was born and the rituals for temple construction will begin at the same time,” Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust said. The Prime Minister will lay the first brick – made up of 40 kg silver – amid vedic chants to symbolically mark the start of the temple construction. The temple's proposed height has also been increased to 161 feet against the 128 feet planned earlier, and it will now have five domes instead of three, the Trust said. The temple’s width is likely to be increased from 140 feet to 270- 280 feet. The length is likely to increase from 268 feet to 280-300 feet. L&T is constructing the temple, which has been designed by architect Chandrakant Sompura. Sompura’s sons – Nikhil and Ashish – are reworking the design. The Prime Minister’s participation in the foundation stone laying ceremony kicked off a political controversy with NCP supremo Sharad Pawar questioning taking a swipe at Modi saying “some people think temple construction will mitigate the Covid-19 crisis”. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who leads the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress coalition government, is also expected to travel to Ayodhya for the foundation stone laying ceremony. Congress leader Digvijaya Singh hit out at the Centre for not giving Shankaracharyas any representation in the Trust and filling it instead with Vishwa Hindu Parishad and BJP representatives. “Everyone wants that grand Ram Temple to be built. But they (the Centre) didn't give place to Shankaracharyas in the Nyas, instead, VHP and BJP leaders have been made its members. We object to this,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ram-temple-at-ayodhya-on-august-5-863879.html
21-07-2020||National||Central Vista Project will increase efficiency of executive functioning, ease public life, Centre tells SC||The Union government has defended before the Supreme Court its Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista Project here, saying there would be no destruction or dismantling of any heritage structure or cutting of existing trees for construction of new Parliament and central secretariat buildings. Maintaining that Rs 20,000 crore was not being invested immediately and in fact was total expenditure to be carried out in six years, it said the project will save substantial expenditure on hiring of accomodation. It would also increase efficiency of the executive functioning and ease public life in general as all the key ministries would be located centrally. The project would accommodate 51 ministries in 10 buildings and would save Rs 1,000 crore as rent annually. With regard to necessity of construction of new Parliament building, the project propponent, CPWD, Ministry of Urban Development said there is no feasibility of accommodating of more members in existing building.  "The existing building is almost 100 years old, distressed and not able to meet current requirement in terms of space, amenities and technology. The structure does not meet the upgraded earthquake zone IV requirements," it said. "The fire safety is a major concern as the building is not designed to meet present fire norms. The existing building also requires extensive retrofitting, which is not feasible without vacating the building," it added. In an affidavit to a plea by Rajeev Suri against the project, the government said construction of new building to suit the present day requirement with latest facilities and to accommodate more members is the most prudent proposal. The new Parliament building would allow Lok Sabha to accommodate 876 members and Rajya Sabha with 400 members. The government also submitted that the environmental clearance for expansion and renovation of Parliament building has been granted by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change based on recommendation of EAC (expert appraisal committee) following due process of law after going through proposal in detail including the impact on environment, groundwater, air pollution, tree cover, effect on traffic circulation etc as per extant guidelines. The study group of the Central Vista Committee (CVC) has conducted its meetings through video conferencing in view of Covid-19 pandemic and has granted 'no objection' to the proposal on April 23. The postponement of meeting for indefinite period was not feasible due uncertainties of the present pandemic, it added. "The entire process has been conducted in a fair and transparent manner and in accordance with the laid down procedure. It is reiterated that environmental clearance was granted on June 17 based on EAC's recommendation in the meeting held on April 22," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-project-will-increase-efficiency-of-executive-functioning-ease-public-life-centre-tells-sc-863902.html
21-07-2020||National||CM Uddhav Thackeray will definitely go for Ram temple 'bhoomi pujan': Sanjay Raut||Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray will definitely go for the ground-breaking ceremony of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya, party MP Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday. Asked whether Thackeray has received an invitation for the ceremony, Raut said, It will come." Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh on August 5 for the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram temple. Chief Minister Thackeray will definitely go for the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony, because the Shiv Sena shares sentimental, religious and national ties with this issue," Raut told a TV channel. As I had said yesterday, the Shiv Sena had made a big contribution, and (Shiv Sainiks) shed their blood and made sacrifices for the cause of Ram temple construction, he added. Raut reiterated that Thackeray keeps visiting Ayodhya and has done so before and after becoming the chief minister of Maharashtra. The ceremony is historic from the point of view of the country, Hindutva, for the thousands of martyrs, he said. Raut also said lakhs of Lord Ram devotees would have turned up for the ceremony had there been no Covid-19 crisis prevailing. The Rajya Sabha member on Monday claimed his party paved the way to the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and removed roadblocks in the temple construction for the cause of Hindutva and not for politics. It needs to be seen how many people will be invited for the temple's ground-breaking ceremony next month and what social distancing measures will be taken at the event (in view of the Covid-19 outbreak), Raut said. "What 'political social distancing' they will observe remains to be seen," he said. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court on November 9 last year paved the way for the construction of Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya. The apex court directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-uddhav-thackeray-will-definitely-go-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-sanjay-raut-863906.html
21-07-2020||National||Narayanaswamy appointed Chair of NFRA's Technical Advisory Committee||Professor R Narayanaswamy, faculty of the Finance & Accounting area, IIM Bangalore, has been appointed Chair of the Technical Advisory Committee of the National Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA), the independent accounting and auditing regulator set up by the central government. "This is definitely the best assignment of all I could get in my life because I have campaigned for an independent regulator for over three decades," he was quoted as saying in an IIMB statement on Tuesday. Professor Narayanaswamy has been with IIMB since 1986. He is a graduate in commerce of St Josephs College, University of Madras, and has a PhD in Accounting from the University of New South Wales, Sydney. He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, the Institute of Cost Accountants of India and the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and holds the ICAIs Diploma in Management Accountancy. His current research interests include corporate disclosure policy, earnings management, corporate governance, and auditing, it was stated. He has published in the Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance, Accounting Horizons, The British Accounting Review, The International Journal of Accounting, Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting, Research in Accounting Regulation, and Accountancy, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narayanaswamy-appointed-chair-of-nfras-technical-advisory-committee-863919.html
21-07-2020||National||PIL filed in Supreme Court for providing copy of FIR to accused within 24 hours of filing||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court to direct the Centre to issue orders to provide copy of FIRs through electronic and physical means to the accused within 24 hours of filing, in view of prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. In his plea, Kolkata-based social activist, Avishek Goenka said the top court's direction issued in Youth Bar Association Versus Union of India (2016) for making available copy of FIR to accused required reconsideration in view of the current situation. Under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, the central government can issue mandatory directions to state government on providing a copy of the FIR along with a copy of the complaint, to accused persons in a time bound manner, he said. In 2016, the Supreme Court had directed for providing of a copy of the FIR to the accused within 24 hours. The application in this regard can be made before the concerned police station or the magisterial court. "With the closure of courts of jurisdictional magistrate due to pandemic, the accused persons are left in lurch and are at mercy of the police for the copy of FIR along with a copy of the complaint. Non-availability of a copy of FIR along with a copy of the complaint, effectively curbs the fundamental rights of such persons," Goenka pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-supreme-court-for-providing-copy-of-fir-to-accused-within-24-hours-of-filing-863921.html
21-07-2020||National||Fearing cyber attack, Department of Telecom tells staff to secure systems||Apprehensive of a possible cyber attack by Chinese hackers, the Department of Telecom has asked all departments under it to upgrade security of all websites and web portals. The DoT in its circular also asked all web portals and websites under its ambit to submit a compliance report after securing the system at the earliest. Earlier this month, the DoT also cautioned its staff about possible cyber attacks on government systems through phishing and creation of dubious apps. "In order to disrupt essential public and utility services, attacks are employing distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks where in a multituted of compromised systems attack a single target, thereby causing denial of service for users of the targeted systems. Attackers are using compromised systems of organisations to carryout DDoS attacks on other organisations," said the DoT in its circular. To mitigate the cybsersecurity threat, it is essential to ensure that adequate protections on the ICT systems are put in place at the organisation level. "In view of current situation of Covid-19, many organisations have adopted Work From Home (WFH) concept, where unsecured home computers are extensively used to connect to the organisation work. To mitigate the cybersecurity threats emanating from WFH, user may follow best pratices," said the DoT to its staff. Last month, Singapore-based cybersecurity firm Cyfirma Research had warned India that Chinese hackers had increased their attacks on government establishments and were trying to steal data from sensitive ministries. Amidst massive cyber attack in many countries including Australia in last month, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) had warned public and business establishment about the possible a large scale phishing campaign in the guise of free Covid-19 tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fearing-cyber-attack-department-of-telecom-tells-staff-to-secure-systems-863930.html
21-07-2020||National||Over a dozen Rajya Sabha MPs to miss oath on Wednesday||Over a dozen out 61 newly-elected Rajya Sabha MPs, including former Prime Minister Deve Gowda and all the four Trinamool Congress MPs, will give a miss to the oath taking on Wednesday. So far, 44 newly-elected and re-elected MPs have confirmed their presence for the oath taking ceremony, which will be held in the Rajya Sabha Chamber for the first time when Parliament is not in session. Sources said Gowda, DMK leader Tiruchi Siva and TRS leader Dr K Keshava Rao will not be coming to Delhi for the oath-taking due to the Covid-19 situation prevailing in their states. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha Leader Derek O'Brien also shot off a letter to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu informing him that the four Trinamool Congress MPs -- Subrata Bakshi, Dinesh Trivedi, Arpita Ghosh and Mausam Noor -- will not be attending the ceremony. Those who fail to turn up will be administered oath or affirmation during the ensuing monsoon session. Naidu had decided to hold the oath taking ceremony keeping in view resumption of meetings by the Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committees of both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and keen interest expressed by the new members to participate in such meetings. Subscribing to oath or affirmation is usually done either during the session or in the chamber of the Chairman of Rajya Session, if the House is not in session, but this time, Naidu also decided to hold it in the Chamber, a first in 61 years. Only one family member or guest will be allowed to accompany each member for witnessing oath taking and they will be accommodated in the galleries of Rajya Sabha as per the social distancing norm. The Rajya Sabha gallery accommodates 67 members as per the social distancing norms. Making/subscribing to oath or affirmation by the new members planned earlier had to be deferred in view of the concerns expressed by some of them over travelling to Delhi due to Covid-19 situation. Only 12 retiring members were re-elected while six MPs with past experience of the Upper House returned to Rajya Sabha after a gap. There were 61 vacancies in 20 states and out of this, 42 were elected unopposed. Among the unopposed, the number of newcomers was 28. Prominent leaders to enter Rajya Sabha for the first time also included Congress General Secretary K C Venugopal and former Andhra Pradesh Speaker K R Suresh Reddy (TRS). Gowda, JMM patriarch Shibu Soren and Trinamool’s Trivedi are among half-a-dozen leaders who are re-entering Rajya Sabha after a gap. All these three leaders had lost the last Lok Sabha elections. Among the 12 sitting MPs who were re-elected include Deputy Chairman Harivansh, NCP chief Sharad Yadav, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale and Congress' Digvijay Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-a-dozen-rajya-sabha-mps-to-miss-oath-on-wednesday-863938.html
21-07-2020||National||Female elephant to be sent back to Assam from Tamil Nadu||For the first time, Tamil Nadu will send back an elephant that was illegally held captive in the state even after expiry of the lease period to its native state.  Deivanai, a female elephant known for attacking its caretakers, will be transported back to Assam, the Tamil Nadu Forest Department has said in an RTI reply. The elephant had a long history of attacking its caretakers – one mahout died in May this year, while two others sustained injuries. The female elephant was shifted from the Subramaniya Swamy Temple in Tiruparankundram in Madurai in May this year to the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at M.R. Palayam in Tiruchirapalli after it killed its mahout. The elephant had also attacked its caregiver at the rehabilitation centre last week.  An RTI reply received by animal rights activist Antony Clement Rubin from the Madurai District Forest Department said the elephant is planned to be sent to Assam, its home state. Sources said the elephant was illegally held here even after the expiry of the lease period in 2017. A forest department official said the process of sending back the elephant was on. “I can’t say anything now. The process is on and the elephant is in a condition to travel,” the official told DH. Rubin told DH that seven other elephants from Assam are illegally held in Tamil Nadu and demanded that the government should send back all of them to their native state. He also wanted to know why the committee that has been set up to monitor captive elephants was not doing its job. “Sending back Deivanai to her home state of Assam is a welcome decision. The question is why only Deivanai and not others who are held captive illegally? Is Deivanai being sent back only because people here are not able to attend to her? Everyone knows she has temperament issues and is that why she is being sent back?” he asked.  Rubin said the state government should send back all elephants held captive illegally in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/female-elephant-to-be-sent-back-to-assam-from-tamil-nadu-863946.html
21-07-2020||National||Son stabs mother to give 'freedom from life'||A 45-year-old woman was stabbed five times by her son in South Delhi’s Madnagir area on Monday morning, multiple news outlets reported. The accused, identified as Sagar (22), said that he killed her to give her “freedom from life”, the police said. He was found next to his mother’s body. The five stab wounds bled profusely which ultimately led to her death. Investigating officials said that Sagar was chanting ‘Aaj maine apni ma ko mukti de di ho’ (Today, I gave freedom to my mother) when asked about the incident. He also gave inconsistent replies. After hearing screams from the apartment, the neighbours called the police at around 11.30 in the morning on Monday. The woman, Anjali Francis, lived with her son in G-block, an area close to Madnagir central market. The police said that they are consulting a psychologist and are also probing to see if the accused was following any godman. Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP, said, “A case of murder has been registered and the accused has beenarrested. The murder weapon—a kitchen knife—was also seized from the house. Further investigations are underway.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/son-stabs-mother-to-give-freedom-from-life-863948.html
21-07-2020||National||Amarnath Yatra cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic||After weeks of speculations, the annual Amarnath Yatra has been finally cancelled due to rise in Covid-19 cases all over the country, including Jammu and Kashmir. An official spokesperson said the decision to cancel the pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas was taken during a meeting of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB), on Tuesday. “The health concerns are so serious that the strain on the health system, along with the diversion in resources to the Yatra, will be immense. This would also unnecessarily put the Yatris at risk of catching the Covid-19,” he said. The SASB also deliberated the considered views of the government which made reasoned observations supported by facts suggesting that it   would not be advisable to conduct the Yatra this year in larger public interest. “This would enable the health, civil and police administrations to focus on the immediate challenges facing them rather than diverting resources, manpower and attention to the conduct of the Yatra,” the meeting decided. “The Board is aware of and respects the sentiments of millions of devotees and to keep the religious sentiments alive, it shall continue the Live Telecast/ Virtual Darshan of the morning and evening Aarti. Further, the traditional rituals shall be carried out as per past practice. Also, the Chhadi Mubarak shall be facilitated by the government,” the SASB statement added. The decision has finally put an end to the speculation surrounding the annual pilgrimage. The 42-day long annual pilgrimage was scheduled to begin from June 23 from traditional Pahalgam -Chandanwari track and shorter Sonamarag-Baltal route. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, earlier the decision was taken to cut-short the time period of the pilgrimage to 15-days during a meeting held by Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu. Every year lakhs of pilgrims either take the traditional and longer 45 km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14 km-long Baltal route to Amarnath, one of Hinduism’s holiest shrines. The pilgrimage usually spans nearly a month-and-a-half and takes place during July and August. Last year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days. Meanwhile, the Chhari-Mubarak of Amarnath Ji led by Mahant Deependra Giri Ji, its sole custodian was taken to historic Shankaracharya Temple, in Srinagar for prayers on the occasion of ‘Haryali-Amavasya’ (Shravan Amavasya) to maintain the age-old tradition. The holy mace of Lord Shiva was taken from its abode Dashnami Akhara, Srinagar to historic Shankaracharya temple. It was led by Mahant Ji with only a selected number of Sadhus participating in Pujan in view of guidelines and SOPs issued by the government due to Covid-19 pandemic. The Pujan lasted for more than an hour. A statement from Mahant Ji said ‘Chhari-Sthapana’ ceremony shall be performed on July 23 at Shri Amareshwar Temple in Srinagar and traditional ‘Chhari-Pujan’ shall be performed on the occasion of ‘Nag-Panchami’ that falls on Saturday (July 25).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarnath-yatra-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-863949.html
21-07-2020||National||Ministry of Home Affairs misses deadline for formulating Citizenship Amendment Act rules||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has missed the six month deadline to frame rules for the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act, delaying its implementation and prompting accusations from the Opposition. The CAA, which was passed in December last year and came into force on January 10, provides citizenship to six non-Muslim minorities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan who entered in India before 31 December, 2014. With the MHA not notifying the rules, the Act cannot be implemented. According to the Manual of Parliamentary Procedure, rules have to be framed within six months from the date on which the statute came into force. "In case the Ministries/Departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension; such extension being not more than for a period of three months at a time. The request should be made after obtaining the approval of the Minister," the manual said. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Subordinate Legislation will soon be writing to the MHA, which has not yet approached the panel for extension of time, asking for a status report on the issue. Former BJP leader Yashwant Sinha tweeted, "did you know that the CAA rules have not been framed and notified despite a lapse of seven months. The act cannot be implemented in the absence of rules? Do you realise how the whole thing was just meant to fool the people and win elections?" A senior Trinamool Congress leader told DH, What reasons will the Home Minister cite for delay in framing of CAA rules? Why is he deliberately delaying the rules after passing the legislation in such a big hurry? Was the legislation done only to create a stir and whip up communal disharmony? Has Modi-Shah’s political gamble badly backfired? Was it too hot to handle? Especially in Bengal? This is an admittance of that." The Opposition had risen in rebellion against the Bill when it came for passage in Parliament late last year, accusing the government of introducing religion as criteria for citizenship. It also resulted in huge protests across the country, amid accusations that it was aimed at targeting Muslims. According to the report of the Joint Committee of Parliament that vetted a previous version of the Bill, there were 31,313 people belonging to minority communities from these countries will be "immediate beneficiaries", as they had been given Long Term Visas on the basis of their claim of religious persecution in their respective countries and want Indian citizenship. Among 31,313, the Intelligence Bureau told the panel, 25,447 are Hindus, 5,807 are Sikhs, 55 Christians and two each Buddhists and Parsis. For citizenship, the IB said, they will have to prove that they came to India due to religious persecution. "If they had not declared so at the time of arrival in India, it would be difficult for them to make such a claim now. Any future claim will be enquired into, including through RAW before a decision is taken," the IB had told the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-home-affairs-misses-deadline-for-formulating-citizenship-amendment-act-rules-863963.html
21-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 fatality rate drops to 2.43% from 3.36% on June 17: Health Ministry||India's Covid-19 fatality rate has dropped significantly to 2.43 percent from 3.36 percent on June 17 due to effective clinical management of coronavirus cases, the Centre said on Tuesday, asserting the country has handled the pandemic "relatively well". Thirty states and Union Territories have Covid-19 positivity rate lower than that of the national average which stands at 8.07 percent, Rajesh Bhushan, an officer on special duty in the Union health ministry, told a press conference here. "19 states and UTs are performing more than 140 tests per day per million population. Just doing tests is not enough, they have to be done at a level of 140 tests per day per million so that the rate of positivity reduces and comes down to 10 percent first and then continue the testing process so that the rate of positivity further reduces to 5 percent or lower," he said. "So that is the ultimate aim to maintain this level of testing and bring positivity lower to 5 percent eventually or even lower than that," he said. In India, the Covid-19 deaths per million population stand at 20.4 per million which is amongst lowest in the world, Bhushan said. "There are several countries where the deaths per million is 21 times or 33 times higher than in India. The global average stands at 77 deaths per million population," he said. "So far, the nation has managed Covid-19 relatively well. The Government of India is cooperating with all states and UTs. All decisions are being taken based on science and evidence-based inputs and in consultation with domain knowledge experts," Bhushan said. He also shared a chart showing that the Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined from 3.36 percent on June 17 to 2.43 percent now. He asserted that the significant decline in the case fatality rate has been due to effective clinical management of cases. India recorded 37,148 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, pushing its tally to 11,55,191, while the total number of recoveries increased to 7,24,577, according to Union health ministry data issued on 8 am Tuesday. The death toll due to the disease rose to 28,084 with 587 fatalities reported in a day, the data showed. There are 4,02,529 active cases of the coronavirus infection currently in the country, while 7,24,577 people have recovered till now. Thus, 62.72 percent people have recovered so far, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-fatality-rate-drops-to-243-from-336-on-june-17-health-ministry-863967.html
21-07-2020||National||India-US navy drill will not change situation along LAC, says China's state-controlled media||The joint drill by the Indian Navy and the United States Navy near Andaman and Nicobar Islands will not bring about any change in situation along the disputed boundary between India and China, a state-controlled newspaper of the communist party tweeted on Tuesday. “No matter how hard Indian media hypes the drill with the USS Nimitz, China-India border situation won’t be affected,” the Global Times, a newspaper run by the Communist Party of China, posted on Twitter. “Some Indians, like foxes wanting to use tiger's might to their own advantage, seek support from the US. Such effort will end up in vain.” The tweet by the Global Times came even as New Delhi noticed a deliberate attempt by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to slow down the process of withdrawal of troops from the scenes of the face-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA early this month agreed on a mutual “disengagement” process to end the two-month-long stand-off along the LAC. Though both sides pulled out troops from some of the face-off scenes, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh dropped hints about uncertainty over the process, when he said during a visit to a forward base of the Indian Army that he could not guarantee how much the talks between the diplomats and military officials of India and China would succeed in resolving the stand-off along the LAC. The Indian Navy’s warships INS Rana, INS Sahyadri, INS Shivalik and INS Kamorta on Monday participated in the “cooperative exercise” with the USS Nimitz Carrier Strike Group, which was on its way to West Asia after conducting a drill with USS Ronald Reagan in South China Sea. The drill by the two US Navy carriers in South China Sea as well as the joint exercise by the Indian Navy ships and the USS Nimitz Carrier Strike Group in Indian Ocean came in the wake of growing belligerence of China – not only along its disputed boundary with India, but elsewhere in Indo-Pacific too. The joint exercise by US and Indian warships closer to Malacca Strait was intended to send out the message to China that the sea lane, which is vital for the communist country, could be choked in case of a conflict in the region. Beijing, however, tried to put up a brave front and brushed off the message India and the US sent out to it. “Instead of being led by the nose by the US, India should strengthen communications with China at the strategic level,” journalist Yu Jincui wrote in an article in Global Times. “After all, the two Asian giants are immovable neighbours. Both confront development conundrums. If India blindly follows the US, it will ultimately harm its own interests”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-navy-drill-will-not-change-situation-along-lac-says-chinas-state-controlled-media-863972.html
21-07-2020||National||Supreme Court initiates Suo Motu criminal contempt proceedings against Prashant Bhushan, Twitter||The Supreme Court has initiated a Suo Motu criminal contempt proceedings against activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan and Twitter India for his alleged contemptuous statements on the micro blogging site. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari is scheduled to take up the matter on Wednesday. The Suo Motu matter was registered by the court on July 9. The top court's adverse action was apparently attributed to tweets posted by Bhushan on June 27 and 29. The first tweet accused four CJIs of "playing a role in destruction of democracy" and second one was alleging current CJI of "riding a Rs 50 lakh bike of a BJP leader" and "keeping the SC in lockdown". Bhushan has already faced a contempt proceedings in 2019 on a petition filed by Attorney General K K Venugopal and the Union Government for his tweets of February 1 on appointment of M Nageshwara Rao as interim CBI director. Earlier also, he faced another contempt before the top court for their statement alleging corruption against former Chief Justices of India. The Contempt of Court Act carried the maximum punishment of six months jail term for those found guilty of any act for undermining the majesty of court and obstructing the administration of justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-initiates-suo-motu-criminal-contempt-proceedings-against-prashant-bhushan-twitter-863979.html
21-07-2020||National||IT Ministry directs Chinese firms to ensure strict compliance with app ban order||The Centre on Tuesday directed 59 Chinese-origin apps, which were banned for security reasons, to ensure strict compliance with its orders, and warned of serious action in case of any violation. The Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has written to all the Chinese companies, which own these 59 apps, saying that if any mobile application in the banned list is found to be made available by the company through any means for use within India, directly or indirectly, it would be construed as a violation of the government orders, an official in the IT Ministry said. The government also warned that continued availability and operation of these banned apps, directly or indirectly, is not only illegal but also an offence under the Information Technology Act and other applicable Acts, which would attract penal provisions. The ban imposed was in exercise of the sovereign powers and section 69A of the Information Technology Act, and that the said companies should ensure strict compliance to the order issued in this regard, said the communication sent to them. The government on June 29 had banned 59 apps with Chinese links, including TikTok, CamScanner and UC Browser, saying they were prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-ministry-directs-chinese-firms-to-ensure-strict-compliance-with-app-ban-order-863987.html
21-07-2020||National||Supreme Court to consider BCI's plea for financial assistance to lawyers on Wednesday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to take up on Wednesday a plea by the Bar Council of India for a direction to the Centre and States to provide financial support to lawyers, who are facing unprecedented hardships due to closure of courts. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian would consider the writ petition filed by the statutory body for regulation of legal profession and education on July 22. In its plea, the BCI sought disbursal of interest free loan upto Rs three lakh to lawyers and depositing of money directly into their accounts as relief measures for them. It said out of 16 lakhs advocates enrolled with the different State Bar Councils in the country, many were first generation advocates solely dependent on regular income through court works. The very survival of these advocate has come into question in view of the present conditions, it contended. "The prolonged closure of the courts and tribunals all over the country since March 2020 due to the lockdown declared by the Union and the various state governments to combat Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in depriving majority of the advocates their only source of income," the plea filed by advocate S N Bhat said. The petitioner-body said about 25 to 30% of the advocates enrolled would be in need of immediate financial help. It said the top court, which acted as parens patriae, can issue directions for the welfare of lawyers community to allow them full enjoyment of right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The petitioner also cited the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which provided for grant of financial relief including loans on concessional terms to the affected persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-consider-bcis-plea-for-financial-assistance-to-lawyers-on-wednesday-864014.html
21-07-2020||National||Employment sentiment showing signs of gradual improvement: Report||Easing of lockdown restrictions seems to have a positive impact on the job landscape across sectors and geographies as employment sentiment has picked by 7 percent from the 86 percent drop it witnessed during the lockdown, says a report. According to the latest TeamLease Employment Outlook Report for the first half of this fiscal, the hiring sentiment which had taken a beating in the October to March period is showing signs of gradual improvement since unlock 1.0. Until unlock 1.0, the hiring sentiment for the current half-year (April-September) was as low as 11 percent, however, it has improved to 18 percent. According to the report, out of the 21 sectors analysed barring for travel and hospitality all the other sectors, though in varying degrees, are positive about hiring. Some of the sectors that are leading in hiring intent are Healthcare & Pharmaceuticals (21 percent increase since unlock 1.0), KPO (20 percent increase), E-commerce & Tech Start-ups (19 percent), Educational Services (17 percent), Telecommunications (15 percent). Other bullish sectors include Information Technology (15 percent increase since unlock 1.0), Retail (Essential) (14 percent increase), Agriculture & Agrochemicals (13 percent), FMCG (12 percent) and Power & Energy (10 percent). “The pandemic has actually made corporates to re-look, re-structure and re-align their businesses and it is taking a hit on the hiring sentiments. Today, organisations are increasingly becoming conscious of the fixed costs and that is one of the major reasons for the slow uptick in the employment sentiment by the mid and small businesses," TeamLease Services Co-Founder and Executive Vice President Rituparna Chakraborty said. Chakraborty further added that though it may take a quarter or more, these businesses will also definitely pick up bringing about a marginal improvement in the overall employment scenario. The biggest gainer is the blue-collar profile. The hiring sentiment for blue-collar profiles has witnessed a 10 percent growth post-re-opening of businesses. Further, the demand for senior-level is also witnessing a growth in sentiment. TeamLease Employment Outlook is a bi-annual report, that analyses functional and environmental aspects across 21 sectors and 14 geographies to provide an insight into the hiring sentiments. It has surveyed 807 enterprises of various sizes (small, medium and large) in India and 82 employers across the globe to evaluate employment outlook trends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/employment-sentiment-showing-signs-of-gradual-improvement-report-864015.html
21-07-2020||National||Segregation of Covid-19 waste must to prevent contamination: NGT||To prevent risk of contamination from the coronavirus, the National Green Tribunal on Tuesday said segregation of Covid-19 waste from others is a must. The NGT Principal Bench headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that scientific management of such waste is necessary in view of potential of such infectious waste affecting patients and the concerned workers and professionals. Generation of Covid-19 related biomedical waste in the country is about 101 metric tonnes per day, the Green Bench noted. “This quantity is in addition to normal biomedical waste generation of about 609 MT per day. Further, about 195 Common Biomedical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facilities are providing the services of collection, transportation and disposal of Covid-19 biomedical waste from hospitals, isolation wards, quarantine centres, home quarantines, home care, sample collection centres and testing laboratories,” the tribunal noted. It said that as per the information given by state pollution control boards, 2,907 hospitals, 20,707 quarantine centres, 1,539 sample collection centres and 264 testing laboratories, are involved in generation of Covid-19 waste. “There has to be constant and regular monitoring by the Chief Secretaries, State Pollution Control Boards and Health Departments in the States/ UTs and by the High Level Task Team at Central level with further coordination by Central Pollution Control Board, ” the tribunal said. The green panel had earlier directed a team, comprising the Centre and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to supervise handling and scientific disposal of Covid-19 waste in accordance with the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/segregation-of-covid-19-waste-must-to-prevent-contamination-ngt-864016.html
21-07-2020||National||China border row: MiG-29K jets may be moved to Northern air bases||Amidst the ongoing stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh, India plans to deploy its MiG-29K maritime fighter aircraft at an Indian Air Force base in the northern sector for operational deployment. “It is being planned to deploy the MiG-29K fighter aircraft at an IAF base in the northern sector. They might be used for carrying out operational flying in the eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control,” news agency ANI reported quoting government sources. India currently has a fleet of more than 40 MiG-29K, purchased from Russia, out of which 18 operate from India’s lone aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, whereas the rest is earmarked for India’s second aircraft carrier, being constructed at Cochin Shipyard. The second squadron is based in the Hansa naval station in Goa. The Russian origin maritime fighter has the capability to undertake the missions on land and the pilots are suitably trained too. But the officials are tight lipped on their deployment plans. Sources said MiG-29Ks would replace the IAF jets in some of the bases in western India as the Air Force planes had moved up north. Interestingly, this happened days after the IAF stationed its Jaguar strike jet at Car Nicobar at Andaman and Nicobar. Earlier, Indian Navy’s P8I maritime surveillance aircraft was used for reconnaissance of the areas close to the LAC – India’s disputed boundary with China – in eastern Ladakh. The same aircraft was used for spying during the Doklam crisis too. The use of naval assets in the northern theatre was by Gen Bipin Rawat, the Chief of the Defence Staff, who had been tasked by the central governments to streamline the operational commands of armed forces and optimise the use of the weapon platforms. In his plans, Gen Rawat proposed introduction of naval components in theatre commands (land) that would be operated by the Army and IAF. “Can we not bring some of the naval fighter jets to the land borders? There is not much of a difference between sea flying and desert flying," Gen Rawat had stated referring to possible desert operations by the naval fighter aircraft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-border-row-mig-29k-jets-may-be-moved-to-northern-air-bases-864020.html
21-07-2020||National||SC to hear on July 22 Centre's plea on allowing promotion of SC/ST employees||The Supreme Court is set to take up on Wednesday a plea by the Union government for clarification on an order to maintain the status quo on the reservation in promotion to the SC/ST employees. The Centre was concerned with the fact that as on January 31, 2020, more than 1.3 lakh promotions were held up in 23 out of a total of 78 departments, causing resentment and financial loss to them. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswara Rao would consider the application by the Centre wherein it sought permission to make "ad-hoc promotions to the large number of vacant posts" subject to the outcome of the cases. It had said, "the status quo ordered on April 15, 2019, has resulted in a complete stoppage of all promotions" in the reserved and general categories. It said a significant number of government servants were retiring every month without getting the promotions due to them. "This is causing resentment, demoralisation, and confusion amongst a large section of the government servants, besides financial losses," it said. In the current pandemic of Covid-19, government employees are at the forefront of providing various relief measures to the public and it is important to keep up their morale, the government further said. It submitted that the application was necessitated as previously the court by its order on May 17, 2018, and June 5, 2018, permitted for going ahead with the promotion. The Delhi High Court has on August 23, 2017, quashed the office memorandum of August 13, 1997, providing for reservation in promotions to the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs). The HC had also restrained the government from granting any reservation, in promotion, to SC/STs, in the exercise of the power conferred by Article 16 (4A) of the Constitution, without, acquiring quantifiable data indicating the inadequacy of representation, and evaluating the situation by taking into consideration the said data, along with the competing considerations of backwardness and overall efficiency in administration, and arriving at an empirical decision. The special leave petition by the Union government was still pending before the top court. "This HC judgment has affected the morale of employees due to uncertainty about their future prospects, fear of reversions, etc," it said. Further, keeping the various promotional posts vacant in various cadres for a long time was bound to hamper the smooth functioning of the public work in all government establishments, which was not in the public interest, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-on-july-22-centres-plea-on-allowing-promotion-of-sc/st-employees-864022.html
21-07-2020||National||Manodarpan: Centre's initiative to focus on mental health of students||The Centre on Tuesday launched an initiative to focus on the mental and emotional well being of students, teachers and parents as they navigate the situation presented by the Covid-19 outbreak. The ‘Manodarpan’ platform, which comprises a national helpline – 8448446032 – and a special webpage, is aimed at providing psycho-social support to students through a group of experienced counselors, psychologists, and mental health professionals. “There are emerging mental health concerns with a specific focus on children and adolescents that are often reported in situations such as a pandemic,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pohkriyal Nishank said launching the initiative. This webpage of Manodarpan on the HRD Ministry website has advisories for students and teachers to follow during the lockdown including how to make use of the interactive online classes, peer learning, identifying professional support among others. This is part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May to deal with the disruption caused by the Covid-19 outbreak. The ministry also proposes to have an interactive application that can be used for online chat and counselling, host webinars, audio-visual resources and podcasts hosted on the platform for the students. Also, this would be used as a part of the school curriculum to address the concerns of children. Relevant research will also be disseminated through this portal so that there is an awareness building for mental health among students in India. The launch of ‘Manodarpan' came a day after the HRD Ministry sought feedback from parents on the reopening of schools along with their expectations and suggestions on the changes they would like to see when the same happens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manodarpan-centres-initiative-to-focus-on-mental-health-of-students-864026.html
21-07-2020||National||Private trains: 16 firms participate in pre-application conference||Several top companies including Bombardier India, Spanish coach and component maker CAF and BHEL are among 16 companies which have shown interest in Indian Railways' private passenger train project.  The pre-bid meeting held on Tuesday received an overwhelming response with a total of 16 firms have participated, said the railways. IRCTC, Medha Group, RK Associates, Bharat Forge and JKB Infrastructure, PSUs RITES and Bharat Heavy Electricals are others who attended the meeting, sources in Indian Railway said.  However, the railways did not officially disclose who are all participated in the pre-bid meeting.  The issues and concerns raised by the prospective applicants were discussed and clarifications were provided by the officials of Ministry of Railways and NITI Aayog for improved clarity on the provisions of RFQ (request for qualification) and bidding framework. The queries were mainly related to eligibility criteria, bid process, procurement of rakes, operations of trains and composition of clusters. On queries on haulage charges, the Railways has replied that haulage charges will be specified upfront and will be suitably indexed for the entire concession period thereby bringing certainty in the haulage charges. "The railways will also be providing the details of passenger traffic being handled on the routes under biding. This will enable bidders to undertake their due diligence in the project," a statement said. The national transporter also clarified that trains to operated under the project can be either purchased or taken on lease by the private entities. The Ministry of Railways will be providing written replies to the queries received from the prospective applicants by July 31, 2020. The second pre-application conference is scheduled on August 12, 2020, said a statement. The ministry invited 12 requests for qualifications for private participation in the operation of passenger train services over 109 Origin Destination pair of routes through the introduction of 151 modern trains. These trains will be in addition to the existing trains operated on the network. This is the first initiative of private investment for running Passenger Trains over Indian Railway Network and investment expected would be around Rs 30,000 crore. As per the plan, the railways will rollout out private trains by March 2023. The private entities for undertaking the projected will be selected through a two-stage competitive bidding process comprising of Request for Qualification (RFQ) and Request for Proposal (RFP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-trains-16-firms-participate-in-pre-application-conference-864027.html
21-07-2020||National||India to have 60% renewable energy by 2030: Power minister||India will have around 60 percent of its installed electricity generation capacity from clean sources by 2030, Power and New & Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh said on Tuesday.  The minister also exuded confidence that the renewable energy capacity would touch 510 GW by 2030, including 60 GW of hydropower. In September last year at the United Nations Climate Action Summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced increasing the renewable energy target to 450 GW by 2030 from 175 GW by 2022.  Participating in a webinar organised by The Energy Resource Institute (TERI), Singh said, "I would say that by 2030, 60 percent of our capacity will be from renewables, and that is on a conservative scale." The minister explained that by 2030, 450 GW of power generation capacity would come from renewables like solar and wind. Besides 60 GW would come from hydro-electric power, he said.  About the progress on clean energy, he said that India's clean energy capacity including under development projects and hydroelectric power is around 190 GW, which is more than the targetted 175 GW by 2022.  During the webinar, the minister launched a report, titled ‘Renewable Power Pathways: Modelling the Integration of Wind and Solar in India by 2030’.  The minister also launched a report titled ‘Bending the Curve: 2025 Forecasts for Electricity Demand by Sector and State in the Light of the Covid-19 Epidemic’. The two reports have been prepared by Energy Transitions Commission (ETC) India, which is a research platform based at the TERI headquarters in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-have-60-renewable-energy-by-2030-power-minister-864029.html
21-07-2020||National||JNU student Sharjeel Imam tests positive for Covid-19 in Guwahati central jail||Sharjeel Imam, a PhD student of Jawaharlal Nehru University, who is facing sedition charge for his "inflammatory speech" regarding Citizenship Amendment Act is among the 434 inmates of Guwahati Central jail, who have tested Covid-19 positive so far. According to jail authorities, Imam tested positive during sample tests conducted following detection of several positive cases inside the jail but he was asymptomic. "He has been shifted to an isolated ward inside the jail which was prepared recently for the inmates testing Covid-19 positive. He will be shifted to hospital only if he develops any symptom or we see any problem in his health," said an official. Imam is in judical custody since February when he was arrested and brought to Assam for allegedly making a call that Assam should be cut off from rest of the country to protest the CAA. He was booked under 124A (sedition) and a few other sections of IPC before he was remanded to judicial custody. There are nearly 1,100 inamtes lodged in Guwahati Central jail at present. Earlier anti-CAA activist and pesants' rights leader, Akhil Gogoi and two of his associates, Dhaijya Konwar and Bitu Sonowal also tested Covid-19 positive. Their samples were not tested despite demands and complaint of Covid-19 symptoms but were done so after being ordered by a special NIA court in Guwahati. Following this, Assam health department declared Guwahati central jail as a containment zone and started re-test of samples of all inmates. Ranjan Daimary, a former leader of NDFB, a recently dibanded militant group also tested Covid-19 positive inside the jail. On Tuesday, Assam Human Rights Commission asked chief secretary to submit a report regarding Covid-19 scenario inside the jail and the steps taken so far, by August 5. The commission issued the directive while taking cognizance of a complaint lodged by leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Debabrat Saikia recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jnu-student-sharjeel-imam-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-guwahati-central-jail-864031.html
21-07-2020||National||US closely monitoring situation along India-China LAC, says American Secretary of Defence||The United States is “closely monitoring” India-China military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations, American Secretary of Defence Mark T Esper said on Tuesday. A day after the warships of the Indian Navy and the United States Navy had a joint exercise near Malacca Strait to send out a message to China, Esper said that US and India shared “one of the all-important defence relationships of the 21st century”. The US Secretary of Defence also slammed China’s aggressive and expansionist moves in the Indo-Pacific region and its “brazen disregard for international commitments” and disrespect for the rights of other nations guaranteed by the United Nations Convention for the Law of the Sea. “We are obviously monitoring the situation between India and China very closely, what is happening along the Line of Actual Control and we are very pleased to see both sides are trying to de-escalate the situation,” said Esper, while speaking at an online event hosted by International Institute of Strategic Studies (IISS). The Line of Actual Control (LAC) serves as the de facto boundary between India and China in the western sector. The two neighbouring nations could not make much headway during negotiations over the past 17 years to settle the protracted dispute over their long boundary. Esper and his counterpart in New Delhi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, had spoken over phone twice after the Indian Army responded to the aggressive and expansionist moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC had triggered a military stand-off in eastern Ladakh in early May. His comment came a day after the Indian Navy’s warships INS Rana, INS Sahyadri, INS Shivalik and INS Kamorta had a “cooperative exercise” with the USS Nimitz Carrier Strike Group in Indian Ocean off Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Apart from the USS Nimitz, the other US Navy ships like guided missile cruiser USS Princeton and missile destroyers USS Sterett and USS Ralph Johnson joined the Indian Navy ships to conduct high-end exercises. The USS Nimitz and another US carrier USS Ronald Reagan earlier had an exercise in the South China Sea, riling up China. The USS Ronald Reagan Carrier Strike Group on Tuesday also participated in a trilateral exercise with the warships of Australian Navy and the Japanese Maritime Self Defence Force in the Philippines Sea. The US Navy’s joint naval drill with the warships of India on Monday and Japan and Australia on Tuesday were apparently a response to China’s belligerence – not only in eastern Ladakh, but also in South China Sea, East China Sea and Taiwan Strait. “The People’s Liberation Army (of China) continues its aggressive behaviour in the East and South China Seas. The Communist Party of China has bullied (the) ASEAN nations out of an estimated $2.6 trillion in potential offshore oil and gas revenue and denied them access to important fishing grounds,” said the US Secretary of Defence. “(The) US commitment to free and open Indo-Pacific is rooted in values, history and economic ties (that) we share with allies and partners and has only grown deeper in the face of efforts to undermine it,” Esper said, adding: “Three pillars of (the) US Indo-Pacific Strategy are based on preparedness, strengthening partnerships, and promoting a more networked region”. “Our carriers have been in the South China Sea and Indo-Pacific since World War II. We will back the sovereignty of our friends and partners,” added Esper. “ (The) US policy on the South China Sea “champions a free and open Indo-Pacific… and makes clear that the PRC has no right to turn international waters into a zone of exclusion or its own maritime empire”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-closely-monitoring-situation-along-india-china-lac-says-american-secretary-of-defence-864038.html
21-07-2020||National||DoT relaxes work from home norms for IT-ITeS firms till December 31||The Department of Telecom on Tuesday further extended the relaxations in the Terms and Conditions for Other Service Providers (OSPs) upto December 31, 2020 to facilitate work from home due the Covid-19 pandemic. These include exemptions in requirement of security deposit and agreement for WFH facility for OSPs (IT and IT-enabled services companies), as well as the need for prior permission for offering the facility. One of the exemptions include the requirement of authorised Service Providers Provisioned secured VPN (PPVPN). VPN refers to virtual private network. "During this period, the OSPs are permitted to use secured VPN configured using 'static IP' address by themselves for interconnection between Home agent position and OSP Centre with pre-defined locations," it said. The document added that in this regard, the agents at home shall be treated as Extended Agent Position of the OSP. The document said in case of violation of terms of WFH facility by any agent/employee or by the OSP during this period, the OSP shall be subjected to a penalty of up to Rs 5 lakh per WFH location which is in violation. In addition, the OSP registration is also liable to be cancelled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dot-relaxes-work-from-home-norms-for-it-ites-firms-till-december-31-864045.html
21-07-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi hits out at PM Narendra Modi for Rajasthan crisis||Breaking his silence on the Rajasthan crisis, Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday hit out at the Modi government for trying to “topple the government in Rajasthan”, remarks that drew sharp criticism from the BJP. In remarks dripping with sarcasm, Rahul listed out the Namaste Trump event in February, bringing down the Madhya Pradesh government in March, making the nation light candles in April, celebrating the government’s sixth anniversary, virtual rally in Bihar in June and attempt to topple the government in Rajasthan among the achievements of the Modi government. “This is the reason why the country is self-reliant in the fight against the coronavirus,” the former Congress President said on Twitter. This was Rahul’s first public reference to the infighting within the Congress in Rajasthan that has put the future of the Gehlot government at stake. कोरोना काल में सरकार की उपलब्धियां: ● फरवरी- नमस्ते ट्रंप● मार्च- MP में सरकार गिराई● अप्रैल- मोमबत्ती जलवाई● मई- सरकार की 6वीं सालगिरह● जून- बिहार में वर्चुअल रैली● जुलाई- राजस्थान सरकार गिराने की कोशिश इसी लिए देश कोरोना की लड़ाई में 'आत्मनिर्भर' है। Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar hit back at Rahul’s Twitter attack, saying Congress would soon be reduced to a “party of tweets”. “Rahul Gandhi is tweeting on a daily basis. It seems that Congress will become a party of tweets. They do not work among the people and have been losing one leader after another. A frustrated and depressed party is trying to launch all kinds of attacks on the government,” Javadekar said. The minister countered Rahul by listing out his “achievements”, accusing the Congress of supporting Shaheen Bagh and riots in February, losing Jyotiraditya Scindia in March, instigating migrant labourers in April, observing the sixth anniversary of Congress’ “historic defeat” in the Lok Sabha polls in May, defending China in June and overseeing the party’s virtual collapse in July. “Rahul Baba, note India’s achievements in "war against Corona". India has the least average cases, active cases, and death rate than the US, Europe, and Brazil. By making fun of candle lights, Rahul Gandhi ji you have insulted the people of India & brave Corona warriors,” Javadekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-at-pm-narendra-modi-for-rajasthan-crisis-863789.html
21-07-2020||National Politics||Congress losing leaders, will become party of tweets: BJP counters Rahul Gandhi's statement||In a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his regular tweets attacking the central government, the BJP said on Tuesday that the Congress will become a "party of tweets" as it is doing no work among people and "losing" one leader after another. Hitting back at the Congress leader, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said the anti-CAA Shaheen Bagh protests and Delhi riots were the Congress's "achievements" in February followed by desertion of Jyotiraditya Scindia and loss of power in Madhya Pradesh in March, and "incitement" of migrants in April. Javadekar said May marked the sixth anniversary of the Congress's loss of power at the Centre while the party "advocated" for China in June and then it was "finished" in Rajasthan in July. "Rahul Gandhi is tweeting on a daily basis. It seems the Congress will become a party of tweets as they are doing no work among the people and losing one leader after another. A frustrated and depressed party is trying to launch all sorts of attacks on the government," he told reporters. Taking a dig at the Modi government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had earlier listed the alleged attempt to topple his party's government in Rajasthan and the "Namaste Trump" event as among the Centre's "achievements" in the Covid-19 era. "Achievements of the government in the Covid-era: February -- Namaste Trump, March-- toppling the government in Madhya Pradesh, April -- making people light candles, May -- government's sixth anniversary, June -- Bihar virtual rally, July -- Attempt to topple the government in Rajasthan," Gandhi said in a tweet. कोरोना काल में सरकार की उपलब्धियां: ● फरवरी- नमस्ते ट्रंप● मार्च- MP में सरकार गिराई● अप्रैल- मोमबत्ती जलवाई● मई- सरकार की 6वीं सालगिरह● जून- बिहार में वर्चुअल रैली● जुलाई- राजस्थान सरकार गिराने की कोशिश इसी लिए देश कोरोना की लड़ाई में 'आत्मनिर्भर' है। Hitting back, Javadekar said Gandhi's mocking reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to the people to light candles is a reference to the masses and also to "corona warriors", as this was aimed at motivating these emergency workers. "People are standing with Modi. The Congress has become helpless," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-losing-leaders-will-become-party-of-tweets-bjp-counters-rahul-gandhis-statement-863839.html
21-07-2020||National Politics||Centre conspiring to topple West Bengal government: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the BJP government at the Centre of conspiring to topple her government by using the Central agencies and money power. Addressing a virtual Martyr’s Day rally, the TMC supremo said that she will not tolerate such conspiracies. “BJP government at the Centre is conspiring to topple the West Bengal government using agencies and money power...If you (BJP) think you can capture Bengal using Central agencies then that’s not going to happen. I will not tolerate the conspiracy to topple the West Bengal government,” said Banerjee. She further alleged that BJP has used money power to topple governments in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, and were trying to do the same in Rajasthan and West Bengal. Mamata dubbed BJP as an “outsider” to Bengal and said that the saffron party needs to clearly know that outsiders will never run the state. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Gujarat origin without directly mentioning him she asked why should Gujarat rule all the other states and accused BJP of trying to impose an “one nation, one party system.” “Remember, Gujarat will not run Bengal, Bengal will run itself...I appeal to my party workers to take revenge against BJP on May 21 next year by ensuring that BJP candidates lose their deposits (in the 2021 Assembly elections) and prove that outsiders cannot run Bengal,” said Mamata. The TMC supremo made it clear that she will not hesitate to use the issues of NRC and NPR against BJP in the 2021 Assembly elections. She said that BJP should not think that since the Covid-19 pandemic is going on people will forget about these issues. “We have not forgotten the fight against NPR and NRC. Don’t think we will forget about NPR and NRC just because the Covid-19 pandemic is going on,” said Mamata. She dubbed BJP as an “insignificant party” which tries to buy votes and wipe out regional parties in states. She also accused the saffron party of turning elections into a “dirty game.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-conspiring-to-topple-west-bengal-government-mamata-banerjee-863918.html
21-07-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt over attack on journalist in Ghaziabad||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the law-and-order situation in the state after a journalist was reportedly shot at in Ghaziabad. The Congress general secretary has been attacking the Yogi Adityanath government over the law and order in UP. "Ghaziabad falls in NCR. Going by the state of law and order here, one can get an idea of the situation in the entire state of UP. A journalist was shot at because he complained to the police against molestation of his niece. How will common man feel safe in such a jungle raj," she said in a tweet in Hindi. The journalist was reportedly shot at by some assailants on Monday night in Ghaziabad, adjoining Delhi. The police said they have nabbed five accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-govt-over-attack-on-journalist-in-ghaziabad-863928.html
21-07-2020||National Politics||BJP appoints new chief whips in Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha||Former Union Minister Shiv Pratap Shukla and BJP MP Rakesh Singh have been appointed the party's chief whips in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha, respectively, sources said on Tuesday. Shukla, the Rajya Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh, will replace Narayan Panchariya who recently retired from the upper house. Singh will replace Sanjay Jaiswal, the party's Bihar unit chief, in compliance with the BJP's 'one person, one post' criterion. Singh was BJP's chief whip in the previous Lok Sabha but left the post after he was appointed the party's Madhya Pradesh unit head in 2018. Both these appointments are clear indication that the party is gearing up for the monsoon session which is expected to start from last week of August or in September. Meanwhile, amid the quarantine norms due to the coronavirus pandemic, 45 of the recently elected 61 MPs of Rajya Sabha have given their confirmation to take oath on Wednesday. This will be the first time when MPs will take oath in the upper house chamber when the house is not in session. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who recently joined BJP, Digvijaya Singh, the former leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar are among those who will take oath in presence of Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-appoints-new-chief-whips-in-rajya-sabha-lok-sabha-864053.html
21-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan political crisis: Sachin Pilot serves legal notice to Congress MLA||Rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Tuesday served a legal notice on Rajasthan MLA Giriraj Malinga for the false and malicious statements made by him. Malinga had claimed on Monday that Pilot had offered him Rs 35 crore to quit the Congress and join the BJP. Malinga, who represents Badi assembly constituency, said he had alerted Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot about the offer made by Pilot. He said the efforts to topple the Gehlot government were on since December last year. Pilot had on Monday said he was saddened but not surprised to be at the receiving end of such baseless and vexatious allegations being leveled against him. "This is done solely to malign me and to stifle the legitimate concerns that I had raised against the party leadership of the state, as a member and MLA of INC,," Pilot had said in a statement on Monday. "I will be taking appropriate and strictest possible legal action against the MLA who was made to make these accusations," the former Deputy Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-sachin-pilot-serves-legal-notice-to-congress-mla-864060.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon passes away||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon, a veteran political figure in Uttar Pradesh where he had served as a cabinet minister, died at a hospital here early Tuesday. The 85-year-old was admitted to the hospital on June 11 with breathing problems, fever and difficulty in urination. बाबूजी नहीं रहे The condition of Madhya Pradesh Governor was serious, according to a medical bulletin issued on Friday. "The condition of Lalji Tandon is serious but under control. He is still on critical care ventilatory support through tracheotomy and is currently under the strict supervision of critical care specialists," Medanta Hospital's Medical Director Rakesh Kapoor said in the medical bulletin. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and BSP President Mayawati also expressed grief over Tandon's death.  The UP government has announced three days mourning as a mark of respect to Lalji Tandon, a former cabinet minister, a government spokesman said. Belonging to the Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L K Advani era of BJP leaders, Lalji Tandon proved himself as an able administrator during his decades-long political career in Uttar Pradesh. A former Lok Sabha MP, he was later given gubernatorial responsibility. He took oath as Madhya Pradesh governor on July 29, 2019, when the Congress was in power in the state, after serving in the same post in Bihar for nearly 11 months. "In the passing away of Madhya Pradesh Governor Shri Lal Ji Tandon, we have lost a legendary leader who combined cultural sophistication of Lucknow&acumen of a national stalwart. I deeply mourn his death. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends," President Ram Nath Kovind said in a tweet.  In the passing away of Madhya Pradesh Governor Shri Lal Ji Tandon, we have lost a legendary leader who combined cultural sophistication of Lucknow and acumen of a national stalwart. I deeply mourn his death. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Condoling the demise of the governor, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he will be remembered for his untiring efforts to serve society. In a series of tweets, Modi recalled that Lalji Tandon played a key role in strengthening the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. "Shri Lalji Tandon will be remembered for his untiring efforts to serve society. He played a key role in strengthening BJP in Uttar Pradesh. He made a mark as an effective administrator, always giving importance of public welfare. Anguished by his passing away," PM Modi said in a tweet.  Shri Lalji Tandon was well-versed with constitutional matters. He enjoyed a long and close association with beloved Atal Ji. In this hour of grief, my condolences to the family and well-wishers of Shri Tandon. Om Shanti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandon-passes-away-863708.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Hindu Rao hospital nurse tests Covid-19 positive again, NDMC says nothing to worry||A nurse employed at a civic-run dedicated Covid-19 hospital has tested positive again after recovering, but the municipal authorities on Monday claimed there was nothing to worry as it ostensibly is the "dead virus" left in her body from the previous infection. The hospital, run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), was declared a dedicated coronavirus facility on June 14. A senior official when asked about the case, said, "Most probably, it was an old infection, due to which, dead non-viable virus particles still remained in the nasopharyngeal cavity." Her IgG antibody level is "very high, which also corroborates this explanation," the official said, without elaborating. However, the official claimed, "It does not mean she got infected again. It seems the old dead virus was found again." According to sources, the nurse had first tested positive early June. After recovering, she had joined duty, they said. Despite repeated queries, NDMC officials did not divulge more details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-rao-hospital-nurse-tests-covid-19-positive-again-ndmc-says-nothing-to-worry-863710.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Crisis: Ashok Gehlot govt withdraws 'general consent' for CBI investigation; BJP says CM is hiding something||The Ashok Gehlot government has withdrawn its "general consent" to the CBI to conduct investigations in Rajasthan, and the central agency will now need its prior permission on a case-by-case basis, prompting the BJP to question the intention behind the move. The opposition party, which had demanded a CBI inquiry into the phone tapping row that has erupted during the ongoing political crisis in the state, said Chief Minister Gehlot's action shows he is trying to hide something. The state government issued a notification which states that prior approval from the Government of Rajasthan will have to be taken on a case-by-case basis to investigate any crime falling under Section 3 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act. Section 3 of the DSPE Act states that the "Central government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the offences or classes of offences which are to be investigated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment." According to the Rajasthan's Home Department officials, the ''general consent'' of the state government will no longer be valid in the offences under DSPE Act. Additional Chief Secretary Home Rohit Kumar Singh said, "Its administrative provisions were already there, it was notified yesterday." Officials said that in June 1990 too the then Rajasthan government had refused to give such ''general consent'' to the Centre. The BJP has slammed the Rajasthan government's move, saying there is "indirect emergency" in the state. "The way the state government misused the SOG and the ACB, now it was afraid of CBI action... It clearly shows that there is something fishy," BJP state president Satish Poonia told reporters. He alleged Gehlot is using SOG and ACB to threaten independent candidates and smaller parties.  "It is clear that the chief minister has taken the decision to hide something," he said. The ruling Congress is facing a rebellion by party leader Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. A probe by the state police into horse trading charges based on purported tapped conversation of some leaders has turned the situation murkier. The Congress had demanded the arrest of BJP leader and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma after two purported audio clips surfaced relating to the alleged conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot led Congress government. The SOG had registered an FIR on the basis of complaint lodged by Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi who had submitted audio clips as evidence. However, the FIR does not identify “Gajendra Singh” referred in the clip as Union minister Shekhawat, a senior BJP leader from Rajasthan. Shekhawat has denied that he figures in the clip and said he is open to a probe. The BJP has demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged tapping of phones and what it called "saga of illegalities and concocted lies". "These are serious questions that we want to ask the Congress high command and Gehlot. Was phone tapping done? Assuming that you've tapped phones, was the standard operating procedure followed? Did the Congress government in Rajasthan use unconstitutional ways to save themselves when they found themselves cornered?" BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had said.  A similar action related to CBI had been taken by West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh governments in 2018, alleging that the Centre was misusing the agency to harass opponents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-crisis-ashok-gehlot-govt-withdraws-general-consent-for-cbi-investigation-bjp-says-cm-is-hiding-something-863726.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan HC likely to pronounce order on petition filed by Sachin Pilot, 18 other rebel Congress MLAs today||The Rajasthan High Court is likely to pronounce its order on Tuesday on a writ petition filed by Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident Congress MLAs, challenging the disqualification notices issued to them by the state assembly speaker. The petition was taken up by a bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta on Friday and arguments were heard on Monday till evening. On Tuesday, hearing resumed at 10:30 am. The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) is also scheduled to meet at 11 am. The dissident MLAs had moved the court on Friday amid the infighting in the state unit of the Congress, as Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his now sacked deputy Pilot tussled for power. Counsel for the speaker Abhishek Singhvi on Monday argued that the petition was premature as a decision was yet to be taken on disqualifying the MLAs from the House. There is no scope for interference by a court over the show-cause notices issued by the speaker, he had said. The speaker is supreme as far as the legislative assembly is concerned and the notices have been issued within the purview of the speaker's power, Singhvi had said. A lawyer appearing for the speaker had told reporters that the chief justice asked is the speaker bound to issue a notice on a petition seeking disqualification of such a nature without recording any reason. Singhvi had argued that there was no requirement to record reasons as it was merely a show-cause notice. The notices to the MLAs were served after the party complained to the speaker that the lawmakers had defied a whip to attend two CLP meetings last week on Monday and Tuesday. The Pilot camp, however, argues that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session. In its complaint to the speaker, the Congress had sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2(1)(a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they "voluntarily" give up the membership of the party that they represent in the House. Pilot was sacked as the Rajasthan deputy chief minister and the president of the state Congress unit after he rebelled against Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-hc-likely-to-pronounce-order-on-petition-filed-by-sachin-pilot-18-other-rebel-congress-mlas-today-863755.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||'Sister' Mayawati condoles Lalji Tandon's death||BSP president Mayawati on Tuesday condoled the demise of Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon, saying he was a very cultured and social person. Tandon died at a hospital here early Tuesday morning. He was 85. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief extended her condolences to the bereaved family. It was in August 2003, when Mayawati as the then Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister had tied 'Rakhi' on the occasion of 'Raksha Bandhan' to Tandon, who was then the Union housing and urban development minister. Raksha Bandhan is a festival to celebrate any brother-sister like relationship in which sisters tie a talisman, or amulet, called the 'rakhi', around the wrists of their brothers, symbolically protecting them||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sister-mayawati-condoles-lalji-tandons-death-863761.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Two killed in lightning strike in Jammu and Kashmir||Two persons died when lightning struck a high-altitude meadow land in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Tuesday, officials said. Lightning struck the Dhok Gumsar area in Surankote tehsil early Tuesday resulting in the death of two person, they said. This report was conveyed to authorities by the Chokidar of Mohra Bachai as the area is far-off and remote, the officials said. The deceased have been identified as Mohmmad Ishaq and Zareena Akhtar, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-killed-in-lightning-strike-in-jammu-and-kashmir-863765.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Lalji Tandon always inspired us to follow path of goodness: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday condoled the death of state governor Lalji Tandon, saying he will always be remembered for his contribution towards the nation's progress. Tandon, 85, died in the morning at a Lucknow hospital where he was admitted last month. Expressing grief over his death, Chouhan, in a series of tweets, said, As the governor of Madhya Pradesh, he always inspired us to follow the path of goodness. He will be remembered for his contribution in the progress of the nation. Though he is no more with us, he will be in our memories forever." "He guided all of us for a long time and served the nation and the people by presenting an amazing example. He also played an important role in strengthening the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, he said. Chouhan will be going to Lucknow to attend the last rites of Tandon. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra also expressed grief at the demise of the governor. He prayed for the departed soul and asked God to give enough strength to the family to bear the loss. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh in his condolence message said, "The generation of BJP/RSS leaders with a character to serve the people is getting ended now. I pray to God to give peace to the departed soul and enough strength to the family to bear the loss." Madhya Pradesh Public Works Department Minister Gopal Bhargava said Tandon was a fearless leader and his contribution to the nation is unparalleled. State Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel termed Tandon's death as an irreparable loss for the state and the country. BJP general secretary in-charge of West Bengal Kailash Vijaywargiya, Madhya Pradesh party unit president Vishnu Dutt Sharma and state ministers Vishwas Sarang and Ramkishore Kanvre also expressed their condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lalji-tandon-always-inspired-us-to-follow-path-of-goodness-shivraj-singh-chouhan-863782.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||CBI questions Officer on Special Duty to CM Ashok Gehlot in alleged suicide case of Vishnudutt Vishnoi||The CBI on Tuesday questioned Deva Ram Saini, OSD to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, in connection with the alleged suicide by state police officer Vishnudutt Vishnoi in Churu on May 23, officials said. A team of special crime unit of the CBI from Delhi is in Jaipur to record statements in connection with the death of Vishnoi, who was SHO of Rajgarh. His body was found hanging from the ceiling of his official residence in Churu, officials said. The move comes at a time when the Rajasthan government is facing political turmoil after Sachin Pilot's rebellion and his subsequent sacking as deputy chief minister. Sources, however, made it clear that the agency is conducting investigation in a professional manner in a case handed over to it by the state government itself.  The agency had on Monday evening questioned Congress MLA Krishna Poonia for nearly three hours at her home in Jaipur, they said. The sources said people are being examined to know various aspects of the case and it does not mean that they are accused as a final picture will emerge only after completion of probe.  The Rajasthan Government had handed over the probe to the CBI in the case.  Bishnoi's brother had filed a complaint with the Rajasthan police alleging he was under pressure which led him to take this drastic step, they said. Two suicide notes were recovered from Vishnoi-- one addressed to his parents and the other to the Superintendent of Police of the district. In the suicide note to the SP, Vishnoi had said he was not able to bear the pressure put on him. In his suicide note, he had also said that he tried to give his best to the Rajasthan Police. A screenshot of a purported WhatsApp chat that Vishnoi had with one of his activist friends, in which the police officer talked about being trapped in dirty politics, had also gone viral. The leaders of the BJP and the BSP have alleged that the officer, who was known for his honesty and hardwork, was being pressured by Congress MLA Poonia, a charge that she has denied. Poonia represents Sadulpur constituency in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-questions-officer-on-special-duty-to-cm-ashok-gehlot-in-alleged-suicide-case-of-vishnudutt-vishnoi-863790.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Governor, CM Ashok Gehlot condole death of Lalji Tandon||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday condoled the death of Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon. Tandon, 85, died at a Lucknow hospital this morning where he was admitted last month. Mishra said that he had deep affection for Tandon and he was one of his close friends. In a condolence message, the Rajasthan governor said that Tandon cannot be forgotten. Chief minister Gehlot expressed his condolence. "My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon. May God give strength to his family to bear this loss. May his soul rest in peace," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-governor-cm-ashok-gehlot-condole-death-of-lalji-tandon-863801.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Lalji Tandon: A BJP veteran who dominated Uttar Pradesh political landscape||A seasoned politician, Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon had a dominating presence in Uttar Pradesh where he served as cabinet minister and was elected to the assembly and council multiple times. Belonging to the Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L K Advani era of BJP leaders, Tandon (85), who died at a hospital in Lucknow early Tuesday, proved himself as an able administrator during his decades-long political career in Uttar Pradesh. A former Lok Sabha MP, he was later given gubernatorial responsibility. Fondly known as "Babuji" among his supporters, Tandon was known for his proximity to Vajpayee. Tandon represented the Lucknow Lok Sabha seat (2009-14) when the former prime minister did not contest from the high-profile constituency on account of his poor health. He took oath as Madhya Pradesh governor on July 29, 2019, when the Congress was in power in the state, after serving in the same post in Bihar for nearly 11 months. His tenure in the Raj Bhavan here, too, lasted for nearly 11 months. After taking charge as governor during the Congress government, Tandon ensured his presence was felt in the administration. His gubernatorial skills were put to test when the Congress government of Chief Minister Kamal Nath faced an internal revolt when 22 party MLAs, including six ministers -all supporters of former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia -resigned in March this year. When the Nath administration delayed taking the floor test, Tandon, a seasoned politician and administrator, intervened and directed the Congress government to prove its majority on the floor of the assembly, triggering a "letter war" between the CM and the governor. Then came a bitter legal battle between the Congress government, the governor and the BJP which was finally settled by the Supreme Court that ruled in favour of Tandon's directive on the matter. Reduced to minority post the resignation of 22 MLAs, the 15-month-old Nath regime collapsed, paving the way for the BJP to form its government under Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. During the Covid-19 crisis, Tandon opened the Raj Bhavan kitchen for preparing food packets for the needy. The governor's kitchen has been sending out as many as 100 food packets on a daily basis and sometimes even at a short notice, a spokesperson from the Raj Bhavan said. Tandon personally examined each item packed in the food parcels and also tasted them to ensure quality, the spokesperson added. As chancellor of state universities, he regularly monitored educational institutions and ensured teaching standards are maintained at all cost. Born on April 12, 1935 in the Chowk area of Lucknow, to Shiv Narayan Tandon and Annapurna Devi, Tandon entered politics after completing graduation. Tandon became a member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council for the first time in 1978. He served two terms in the Upper House of the state legislature - from 1978 to 1984 and 1990-1996. He was elected as an MLA three times between the period 1996-2009 and served as a minister for the first time in UP's BJP government in 1991-1992 and held the power portfolio. Tandon also served as leader of the legislative council from 1997-2002 and held the same post in the assembly from 2003-2007. Upon the BJP's ascension to power in Uttar Pradesh, he served as a minister on more than one occasion. He was urban development minister in the Uttar Pradesh cabinet under Mayawati, who was heading the BSP-BJP coalition government. Tandon had also served in the Kalyan Singh ministry. Tandon was cabinet minister for urban development and poverty alleviation two times, from 1999-2000 and from 2000-2002. From 2002 to 2003, he was the UP cabinet minister for housing, finance, urban development and tourism. He married Krishna in 1958 and they have three sons. One of them, Ashutosh Tandon, is now the UP cabinet minister for urban development. The veteran leader was appointed the Bihar governor on August 23, 2018 and remained in the post till July 28, 2019 after which he was moved to Madhya Pradesh He had established a number of educational, social and cultural organisations in the Awadh region of Uttar Pradesh and had special interest in cattle rearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lalji-tandon-a-bjp-veteran-who-dominated-uttar-pradesh-political-landscape-863802.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Another Covid-19 patient dies in Himachal Pradesh; toll rises to 11||The Covid-19 death toll in Himachal Pradesh increased to 11 after a 75-year-old patient died in the early hours of Tuesday, officials said. The patient, a woman, from Sarkaghat tehsil's Dagoh village in Mandi district died around 3:30 am at the Shri Lal Bahadur Shashtri Government Medical College and Hospital (SLBSGMCH), Senior Medical Superintendent Dr Jeeva Nand Chauhan said. She was also suffering from renal failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome, he said, adding that the woman was admitted to the SLBSMCH in Mandi on July 16. With this, the number of Covid-19 deaths in the state has risen to 11. The deaths include that of a 70-year-old Delhi woman who had been staying at a factory's guest house at Baddi in Solan district since March 15. She tested positive and died at the PGIMER in Chandigarh on April 2. Initially, the state health department showed her death in its record but later it stopped doing so stating that as per protocol, her death should be included in Chandigarh where she had tested positive. On the contrary, Chandigarh authorities said her death should be included in the record of Himachal Pradesh from where she had been referred. The state's infection tally now stands to 1,564. While 1,062 people have recovered and 15 have migrated out of the state till now. The state currently has 474 active cases, the officials said. Solan has the highest number of active cases in the state at 196, followed by 49 in Sirmaur, 48 in Kangra, 47 in Shimla, 39 in Una, 23 in Chamba, 19 in Bilaspur, 17 in Kinnaur, 14 in Kullu, 11 in Mandi and 11 in Hamirpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-covid-19-patient-dies-in-himachal-pradesh-toll-rises-to-11-863819.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi cabinet approves doorstep delivery of ration||The Delhi government on Tuesday approved doorstep delivery of ration to eligible beneficiaries, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced, terming it as a "revolutionary" move. The scheme will be known as "Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna'', he said. The scheme, which was approved at a meeting of the Delhi Cabinet, is expected to be rolled out in the next 6-7 months after completing tendering process and other necessities. "Under the scheme, wheat, flour, rice and sugar-packed hygienically in bags will be delivered to the doorstep of people. Taking ration from a PDS shop will be optional," he said in a virtual press briefing. With the implementation of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme, the Centre's ''One Nation One Ration Card'' scheme will also come into effect in Delhi, he said. Kejriwal recalled that he and Deputy Chief Minister Sisodia had fought for rights of people to ration before joining politics and even faced attacks from the ration mafia. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cabinet-approves-doorstep-delivery-of-ration-863848.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi's sero-prevalence study finds 23.48% people affected by Covid-19||Delhi's sero-prevalence study has found that 23.48 per cent of the people have been affected by Covid-19 in the city, which has several pockets of dense population, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The study, which was conducted from June 27 to July 10 by the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) in collaboration with the Delhi government, also indicated that a large number of infected persons remain asymptomatic, it said. A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of individuals to check for the prevalence of antibodies against an infection. "The results of the sero-prevalence study show that on an average, across Delhi, the prevalence of IgG antibodies is 23.48 per cent. The study also indicates that a large number of infected persons remain asymptomatic," the ministry said in a statement. "This implies that nearly six months into the epidemic, only 23.48 per cent of the people are affected in Delhi, which has several pockets of dense population," said the ministry, attributing it to efforts taken by the government to prevent the spread of infection including lockdown, containment and surveillance measures, including contact tracing and tracking, as well as citizen’s compliance to Covid appropriate behaviours. It, however, said that a significant proportion of the population is still vulnerable and therefore, the containment measures need to continue with the same rigour. Non-pharmacological interventions such as physical distancing, use of face mask/cover, hand hygiene, cough etiquette and avoidance of crowded places etc., must be followed strictly, it underlined. For all the 11 districts of Delhi, survey teams were formed. Blood samples were collected from selected individuals after taking written informed consent and then their sera were tested for IgG antibodies and infection using COVID KAVACH ELISA approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research. It is one of the largest sero-prevalence studies conducted in the country using the ELISA testing. A total of 21,387 samples were collected as per lab standards and were tested. The tests help in identification of presence of antibodies in the general population. The test performed is not a diagnostic test but only provides information about past infection due to SARSCoV-2 in individuals who test positive, the ministry said. According to the Health ministry's data updated at 8 am, Delhi's Covid-19 caseload increased to 1,23,747 while the death-toll rose to 3,663 on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-sero-prevalence-study-finds-2348-people-affected-by-covid-19-863849.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Five-day state mourning as mark of respect to Lalji Tandon||The Madhya Pradesh government on Tuesday declared a five-day state mourning following the death of Governor Lalji Tandon. The national flag will fly half-mast at government buildings in the state till July 25, the government said in an order. Tandon, 85, died at a hospital in Lucknow early Tuesday morning. The Madhya Pradesh government later issued an order saying, "There will be state mourning for five days from July 21 to July 25, 2020. There will be no official functions and entertainment during this period." "The national flag will be flown at half-mast during this period on all buildings throughout the state where the national flag is flown regularly," the order said. It also said that as a mark of respect to the departed soul, all the state government offices, educational institutions including public sector undertakings will remain closed on Tuesday. Earlier, the Madhya Pradesh cabinet headed by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan paid tributes to Tandon by observing a two-minute silence during its meeting. Chouhan remembered Tandon's contribution to society and the country during his long political career and said he was a very cordial person. The chief minister also said he will go to Lucknow on Tuesday to pay tributes to Tandon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-five-day-state-mourning-as-mark-of-respect-to-lalji-tandon-863851.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Released over Rs 27 cr to AAP govt for mid-day meals scheme, Centre tells HC||The Centre informed the Delhi High Court on Monday that it has released over Rs 27 crore to the AAP government as recurring central assistance under the mid-day meal (MDM) scheme. It informed a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that Rs 27,17,76,000 has been released as central assistance for financial year 2020-21. The counsel appearing for the Centre said Rs 9 crore was released on April 29 and over Rs 18 crore was released on May 1 and sought time to file an affidavit on it. The submissions were made in response to the court's query on June 30 as to when the Centre transferred the money for mid-day meal, for which months and when did Delhi government receive the funds. The Delhi government counsel also sought time to file a reply. The bench noted that despite its order of June 30, no replies have been filed and gave the Centre and Delhi government a "last chance" to file their affidavits and listed the matter for hearing on August 7. The court was hearing a PIL by NGO Mahila Ekta Manch which has sought directions to the Delhi government to provide cooked midday meals or food security allowances to eligible children during the Covid-19 lockdown when schools in the national capital are shut. The petitioner said the purpose was to boost the immunity of poor children during the pandemic. The Delhi government had on June 30 told the bench that funds for providing mid-day meals to children in its schools was yet to be received. To this, the court had remarked that it was not right to make children wait for midday meals for months and that they should not be made to suffer for want of funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/released-over-rs-27-cr-to-aap-govt-for-mid-day-meals-scheme-centre-tells-hc-863852.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Wall collapses as lightning strikes Har Ki Pauri ghat in Haridwar; five killed in cloudburst in Pithoragrh||An 80 feet wall near the iconic Har Ki Pauri, a famous ghat on the bank of the Ganga in Uttarakhand's Haridwar town, collapsed after a lightning strike late on Monday night. A transformer at the Bramhakund, near the ghat, was also completely damaged by the lightning strike, according to the reports. There was no loss of life, the officials said adding that the repair works were being undertaken on a war footing. Har Ki Pauri is famous for its evening 'Ganga Arti' and people from across the country visit the town to witness the same. Torrential rains across the hill state of Uttarakhand wreaked havoc in the higher reaches of some districts in the Kumaon region killing five people and damaging scores of houses. According to the reports five people were killed after their houses were flattened, when a huge amount of water with stones and mud came down the hills following a cloud burst in the state's Pithoragarh district, about 450 kilometres from the capital city of Dehradun. As many as 11 people were reported to be missing at Tala and Gaila villages in the district and a search was launched to trace them, reports said. Three bodies had so far been extricated from the debris of the collapsed houses. Reports said that large scale landslides triggered by heavy rains have destroyed several roads near Munsiyari, Bangapani and other places cutting off dozens of villages from the district headquarters. Senior officials had reached the affected villages and relief and rescue operations were on, reports said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wall-collapses-as-lightning-strikes-har-ki-pauri-ghat-in-haridwar-five-killed-in-cloudburst-in-pithoragrh-863870.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh journalist shot at in front of minor daughters, critical||Lodging a complaint of harassment of his niece by some unidentified people proved costly for a journalist, who was shot at in front of his two minor daughters in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad town, close to Delhi. Joshi, who was shot at from close range, was rushed to the hospital, where his condition was stated to be ''very critical'', sources said. The scribe, identified as Vikram Joshi, was intercepted by the assailants while he was on his way home on his motorbike with his two minor daughters late on Monday night near Mata Colony, according to the police sources here. Joshi's brother said that a complaint of harassment of his niece by some unidentified people had been lodged with the police by the journalist a few days back.  A video, which went viral on the social networking sites, showed the scribe's daughter crying and seeking the help of passers-by to take their injured father to the hospital. Police said that five persons were detained in connection with the incident and they were being quizzed. The motive behind the attack was yet to be ascertained, police added. A police sub-inspector was also suspended for laxity. The journalists' organisations have strongly condemned the attack and demanded stern punishment for the perpetrators. The opposition parties also slammed the Uttar Pradesh government over what they alleged the shooting crime graph. ''The Uttar Pradesh government has failed on the law and order front...even the journalists are not safe in the state,'' said a senior UP Congress leader here on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-journalist-shot-at-in-front-of-minor-daughters-critical-863875.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Open mosques, Idgahs on Eid al-Adha: Sambhal MP||Samajwadi Party's Sambhal MP Shafiqur Rehman Barq on Tuesday demanded the opening of Idgahs and mosques for the festival of Eid al-Adha. The market should be organised like previous years for the coming festival of Bakrid so that Muslims can make their purchases for carrying out the holy sacrifice, Barq told reporters. All festivals during the Covid-19 pandemic period have been observed strictly as per the guidelines ensuring social distancing. Stressing that he had met the authorities about the demand, Barq said if Muslims in large numbers will offer prayers for the country, the god would definitely hear it. The government is yet to issue directives for the festival slated for August 1 but it is believed that like Eid al-Fitr, only five people will be allowed to offer prayers at a mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/open-mosques-idgahs-on-eid-al-adha-sambhal-mp-863884.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||BJP appoints new chief whips in Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha||Former Union Minister Shiv Pratap Shukla and BJP MP Rakesh Singh have been appointed the party's chief whips in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha, respectively, sources said on Tuesday. Shukla, the Rajya Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh will replace Narayan Panchariya who recently retired from the upper house. While Singh will replace Sanjay Jaiswal, party's Bihar unit chief in compliance of the BJP's 'one person, one post' criterion. Till recently, Singh was the BJP's chief whip in the Lok Sabha but left the post after he was appointed the BJP's Madhya Pradesh unit head.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-appoints-new-chief-whips-in-rajya-sabha-lok-sabha-863885.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot's OSD questioned by CBI in SHO Vishnudutt Vishnoi suicide case||A day after questioning Olympian-turned-Congress MLA Krishna Poonia, the CBI on Tuesday quizzed Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Deva Ram Saini in connection with the suicide by state police personnel Vishnudutt Vishnoi, who had alleged harassment. Poonia was also questioned for the second day on Tuesday for about two-and-half hours while Saini was quizzed for around two hours. The state government had earlier transferred the case to the CBI. Vishnoi, who was the Station House Officer of Rajgarh police station in Churu, died by suicide on May 23 after claiming that he was not able to bear the pressure put on him. The questioning of Poonia, who represents Sadalpur in Rajasthan, and Saini by a special crime unit of the CBI comes against the backdrop of Gehlot-led government facing a political turmoil, with former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot rising in rebellion against him. It also comes days after Rajasthan Police has also registered a case against senior BJP leader and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat accusing him of attempting to topple the government by offering money to Congress MLAs and summoned him for questioning. CBI officials said the team in Jaipur is recording statements and they were conducting the investigations in a professional manner. They also said the questioning does not meant that they were considering them as suspects as of now. The investigations come as Vishnoi's brother had approached state police to probe the case, as the deceased SHO was claimed to be under pressure, which prompted him to take his life. Two suicide notes were recovered from him addressed to his parents and the Superintendent of Police of Churu. In his suicide note to the SP, Vishnoi claimed that he was under pressure and that he tried to do his best in professional matters. A screenshot of a WhatsApp chat Vishnoi had with an activist friend also surfaced on social media in which he claimed that he was trapped in “dirty politics”. BJP and BSP leaders in the state had alleged that Vishnoi was under pressure from Poonia, a discus thrower who won the gold medal in 2010 Commonwealth Games and finished sixth at the 2012 London Olympics who joined politics. She denied the charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlots-osd-questioned-by-cbi-in-sho-vishnudutt-vishnoi-suicide-case-863887.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Temple idols desecrated in Uttar Pradesh; FIR registered||Unidentified miscreants desecrated some idols at a temple in neighbouring Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place in Garhi Ramkor village under Kandhla Police Station on Monday, SHO Karamvir Singh said. “We have registered a case against unidentified people and a suspect has been taken into custody for questioning,” Singh said. A special team led by a circle officer has been constituted by the superintendent of police to identify the culprits, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/temple-idols-desecrated-in-uttar-pradesh-fir-registered-863895.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Heavy rains lash Delhi, low-lying areas waterlogged||A fresh spell of heavy rains lashed the national capital on Tuesday, inundating low-lying areas and affecting traffic movement in parts of the city. Residents shared on social media pictures and videos of rainwater gushing into their houses and vehicles navigating waterlogged roads. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted isolated heavy to very heavy rains in Delhi and neighbouring areas on Tuesday and Wednesday. "The rainfall intensity and distribution are very likely to decrease significantly thereafter," it had said. The convergence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal and southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea is likely to continue over northwest India for another two-three days, weather experts said. The monsoon trough is also running through the region. These two factors together led to moderate to heavy rains in Delhi-NCR, they said. On Sunday, at least four people died as heavy rains lashed the city, inundating low-lying areas and bringing traffic to a standstill at key stretches. According to the IMD, the Safdarjung Observatory had recorded 74.8 mm rainfall on Sunday. Ridge and Lodhi Road weather stations had recorded 86 mm and 81.2 mm rainfall, respectively. Rainfall below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 mm and 64.5 mm is moderate, and above 64.5 mm is heavy, according to the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-lash-delhi-low-lying-areas-waterlogged-863903.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab School Education Board announces Class 12 results, nearly 91% students pass||The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) Tuesday announced the Class 12 exam results, declaring a pass percentage of 90.98, an improvement of more than 4.5 percentage point on last year. “Out of the total 2,86,378 students who had appeared in the examinations before the Covid-19 outbreak, 2,60,547 students (90.98 percent) passed the board examinations this year,” State Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said in an official release here. The pass percentage in 2019 was 86.41. The minister informed that for the second year in a row, the performance of the government schools was better than that of the affiliated and associated schools in the terms of pass percentage. While government schools recorded a pass percentage of 94.32, for affiliated and associated schools, the numbers are 91.84 and 87.04, he said. Singla said as examinations for some subjects had to be cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic, the PSEB adopted the best-performing-subject formula for declaring the results. Under the formula, he said, if any student appeared in four subjects, the average of the best three was awarded to him in the subjects for which the exams had to be cancelled. Singla said the last chance compartment students have been declared pass on the basis of average of already passed subjects. The minister informed that the result of those students who have applied for improvement has not been declared as they will be given another chance to appear in the examinations once the situation gets normal. The cabinet minister further informed that the pass percentage of students belonging to rural areas was 93.39, which was higher than 91.96 recorded for urban area students. He further said that this year, 68.26 percent students of open school category passed the exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-school-education-board-announces-class-12-results-nearly-91-students-pass-863905.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Nitish Kumar condoles Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon's death||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday condoled the demise of Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon, saying his death has caused an "irreparable loss to the society". Tandon, 85, died at a hospital in Lucknow on Tuesday morning. He had served as Bihar Governor for about a year between August 2018 and July 2019. In his condolence message, Kumar said that Tandon was a popular leader, efficient administrator and a renowned educationist, an official release said. He prayed to almighty to grant strength and courage to the bereaved family members, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-kumar-condoles-madhya-pradesh-governor-lalji-tandons-death-863920.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||SC agrees to hear Delhi ex-minister's plea against HC order declaring his election as void||The Supreme Court has agreed to hear former Delhi law minister Jitender Singh Tomar's plea challenging the Delhi High Court's verdict holding as "void" his election to the legislative assembly in 2015 polls for furnishing false information of his educational qualification in the nomination papers. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice seeking replies from the respondents concerned, including those who had contested from Tomar's constituency and its returning officer. "Issue notice," said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, which heard the matter through video-conferencing. In its verdict on January 17 this year, the Delhi High Court had held Tomar's election to Tri Nagar constituency in 2015 polls as "void". It said false declaration by the Aam Aadmi Party leader about his educational qualification that he had obtained a valid LLB degree, and vocation has resulted in "inducement and thwarted free exercise of electoral right of the voter". In the apex court appeal, Tomar, represented by advocate Kush Sharma, has sought setting aside of the high court verdict. He said the high court had "erroneously held that the appellant (Tomar) had not lawfully obtained his LLB degree and was not duly enrolled as an advocate at the time of filing his nomination, and further held that nomination of the appellant was improperly accepted". The appeal has claimed that on date of declaration, Tomar was holding a valid and subsisting LLB degree awarded by Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University in 1999. It alleged that the high court verdict had come on a plea which had challenged Tomar’s graduation degree, which did not form part of his January 16, 2015 affidavit, and not his LLB degree. It claimed that the "high court ought not have given the finding that the appellant (Tomar) had not 'lawfully obtained LLB degree and was not duly enrolled as an advocate at the time of filing his nomination’ as a criminal trial on the subject matter is presently ongoing before the trial court..." The high court had delivered its verdict on a plea by BJP leader Nand Kishore Garg who had alleged that Tomar’s 2015 election had been "materially affected by deliberate concealment, misrepresentation, wrong declaration and wilful suppression of the educational qualification in the affidavit filed along with the nomination form". Garg had contested against Tomar. In its judgement, the high court had held that Tomar had "published statements of fact which were false and which he did not believe to be true in relation to his educational qualifications and to unduly influence the voters/electors in his election and which act of the respondent no.1 (Tomar) amounts to a corrupt practice." It had also said Garg was successful in proving that Tomar's claim of being a graduate in B.Sc programme of Avadh University was also fabricated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-agrees-to-hear-delhi-ex-ministers-plea-against-hc-order-declaring-his-election-as-void-863924.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Unspecified number of deer swept away in swollen Ganga, seven rescued: Officilas||An unspecified number of deers were swept away in the Ganga while seven of the bunch were rescued near here, said officials on Monday. The bunch of deer, apparently trapped in a swollen Ganga near Haridwar amid the incessant rains, were swept along with the river till here, they said. While seven of them managed to reach an island in the river near a barrage in the district ct, the rest of them were swept away, they said. The marooned deers were rescued by a joint team of Forest and Irrigation departments, which reached the island on boats and rescued them, said Forest Ranger Ramesh Valodo. Refusing to hazard any guess on the number of deers swept away, Valodo said their bunch comprise any number between 50 and 100. Officials, however, said various districts' administrations along the river course have been alerted to keep an eye over the bunch being swept in the swollen river. After being rescued, the animals were released in Hastinapur sanctuary near here, he said. Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary is a protected area in the Gangetic plains of Uttar Pradesh, India. Established in 1986, the sanctuary is spread over 2,073 square kms across Meerut, Muzzafarnagar, Ghaziabad, Bijnor, Meerut and Amroha districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unspecified-number-of-deer-swept-away-in-swollen-ganga-seven-rescued-officilas-863941.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Woman strangled to death by in-laws over dowry in Uttar Pradesh||A 28-year-old woman was allegedly strangled to death by her in-laws over dowry in Sattarpur village here on Tuesday, police said. Kiran Devi's in-laws fled after killing her, they said. Victim's father Ajab Singh alleged that his daughter was being harassed for dowry by her in-laws and they had killed her, the police said. The body has been sent for post-mortem, they said. An investigation has been launched. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-strangled-to-death-by-in-laws-over-dowry-in-uttar-pradesh-863944.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||From the Newsroom: Journalist shot at in UP, Rajiv Gandhi assassin Nalini threatens to end life||In today’s episode, journalist was shot at in Uttar Pradesh. Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Nalini Sriharan threatens to end her life. Film critic Rajeev Masand records his statement in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death and noted industrialist Rahul Bajaj will step down as Non-Executive Chairman of Bajaj Finance on July 31.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-the-newsroom-journalist-shot-at-in-up-rajiv-gandhi-assassin-nalini-threatens-to-end-life-863947.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan man beaten to death for harassing woman; 8 held||A 30-year-old man died allegedly after eight-nine family members of a woman attacked him with sticks, iron rods and stones at a village in Rajasthan's Jhalawar district for harassing her, police said on Tuesday. Nine people, including the woman, have been booked and eight of them arrested in connection with the killing, they said. The incident took place on Monday noon at Sumer village under the Khanpur police station limits. The deceased man was identified as Tokiya alias Raju Bagri (30), a resident of Sumer village. He was a notorious goon in the village and was involved in several crimes and unlawful activities including harassing and troubling women in the village, Khanpur Station House Officer (SHO) Kamalchand Meena said. Bagri had allegedly harassed the 22-year-old married woman of the village on Monday last week, following which she lodged a case against him under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Her family members wanted to avenge the act and teach Bagri a "lesson", the SHO said, adding he was attacked which passing through the route in the village. Bagri suffered critical injuries in the attack and was declared brought dead at the local hospital, he further said. On the report by family members of the deceased, the police lodged a case of murder under sections of the IPC against nine people identified as Ramlakhan, Nathulal, Siyaram, Dharmraj, Banwari, Dwarka, Prem, Lekhraj and the woman, the SHO said. He said while eight of the accused have been arrested, Dwarka is yet to be nabbed. The police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Monday afternoon, he added. The eight accused would be produced before the court on Tuesday evening and remand for their interrogation would be sought, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-man-beaten-to-death-for-harassing-woman-8-held-863965.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||23% of Delhiites infected by Covid-19 in last six months: Sero Survey||Almost one-fourth of Delhi's 1.9 crore population has been infected by Covid-19 over the past six months, a serological survey conducted in the national capital has said. The study by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in collaboration with the Delhi government was conducted between June 27 and July 10 by surveying 21,387 people. It indicates that the Covid-19 cases in the capital is more widespread than the number of confirmed cases, which stood at 1,25,096 as on Monday. NCDC Director Sujeet Kumar Singh told a press conference, "the sero surveillance was done in Delhi to estimate the prevalence of COVID19 infection among general community of Delhi. Nearly six months in to the pandemic, 22.86 per cent (in a range of 22.24 per cent to 23.50 per cent) people affected...However, the remaining 77 per cent are still vulnerable and the containment measures need to continue with the same rigour." Eight of the 11 districts in the capital have more than 20 per cent sero-prevalence. Non-pharmacological interventions such as physical distancing, use of face mask/cover, hand hygiene and cough etiquette must be followed strictly, he said. Central district has the highest prevalence of 27.86 per cent followed by North-East district (27.7 per cent) and Shahdara (27.61 per cent). The lowest prevalence is reported from South-West district at 12.95 per cent. "The results of the sero-prevalence study show that on an average, across Delhi, the prevalence of IgG antibodies is 23.48 per cent. The study also indicates that a large number of infected persons remain asymptomatic," the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in a statement. On the procedure of the survey, the ministry said, blood samples were collected from selected individuals after taking written informed consent and then their sera were tested for IgG antibodies and infection using COVID KAVACH ELISA approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research. It is one of the largest sero-prevalence studies conducted in the country using the ELISA testing. The tests help in identification of presence of antibodies in the general population. The test performed is not a diagnostic test but only provides information about past infection due to SARSCoV-2 in individuals who test positive, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/23-of-delhiites-infected-by-covid-19-in-last-six-months-sero-survey-863984.html
21-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire by resorting to heavy firing and mortar shelling on forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Tuesday, officials said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly to the Pakistani aggression, a defence spokesman said. "At about 1715 hours today, Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the LoC in Sunderbani Sector of Rajouri district," he said. On July 18, Three civilians were killed when Pakistan violated ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked mortar shelling on forward posts and villages along the LoC in Poonch district. On July 10, an Army jawan was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistani troops along the LoC in Rajouri district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-863988.html
21-07-2020||Oasis||Good things take time||In the world of instant coffee and messages that assert an instant response, delayed gratification seems to be a romanticized notion of the past. Sometimes, however, our impatience with people and the way things are positioned in our lives, can make us fragile and rob us of our strength that helps us wait for what we really deserve.  I studied in a catholic school, nestled in the foothills of the Himalayas. Come November, our teachers started selecting the cast and crew for the annual Christmas play. Most of us eager beavers could barely contain our excitement. I remember one year in particular, when, saving the best protagonist for the last, the teacher started asking for volunteers for the role of the Angel, the inn-keepers, wise men gradually moving up to Joseph and Mary.  Being interested in every aspect of drama, and fixated on getting a role, I put my hand up for every character she described. As the students started getting selected, I panicked and wondered if she was ignoring me. I started drawing her attention towards me by not only waving my hand but also by calling out to her “me, me” which indicated loud and clear that I was more than interested in the role. Finally, her resigned eyes rested on me and she called me to the front of the class. Slightly embarrassed but mostly happy that I had secured a role, I walked up to face the class. What awaited me was a lesson I aspire to never forget. The teacher spoke to the class; “There was a reason why I was making Aditi wait. I thought she would be perfect for the role of Jesus, but due to her impatience, she will be a wise man instead. Children, please remember while you want an apple; God is busy planting an orchard for you. Patience allows life and time to come together and fall in place for you”   I wanted to kick myself; I could have been Jesus! I realized then that patience does not mean to passively endure. It means to be foresighted enough to trust the end result of the process. Just like the crescent moon knows it will take time to be full; but then its beauty will be unparalleled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/good-things-take-time-863703.html
21-07-2020||Opinion||Covid-19 and the limitation of mathematical models||Herd immunity Immunity results from vaccination or from getting infected and surviving. The pandemic will draw to an end when herd immunity is achieved; that is when so many people in the population have become immune to the disease that it’s hard for a newly-infected person to infect anybody else. The herd immunity threshold is estimated by the simple formula (R0-1)/R0. In this formula, R0 is the average number of persons a newly infected patient transmits the disease to; so, on average, if each person infects 2 other persons, R0 is 2.  The herd immunity formula result is expressed as a percentage. A few seconds of mental arithmetic tells us that if R0 is 2, about 50% of the population must become immune for the pandemic to slow down and stop. Or, if R0 is 10, about 90% of the population must become immune for the pandemic to draw to an end. R0 is not easily estimated. Some persons are Covid-19 superspreaders because they generate a lot of aerosols when they speak and because they expel a lot of virus in these aerosols. Some people live in crowded areas and will therefore also infect many people. In contrast, some people live alone and don’t move around much and so don’t spread the virus to anybody else. This means that how the disease spreads is very variable. It could vary because of differences in immune response capacity related to age and the presence of medical comorbidities. It could vary because of variations in population density in urban vs rural areas, or because of variations in temperature and humidity. It could also vary depending on whether or not people wear masks and practice social distancing. Finally, it could vary depending on whether or not partial or complete lockdown is enforced. Thus, R0 and the percentage of the population defining herd immunity depend on many factors, meaning that the pandemic could end at different times in different places, but also resume in second and subsequent waves. Mathematical models, therefore, need to take all the factors into consideration.  Unfortunately, partial and complete lockdown are imposed at different places at different times, and are enforced with different degrees of rigour. People wear masks and practice social distancing with different degrees of conscientiousness. We don’t know how many people are superspreaders in a population-dense area and how many people are immunologically vulnerable to infection. So mathematical models need to make assumptions about these factors. If the assumptions are wrong, the conclusions of the model will be wrong. Given that most of the assumptions are based on educated guesses or on approximations from poorly-gathered data, it is certain that the model will itself be an approximation. This is why some models offer the best case and worst-case scenarios – they tweak the assumptions and look at the results from the model resulting from each tweak.  So whenever a new mathematical model is published, the reader must first ask what the assumptions were and what the error margin is. Some models make absurd assumptions, which is why they are so badly off the mark. The dangers of forecasting If a child weighs 3 kg at birth, 6 kg at 6 months, and 9 kg at 1 year, what will the child weigh at age 10 years? The simplest mathematical model assumes that the gain in weight will be linear, and that the child will therefore uniformly gain 3 kg every 6 months. So a 10-year-old child should weigh 63 kg. We know that this is not true. So what went wrong? The assumption in this model is that weight gain occurs uniformly across time. However, from experience, we know that weight gain slows down in early childhood; then there is a spurt during adolescence, after which there is another plateau, and then another spurt in weight during middle-life, and then another plateau, and then even weight loss, in old age. Throwing a spanner into the works, gender, genes, nutrition, pregnancy, disease, and other factors can also affect weight. How would a mathematical model know all this in the case of something new, such as Covid-19? So this is the problem with Covid-19 models. There are not only known unknowns, but unknown unknowns, as well, that can affect the model.  So why have models, at all? The answer is that models are necessary to educate people about what might lie ahead, and to guide policy-making. We must, however, be aware of the limitations of the models. As it is said, “Hope for the best but prepare for the worst”. We don’t need a model to be sensible. A twist in the tail Herd immunity and the models depend on whether the vaccine or infection by the disease truly results in persistent immunity. If the immunity wears off early, then models that assume immunity will no longer be valid. So, Mr Mathematical Model, tell me what your assumptions are and I will decide what to believe. (Dr Chittaranjan Andrade is Professor, Psychopharmacology at NIMHANS, Bengaluru) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-and-the-limitation-of-mathematical-models-863808.html
21-07-2020||Opinion||Covid-19 and the limitation of mathematical models||Every other day, somebody, somewhere in the world, presents a new mathematical model of how much worse the pandemic is going to get, or perhaps when the pandemic will end. Nobody can see into the future. So why should we believe these models any more than we believe astrological forecasts? Herd immunity Immunity results from vaccination or from getting infected and surviving. The Covid-19 pandemic will end when herd immunity is achieved; that is, when so many people have become immune to the disease that it’s hard for a newly infected person to infect anybody else. The herd immunity threshold is estimated as (R0-1)/R0. In this formula, R0 is the average number of persons a newly infected patient transmits the disease to; so, on average, if each person infects 5 other persons, R0 is 5, and (5-1)/5 or 80% of the population must become immune for the pandemic to end.  R0 is not easily estimated. Some persons infect many others because they are aerosol superspreaders; or merely because they live in crowded areas and can therefore infect many people. Disease spread is therefore very variable. It could vary because of differences in individual immune response, the presence of medical comorbidities, variations in population density, and variations in temperature and humidity. It could also vary depending on whether or not people wear masks and practice social distancing, and on how well partial or complete lockdown is enforced.  Mathematical models on how and when the pandemic will peak or end therefore need to take all these factors into consideration.  Unfortunately, we have poor data on all these factors. So models need to make assumptions about these factors. If the assumptions are wrong, the model will be wrong. Because most assumptions are based on educated guesses or on approximations from inaccurate data, models are inevitably approximations. This is why some models sensibly offer best and worst case scenarios.  Forecasting A child weighs 3 kg at birth, 6 kg at 6 months, and 9 kg at 1 year, but not 63 kg at 10 years because weight gain is not uniform across time. Besides the nonlinear growth effect, gender, genes, nutrition, pregnancy, disease, and other factors can also affect weight. How would a mathematical model know all this in the case of something new, such as Covid-19? There are not only known unknowns, but unknown unknowns that can affect the Covid-19 mathematical model. Herd immunity and the models depend on whether the vaccine or infection by the disease truly results in persistent immunity. If the immunity wears off early, then models that assume immunity will no longer be valid.  So whenever a new mathematical model is published, the reader must be told about what the assumptions were and what the error margin is. But, why have models, at all? Models are necessary to educate people about what might lie ahead, and to guide official policy-making. We must, however, be aware of the limitations of the models. (The writer is Professor, Psychopharmacology at Nimhans, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-and-the-limitation-of-mathematical-models-864011.html
21-07-2020||Panorama||Oncology in the era of Covid-19||Covid-19 has caused unprecedented challenges across nations. The ever-evolving healthcare ecosystem is also undergoing a transformation. During this time, it is important to acknowledge how public healthcare service providers are putting up a brave fight with respect to the challenges this pandemic has brought us face to face with.  Patients who are over 60 years of age and living with pre-existing health conditions such as hypertension, cardiac disease, diabetes and auto-immune diseases are more vulnerable to Covid-19 virus. Hence, the first step to be taken is to look for measures to limit their risk of infection. Covid-19 has also impacted Oncology. This is particularly true with regard to cancer afflicted patients being vulnerable to the virus, due to their low immunity. In order to curb the pandemic, the government imposing the lockdown, changing restrictions and social distancing guidelines has further created anxiety in cancer patients who do not know how to navigate through this situation. The best thing for a healthcare practitioner during this time would be to communicate openly with the patients and provide safe, effective cancer care. Early diagnosis of cancer has always been critical and special measures must be put in place to increase the efforts to detect and screen for cancer. Creating awareness about cancer symptoms, diagnosis and the available treatment options also becomes imperative. The earlier the cancer is detected, the faster the treatment can start and the higher the cure rates. The reason for low immunity among cancer patients is two-fold: the underlying cancer itself and the treatments they need to undergo. One myth that needs to be busted in that cancer care can wait. However, unless shown symptoms of Covid-19, treatment ought to continue for patients. In such a scenario, effective measures need to be put in place to limit the contraction of the virus. Caregivers must ensure that patients are potentially restricted from all kinds of social activities unless it is important to step out of the house. If necessary, then one should get the treatment from the nearby hospital and avoid travelling long distance.  Some measures for cancer care that can be followed: Clinicians need to communicate with the patients and caregivers on treatment decisions depending on the stage of the cancer. Clinicians should also consider the disease prognosis, side effects on the patient, and analyze the risk from Covid-19 infection before administering treatment.  If the intent of cancer treatment is curative (due to the disease being diagnosed at an early stage or due to the disease biology) then patients and their caregivers should be clearly explained that management of curable cancers cannot wait and cancer therapy should be initiated with appropriate supportive care and more rigorous anti-Covid-19 precautions. Doctors should also discuss the benefits and risks of palliative therapies and the benefit of switching to oral drugs, if available, during the pandemic. For patients under oral treatments, prefer telephonic or video conferencing for consultation and prescription renewal. If chemotherapy is required, reduced but equally effective dosing schedules or conversion to oral chemotherapy without compromising the overall outcomes is advisable as far as possible.  All follow up sessions of patients who have completed their entire treatment and the initial few checkups should be done through teleconsultation to limit hospital visits and reduce exposure to the virus.  The impact of Covid-19 might be influenced by immunity level but with the right amount of physical and mental care, one can fight cancer. A recent case reported in the media shows how a 65-year-old woman suffering from fourth stage cervical cancer defeated Covidd -19. She was tested positive and despite being in the fourth stage never required a ventilator or an ICU all due to her strong will, a positive attitude and the right amount of care delivered by the doctors and nurses. (The writer is a Medical Oncologist, Omega Hospitals, Hyderabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/oncology-in-the-era-of-covid-19-863702.html
21-07-2020||Right in the Middle||The worst of times||Looking back life could not have been more traumatic, than the time of life that I spent as a teenager. Not a day passed when I did not feel miserable. In fact, I never experienced so much embarrassment as when I fared badly on the academic front. The first signs of thick black strands of hair on my chin were another source of my misery. From my classmates, some teachers especially the physical training instructor, made it a point to comment on the hair growth on my chin to my neighbours. Even though I chose to brush off their sarcastic remarks rather determinedly, the thought that I was the odd ‘man’ out in a class of boys and girls sunk deep into my head. When alone, I would stare for hours at the mirror to assess the extent of damage to my otherwise beautiful face, contemplating on the best solution for addressing the menacing issue. Once I was reminded of my grandmother advising my sister to use turmeric powder to prevent the growth of unwanted hair. I chose to try it out on myself, but to no avail. It instead invited cryptic comments from all and sundry. On another occasion, my classmate suggested using the scissors in the dissection box that we carried as part of our armour, being a biology student. So along with frogs and cockroaches, I discretely used it on my chin. The change was perceptible, as many noticed it, it did boost my self-confidence. The ‘affected area’ of the skin remained ‘clean’ only for a few days and again my problem resurfaced with redoubled vigour. Some elders admonished me for my hasty action of using the scissors, for in their view that was not the solution--hair would only grow faster. "These are all age-related metabolic changes and one must learn to live with it," would be their stock advice.   No one seemed to understand my predicament. Desperate at times for a solution, I would scan all ads in the newspapers, try out something that someone even jokingly suggested hoping for relief from this misery of sporting a goatee.  Once a month, along with the hair cut, my hairdresser would put the trimmer to effective use on my chin. There were no hair-remover creams like Anne French or Veet at that time, else I would have tried them out too, albeit secretly. Life took a turn for the better when I turned eighteen. An elderly person in our locality presented me with an imported razor with twin-edged blades. It was a cause for celebration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-worst-of-times-863699.html
21-07-2020||Second Edit||Twitter hacking a wake-up call||The hacking of Twitter accounts of a number of prominent personalities in the US last week highlights the risk of increasing cyberattacks and the fact that the best protective walls are not good enough to ensure security. The most influential celebrities – from politicians to billionaires -- were targeted using Twitter’s own administrative tools. The victims included former President Barack Obama, Bill Gates, Warren Buffet, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Tesla CEO Elon Musk. Apple and Uber's accounts were also hacked. The attackers gained control of some accounts and siphoned off at least $100,000 in cryptocurrency in at least 300 transactions. The method was to tweet from the hacked accounts asking followers to send bitcoins, promising to double the money in a short period. Twitter has admitted that its most secured systems were vulnerable.  There have been many hackers’ attacks and cyber scams in the past many years and in many countries but the scale, organisation and choice of targets this time has a thrown a challenge to the world. Individual and social lives, science, activities of governments, statecraft and national security, all depend on computers and their networks. The most important requirement of a cyber system is ensuring the security of data and protecting the privacy of information. Failure in this respect can lead to the most disastrous consequences. Reports of Russian interference in US presidential election in 2016 have not been proved wrong. Wikileaks accessed thousands of US military and diplomatic files and made them public. Cyber espionage is an important part of the national security policies of governments and future wars may be conducted in the cyber world.  Cyber warfare and other technological threats to security should concern governments and militaries. Incidents like last week’s affect the lives of individuals and the functioning of institutions and cause disruption and sabotage of financial and other systems. That can also impact industry and areas like science and technology. There have been reports of hackers targeting labs where coronavirus vaccine research is being conducted to steal information for use or for sale. The consequences of crucial information relating to public health, national security or finances falling into wrong hands can only be imagined. Attempts may also be made to influence elections. Repeated incidents of successful hacking, one bigger than the other, should alert the world to the need to build the strongest and the most fool-proof defences against attacks and attempts at subversion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/twitter-hacking-a-wake-up-call-863695.html
21-07-2020||South||Man dies of coronavirus in Pondy, toll rises to 30||A 68-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 here while 91 new cases were reported on Tuesday taking the tally in the Union Territory to 2,179. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that with the death of the patient from Muthialpet, the toll has increased to 30 in Union Territory due to Covid-19. The patient was admitted to state-run Indira Gandhi government medical college hospital on July 17 and had co- morbidities. He said 91 new cases were reported during the last 24 hours at the end of testing of 521 samples marking 17.9 percentage of positivity. The death rate was 1.4 per cent. Total active cases in Puducherry on Tuesday were 831, while total patients recovered and discharged were 1,318 and fatalities were 30. Of the 31,947 samples tested so far 29,495 patients tested negative and results of examination of remaining samples were awaited, Kumar said. Fifty three patients were discharged (34 from the hospitals in Puducherry, 7 from the hospital in Karaikal and 12 in Yanam region). Of the new cases, 90 patients were admitted to the hospitals in Puducherry and the remaining one patient was admitted to the government hospital in Karaikal. Active cases were 831, spread over Puducherry 758, Karaikal 45 and Yanam 28. Total fatalities were 30 and 1,318 patients recovered and discharged. Mahe has no Covid-19 case, the Director said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-dies-of-coronavirus-in-pondy-toll-rises-to-30-863827.html
21-07-2020||South||Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Nalini attempted suicide in jail, claims lawyer||Nalini Sriharan, India’s longest-serving woman prisoner and one of the seven convicts in the sensational Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, attempted suicide on Monday night following a quarrel with the jailer, her lawyer claimed on Tuesday. Nalini is serving her life term at the Central Prison in Vellore, 140 km from here, for the past 29 years for her role in the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in Sriperumbudur near here on May 21, 1991. P Pugalendhi, Nalini’s counsel, told DH that the life convict attempted to end her life on Monday night following a quarrel with the jailer, Allirani. There was no official response from the Prisons Department till the time of publishing the article. After the incident, Nalini has now decided to seek transfer from Vellore to Puzhal prison in Chennai on safety grounds. Explaining the incident, Pugalendhi said Nalini and her jail mate, who is also a life convict, had differences between them.  Pugalendhi said this was the first time Nalini had attempted suicide in the last 29 years. “The incident took place before the jailer,” he said, adding that Nalini is likely to talk to her mother via phone on Wednesday. He added that a formal letter seeking Nalini’s transfer from Vellore jail was being sent to Home Secretary S K Prabhakar and DGP J K Tripathy. Nalini is among the seven persons who are currently serving life terms in the case that sent shockwaves across the country. Though the Tamil Nadu Cabinet had recommended their release from jail, the proposal is pending with Governor Banwarilal Purohit. The Centre has been maintaining for long that Nalini and others cannot be released from prison without its concurrence. Numerous requests and petitions by her for early release made in the past decade have also been rejected by the higher judiciary. Nalini had for the first time came out on parole last year to arrange for her daughter’s wedding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-convict-nalini-attempted-suicide-in-jail-claims-lawyer-863841.html
21-07-2020||South||AIADMK MLAs stage walkout in Puducherry Assembly protesting rechristening of scheme||The opposition AIADMK on Tuesday walked out of the Puducherry Assembly here protesting the rechristening of free breakfast scheme in schools after DMK stalwart M Karunanidhi, after the House resumed its sitting and passed resolutions. AIADMK legislature wing leader A Anbalagan who led the walk out said Chief Minister V Narayanasamy had in his budget speech on Monday stated that his government would augment the free break fast scheme named after former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in government schools. He alleged that the Chief Minister had later during his address to the House pointed out that the schemewould be named after Karunanidhi. "The Chief Minister should clarify under which name would be free breakfast scheme be in force in schools," he said. Anbalagan pointed out that the free break fast scheme was launched during the Congress rule in the past by the AICC leader Sonia Gandhi. The scheme was then named after Rajiv Gandhi. "Why should the Chief Minister now rechristen it replacing name of Rajiv Gandhi?" he asked. "Chief Minister is encouraging political passions in operating government schemes," he said and staged a walk out along with the other members of the party. A few minutes later, three legislators belonging to the DMK, an alliance partner of ruling Congress, also staged a walk out to mark their protest against 'silence' the Ministers maintained when the AIADMK leader was criticising the Dravidian party. DMK leader R Siva said "the DMK never persuaded the government to christen any of the schemes of the administration after the former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Karunanidhi." None of the Ministers came forward to prevent the AIADMK leader from making criticisms against the DMK, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-mlas-stage-walkout-in-puducherry-assembly-protesting-rechristening-of-scheme-863847.html
21-07-2020||South||Two students getting Covid-19 is causing embarrassment for the Kerala government||Two students in Thiruvananthapuram who appeared for the Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical entrance examination last week were tested positive for Covid-19 and many students and their parents have gone into quarantine. It is causing an embarrassment to the left front government in Kerala as there were objections from various quarters over conducting the examination amidst Covid-19 spike in Kerala. However, the government went ahead with the decision as it had successfully conducted the SSLC and higher secondary examinations amidst Covid-19 spike and no students reportedly got infected. Both the students who were tested positive appeared for the examination at two separate centres in Thiruvananthapurm city on July 16. One student's father was also tested positive. The district administration had started contact tracing of the student who appeared for the examination in these centres, it was learnt. Around one lakh students had registered for the examination, of which 85 percent had appeared. Elaborate arrangements like separate rooms for those having symptoms and coming from hotspots were made. Even three students under treatment and observation were allowed to appear for the examination at two hospitals in Alappuzha and Pathanamthita districts. Soon after the examinations, pictures of students and parents crowding at the entrance of many centres went viral of the social media. Many flayed the government decision to conduct KEAM amidst alarming increase of Covid-19, especially in Thiruvananthapuram, which was then on the verge of community spread at two localities. However, the major opposition parties Congress and BJP were not very aggressive in demanding postponing of the KEAM entrance examination as the Pinarayi Vijayan government managed to score politically by conducting the pending tenth and higher-secondary examinations in May, amidst objections by the opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-students-getting-covid-19-is-causing-embarrassment-for-the-kerala-government-863876.html
21-07-2020||South||India’s second plasma bank in Chennai to set to function from Wednesday||The country’s second plasma bank, which has been set up at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) here at a cost of Rs 2 crore, will be functional from Wednesday. Delhi is the first city in India to have set up a plasma bank after convalescent plasma therapy was found to be an effective treatment for infections caused by Covid-19. RGGGH, the premier government medical institute, is also conducting trials in convalescent plasma therapy with 18 of the 20 people who participated in the process recovering from the illness. Plasma bank, officials said, will function like a blood bank and donors will be allowed to donate their plasma only after they are found eligible. “We are collecting the data and the person who donates the plasma needs to have anti-bodies for novel Coronavirus. Only men can donate plasma and women cannot. People from the age group of 18 to 65 will be eligible to donate their plasma. They can donate the plasma twice at an interval of 14 days,” Dr Therani Rajan, Dean, RGGGH, told DH. Coronavirus patients who have anti-bodies to the virus can donate their plasma 28 days after they test negative. Once they are eligible, 500 ml of plasma is collected from the donor and transfused to patients who are struggling with the infection. Rajan said the hospital was collecting details of patients who are eligible to donate plasma and has been encouraging them to come forward to save lives of people. Apart from RGGGH, the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai and the Government Medical College Hospital in Tirunelveli are also involved in convalescent plasma trials. He also added that RGGGH, the first hospital to treat Covid-19 patients in Tamil Nadu, has augmented its bed facilities to accommodate 1,000 more Covid-19 patients. “We have 1,000 beds and we have created another 1,000 beds to be utilised by Covid-19 patients,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/india-s-second-plasma-bank-in-chennai-to-set-to-function-from-wednesday-863951.html
21-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Health Secretary’s family members test positive for Covid-19||Four family members of Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan have tested positive for coronavirus and are being treated at a designated Covid-19 hospital run by the government. Radhakrishnan’s family members receiving treatment at a government facility have come in for praise from the public at a time Ministers and legislators who tested positive for the virus preferred to get treatment in private hospitals. Radhakrishnan’s in-laws tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and being close contacts of them, the Health Secretary, his wife, and son also gave their swab samples on Monday. While Radhakrishnan tested negative, the samples of his wife and son returned positive. The Health Secretary said all are being treated at the government-owned King’s Institute, which has now been converted into a Covid-19 hospital. The decision to seek treatment at a government hospital was a discussion point on the social media. Many pointed out that all 16 legislators, including three ministers, who tested positive for Covid-19 received treatment in private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-health-secretary-s-family-members-test-positive-for-covid-19-863969.html
21-07-2020||South||Dalit youth allegedly beaten, tonsured in a police station in Andhra Pradesh||A Dalit youth was allegedly assaulted and tonsured in a police station in Seethanagaram of East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. Telugu Desam Party chief and opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu has charged the involvement of YSRCP men in the incident that took place on Monday. Naidu stated the man was humiliated as he had questioned the illegal sand mining in the region. Initial reports claimed that the incident followed a petty argument on Sunday between the youth Vara Prasad of Vedullapalli village, his friends and a local politician Krishna Murthy, who supposedly was peeved that his car could not move through a lane where a mishap had occurred. According to the victims, they were called to the Police station the next day where they were severely beaten and Prasad was demeaned. On Tuesday, Naidu condemned “the tonsure of Dalit youth Vara Prasad at Seethanagaram.” "Jungle Raj has returned to AP. Vara Prasad's head was tonsured by leaders belonging to the YSRCP in East Godavari district's Seethanagaram Police Station", Naidu said. The former Chief Minister said that “the tonsure incident happened in the presence of policemen who heckled and beat the Dalit man to pulp, destroying his self-esteem.” “His only mistake was to question the illegal sand mining in the region. What is happening to AP policemen? Why have they become toys in the hands of the corrupt ruling party men? This is a serious violation of rights." Through twitter, Naidu assured that TDP will stand with Vara Prasad to ensure those responsible for the barbarian act will be strictly punished. Following protests by the Dalit leaders and organizations, an enquiry was initiated and one SI was put under suspension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dalit-youth-allegedly-beaten-tonsured-in-a-police-station-in-andhra-pradesh-863977.html
21-07-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan raises concern over Kasargod's Covid-19 spike||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the number of Covid-19 cases in parts of Kasargod bordering Karnataka was increasing. While 720 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Tuesday, 40 were in Kasargod taking the total active cases in the district to 405. Kasargod district administration had already imposed total lockdown at some border areas like Mogral and Kumbol in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. People who visited several parts of Kumbala and Manjeswar were advised to remain in home quarantine. Meanwhile, a 72 year old woman died of Covid-19 in the coastal area of Thiruvananthapuram which is having the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala, 2,201. Fresh cases through local contact was on the higher side on Tuesday also, with 528, of which source of 34 cases could not be linked. At Aluva in Ernakulam, 18 nuns of a convent were tested Covid-19 positive. A nun of the convent who died recently was tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-raises-concern-over-kasargods-covid-19-spike-864003.html
21-07-2020||South||India coronavirus: How Kerala’s Covid-19 ‘success story’ came undone||There’s anxiety and confusion among people living in a bustling coastal village in India’s southern state of Kerala these days. The 4,000-odd families of Poonthura, a hamlet of fishermen next door to the capital city of Trivandrum, have been served with strict stay-at-home orders. Nobody can enter or leave the place. Businesses are shut and transport suspended. Commandos and policemen have patrolled the streets to enforce a stringent lockdown. Earlier this month, more than 100 people in Poonthura’s densely packed villages hugging the Arabian Sea contracted Covid-19 after some of them visited a fish market. This contributed to a sharp spike in infections in a state which, in May, appeared to have tamed the virus. “People are confused, isolated and tense,” Father Bebinson, the vicar of the local church, told me. “They can’t make out what has suddenly hit them.” He’s right. Barely two months ago, Kerala was looking like a striking outlier in the battle against coronavirus in India. But cases have surged in the last few weeks, and the state government is now saying the virus is locally transmitting through coastal communities, the first such admission by officials in any state since the beginning of the pandemic in India. “The real surge in Kerala is happening now. The virus had earlier been curbed in a controlled situation when the state’s borders were closed,” Dr Lal Sadasivan, a Washington-based infectious disease specialist, told me. In January, Kerala reported India’s first Covid-19 case, a medical student who returned from Wuhan in China, where the pandemic began. The number of cases rose steadily, and it became a hotspot. But in March, half a dozen states were reporting more cases than the picturesque southern state. By May, sticking faithfully to the contagion control playbook of test, trace and isolate and involving grassroots networks, Kerala brought down its case count drastically - there were days when it reported no new cases. The Hindu newspaper rhapsodized in an editorial about the containment effort. There were breathless stories about the state flattening the curve. “I remember saying that Kerala had achieved a viral miracle,” says Jayaprakash Muliyil, a leading epidemiologist. The celebrations were clearly premature. Kerala took 110 days to report its first thousand cases. In mid-July, it was reporting around 800 infections a day. As of 20 July, Kerala’s caseload had crossed 12,000, with 43 reported deaths. More than 170,000 people were in quarantine, at home and in hospitals. One reason, say experts, for this sharp uptick is that nearly half a million workers returned to the state from the Gulf countries and others parts of India after the grinding countrywide lockdown, which shut businesses and threw people out of their jobs. Some 17% of Kerala’s working-age population works outside the state. Unsurprisingly, more than 7,000 of the reported cases so far have a history of travel. “But when the lockdown travel restrictions were lifted, people came flocking back to the state, and it became impossible to curb the re-entry of infected cases,” says Shashi Tharoor, a senior Indian opposition politician and member of parliament from Trivandrum. Mr Tharoor remembers a conversation he had with Chief Minister Pinayari Vijayan soon after the first repatriation flights carrying Keralites working in the Gulf countries landed in Kerala. “He lamented that not only the virus was coming in, but infected people were transmitting the contagion to fellow passengers on the plane.” “I think this was unavoidable, since every citizen has a constitutional right to come home to India, even if they are ill. But that made a major difference,” Mr Tharoor told me. The influx has possibly sparked a surge in local community transmission - since early May, reported cases without any travel history have gone up. More than 640 of the 821 new cases reported on Sunday, for example, were contracted locally, officials said. The source of 43 of them is untraceable. The easing of the lockdown led to many people moving out of their homes and not taking enough precautions. “Some amount of laxity was expected as people have begun going out to work in most areas. We are trying to motivate them to be safe,” B Ekbal, head of an expert panel advising the government on prevention of the virus, told me. Some critics say testing slowed after the caseload fell in what they believe was a sign of complacency. These days Kerala is testing more than 9,000 samples a day, up from 663 in April. Its testing rate per million of the population is lower than in states such as Andhra Pradesh, where cases are rising quickly as well, or Tamil Nadu, which has long been a hotspot. But it’s ahead of Maharashtra, the country’s biggest hotspot so far. Kerala is doing a bouquet of tests - diagnostic, pooled, rapid antigen and antibody among others - but it is not clear how many cases are being detected by each of these tests. This is pushing up testing numbers, but possibly not reflecting the correct picture. “Testing has been ramped up. But it’s never enough. No state is being able to test as widely as needed,” says Dr A Fathahudeen, who heads the critical care department at Ernakulam Medical College. Most epidemiologists believe Kerala has done a good job on the whole. The case fatality rate - the proportion of people who die among those who have tested positive for the disease - is one of the lowest in India. The hospitals are not yet overwhelmed by a surge of patients. The state boasts India’s most robust public health system. The government has begun rolling out first line Covid-19 treatment centres with oxygen-equipped beds in hundreds of villages. Kerala is also a cautionary tale against premature media declarations about the flattening of the curve, which involves reducing the number of new cases from one day to the next. Experts say flattening the curve is a long and tortuous journey. Gabriel Leung, an infectious disease epidemiologist at the University of Hong Kong, says restrictions must be lifted and reapplied, and lifted and reapplied, as long as it takes for the population at large to build up enough immunity to the virus”. T Jacob John, a retired professor of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, offers an interesting analogy. “Combating Covid-19 is like running on a treadmill whose speed is being cranked up. As the virus spreads you have to run faster to tame it. It’s exhausting, but there is no other choice,” he says. “It’s a test of endurance”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/india-coronavirus-how-kerala-s-covid-19-success-story-came-undone-864017.html
21-07-2020||South||Swapna Suresh and other accused conspired to destabilise country's economy by smuggling gold:NIA||Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and others had conspired together and separately at various places in the State to damage the country's monetary stability by destabilising the economy by smuggling large quantity of gold from abroad, the National Investigation Agency said on Tuesday. In a report submitted in the Special NIA Court here, the investigation agency probing the sensational Kerala gold smuggling case also said it is suspected that the accused had used the proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means. The accused deliberately used the diplomatic baggage of UAE as a cover to transact illegal business and it may have serious repercussions in India's diplomatic relations with the UAE government and it is prejudicial to the monetary and economic security of India as well, said the NIA which carried out custodial interrogation of Suresh and Nair. Meanwhile, the NIA custody of Suresh and Nair was extended till July 24 by the Special Court here on Tuesday, even as prime accused Swapna Suresh moved a plea seeking bail claiming innocence. Suresh and another accused Sandeep Nair were brought to the special NIA court here as the eight-day custody period granted to the National Investigation Agency ended today. Considering the agency's plea seeking extension of their custody, the court extended it till Friday. In its report, the NIA said Suresh has admitted that she along with Nair, Sarith, who is a key accused arrested in the case, and other associates hatched conspiracy at different locations in Thiruvananthapuram and had received the proceeds of the crime in cash through Sarith. The proceeds of crime received by Suresh have been invested with various banking and non-banking channels including safe deposit lockers in banks. The details of the accounts have been collected and investigation on the disclosure is in progress, the investigation agency said. During the investigation, it was revealed that one Ramees K T is one of the kingpins in the case, NIA said and added it was making efforts to get the custody of Ramees, who was arrested by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate last week. According to the NIA, Ramees, who insisted on smuggling gold in large quantities and maximum numbers during the lockdown period as the financial position of the country was weak, commanded and always moved with a group of persons. Besides, he had contacts abroad. In her plea seeking bail, Suresh alleged that she was implicated in the crime on a wild imagination without any basis and the case was the offshoot of the political rivalry between the state and central governments, triggered by the colourful and fictitious stories aired by the media. She claimed that there was no prima facie evidence to attract an offence under Sections 15, 16, and 17 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the case being investigated by the NIA. Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair were arrested by the NIA from Bengaluru on July 11. Central agencies have arrested 15 people in connection with the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" at the Thiruvananthapuram Internationl airport on July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/swapna-suresh-and-other-accused-conspired-to-destabilise-countrys-economy-by-smuggling-goldnia-864021.html
21-07-2020||South||Covid-19 cases breach 70,000 mark in Karnataka; 61 deaths takes toll to 1,464||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka breached the 70,000 mark on Tuesday as the state reported 3,649 fresh infections, while 61 fatalities took the death toll to 1,464, the health department said. The day also saw 1,664 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 3,649 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, a whopping 1,714 were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of July 21 evening, cumulatively 71,069 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, which includes 1,464 deaths and 25,459 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said that out of the 44,140 active cases, 43,557 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 583 are in Intensive Care Units. Twenty-two out of 61 deaths reported on Tuesday are from Bengaluru urban, followed by five each from Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru and Dharwad, four each from Kolar and Belagavi, three each from Hassan, Tumakuru and Haveri, Bidar 2, and one each from Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Chamarajanagara, Gadag and Vijayapura. Most of the deceased either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Out of 3,649 cases tested positive on Tuesday, contacts of the large number of the cases are still under tracing. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 1,714, Ballari 193, Dakshina Kannada 149, Mysuru 135, Yadgir 117, Uttara Kannada 109, Hassan 107, Kolar 103, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of positive cases, with 34,943 infections, followed by Dakshina Kannada 3,829 and Kalaburagi 2,966. Among discharges Bengaluru urban was on top with 7,476 discharges, followed by Kalabuagi 1,834 and Udupi 1,731. A total of 10,64,734 samples were tested so far, out of which 43,904 were tested on Tuesday alone, the bulletin said. It said that 19,328 of the 43,904 samples tested today were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cases-breach-70000-mark-in-karnataka-61-deaths-takes-toll-to-1464-864025.html
21-07-2020||South||Karnataka to regulate Remdesivir supply to private hospitals to check black marketing||Karnataka's Covid-19 task force on Tuesday decided that the state government will regulate the supply of Remdesivir, the drug used in the treatment of coronavirus infected patients, to private hospitals to check black marketing and hoarding. "Remdesivir which is currently available in the government hospitals will be supplied to private hospitals through the government. This will help curb black marketing of this drug," Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar's office said in a release. Along with Sudhakar, other task force members, including Health Minister Sriramulu, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar attended the meeting. However, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai was not part of it as he was out of Bengaluru. At the meeting, the government has also fixed the rate for Covid-19 tests in private labs- Rs 2,000 for government referred cases and 3,000 for self-reporting cases. It was also decided to purchase 4 lakh antigen test kits and 5 lakh swab test kits to ramp up testing, the release said, adding that approvals have also been given for additional drugs for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The decisions also included increasing monthly salary for Ayush doctors to 48,000, MBBS doctors to 80,000 and nurses to get 30,000 for next 6 months. The task force also made it clear that private hospitals have to reserve 50 percent beds for the government for Covid-19 treatment. The remaining 50 percent can be used by the private hospitals for Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 treatment. Private hospitals provide treatment under Ayushman Bharat scheme (ABARK) for Covid-19 patients. Those cases in which treatment does not cover under the scheme can be charged as per the user charges, the release said. A committee will be formed to supervise and recommend the purchase of equipment and medicines for Covid-19 treatment, which will be headed by ACS, ITBT Department. Approval has been given for the procurement of N-95 masks and lakh PPE kits for the safety of healthcare workers. The decision also has been taken to connect oxygen pipeline to 4,736 beds in 17 government medical colleges, which will enable high flow oxygen for these beds besides being beneficial for future use as well. According to the release, 16 RTPCR and 15 Automated RNA extraction units will be established to ramp up testing and this will help achieve the target of 50,000 tests per day. "On the whole approvals given for purchase of equipment and upgradation of existing facilities at government hospitals is estimated to be about Rs 500 Crore," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-to-regulate-remdesivir-supply-to-private-hospitals-to-check-black-marketing-864046.html
21-07-2020||South||IndiGo crew grooves to the beats of 'Butta Bomma' at Vizag airport||Travellers at the Vizag airport were pleasantly surprised when the Indigo ground staff jigged to the tunes of popular ‘Butta Bomma' on Monday. On the same day, the budget airline announced that it will let go 10% of its employees due to the pandemic. The chartbuster has trended for quite some time and has become a popular dance number. Australian cricketer David Warner was seen dancing with his wife to this song earlier in the year. Netizens loved the energy and the enthusiasm of the performers. One Twitter user said: “Cheering to Passenger for Taking life Easy in time of Covid-19 Pandemic.... Good Work #Indigo Vizag", while another praised the 'energy' of the video.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indigo-crew-grooves-to-the-beats-of-butta-bomma-at-vizag-airport-864054.html
21-07-2020||State||The Lead: Karnataka may be caught in a web of corruption amid coronavirus pandemic||In this episode, DH Journalist Akram Mohammed talks about the alleged irregularities in procurements to battle the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/the-lead-karnataka-may-be-caught-in-a-web-of-corruption-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-863753.html
21-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Kittur Covid-19 containment zone residents demand essentials||Residents from Kittur town in the district staged a protest and expressed their ire as they were not getting essentials to fodder with many of the areas wherein Covid-19 patients have been reported being sealed down and announced as containment zones to prevent the spread of coronavirus.  Residents raised slogans against Kittur Town Panchayat and Taluk Administration for the inconveniences faced by them. They stated that they were not getting essentials, drinking water and fodder for livestock. Farmers were not allowed to till their agricultural lands and take care of crops.  People rued that when none of the Covid-19 cases were reported, elected representatives had provided food kits, but none were coming near when they need food kits as their areas have been sealed down and they do not have access for them.  Demand was made for essentials, water and fodder for livestock.  Mahantesh Vatyal complained that drinking water was not being supplied since three days.  Prakash Langoti demanded that the officials make them provisions available as they were not allowed to move out of containment zones to get them. Madiwalappa Patyal said that they have to go to their agriculture lands daily and also get fodder for livestock. We should be allowed to do our chores’ else fodder be made available for livestock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-kittur-covid-19-containment-zone-residents-demand-essentials-863845.html
21-07-2020||State||Oppn must support govt instead of levelling baseless allegations during crisis: Shettar||Criticising that Congress Party is not working as a constructive Opposition party in the State, Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday opined that the Opposition should have supported the government and give proper advice to the government during such a crisis time, instead of levelling baseless allegations. "Purchase of equipment required in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic began in March, when their availability was very low, due to which prices might be high then. If Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah has any documents regarding any irregularity in this matter, he should question it in the session of the Assembly or lodge complaint with the concerned authority. He should stop punching in air," Shettar said. It is not the time to merely criticise, but all should work together. Ministers are working honestly, and opposition parties should give constructive suggestions to the government, he noted. Lockdown extension unlikely  Predicting that the 10-day lockdown going on in Dharwad district may not be extended beyond July 24, Shettar stated that a decision in this regard would be taken after consulting chief minister, chief secretary, district officials, businessmen, various organisations and others, while the issue would also be discussed in the Cabinet meeting to be held on Thursday.Public co-operation is most essential in the battle against the pandemic. Lockdown is just a weapon to break the chain of spreading of infection, and to bring discipline among people, he said. Preparations are made to keep 2,000 beds available for Covid-19 patients in the district immediately. Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) would have 250 more beds for Covid-19 treatment in a couple of days, and a total of 1,000 beds would be reserved there in coming days. Some private hospitals have also come forward to treat Covid-19 patients. Seven more ambulances are also being purchased, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/oppn-must-support-govt-instead-of-levelling-baseless-allegations-during-crisis-shettar-863868.html
21-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Belagavi BUDA office sealed as AEE tests Covid-19 positive||The Belagavi Urban Development Authority (BUDA) has been sealed for two days for the sanitisation as Assistant Executive Engineer (AEE) who had been posted as nodal officer at the airport to screen air travelers coming to the city testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.  After the airport become functional for flights with travel norms being relaxed, BUDA AEE had been posted as the nodal officer to screen the air travelers coming from different destinations to the city. A couple of days back after he showed symptoms, was advised to take rest at home and get tested if symptoms persist.  He underwent tests and the report on Tuesday confirmed he was positive for Covid-19.  BUDA Commissioner Preetam Naslapure informed DH that the AEE did not visit the office after being advised rest, but has tested positive for Covid-19. Office of the civic body will be closed for 48 hours for sanitiaing and later we shall begin functioning from its premises.  Belagavi Smart City Limited office too was housed in the premises of BUDA and that too will remain closed for two days for sanitisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-belagavi-buda-office-sealed-as-aee-tests-covid-19-positive-863874.html
21-07-2020||State||Forest official helps rescue a leopard by entering 100-feet deep dry well, Twitter lauds his commitment||Spotting and rescuing a leopard from a 100-feet dry well has earned a Karnataka forest official a lot of praise from netizens. The RFO had swung into action after getting complaints from villagers in Mysuru on Saturday. As the forest officials couldn’t spot the animal with the help of camera or sound devices, he decided to go into the well with his mobile phone and a torch. Replying to criticisms, Kumar said that there was a supply of oxygen cylinders and he was communicating with the other officials at all times. He was confident that if the leopard could survive for days, he could manage for a few minutes. Had there been any problem his colleagues would have pulled him out immediately. On the third day of the rescue operation, Kumar spotted the leopard hidden inside a small cave-like structure in the well. “It only came out after midnight, so it was initially not possible to locate it. We saw it struggling to come out but it didn’t succeed,” he said. After lowering nets and trying to bait it, the officials decided to tranquillise the leopard. A professional was called in and he was sent down the well in full safety gear in a similar cage. An oxygen test was performed before he was lowered into the cage. “After the animal was tranquilised we pulled the man and the animal out safely around 6 pm yesterday,” Kumar added. The leopard was kept in observation overnight by the State Forest Department. The animal was inside the deep well for almost six days and went hungry. He was extremely dehydrated, and was given electrolytes and water. Once it was fully conscious and recovered, we released it back into the wild today at around 10:30 am,” Kumar said. The tweet by IFS Officer Kaswan garnered a heartwarming response by netizens who praised Kumar’s dedication and bravery. One netizen tweeted: “We indians are proud of Mr Siddarju. Please reward him with promotion and cash incentives. This shows his diligence and perseverance. He is the epitome of goodness”, while another said that it was important to recognise and be grateful for the contributions of the forest officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/forest-official-helps-rescue-a-leopard-by-entering-100-feet-deep-dry-well-twitter-lauds-his-commitment-863999.html
21-07-2020||State||Doctors, nurses made me feel at home: 11-year-old Covid-19 survivor||If a person takes good care of oneself and stays cheerful, there is no need to be scared of novel coronavirus, said 11-year-old Mehera Banu, who recovered from Covid-19 and returned home. Mehera is a resident of Apparanda Layout in Suntikoppa. She recalled that after being affected by high fever, her parents took her to the government hospital, where her throat swab sample was collected for testing. Eventually, the family was home quarantined. “During the quarantine, personnel from the health and police departments and the gram panchayat authorities came to my house and instilled confidence among my family members,” she said. Mehera was tested positive for Covid-19 on July 12, following which she was admitted to the designated Covid-19 hospital in Madikeri. “The doctors and nurses in the hospital made me feel at home. They took care of me like their own daughter.  I was given hot water to drink and food to eat, on time. I was not afraid or worried, even though my family members were away from me”. Mehera meanwhile said she has been taking medicines and rest as per the advice of the doctors. “I am healthy now. Nobody should be afraid of Coronavirus. However, one has to be aware and take care of their health”,  she said. Warm welcome Residents of Apparanda Layout in Suntikoppa welcomed Mehera Banu, when she returned home after getting recovered from the Covid-19. After a successful treatment, she was discharged from the hospital. Her neighbors offered her a hearty welcome by clapping and showering flowers on her as she arrived. She was presented with a flower bouquet. Mehera said she was touched by the welcome she received from her neighbors. They also treated my family members well, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/doctors-nurses-made-me-feel-at-home-11-year-old-covid-19-survivor-864061.html
21-07-2020||State||'Any disease can be cured with confidence, doctor's advice'||Any disease can be cured by facing it without any fear, with self-confidence and by strictly following the advises of the doctor, said Sharief, who recently recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged from hospital. A trader from Shirangala in Kodlipete hobli, he said, “After recovery, I am spending my time with wife and children at my home in Shirangala,” he said. On contracting the infection, he said, “I am a trader and had been to Gadag. After returning from Gadag, I visited a hospital and got myself tested for Covid-19. The doctors and Asha workers had not advised me to remain at home till the swab results are out. I came to know of my result when I was carrying out my business. As per the direction of the health department, my wife, children and I were admitted to a covid care centre at Galibeedu in Madikeri. My two children and I had contracted the virus. We received good treatment and care at the hospital,” he said. “My children and I were given Vitamin C tablets daily. Paracetamol tablet was given only when we had fever. Further, my wife was preparing and giving us Kashaya made of pepper, clove, cinnamon, ginger, turmeric powder and lemon to boost our immunity,” he explained. “One need not be scared of Covid-19. However, the way society looks at Covid-19 infected person after recovery should change,” he felt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/any-disease-can-be-cured-with-confidence-doctors-advice-864064.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government to permit asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to write CET||In a first, the state government has decided to allow even Covid-19 infected asymptomatic candidates to appear for the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) 2020. According to sources at KEA, the same was discussed during the high-level meeting on Monday that was chaired by Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister Dr. CN Ashwathnarayan. Confirming the government's decision to DH, a senior official from Higher Education said, "The plan is to set up separate centres at each district for the benefit of asymptomatic patients. We will arrange even ambulances to pick and drop them to the test centres from Covid Care Centres (CCCs)." However, the official clarified that the final decision about the same will be announced on Tuesday after another round of meeting. The SOP released by the union government and state directorate of health and family welfare also stressed on the arrangement of separate rooms for students who would have tested positive. The asymptomatic candidates must bring a certificate from medical officers certifying their asymptomatic condition. Interestingly, the government had previously did not allow students who have tested positive for Covid-19 to write SSLC and II PUC exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-to-permit-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-to-write-cet-863671.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'No disappointment, but one Sriramulu can't do all the work'||In the early weeks of the pandemic, Karnataka was a model to be emulated. But with Covid-19 numbers rising in the state, that perception is changing. Health & Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu, the head of the state’s Covid-19 task force, remains optimistic though, as he tells DH’s Shruthi HM Sastry. Q. Karnataka was projected to see 25,000 cases by mid-August, but already, Bengaluru alone has crossed 30,000 cases. Where did the government go wrong? A. The first lockdown was a success. By the time we imposed the second lockdown, there was already a lot of movement of people from various states, especially to Bengaluru. This led to a rise in Covid-19 cases. The government has not been lax. The chief minister is working on this round the clock. We have put in place all possible infrastructure to deal with the pandemic. Q. Are lockdowns effective anymore? At a time when the government’s revenues have fallen, what is the way forward? A. We have imposed lockdown in certain districts. We are working towards more precautionary measures. The public, too, has to cooperate. Even during the lockdown, we see people moving around, defying it. Going forward, the chief minister has clearly said ‘no’ to another lockdown. We will increase testing. We have got about three lakh antigen kits recently. We will buy more. Q. The government is saying there is enough infrastructure in place. However, people are unable to access this infrastructure. There have been so many such instances. A. The reason we made the bed allotment process online was to ensure that there was no confusion in this. If there are any persistent issues, we will sort it out. Q. Delay in test reports has been a persistent issue, too. People have to wait for several days to get their report. A. The challenge has been that in some labs, the lab technicians themselves are testing positive, after which labs have to be shut down for a few days. There have been delays where machine recalibration was required. We are sorting all this out. The solution is to increase labs in each district and to increase testing. With the antigen testing in place, we will get to know the results within 30 minutes. We are working toward this. Q. The death of a 28-year-old pourakarmika in Bengaluru has triggered outrage about lack of protective equipment for frontline workers. Why hasn’t government provided adequate safety gear?  A. Be it ASHA, Anganwadi or other frontline workers, we have made all precautionary gear available. We will ensure that such incidents do not recur. The government will also offer compensation to the victim’s family in this case. Q. AYUSH doctors are protesting for salary on par with MBBS graduates. Will you address their demand? A. Their contention has been that they are working since several years with poor pay. We have now increased the salary of AYUSH PG students from Rs 15,000 to Rs 40,000 a month. Recently, we announced that weightage will be given to experience while recruiting MBBS doctors. AYUSH doctors have demanded the same. We will discuss this with the CM and resolve the issue. Q. There was controversy over your ‘God alone can save us’ comment.   A. I will give you the context (of the statement). Opposition leaders were alleging that there is no coordination among the ministers and that we had failed to address the pandemic. All I wanted to say was that the government was doing everything it could and that it was not right for Opposition parties to make these allegations when the government was working so hard. I also wanted to say that today, when all temples are closed, it’s the doctors who are doing the work for us at the frontline. I was comparing doctors to God. My statement was edited and misinterpreted, and it went viral. Q. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, in a way, has become the face of Covid-19 management. In Bengaluru, CM picked Revenue Minister R Ashoka to handle the crisis briefly. It is said that you are unhappy and sulking. A. I have no such disappointment. One Ramulu cannot do all the work. We have to work together. Today, in Bengaluru itself, we see a minister designated. It’s teamwork. Sudhakar is a first-time minister and has been working enthusiastically. I have no problem with that. As for me, I have been continuously travelling ever since the first death was reported in Kalaburagi. There was a lot of panic in the state. I began my travel at that time in this district. I put an action plan into place after discussing with all local officials. We created a 5-km buffer zone, detailed out precautionary measures and tried to build confidence among the frontline workers. I visited all the districts – twice, at that -- across the state to assess the ground situation. Q. What should the public prepare for? When is the curve likely to flatten? A. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO) analysis, the cases are likely to reduce in October or November. Q. Moving away from Covid-19, the Justice Nagamohan Das committee has recently submitted its report on increasing reservations for SC/ST communities in the state. You have been consistently demanding a hike in reservation for the Valmiki (ST) community. A. I am optimistic that this report will be positive. I’m confident that based on the population, the Valmiki community will get an increase in quota. Justice Nagamohan Das has handed over the report to the CM in a sealed cover. It’s not right to push the issue in the midst of the pandemic. But once the situation eases, the government will take it forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-disappointment-but-one-sriramulu-cant-do-all-the-work-863800.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa to address state at 5 pm today||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will address the state at 5 pm today (July 21).  According to the Chief Minister’s Office, Yediyurappa will go live on YouTube and Facebook to address citizens at 4 pm. So far, throughout the pandemic, Yediyurappa has addressed news conferences to make key policy announcements. This will be the first time he will directly address citizens, much like what Prime Minister Narendra Modi prefers to do.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-address-state-at-5-pm-today-863829.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP’s Murugesh Nirani in soup after anti-Hindu forward message||Former BJP minister Murugesh Nirani tendered a public apology on Tuesday after a WhatsApp message undermining the legitimacy of Hindu deities was shared from his personal mobile number.  The message, which contained derogatory remarks about Hindu gods Brahma, Rama, Krishna and others, was sent from Nirani’s number to a WhatsApp group at 5.28 am.  Among the members of the group was Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, who left soon after he read the message.  “This number is mine, but I did not forward the message. For the purpose of public relations, my PA and gunman use the number. Last night, the phone was with my PA. Due to negligence, the message that came from somewhere got forwarded and this created faff. A mistake is a mistake, regardless of who committed it. For this mistake, (my PA) has apologised. The message was not forwarded deliberately. I apologise to the people of the state,” Nirani said in a video statement.  Anticipating the damage an anti-Hindu message could cause to his reputation, Nirani, who is said to be lobbying to become a minister, said he had utmost faith and devotion in the sanatana dharma. “I am tolerant of all religions. I have never spoken lightly about religion-faith. I see all religions equally. As a Hindu, I am proud of my religion. This mistake happened because of my PA’s indiscretion. Let this not become a reason for people to mistake me. On behalf of my staff, I once again apologise. Let this not continue further and create more confusion. I assure you that I will be careful going forward to make sure this doesn’t happen again,” Nirani said.  This elicited a reaction from leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who is seen as a rationalist and borderline atheist himself. “(Nirani) should first clarify, does he believe in God?” Siddaramaiah said. “This amounts to insulting every person who believes in God.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-s-murugesh-nirani-in-soup-after-anti-hindu-forward-message-863894.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||I request with folded hands, don't attempt suicide if you test Covid-19 positive: Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka CM, BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday during his address to the state urged people not to attempt suicide if they test Covid-19 positive. "I request all with folded hands not to attempt suicide after testing Covid-19 positive," he said during the live Facebook address. There have been reports of many people dying by suicide or attempting to kill themselves after testing positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-request-with-folded-hands-dont-attempt-suicide-if-you-test-covid-19-positive-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-863926.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No more lockdown in Bengaluru or anywhere in Karnataka, announces CM B S Yediyurappa||As the lockdown in Bengaluru came to an end on Tuesday, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa clarified that the government will not be extending the lockdown either in Bengaluru or anywhere in the state. Addressing people of the state though a video on social media, Yediyurappa said going forward, lockdown was not a solution. "From tomorrow, there is no lockdown in Bengaluru. There will be no lockdown anywhere in the state from now on. People need to get back to their livelihoods. The state has to think of rejuvenation of the economy too," he said. However, strict regulation of containment zones will continue. While people can get back to business from Wednesday, the Chief Minister requested everyone to ensure social distancing in public and wear masks. Strict action will be initiated against those violating these norms, he added. As for delay in reports, the government would ensure that the reports are available to the patient within 24 hours, he assured. All private hospitals have given assurance to give 50 percent of beds for Covid treatment, which bolstered the government's measures, according to Yediyurappa. Speaking specifically about Bengaluru, Ydiyurappa attributed the sudden spike in cases to people from several other states who had travelled to the city. To deal with the cases here, as many as 11,230 beds have been made available in the city. Of these, 741 beds are in government hospitals, 819 in government medical colleges, 4836 beds in private hospitals and 2624 beds in Covid care centres. There is a centalised system for bed allotment and a real tine dashboard will help track the availability, he said. "I am also in touch with officials in all the districts where there has been rising number of cases, to help them put in place all necessary measure in mitigating the pandemic," the Chief Minister added. Amidst allegations about corruption in procuring equipment for Covid treatment, Yediyurappa reiterated that there was no misappropriation of funds. "I request opposition leaders to ask for any information they need. We will provide everything," he said, requesting support from the opposition parties in tackling the crisis. There is also some misconception that the beds used for Covid treatment will be reused for other purposes. "This is not the case. The government will ensure that these beds are disposed of in an appropriate manner. Only the cots will be reused," Yediyurappa clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-more-lockdown-in-bengaluru-or-anywhere-in-karnataka-announces-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-863950.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Backward' Yadgir district leads the way in Covid-19 recovery rate||After its good showing in the prevention of Covid-19 deaths, Yadgir seems to have taken a march over other districts in regard to recovery rate also. Incidentally, Yadgir is identified as a backward district in the Najundappa committee on the regional imbalance. According to the State Covid-19 War Room report, the recovery rate of the infected patients in Yadgir is 87.8 % till July 19. Neighbouring Kalaburagi district has also seen a good recovery rate of 64%.  Out of 1,553 positive cases, 1,363 patients (87.8%) recovered in Yadgir district. There are only 189 active cases. District Health Officer M S Patil attributed this to early tracking, detection and treatment.  "We carried out a survey throughout the district before the arrival of migrant labourers, vulnerable groups like ILI and SARI patients and pregnant women were subjected to Covid-19 test and given proper treatment, if they were found positive for the virus," Patil said.   "We have no special menu for the patients' food. We are providing whatever is available locally and sometimes whatever the patients like," he explained. Out of 2,743 positive patients, 1,771 (64%) have recovered in Kalaburagi district till July 19.  Fruits the key in Kalaburagi Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner B Sharat said as a good number of those testing positive are migrants, they were given nutritious food to boost their immunity, dry fruits and food containing Vitamin C. Their vital parameters are being monitored constantly. "If any patient develops serious complications, they will be shifted to the hospital immediately," the DC said. "Instead of depending more on ventilators, we are using high flow nasal oxygen, which helped us treat patients in critical condition. Asymptomatic patients are also being monitored properly by conducting basic line tests," he explained.  The recovery rate of Covid patients in other districts of Kalyana Karnataka region: Raichur 61.4%, Koppal 54.8%, Bidar 53.2% and Ballari 53%.  The districts with the highest recovery rates in Karnataka: 1) Yadgir (87.08%), 2)  Udupi (72.70%) 3) Davangere  70.80% (*As on July 19, 2020. Source: Karnataka State Covid-19 War Room) The districts with the lowest recovery rates in Karnataka: 1) Bengaluru Rural (7.20%) 2) Bengaluru Urban (21.40%) 3) Kolar (27.20%) (*As on July 19, 2020. Source: Karnataka State Covid-19 War Room)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/backward-yadgir-district-leads-the-way-in-covid-19-recovery-rate-864006.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government to go ahead with CET; coronavirus positive students allowed to appear||The Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) 2020 will be held on July 30 and 31 as scheduled. As many of 30 candidates are stuck outside India and a majority of them are from the Gulf, Middle East and European countries. While operation of international flights is limited, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has not received communication from any of the candidates about their inconveniences. However, the KEA officials said that they would go ahead with the test even if the overseas students face difficulty in appearing for it.  "We cannot change the schedule just because of 30 students," said an official. "These students from outside India were informed months before," Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan told reporters on Tuesday. "We are conducting the test in the interest of students. Admissions for other universities have begun and there will be no virus-free month if we keep waiting," Ashwath Narayan said, justifying the government's decision to go ahead with the CET. Students from other countries are allowed to appear for CET if their parents studied in Karnataka for 10 years and the students' mother tongue is Kannada. The KEA charges Rs 5,000 as an application fee for such students. Meanwhile, around 1,881 students will be appearing for the test from outside Karnataka. These candidates and guardians accompanying them have been exempted from 96-hour quarantine. Coronavirus positive students allowed The state government is allowing the Covid-19 positive students to appear for CET. Ashwath Narayan said that separate arrangement would be made at Covid care centres for such students and medical staff had been trained to monitor the test. "As per the data from the Health Department only 40 persons in 17-20 age group have tested positive for Covid-19 till now. Therefore, it is not difficult for district administrations to conduct examinations for them following the SoP," the minister said. Going a step ahead, students in hospitals for Covid treatment would also be allowed to appear for the test. The would be provided ambulances for transportation. So far, KEA has received one such request from Shivamogga district where candidate is hospitalised for Covid-19. In Bengaluru, Covid Care Centres on Jnanabharati and GKVK campuses will be made as CET test centres for Covid-19 positive patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-to-go-ahead-with-cet-coronavirus-positive-students-allowed-to-appear-864010.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 3,649 fresh coronavirus cases||Karnataka reported 3,649 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the active case tally to 44,140. The day also saw 1,664 patients being discharged from hospitals. A total of 61 people lost their lives including six due to non-Covid causes. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,714 new cases followed by Ballari 193, Dakshina Kannada 149, Mysuru 135, and Yadgiri 117. Bengaluru also accounted for 22 of the deaths reported on Tuesday. As many as 16 out of the 61 dead patients passed away at their residence and two of them were brought dead. The state tested 43,904 samples on Tuesday with RT-PCR tests constituting 23,885, Antigen 19,328, TrueNAT 551, and CBNAAT 140. The state reached a cumulative tally of 10,64,734 tests on Tuesday across 88 labs in the state. The state’s recovery rate stands at 35.82% and the mortality rate at 2.06%. The state capital’s recovery rate stands at 21.39% while the mortality rate stands at 2.06%.   “In order to ramp up testing in containment zones, two lakh rapid antigen test kits have been procured and supplied to all districts. A total of 50,000 antigen tests will be conducted in Bengaluru Rural and Urban districts. Our target is to conduct 35,000 antigen tests per day,” Medical Education Minister Dr. K Sudhakar tweeted.  According to the numbers tweeted by Sudhakar, Bengaluru Urban has been set the highest testing target per day with 11,500 tests and Bengaluru Rural 500 tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-3649-fresh-coronavirus-cases-864030.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus sample testing rate slashed; government to buy 4 lakh antigen kits||The Covid-19 Task Force on Tuesday decided to slash the rates for sample testing while approving measures to strengthen infrastructure to deal with the pandemic.  The price for testing samples sent by the government to private labs will now be Rs 2,000 instead of Rs 2,250. A regular patient walking into a private lab with a prescription will have to pay Rs 3,000 in place of Rs 4,500. “We have approved procuring four lakh rapid antigen testing kits. We had already approved one lakh. So, totally, we will procure five lakh kits. They will be mainly used in Bengaluru,” Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said, adding that it was also decided to increase the RT-PCR and RNA extractor testing capacity at government medical colleges. “In one day, about 7,000-8,000 more RT-PCR tests can be done,” he said.  In addition, oxygen facilities will be provided to 4,736 beds at the 17 government medical colleges.  The task force also approved the procurement of 35 lakh PPE kits. “This is based on a needs assessment done by the Health department for Covid Care Centres, booth-level committees, task force members, primary health centres and so on. Totally, 35 lakh PPE kits are needed till September-end,” Sudhakar said. “Also, we approved 2.5 lakh N-95 masks and PPE kits to be given to the 17 government medical colleges, tertiary and superspeciality hospitals under the medical education department.”   In all, Sudhakar said the task force approved spending about Rs 500 crore to fight the pandemic.  Supply of Covid-19 antiviral drug Remdesivir to private hospitals will be regulated by the government to check black marketing and hoarding, he added. The drug is currently available in government hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-sample-testing-rate-slashed-government-to-buy-4-lakh-antigen-kits-864036.html
21-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Anganwadi worker dies as hospitals turn her away||A 50-year-old Anganwadi worker who was suffering from breathlessness died on the way to a hospital in Hyderabad on Tuesday morning, as the hospitals in the city reportedly refused to treat her. The deceased has been identified as Akkanagamma Dayamani, a resident of Honnakiranagi village of the district. Chatrapati, the woman's husband, said she developed breathlessness at around 2 am on Tuesday. She was taken to the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), but was refused admission. Then she was taken to the ESIC hospital, where the doctors turned her away, saying there were no ventilators. Two private hospitals in the city too refused to treat Akkanagamma, he said.  "The last rites of the Anganwadi worker were performed without a Covid test. Stern action should be taken against the doctors of the government hospitals who refused to admit her," said Maruthi Manpade, vice president of the Karnataka Pranta Raitha Sangha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/anganwadi-worker-dies-as-hospitals-turn-her-away-864037.html
21-07-2020||West||Will not join BJP, our fight to save Congress by effecting leadership change in govt: Pilot camp MLA||An MLA From Sachin Pilot's camp on Monday said the legislators supporting the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister will not join the BJP and their fight was to "save the party" by effecting a leadership change in the Rajasthan government. Mukesh Bhakar, MLA from Ladnun, Nagaur, who was dropped as the state youth Congress chief last week, also appealed to the party high command that in order to save the Congress, they must act now and change the state leadership. Asked about the Congress' allegation that they were under BJP protection in Haryana, a state ruled by the saffron party, Bhakar said, "No one is in a BJP state, we are in Delhi." He, however, did not elaborate. Countering Congress MLA Giriraj Singh Malinga's charge that Pilot had offered him money to join the BJP, Bhakar claimed that it was the Pilot supporters who were being lured for the last one and a half years with money, ministerial berths and contracts to cross over to the Gehlot camp. Bhakar claimed that he as well as other Pilot supporters were still getting offers from the Gehlot camp. "But, we have stood by our leader," Bhakar said. Asked if they could join hands with the BJP, he categorically denied any such plans and said, "We have not met any person from the BJP and neither anyone has contacted us." "We have said this earlier and our leader Sachin Pilot had also made it clear that we will not join the BJP and our fight is for a leadership change in our state," he said. These things are being said to tarnish the image of Pilot and his supporters, he said. Bhakar said he and many other MLAs have made all efforts to convey to the leadership in Delhi over the last year and a half that Pilot was being ignored, but their pleas went unheard. "We met Avinash Pande (AICC in-charge of the state), K C Venugopal (general secretary, organisation) Mukul Wasnik (general secretary) to convey our concerns repeatedly that Pilot was being ignored, but they did not listen," he told PTI. "Gehlot wants Pilot to go from this party and that is why he is making such abusive statements and allegations," the MLA said. Bhakar also alleged that the very people on whose hard work the government was formed are being now hounded. Last week, in an open revolt, Pilot and 18 other loyalist MLAs defied a party whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party meetings. He was then sacked as deputy chief minister and PCC chief. The showdown came after the Rajasthan police's Special Operations Group launched a probe into alleged attempts at horse trading to topple the Gehlot government and issued a notice to Pilot to appear during the investigation. SOG had also given a notice to Gehlot. Later, the Rajasthan chief minister had alleged that Pilot was part of the conspiracy by the BJP, which denied these allegations and blamed the Gehlot-Pilot power tussle for the Congress' troubles in the state. Meanwhile, the Rajasthan High Court is hearing a plea by Pilot and other rebel MLAs against the disqualification notices issued to them by the Assembly Speaker. In the 200-member state assembly, the Congress has 107 MLAs, including former deputy chief minister Pilot and 18 MLAs loyal to him. Pilot has been upset since the Congress picked Gehlot over him for the chief minister's post, following the December 2018 assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-not-join-bjp-our-fight-to-save-congress-by-effecting-leadership-change-in-govt-pilot-camp-mla-863692.html
21-07-2020||West||Maha: Seven scrap godowns gutted in fire, no casualty||A fire destroyed seven scrap godowns in Mumbra area of Maharashtra's Thane district on Tuesday morning, a civic official said. There was no report of any casualty, he said. The fire broke out around 7 am in Shil Phata area of Mumbra and gutted seven warehouses located there, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. Two fire engines, a jumbo water tanker and other water tankers were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control after about two hours, he said. Some plastic items and other material were stored in the godowns, he said. The cause of the fire was being probed, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-seven-scrap-godowns-gutted-in-fire-no-casualty-863768.html
21-07-2020||West||Barrels of their guns must be broken now: Shiv Sena blasts Nepal over border firing in 'Saamana'||Against the backdrop of the recent firing by Nepal Armed Police Force that left an Indian injured, the Shiv Sena on Tuesday called for breaking barrels of Nepalese guns right now or else, it said such incidents will be a permanent headache like is the case of Pakistan. An editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' also said that China has been quiet in Ladakh at the moment, but is "playing a game" to ensure Indian borders are not peaceful by making Pakistan and Nepal fire bullets. Praising Indian soldiers for giving befitting replies to terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, the Shiv Sena sought to know when will the countrys rulers succeed in stopping Pakistans ceasefire violations and firing from across the border. An Indian national was injured in firing by the Nepal Armed Police Force (NAPF) in the 'no mans land' on the Indo- Nepal border in Bihars Kishanganj district on Saturday, according to police. On June 12, an Indian national was killed while two others were injured in firing by the NAPF on the Indo-Nepal border near Lalbandi Janki Nagar village in Bihars Sitamarhi district. The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said Pakistan violated ceasefire more than 2,700 times till now this year. Twenty-one innocent Indian citizens were killed, while 94 others injured in these incidents, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party added. Now, add the firings from Nepal to this. This means, earlier only Pakistan would engage in firing from across the border. Now, Nepalese guns are also blazing and claiming lives of innocent Indians," it said. "We have not been able to stop Pakistani guns, but such should not become the case with Nepal. The barrels of the Nepalese guns must be broken right now. Or else, firing along the border with Nepal will become a permanent headache as is the case with Pakistan, the Marathi publication said. Referring to the two incidents involving the NAPF, the Shiv Sena said Nepal has shown it will side with China and Pakistan against India. "China is quiet in Ladakh at the moment, but it is playing a game to ensure Indian borders are not peaceful by making Nepal and Pakistan fire bullets, it said. Pakistanis continue to fire bullets in the central areas of Jammu and Kashmir, while Indian soldiers have been giving befitting replies to such aggressions, it pointed out. "But when will the ceasefire violation and firing from across the border by Pakistan stop? It is a question when our rulers will succeed in stopping it, the Shiv Sena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/barrels-of-their-guns-must-be-broken-now-shiv-sena-blasts-nepal-over-border-firing-in-saamana-863792.html
21-07-2020||West||Farmers launch agitation over demand for hike in milk prices||Farmers started an agitation in Sangli and Kolhapur districts of western Maharashtra on Tuesday over their various demands, including a hike in milk procurement prices. The agitators along with members of the Raju Shetti- led Swambhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, a farmers' organisation, stopped milk tankers and emptied them on the Pune-Bengaluru highway passing the two districts. Talking to PTI, Shetti said they are demanding an increase in milk procurement prices by Rs 5 per litre and the benefit to be directly deposited into the accounts of milk producers. "We are also demanding an export subsidy of Rs 30 for milk producers and cancellation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) levied on milk products," he said. Shetti also demanded cancellation of the Centre's decision to import 10,000 tonnes of milk powder. He said milk business in the state has been affected "because of the policies of the central government". "Since early morning, members of the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana have been agitating in the region (Sangli and Kolhapur) by stopping the milk tankers and spilling milk on roads," he added. BJP Pune unit president Jagdish Mulik also said they will to launch a statewide agitation from August 1, if the demands of milk producers are not met. On Monday, BJP leaders in Pune submitted a memorandum of their demands to Collector Naval Kishore Ram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-launch-agitation-over-demand-for-hike-in-milk-prices-863803.html
21-07-2020||West||Solar power plant inaugurated in Navy facility near Mumbai||Vice Admiral Ajit Kumar, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Naval Command, e-inaugurated the first two Mega Watt Capacity Solar Power Plant of the Western Naval Command on Monday. The plant has been installed at Naval Station Karanja and is one of the largest solar plants in the region. The Solar Plant comprises of 100% indigenously developed solar panels, tracking tables and inverters. The plant is grid interconnected utilising the state of the art single axis sun-tracking technology with computerised monitoring and control. The project is a significant step by the Indian Navy towards harnessing Solar energy and use of a renewable source of energy for meeting the power supply requirement of Naval Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/solar-power-plant-inaugurated-in-navy-facility-near-mumbai-863834.html
21-07-2020||West||Uddhav Thackeray should refrain from promoting religious activity: Majeed Memon||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is among the invitees for the Ram temple bhoomi pujan ceremony in Ayodhya, former NCP MP Majeed Memon said on Tuesday, but opined that head of a secular democracy should refrain from promoting a "particular religious activity. The 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony is scheduled to be held at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to attend it on August 5. Uddhav Thackeray is among invitees for bhoomi pujan of Ram Temple. He may participate respecting Covid-19 restrictions in hispersonal capacity. The head of a secular democracy should refrain from promoting a particular religious activity," Memon, who is also a lawyer, tweeted. The Shiv Sena, which has been pitching for construction of the temple for three decades, formed a government in Maharashtra with the ideologically-different NCP and Congress last year. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday claimed his party paved the way to the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and removed roadblocks in the temple construction for the cause of Hindutva and not for politics. It needs to be seen how many people will be invited for the temple's ground-breaking ceremony next month and what social distancing measures will be taken at the event (in view of the COVID-19 outbreak), Raut said. "What 'political social distancing' they will observe remains to be seen," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-should-refrain-from-promoting-religious-activity-majeed-memon-863878.html
21-07-2020||West||Defer action on disqualification notices till July 24: Rajasthan HC to Speaker||The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday requested the Legislative Assembly speaker to defer action on disqualification notices to dissident Congress MLAs till July 24, the speaker's counsel said. The court also reserved its judgment on the writ petition filed by Sachin Pilot and 18 dissident legislators for July 24. The high court had on Friday given a four-day reprieve to Sachin Pilot and other Congress dissidents from any action by Rajasthan Speaker on the disqualification notices served on them by extending the hearing into their petition. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the president of the state unit of the party after he rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/defer-action-on-disqualification-notices-till-july-24-rajasthan-hc-to-speaker-863904.html
21-07-2020||West||Reprimanded for buying samosa, minor boy kills self in Nagpur||An 11-year-old boy allegedly committed suicide in Maharashtra's Nagpur city after being reprimanded by his mother for buying a samosa, police said on Tuesday. Veeru Natthu Sahu was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his home in Ganga Nagar in Gittikhadan area on Sunday night, an official said. The deceased boy's family was struggling to make ends meet after their small business was hit because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, he said. The Class 7 student had taken Rs 10 from home without asking his mother and bought a samosa, which was then eaten by his elder brother, the official said. The boy's mother scolded him for taking money without her permission and asked him to get the snack for himself, following which the distraught minor allegedly went into the kitchen and hanged himself using a saree, he said. The Gittikhadan police have registered a case of accidental death in this regard, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/reprimanded-for-buying-samosa-minor-boy-kills-self-in-nagpur-863931.html
21-07-2020||West||Yes Bank case: PMLA court refuses bail to Rana Kapoor||A PMLA court here on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with an alleged multi-crore fraud at the bank. Kapoor had sought bail on merits of the case. His lawyers submitted that the investigation in the case was completed, hence there was no reason to keep him in jail. Also, most of the evidence was documentary in nature and cannot be tampered by the accused, they added. However, special judge P P Rajvaidya rejected Kapoor's plea. The banker, currently in judicial custody, was arrested in March under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is primarily investigating Kapoor, his wife and three daughters over Rs 600 crore received by a firm allegedly controlled by them from an entity linked to the scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). Kapoor, his family members and others got benefits of Rs 4,300 crore through companies controlled by them as kickbacks for sanctioning huge loans, the ED has alleged. He is also accused of receiving bribes for going easy on loans given to a few big corporate groups that had turned into non-performing assets (NPAs). The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also probing a related case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yes-bank-case-pmla-court-refuses-bail-to-rana-kapoor-863945.html
21-07-2020||West||Gujarat HC strips lawyers' body president of his 'senior advocate' designation||In what is said to be a rare move, the Gujarat high court has stripped a lawyer, who also happens to be the president of lawyers' association, of his "senior counsel" designation on Tuesday following a unanimous decision of a full court held on Saturday. The decision comes days after a suo motu contempt proceeding was initiated against the lawyer Yatin Oza for his alleged remarks against the court and its administration for allegedly being "biased" and running a "gambling den that caters only to the litigants with means and money power." In a notification, issued by the high court, it is mentioned, "In exercise of powers conferred under Rule 26 of the High Court of Gujarat-Designation of Senior Advocates, Rule, 2018, the Full Court in its meeting dated 18.07.2020 has unanimously resolved that the decision of the Full Court dated 25.10.1999 to designate Yatin Narendrabhai Oza, Advocate as Senior Advocate is reviewed and recalled." The full court comprised all the 29 sitting judges of the high court who unanimously decided to take away the designation from Oza. The "senior advocate" is a designation conferred on advocates on "the basis of their ability, standing at the Bar, experience in law and special knowledge." Oza, who is heading Gujarat High Court Advocates' Association (GHCAA) as its President, had made several serious allegations on Facebook live press conference on June 5 where he made several remarks against the court and its administration. A division bench of high court of justices Sonia Gokani and N V Anjaria took suo motu cognisance of these remarks. Issuing criminal contempt notice against Oza the bench stated, "This suo motu contempt proceeding has been initiated by the Court in wake of extremely unfortunate and absolutely unpalatable event that took place in the midst of Pandemic of COVID- 19 where accusing fingers have been raised against the High court , High Court Administration and the Registry by irresponsible, sensational and intemperate delivery in an interview by the President of the GUJARAT High Court Advocates’ Association ,the Senior Advocate Yatin Oza in his capacity of the office bearer of GHCAA." The order also had transcripts of Oza's remarks as saying, "The High Court is an absolute gambling den today, wherein only billionaire can gamble. If poor people gamble for five rupees at home, the police would arrest them. This is the situation of High Court. High Court can file a contempt petition against me." Some of the allegations that Oza made were reproduced in the court order which stated, "corrupt practices being adopted by the registry of the High Court of Gujarat, undue favour is shown to high-profile industrialist and smugglers and traitors, the High Court functioning is for influential and rich people and their advocates, the billionaires walk away with order from the High Court in two days whereas the poor and non VIPs need to suffer, if the litigants want to file any matter in the High Court person has to be either Mr Khambhata or the builder or the company..." The order noted that since Gujarat was one of the worst coronavirus affected states, physical functioning of court was halted and hearings commenced through video conferencing following the announcement of lockdown. It said, "Like every change in the system, this change was not finding favour at some quarters and while the genuine grievances were being examined on administrative side by the High Court, the president of the bar Association behaved in the most reckless manner. He leveled false and contemptuous allegations of corruption, malpractices against the administration of the High Court."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-strips-lawyers-body-president-of-his-senior-advocate-designation-863952.html
21-07-2020||West||Mumbai hospital conducts heart transplant amid Covid-19||Mumbai's first successful heart transplant during the outbreak of Covid-19 has been performed at the Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital (KDAH). The recipient was a 53-year-old female from Nanded with severe heart failure and irreversible damage to the heart, which required a heart transplant.  She was on the transplant list from the past eight months, and while her condition worsened, the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic reduced her chances of receiving a new heart, as there was a steep decline in number of organ donations and organ transplants. However, a donor heart became available on  18 July  and overcoming the challenges of the pandemic situation, the transplant surgery was successfully carried out by the heart transplant team led by Dr Nandkishore Kapadia at KDAH. Speaking about the patient’s condition, Dr Kapadia, Director, Heart & Lung Transplant Centre, Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital said: “The patient had previously undergone an open heart valve replacement surgery in 2009. In 2012, her condition started to worsen. Last year, she was diagnosed with irreversible damage to her heart that ultimately led to failure and she was bedridden from the past six months. As she was on blood thinners due to the valve replacement, there was massive bleeding during the surgery and this added to the complexity of the transplant. Also, these patients are immuno-compromised and given the current Covid-19 situation, additional care had to be taken. All necessary tests were carried out and all parameters followed that were essential for the success of the surgery. The transplant was successful and the patient is recuperating well.” The successful transplant was possible with the support of the traffic police and authorities who did a commendable job in facilitating the green corridor that ensured quick and safe transport of the harvested heart. It was also a humane gesture by the donor family who even during the testing times of a pandemic agreed to the selfless act of organ donation and saved the patient’s life. Dr Santosh Shetty, CEO & Executive Director said: "We are proud to have successfully performed the first heart transplant in Mumbai amidst the  pandemic. All infection control protocols were followed for a successful transplant to ensure that the lady received a second lease of life. It is an example of the highest standard of care that we provide at KDAH and we look forward to offering this and other high end super speciality care to more patients at this difficult time.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-hospital-conducts-heart-transplant-amid-covid-19-863966.html
21-07-2020||West||Veteran Urdu poet Mohammad Shamshuddin, popularly known as Shams Jalnavi passes away||Noted Urdu poet Mohammad Shamshuddin, popularly known as 'Shams Jalnavi', died here in Maharashtra on Tuesday morning due to old age, his family members said. He was 95. Jalnavi penned hundreds of 'ghazals', 'shers' and 'nazms' (a genre of Urdu poetry) in his lifetime. He used to attend 'mushairas' (poetic congregations) across the country. Born in 1926, Jalnavi had completed his early education in Jalna and completed MA in Persian from Lahore. People from different walks of life offered their condolence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/veteran-urdu-poet-mohammad-shamshuddin-popularly-known-as-shams-jalnavi-passes-away-863978.html
21-07-2020||West||Aarogya Setu app mandatory to enter Goa Collectorate; Opposition demands withdrawal of rule||After scenes of chaos at the South Goa Collectorate on Tuesday, where visitors not equipped with smartphones or did not have the Aarogya Setu app downloaded to their devices were disallowed entry to the premises, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat has demanded that the entry restrictions be lifted. “Minimising the hardships of people is the duty of every government. I demand that the government of Goa should immediately withdraw its order prohibiting entry of people without the Aarogya Setu app in South Goa Collectorate. The government must know, even those without smartphones are citizens of India,” Kamat said on Tuesday, a day which saw chaotic scenes at the Collectorate building in South Goa’s Margao town. Visitors who either did not have smartphones or did not have the Union Health and Family Welfare app were denied permission to enter the premise, on the basis of an order issued on the directions of South Goa Collector Ajit Roy. The administrative order stated that only those who are marked safe on their Aarogya Setu app would be allowed to enter the Collectorate building. “As per the directions of the Collector, I am directed to inform you to allow one those people who have downloaded the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile and their status is showing ‘You are Safe’ only then, they will be permitted to enter the premises of the Collectorate...” the order formally issued by Deputy Collector Snehal Prabhu said. The order comes at a time when the state is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases with the tally of active cases cross 1400. 25 persons have died as a result of a Covid-19 infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aarogya-setu-app-mandatory-to-enter-goa-collectorate-opposition-demands-withdrawal-of-rule-863985.html
21-07-2020||West||Gujarat's Covid-19 tally crosses 50,000-mark; death toll climbs to 2,201||The coronavirus tally of Gujarat breached 50,000 mark on Tuesday with detection of 1,026 new cases, the highest since the pandemic broke out, taking the total tally to 50,465. The death toll also rose to 2,201 after 34 more patients were reported dead due to the virus. The case fatality rate was recorded 4.36 per cent which continues to be one of the highest in the country. This comes amidst data mismatching and reports of alleged underreporting of deaths due to the deadly virus. According to data released by the state health department, the number of people under quarantine has increased to 4.16 lakh from 2.5 lakh in the last three weeks, out of which 2,701 persons are in government facilities while the rest have been quarantined in their homes. According to the data, out of 50,465 total cases, 11,861 are active cases and 36,403 have recoverd and been discharged. In terms of testing, the state has recorded a total of 5,62,682 tests till Tuesday. In the last 24 hours, the number of tests was 13,693 which was one of the highest. According to senior officers, the situation in Ahmedabad, the worst-hit city, is improving as the number of new cases and deaths are constantly decreasing and is being overtaken by Surat. On Tuesday, Ahmedabad city reported 187 new cases while Surat topped the chart with 225 cases. Even in death cases, Surat reported the highest 14 deaths in 24 hours whereas five succumbed to the virus in Ahmedabad. According to senior health officials, Ahmedabad has passed its peak and Surat is at it currently which is likely to continue for a month while other parts of the state plateau.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-covid-19-tally-crosses-50000-mark-death-toll-climbs-to-2201-864019.html
21-07-2020||West||Mumbai deploys 'smart helmets' to screen for coronavirus||As coronavirus infections climb in Mumbai, authorities in India's worst-hit city are turning to high-tech "smart helmets" to speed up screenings and identify suspected cases in the financial capital's densely-populated slums. The portable thermo-scanners -- previously deployed in Dubai, Italy and China -- enable health workers to record the temperatures of dozens of residents per minute and could emerge as a key weapon in Mumbai's quest to eradicate the virus from the city of 18 million. "Traditional screening methods take a lot of time. You go to a slum with 20,000 people and it takes you three hours to screen 300 people," said Neelu Jain, a medical volunteer affiliated with the non-profit group Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana. "But when you use these helmets, all you have to do is ask people to come out of their homes, face them and you can screen 6,000 people in two-and-a-half hours," she told AFP. The helmets were donated to authorities in Mumbai and the nearby city of Pune, which have both been locked in a months-long battle against the pandemic, with cases across India soaring past one million on Friday. But with just two helmets in use in each city, the push to identify and isolate infected residents will take a long time. The imported helmets -- which cost around 600,000 rupees ($8,045) -- are also in high demand in places like Dubai, said Jain, making it very difficult to expand capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-deploys-smart-helmets-to-screen-for-coronavirus-864043.html
