22-07-2020||First Edit||Property tax: Don’t burden citizens further||At a time when most people are facing extreme duress following job losses and income cuts due to the pandemic and lockdown-hit economy, the Karnataka government is set to administer another rude shock by increasing property tax on residential, commercial and industrial units. Property tax will henceforth be calculated not on the basis of unit area value, as it is being done now, but on the capital cost of the building. While the change in the method, which is said to be more ‘scientific’ than the existing one, has been pending, the timing of its implementation is simply not appropriate. An increase in property tax could have a crippling effect on the already beleaguered real estate sector. This could lead to an increase in housing and commercial rents even as Bengaluru is witnessing an exodus of people complaining of, among others, the already unaffordable rents in the city. With large chunks of commercial spaces remaining vacant, absorbing the tax hike will be an additional load on building owners. Karnataka has been constrained to effect the hike from the next fiscal as this is a precondition imposed by the Centre to permit additional borrowings by the state to meet unforeseen Covid-related expenses. The Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002, mandates that the state’s fiscal deficit should be under 3% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP). The Centre has now permitted states to increase it to 5% for the current year. With the economy going into a tailspin and all sources of revenue virtually drying up, the state may indeed be forced to increase borrowing. In these difficult times, it would be a tall order for the government to manage the required expenditure without resorting to additional borrowing or increasing the tax burden on citizens. However, it can cushion the impact through financial prudence, like cutting down non-plan expenditure, curbing corruption and plugging leakages in revenue collection. In Bengaluru, 60% of the buildings default on payment of property tax, not to mention other utility charges like power and water. Karnataka’s financial stress can also be mitigated to some extend if the MPs from the state prevail upon the Centre to undo the injustice of the 15th Finance Commission, as a result of which the state lost over Rs 11,000 crore in devolution of funds. The Centre should also release the state’s share of GST revenues and make good the shortfall in it and in other grants. The proposed change in calculating property tax, which will be burdensome on property-owners, should be put on hold at least till 2022-23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/property-tax-don-t-burden-citizens-further-864083.html
22-07-2020||In Perspective||Resignation dramas to pull down governments must stop||Successful democratic systems across the world are characterised by equal opportunity for all citizens to participate in the election process, transparent and fair elections, and stability of the elected government. But democratically-elected state governments in India are frequently falling due to defections or resignation of elected representatives, induced either by personal ambition or due to the decision of coalition parties to pull out. Though the advertised cause of such decisions is ‘ideological differences,’ the unstated motives are never revealed. The frequent fall of governments result in administrative inefficiency, political corruption and increased cost to the exchequer for holding frequent elections. Political defections in state legislatures is as old as our democracy itself. Elected state governments in the past were destabilised basically in three ways: (1) due to the decision of elected individual member either to defect from one party to another or to vote against the party instruction in the state Assembly; (2) a few of the elected members of a political party splitting from it, either to form a separate party or to merge with another political party; and (3) a coalition party pulling out of the government or a party supporting a minority government from outside withdrawing its support. The first two problems were significantly controlled, for a time, by the 52nd Amendment in 1985 and by the 91st Amendment to the Constitution in 2003. The third problem remains unresolved. In 1950, 23 MLAs defected from Congress in Uttar Pradesh and formed Jana Congress. In 1953, the Praja Socialist Party (PSP) leader Prakasam defected to Congress to form the government in Andhra Pradesh. In 1956, Thanu Pillai from the Travancore-Cochin state switched sides from PSP to Congress, which facilitated the formation of a Congress government. In Mysore state, in 1956, the then Chief Minister Kengal Hanumanthaiah was forced to step down when 21 elected representatives of his party brought a no-confidence motion against him. In 1959, 98 MLAs openly defied the then Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Sampurnanand, marking the downfall of his government. New ways Undeterred by the curbs imposed by the 52nd and 91st Amendments, political parties and elected representatives have found new ways to destabilise governments. On May 23, 2018, the Congress and JD(S) parties in Karnataka formed a coalition government. Thereafter, neither coalition partner pulled out from the government nor did either of them split, nor even did members of either party defect. But still, the government was reduced to a minority on July 23, 2019, because 17 MLAs from both the parties ‘voluntarily’ resigned from their membership of the Assembly for reasons unknown, which resulted in the fall of the JD(S)-Congress government and the formation of the BJP government.      By-elections were held in December 2019, and all the members who had resigned from Congress and JD(S) and had thus help the BJP form the government were fielded as BJP candidates; 12 won the by-elections, two were elected to the Legislative Council and 10 out those 14 were inducted as ministers in the BJP government. In Madhya Pradesh, the Congress party, with the support of two BSP members and one SP member, formed its government after winning 114 out of 230 seats in the Assembly election in November-December 2018. But on March 10, 2020, 22 elected representatives of Congress, including six ministers in the Kamal Nath government, resigned from the state Assembly for unknown reasons, resulting in the fall of the Congress government and installation of the current BJP government. The resignations of the MLAs were accepted by the Speaker. They all joined the BJP subsequently to contest the by-election as its candidates. On June 17, 2020, the BJP-led coalition government in Manipur received a jolt when three of its members resigned and nine members from smaller parties withdrew support, thereby reducing the government to minority. The Congress majority government in Rajasthan is in crisis since July 12 due to a group of its MLAs, led by Sachin Pilot, who was Deputy Chief Minister in the Ashok Gehlot government, becoming rebels. The logic The logic is simple. When a certain number of MLAs of the ruling party resign from the Assembly, the strength of the ruling party gets reduced. The Opposition party, which had won fewer seats in the election, becomes the majority party and gets to form the government.  There is no remedy either in the Constitution of India or in the Representation of People Act, 1951, to regulate such destabilising behaviour of elected representatives. The law does not explain why a member elected for a term of five years is not made ineligible for re-election if he or she resigns from the Assembly. Even if he fails to win the by-election, he can still become a minister by getting nominated to the Assembly or Council or can hold any other important post, like that of chairman of a government board.   The way forward Even Parliament may not have imagined that elected governments can be brought down by ‘voluntary’ resignation of the elected representatives from the ruling party. Hence, such resignations by MLAs to destabilise a government was not included as a ground for disqualification either in the 52nd or in the 91st Amendment. The right to contest election is only a statutory right and not a fundamental right. Hence, it is fair and reasonable to regulate the ‘voluntary’ resignation of elected members by making them ineligible to contest any election or to hold any government position at least for a period of five years from the date of resignation. They should also be made ineligible to become nominated members of the Assembly or Legislative Council. (The writer is a political analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/resignation-dramas-to-pull-down-governments-must-stop-864087.html
22-07-2020||Kalaburagi||Is govt deliberately hiding deaths at ESIC? asks Chittapur MLA||Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge on Wednesday tweeted that he has received complaints that as many as eight people died at ESIC hospital in Kalaburagi following ventilator breakdown. I have got complaints that 8 people who were on ventilators are dead in ESIC Kalaburagi because there was oxygen breakdown in ICU. ESIC has not been admitting patients as the issue has not been resolved. Nobody is confirming or denying it. Is Govt deliberately hiding something?  No one is denying or accepting it, he said.  He further hoped that the information was wrong. "I hope I am wrong, but if it is a fact, this ascertains that the administration has lost control over #CoronaPandemic in the district," he said in another tweet.   Is the government deliberately hiding it? he questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/is-govt-deliberately-hiding-deaths-at-esic-asks-chittapur-mla-864153.html
22-07-2020||Kalaburagi||No one died due to ventilator breakdown at ESCI hospital: Kalaburagi DC||The Kalaburagi city is abuzz with rumours that as many as eight people undergoing treatment at ESIC hospital died due to ventilator breakdown.  To add to this charge, MLA Priyank Kharge also tweeted that he has received complaints that about eight people breathed their last due to ventilator breakdown. "No one from the district administration is confirming it or denying it. Is the government deliberately hiding it?" he asked.  An anganwadi worker, suffering from breathlessness died on Tuesday morning after she reportedly failed to get ventilator at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS).   In another incident, a 54-year-old woman from Rajeev Gandhi Nagar of the city died allegedly due to short supply of oxygen.  However, Deputy Commissioner B Sharat clarified that no death occurred due to ventilator failure at ESIC hospital. "I have spoken to the dean of the hospital. He assured that no such deaths occurred in the hospital," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/no-one-died-due-to-ventilator-breakdown-at-esci-hospital-kalaburagi-dc-864160.html
22-07-2020||Kalaburagi||Forest Department rescues injured porcupine in Kalaburagi||Forest Department staff rescued a porcupine which was writhing in pain after it met with an accident near Nrupathunga quarters on the premises of Gulbarga University.  Bheemsingh Rathod, a resident of Pooja Colony, saw the porcupine when he went for a morning stroll on the varsity premises and informed range Forest officer Sunilkumar Chauhan. Later, the Forest Department staff arrived at the spot and rescued it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/forest-department-rescues-injured-porcupine-in-kalaburagi-864184.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada reports 149 new Covid-19 cases, 5 more deaths||The total deaths in the district now stand at 87. According to Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, an 81-year-old man from Mangaluru, suffering from breathlessness and infected with Covid-19, who was admitted to a private hospital on July 17, died on July 20. A 51-year-old man from Belthangady suffering from lung infection, high BP, diabetes and breathlessness was admitted to a private hospital for treatment on July 20 and died on the same day. A 65-year-old man from Bhatkal, who was suffering from sepsis with septic shock and infected with the coronavirus, was admitted to a private hospital on July 12 and died on July 20.  A 63-year-old man from Byadagi in Haveri was admitted to a private hospital on June 27 with acute chronic kidney disease and cancer. He died of cardiac arrest on July 20. He also tested positive for Covid-19. A 52-year-old woman from Mangaluru, who was admitted to a private hospital with rheumatic heart disease, hypertension and diabetes with Covid-19 infection on July 19, died on July 20. The district saw a slight upward trend in Covid-19 cases with the recording of 149 fresh cases on Tuesday. The total Covid cases recorded in the district is 3,834. On a positive note, 127 persons have recovered and been discharged from hospitals. The total discharges in the district stood at 1,675. Sindhu B Rupesh said among the positive cases reported, 23 are primary contacts of the infected persons, 67 persons with symptoms of ILI and 22 persons with symptoms of SARI too, have tested positive. One person with international travel history has also tested positive, while the contact tracing of 15 infected persons is underway. Survey from July 23 The Deputy Commissioner said that an intensive vulnerable people identification survey will be taken up in those clusters that had recorded the highest positive cases in the district, from July 23. The survey will be carried out under the direction of taluk medical officers by Asha and Anganwadi workers. The public should cooperate with Asha and Anganwadi workers when they visit the households for the survey. The Deputy Commissioner clarified that the lockdown in the district will continue on Wednesday and will be lifted from July 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-reports-149-new-covid-19-cases-5-more-deaths-864186.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||50% of Covid-19 cases in Udupi are symptomatic, says Udupi Deputy Commissioner||The DC, after taking part in a drive to slap fine on those who failed to wear masks and maintain social distancing in public places on Tuesday, said there has been a rise in virus infection among the local residents. Persons with the symptoms of Influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection are also getting infected by the virus. There is a need for more hospitals than Covid care centres in the district to treat the infected, he added. "I have already held a meeting with the heads of private hospitals. Beds had been identified for treating the infected. The empanelled 21 hospitals under Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka (ABRK) scheme, have 1,200 beds, ventilators and ICUs to treat the infected patients," he said. To ensure that no one is denied treatment, KMC Manipal was requested to set up a 200-bedded unit. Already, a 150-bedded unit has started functioning and three infected are already undergoing treatment, he said.  G Jagadeesha said ICUs with ventilators are getting readied in taluk hospitals in Kundapura and Karkala. There are 1,200 beds in Covid care centres in the district. Additional 1,200 beds will be readied in the Covid care centres. There is no shortage of beds and ventilators in the district, he said. He said the public transport system will be reintroduced in the district. But, he warned of filing criminal cases against those buses ferrying more than 30 passengers. Fine collected On Tuesday alone, a fine of Rs 38,200 has been collected from those who failed to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. A total of 382 cases have been booked in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/50-of-covid-19-cases-in-udupi-are-symptomatic-says-udupi-deputy-commissioner-864199.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Lake Man’ Kamegowda tests positive for coronavirus||Kalmane Kamegowda of Dasanadoddi village in Malavalli taluk, who drew the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his work tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Kamegowda was under treatment for an injury in his right leg, since 15 days. He got admitted to the district hospital for a day, last week. He refused to stay in the hospital and returned home. He was said to be suffering from protein deficiency and was subjected to Covid test. The result was negative. Now, the test was conducted again, which confirmed that he was positive for Covid. The street where his house is located, has been sealed down. The family members have been quarantined and tests were conducted, said Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh. Kamegowda is said to be suffering from diabetes and asthma. He is being monitored and suitable treatment is provided, said doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lake-man-kamegowda-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-864379.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bandipur Tiger Reserve records 6 deaths in a year||A total of six tiger deaths have been reported in the limits of Bandipur National Park since May 2019 including the one found dead on Sunday. Forest personnel on patrol found the carcass of an eight-year-old male tiger in N Begur forest range on Sunday. However, the authorities denied any foul play and claimed that the big cat might have died a natural death or may have succumbed to starvation. Mysuru district honorary Wildlife Warden Krithika Alanahalli said, the animal might have died a natural death. The claws, skin and teeth were found intact. There were no external injuries but, carcass had started decomposing. The samples have been sent to the lab for tests, and the animal might have died of infection or illness, she said. In December, 2019, an eight year-old tiger was found dead in the same forest range. In July 2019, a five-year-old female tiger was found dead due to injuries near Maguvinahalli, just outside the Bandipur National Park. The animal had died of multiple injuries, either due to road accident or in a fight with a wild boar. Two tigers were found dead in a span of four days at Bandipur Tiger Reserve, between June 20 and 24, 2019. A 10-year-old tigress was found dead near Tiger Block in the backwaters of Hebbahalla dam, in HD Kote taluk on June 24 and a highly decomposed carcass of a male tiger was found at Moolehole Forest Range, under Bandipur Tiger Reserve, in Gundlupet taluk, on June 20. Poisoning In another incident, a tiger was poisoned to death at Parvathy Betta, under the buffer zone of Bandipur Tiger Reserve in May 2019. The tiger was allegedly killed by a gang.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bandipur-tiger-reserve-records-6-deaths-in-a-year-864393.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rumours on deaths due to ventilator fault grip Kalaburagi||Rumours that a few patients died due to ventilator breakdown at ESIC hospital here led to some tension in the city on Wednesday. But the district administration was quick to clarify that no death due to ventilator breakdown occurred in the hospital.  Deputy Commissioner B Sharat said a five-member committee consisting of doctors from Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences, Basaveshwara Hospital and KBN Hospital has been constituted to know the circumstances that led to deaths at the ESIC hospital. The committee will give a report in three days, he said.    Taking to twitter, MLA Priyank Kharge said he had received complaints that eight people on ventilators died in ESIC, Kalaburagi, because there was oxygen supply breakdown in the ICU. “ESIC has not been admitting patients as the issue has not been resolved. Nobody is confirming it or denying it. Is the government deliberately hiding it?,” he said. He tweeted, “while Govt claims nothing has happened in ESIC. Listen to what victim’s son has to say. Patient (Gurubai) of Rajeev Gandhi Nagar of the City was recovering well. Patient was transferred from ESIC to GIMS without informing the relatives. When asked about shifting to GIMS, ESIC say they are out of oxygen”. “Though the woman underwent Covid test on July 11, her report has not arrived even after 11 days. Deceased’s son alleged that Covid and non-covid patients were shifted in an ambulance. Why the district administration remained silent over the deaths?” he said.   The DC clarified that no death occurred due to ventilator failure in ESIC hospital. “I have spoken to the dean of the hospital,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rumours-on-deaths-due-to-ventilator-fault-grip-kalaburagi-864395.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Former VCs urge govt to cancel CET||The Forum of Former Vice Chancellors of Karnataka has urged the government to cancel CET 2020 scheduled for July 30 and 31. In a official communication, the forum said, “considering the non-availability of infrastructure, the appropriate technology and non-completion of syllabi, uncertainty of the preparation of students we unanimously feel that under this most difficult circumstances created by Covid 19 pandemic, CET/COMEDK/ other equivalent examination and all the All Indian central entrance examinations could be abandoned for this academic year. Admissions may be done based on the merit in II PU exams.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-vcs-urge-govt-to-cancel-cet-864396.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu's progressive farmer honoured with national award||Even though coffee and pepper are the prominent commercial crops in Kodagu, several farmers have been growing both agricultural and horticultural crops in integrated farming method, thereby, contributing to food security. Somengada Ganesh Thimmaiah from Nallur village of Ponnampet in Virajpet is one such agriculturist who has scripted success through his innovative methods in farming. He is the winner of the National-level Babu Jagjivan Ram Krishi Samman award this year. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi, conferred the prestigious award on Thimmaiah during a function held recently on the occasion of its 92nd Foundation Day. Thimmaiah has been following the integrated method in agriculture where he grows areca, coffee and paddy as main crops and a variety of vegetables and fruits and sub-crops. Along with agriculture, he is also into apiculture, poultry and pisciculture, which gives him additional income. Thimmaiah has also been growing the ‘Beth’ plants required for honey bees. He has successfully experimented with more than 60 paddy varieties and has implemented a mechanised system in agriculture and his paddy field is tech-savvy. The annual produce of paddy on his farm is 350 to 400 quintal while that of coffee is about 200 bags. He said that pepper also is one of his main sources of income. He has also been cultivating butter fruit, sapota, mango, jackfruit, orange, egg fruit and rambutan as well. A lot of youth have been visiting Thimmaiah’s farm and seeking his guidance in farming to which he says youth showing interest in agriculture and horticulture is a good sign. He lost his parents at a young age and later served in the Indian Army. However, for the past 20 years, he is totally into agriculture. Virajpet MLA K G Bopaiah visited Thimmaiah’s farm and felicitated him for winning the much-coveted award. Forestry College, Ponnampet, too, honoured Thimmaiah. College Dean Dr Cheppudira G Kushalappa, Extension Unit Head Dr R N Kenchareddy, Agricultural Officer Teetamada Meera were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagus-progressive-farmer-honoured-with-national-award-864405.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Create awareness on Covid-19 to ward off fear’||The urban local bodies should create awareness about Covid-19 and thereby ward off fear in the minds of people, said City Municipal Council (CMC) Commissioner Srinivas. He was speaking at a training programme organised to check the spread of Covid-19. Srinivas said a team of volunteers, led by ward member, block-level officer, the staff of the CMC, Asha and Anganwadi workers and members of self-help groups, have been constituted in each ward. The teams have already swung into action in connection with the control of Covid-19. The commissioner said the teams would manage the show in each ward when a positive case in reported in their jurisdiction. They will also collect details on the vulnerable sections, especially senior citizens and ailing people from the households. Srinivas said people should be educated on maintaining social distance, personal hygiene, use of sanitisers and masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/create-awareness-on-covid-19-to-ward-off-fear-864408.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Give priority to sanitation, cleanliness: MLA Appacchu Ranjan||MLA Appacchu Ranjan has directed the gram panchayats to give priority to garbage disposal, sanitation and cleanliness. He was speaking at a meeting called to discuss precautionary measures to check the spread of Covid-19. To encourage the panchayat to take sanitation works seriously, he announced awards for the panchayats which make remarkable achievement in sanitation and cleanliness. Taluk Panchayat vice-president Abhimanyu Kumar said local panchayats should keep a check on those arriving from outside districts and states and advise them to follow quarantine guidelines. Despite restrictions on resorts and homestays, there are several instances of tourists visiting them, he added. The MLA directed to inform the TP EO to keep a check on them. TP president Pushpa Rajesh was also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/give-priority-to-sanitation-cleanliness-mla-appacchu-ranjan-864409.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Five exam centres for writing CET on July 30, 31||The Common Entrance Test (CET) will be conducted in five examination centres in Kodagu district on July 30 and 31. The examination centres are St Joseph Girls PU College and Government PU College in Madikeri, Somwarpet Government PU College, Virajpet Government PU College. In case if there are any Covid infected writing the exam, they will be asked to write at Galibeedu Covid Care Centre (Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya). Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said that the centres will be sanitised before the examination. All the students will be allowed inside the centre after undergoing thermal screening. Wearing masks will be made mandatory for students. Seating arrangements will be made in such a way as to maintain social distancing. She said in case the student is infected with Covid-19, it should be brought to the notice of government hospital authorities in advance, to make arrangements for them to write the exam in Galibeedi Covid Care Centre. Separate rooms will be arranged for the students who are the primary, secondary contacts of the infected and also hailing from containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-exam-centres-for-writing-cet-on-july-30-31-864410.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Ambulance set on fire over patient’s death||The relatives of a patient who passed away during treatment at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences went on a rampage setting the ambulance on fire, alleging medical negligence, here Wednesday night. They also threw stones at the hospital. According to sources, a 55-year-old man from Ghee Galli in the city died at the hospital. The relatives on getting information about the passing away of the person tried to question the authorities, but could not get a satisfactory reply. The enrage relatives set an ambulance parked on hospital premises on fire. A policeman suffered injuries while attempting to bring the situation under control. All roads leading to the hospital were blocked by the police. The APMC police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. The person deceased had been admitted in the District Hospital for treatment on July 19 with complaints of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). His test report was positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. While being shifted to the Intensive Care Unit for treatment of respiratory problems he died. Relatives of the deceased pelted stones on vehicles parked near the hospital and set ambulance on fire, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-ambulance-set-on-fire-over-patient-s-death-864417.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar district reports 24 more Covid-19 cases||The border district reported 24 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. With this, the total positive cases has increased to 406. While 232 patients have been discharged after recovery, there are still 169 active cases. The district has reported four deaths so far, and one non-Covid death. Out of 24 new cases, 12 are from Kollegal, six from Gundlupet taluk, five from Chamarajanagar and one case from Hanur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-district-reports-24-more-covid-19-cases-864419.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Dissidence may be back in play after coronavirus break||The Covid-19 pandemic is but a temporary break for the discord lying dormant within the BJP government. Political circles are abuzz with talk that a full-blown dissidence is likely to erupt in August if the demands of one camp of legislators are not met by then. Alternative power-sharing arrangements are also at play to placate Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, arguably the party’s only mass leader, into voluntarily vacating his post, it is said. The legislators who have threatened to raise a banner of revolt are mostly Lingayats, the community that Yediyurappa belongs to. Accommodating them in the Cabinet remains the bone of contention, while an alternative power structure within the government vis-a-vis the role that Yediyurappa's younger son and BJP Yuva Morcha general secretary B Y Vijayendra will play has caused heartburn.  Bickering within members of Yediyurappa's Cabinet during the pandemic has also left one senior minister alienated. These factors are set to offer more challenges in the coming days for the year-old Yediyurappa administration. In the 28-member Cabinet now, there are nine Lingayats, who are traditionally identified as the BJP’s core support base. Six berths are vacant. "A majority of BJP legislators are Lingayats; they are still sore about the lack of representation for the community and the North Karnataka region. We will make our voice heard," a legislator from the camp told DH. The distribution of Cabinet berths within various sects of the community is also skewed, the MLA said. Ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections in Karnataka last month, eight-time MLA Umesh Katti and others had raised a banner of revolt against Yediyurappa. Bijapur City MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal had also made public his dissatisfaction with the CM. Yediyurappa's bid to placate Katti by nominating his brother Ramesh Katti to the Rajya Sabha also failed, after the BJP high command picked its own candidates. Amid talks on attempts to unsettle Yediyurappa, there are also discussions to alter power arrangements in the state. "There were discussions on offering the gubernatorial post to Yediyurappa, a Union Cabinet berth to his son Raghavendra and a prominent position in the state BJP to Vijayendra. However, that did not make much headway as Yediyurappa insisted that he would vacate his berth only if his pick is made next CM," sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dissidence-may-be-back-in-play-after-coronavirus-break-864072.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: Vishwanath, Yogeshwar among five MLC nominees||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai R Vala on Wednesday nominated former ministers AH Vishwanath, CP Yogeshwar and three others to the Legislative Council. BJP’s women wing president Bharathi Shetty, academic Talwar Sabanna and social activist Shantharama Budna Siddi have been nominated to the upper house. This is expected to placate Vishwanath and Yogeshwar, both ministerial aspirants who were sulking. While Vishwanath was one of the 17 rebels who helped BJP come to power, Yogeshwar played a key role in engineering the defections. The nominations come even as speculation is rife that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa might expand his Cabinet in August. Yediyurappa has six Cabinet berths vacant. Vishwanath and Yogeshwar are now expected to mount pressure to be inducted as ministers along with two other rebels - MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar, who were also recently elected to the Legislative Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-vishwanath-yogeshwar-among-five-mlc-nominees-864321.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||District in-charge minister has failed people: K M Ganesh||The MLAs, who are not able to respond to the woes of the people in containment zones, should step down, K M Ganesh, district JD(S) president, said. Addressing media persons here on Wednesday, he alleged that the district in-charge minister and the MLAs have failed to instill confidence among people and to provide necessary facilities for them in the current crisis. Ganesh said there was no need of a district in-charge for Kodagu, who visits the district only to conduct meetings, and not to listen to the problems of people. “After a person is tested positive for Covid-19, the area where he resides will be sealed. But, after the sealdown, no officer or the elected representative is bothered about the needs of the people in the containment area,” the JD(S) leader alleged. The district administration is shying away from its responsibilities, he said and called the elected representatives and the administrative system to unitedly make efforts to manage the situation. Ridiculing the move of the government, which has been filing cases against those who point out the mismanagement of Covid-19 situation, he said there are no doctors at most of the health centres. JD(S) district minority cell president Isaac Khan also alleged that the people in Kodagu were not getting timely treatment for non-Covid ailments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/district-in-charge-minister-has-failed-people-k-m-ganesh-864407.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Fresh blame game erupts over Congress-JD(S) split||A year after the JD(S)-Congress coalition government crumbled in the state, it appears that the hatchet has not yet been buried.  Recently, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah claimed that the Congress would have won at least 10 seats in the Lok Sabha elections had it not been for the alliance with the JD(S). In response, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy of the JD(S), who headed the coalition government, blamed the Congress for its many 'conspiracies'. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Kumaraswamy said he was prompted by Siddarmaiah's claims to recall what transpired during the coalition government. "There will never be a future alliance with Congress," Kumaraswamy declared, in a letter to his party colleagues on Wednesday. He claimed that there were many conspiracies on part of Congress, which led to the fall of the coalition government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/fresh-blame-game-erupts-over-congress-jds-split-864416.html
22-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||MLC nominations pile pressure for Cabinet expansion||Governor Vajubhai R Vala on Wednesday nominated former ministers A H Vishwanath, C P Yogeeshwar and three others to the Legislative Council. BJP’s Mahila Morcha president Bharathi Shetty, academician Talwar Sabanna and social activist Shantharama Budna Siddi are the other nominations to the Upper House. The move came as a relief to party-hopper Vishwanath, who switched loyalties from the JD(S) to BJP in 2019 along with 16 other legislators. Vishwanath lost the bypolls as a BJP candidate from Hunsur constituency in December last year. He and M T B Nagaraj were the only two among the 14 defectors from the Congress-JD(S) coalition to lose the bypolls. Nagaraj was accommodated in the Legislative Council in June. Yogeeshwar, who reportedly played a role in engineering the defections from the H D Kumaraswamy-led coalition, had lost from Channapatna constituency in the 2018 elections against Kumaraswamy. While the move will placate Vishwanath and Yogeeshwar, it is expected to mount pressure on Yediyurappa to go in for a Cabinet expansion. While defectors Vishwanath, Nagaraj and R Shankar (also recently elected as MLC) are assured a Cabinet berth by virtue of Yediyurappa’s ‘promise,’ Yogeeshwar will be among the ministerial aspirants. Speculation is rife that Yediyurappa may expand his Cabinet in August, where six more ministers can be accommodated.  Both Sabanna - chairman, Economics Department, Rani Channamma University, Belagavi and social activist Shantharama hail from ST community. Their nomination, unlike the first three, according to sources, were recommended by the party high command and is in line with its recent initiative to reward low-profile workers of the party. Recently, the central leadership had nominated ‘party workers’ Ashok Gasti and Eranna Kadadi to the Rajya Sabha. While the selections had provided a boost to the party cadre, it had also revealed the differences between state and central BJP units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlc-nominations-pile-pressure-for-cabinet-expansion-864418.html
22-07-2020||Main Article||A heritage to conserve||The Japanese have long propagated the joys of Shinrin-Yoku, or ‘forest bathing’, as a meditative practice, especially for urbanites. I was very lucky to spend a few days in the Kabini forest, just before the parks closed. Though partially work-related, it was my most healing experience since the pandemic emerged. The forest was lush green, and the dreaded lantana weed was flowering profusely, adding a blaze of joyous colour through the occasional shafts of sunlight that pierced the rain-drenched canopy. The lantana’s beauty let us forget, for the moment, just how much it has invaded territory and crowded out other species of flora. We were incredibly lucky with sightings, especially because we saw five bears in a high-decibel interaction full of tree-rubbing and running! There were hunts, and kills, and wounded tigers. There was a face-off between a herd of mighty gaur and a young leopard. There were majestic elephants, some familiar, some new. For me, Kabini is a very special place. It defies many notions of wilderness. It challenges ideologies of pristine perfection. While it is part of a continuous protected area of 2,600 sq. km., the Kabini forest is as much man-made as it is wild. For one, it is adjacent to the backwaters of the approximately 13,000 sq. ft. reservoir built in 1974. With dead tree stumps littering the waterscape, and remnants of shrines surfacing in the summer, it is a constant reminder of the true cost of the submergence. Secondly, the natural dry deciduous and moist deciduous forest is dotted with teak and eucalyptus plantations, an old practice that the Forest Department has now mercifully abandoned. Add to that the invasive species of lantana, cassia and parthenium, among others, and you might be fooled into thinking there is little biodiversity in the Kabini forest. You would be wonderfully wrong. Kabini is thriving with flora, and especially fauna. It is a haven for big cats, elephants, gaur and, of course, the ubiquitous langurs and chital deer, along with innumerable other species. Kabini nurtures sustainable livelihoods for its forest-dwelling tribal communities, like the Jenu Kurubas, who live there despite all odds. Though less than 10% of it is open to the public, it attracts adoring tourists from around the country and the world, creating a thriving local economy. There is much work ahead to realise Kabini’s exceptional potential for responsible eco-tourism, and tourists from Karnataka can lead the way. The Kabini safari has surfaced at the top of people’s bucket lists partly because it is home to the world’s most famous living black panther. Because of his beautiful coat, he is simply referred to as ‘kariya’. This black panther is as elusive as he is magnificent, and I belong to the humbled hordes that have not seen him despite several attempts. Chronicling this wonderful jewel of a forest is another tribe -- that of documentary filmmakers and wildlife photographers. In Karnataka, and especially in Bengaluru, we are lucky to have several extremely talented, globally renowned lensmen, who have spent months and years patiently capturing the beauty, fragility, resilience and danger in the Kabini forest.  Just recently, three of them have released documentaries that include many stars from Kabini. Sandesh Kadur of Felis has filmed Wildcats of India and India’s Wild Leopards (Disclosure: I am part of the team). Amoghvarsha and Kalyan Varma created Wild Karnataka in partnership with the government. And then there is Shaaz Bin Jung’s ode to the “The Real Black Panther.” I have missed others too numerous to name, and we should support and celebrate them all. Some reveal the histories and predicaments of forest-dwellers, the expert stewards of the jungle. Others let the world get a peek into the rich natural treasures of our state. They exhort us to realise that even if we cannot witness these wonders ourselves, it is enough that they exist and thrive. These photos and documentaries awaken us to our intergenerational responsibilities as well – that we all have a role to play to protect and enrich our bio heritage. Many of these intrepid photographers spend hundreds of hours in dangerous, rough conditions to capture just the right light, angle or behaviours in the jungle. The most unexpected and dangerous encounters are usually with tuskers, who can flip over a jeep with one angry swipe. And sometimes do. There are unpredictable bears, tigers and leopards as well. One mistake could cost you your life. These risks are ever-present for forest guards and officers. Every day, they must walk through the jungle, be it in sweltering heat or pouring rain, to keep fires and poachers at bay, among other gruelling tasks. Admittedly, they can be overzealous against locals, and there is a robust dispute about whether some fires should be allowed to regenerate the forest floor. Yet, the Forest Department has played a critical role in Karnataka topping the list of states that showed significant gain in forest cover, as per the recently released India State of Forest Report (ISFR) 2019. That is good news for these terrible times. We cannot go at will into the forest anytime soon. But we can invite Kabini into our homes through its many documentaries. Our virtual, vicarious Shinrin-Yoku could be a rehearsal, so that we can later return, not just as tourists, but also as trustees of this remarkable forest. (The writer is Founder-Chairperson Arghyam)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-heritage-to-conserve-864085.html
22-07-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru district court complex to be shut for 2 days as lawyer tests Covid-19 positive||The advocate who tested positive for coronavirus had moved around the buildings and thus the court complex has to be sanitised.   According to Mysuru Bar Association authorities, the District Health Office will take up sanitisation works on Wednesday and Thursday.  The lawyers are asked not to visit the court complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-district-court-complex-to-be-shut-for-2-days-as-lawyer-tests-covid-19-positive-864198.html
22-07-2020||National||As cases drop in Delhi, Mumbai, a question: Has coronavirus pandemic peaked?||The Covid-19 pandemic may have peaked in Delhi and the daily caseloads are on the wane in Mumbai and Chennai, but there is no sign of the disease reaching anywhere close to its peak in the rest of the country. But the jury is still out on Delhi as there are suspicions about the efficiency of quick diagnostic tests used by the local administration in bulk. On Monday — a day Delhi for the first time recorded less than 1,000 new cases — AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, a member of the core team monitoring the Covid-19 situation in India, said the national capital might have crossed the peak. Typically, outbreak peaks are known if the daily cases see a downward trend for two weeks, which does not seem to be happening across the country. “Delhi may have peaked out. But the worry is that Delhi shifted almost entirely to rapid antigen tests with low sensitivity. So no one is sure,” a senior biologist told DH. The numbers are on a decline in two other erstwhile hotspots — Mumbai and Chennai. After reporting nearly 2,000 cases a day till June, Chennai is plateauing at 1,100-1,300 cases since the beginning of July. Mumbai recorded its maximum count of 2,077 cases on June 27 but the numbers are on a downward spiral since the last two weeks. The situation, however, is exactly reverse in other parts of the states. There is a big spike in the suburbs of Mumbai whereas nine districts of south Tamil Nadu are experiencing an exponential rise in the outbreak. More than 85% of such cases were reported in the past one month. Madurai tops the chart with nearly 9,000 cases. Adjoining Kerala, the first Indian state to report Covid-19, is witnessing a fresh surge because of which a previous estimate of the state reaching its peak by August is unlikely to hold water.  The current trend might continue for one or two more months, said Dr Amar Fettle, Kerala health department nodal officer. Majority of the fresh cases now are through local contacts. The numbers are piling up in Andhra Pradesh, which now has the fastest growth rate in reporting new cases. In Gujarat, officials said Ahmedabad reached its peak while cities like Surat were at the peak at the moment. The other parts of the state are at different stages. Jayanti Ravi, Principal Secretary, Health, told DH: “Ahmedabad has already reached its peak while Surat is at the peak.”  Over the past one month, the number of new cases has gone down in Ahmedabad while Surat has been leading the chart since the beginning of this month. On the east, Covid-19 numbers are piling up in Bihar, West Bengal and Assam. Health officials refuse to hazard a guess on when the peak would be reached. Assam has been reporting nearly 1,000 cases daily in the past few days leading many to believe that this could be the peak of positive cases. But officials are not sure. “It’s difficult to say whether it’s the peak or not,” principal secretary, health department, Samir Kumar Sinha said. Last week, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee urged people to be cautious as experts have predicted that Covid-19 infection in the state will peak in the next two months. For the last three days, the state reported more than 2,000 fresh cases daily. With 1,076 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, Bihar situation remains quite grim. Its Covid-19 tally crossed the 27,500 mark out of which nearly 15,000 cases were reported in the last 18 days. “I don’t see any prospect of the problem getting over soon,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who is tracking the pandemic through computer models for months. (With inputs from E T B Sivapriyan, Mrityunjay Bose, Arjun Raghunath, Soumya Das, Abhay Kumar, Satish Jha and Sumir Karmakar)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-cases-drop-in-delhi-mumbai-a-question-has-coronavirus-pandemic-peaked-864071.html
22-07-2020||National||Serum Institute to begin coronavirus vaccine trials on 5,000 volunteers||Serum Institute of India on Tuesday said it will be starting trials of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca by the end of August on up to 5,000 Indian volunteers after getting the necessary nods, and launch the vaccine by June next year if all goes well. The Pune-based company's chief executive Adar Poonawalla said the company, which is the largest vaccine maker in the world, is putting USD 200 million at risk by manufacturing nearly 300 million doses before the final nod to launch the vaccine in market, which is expected at best by the end of the year. Oxford University on Monday announced satisfactory progress with the vaccine, making it one of the leading ones among the dozens of vaccine candidates being developed around the world. The varsity has tied up with Serum Institute of India (SII) to manufacture and supply the vaccine to India and over 60 other countries having a combined population of 3 billion, Poonawalla said. "We are making this application within the next 48 hours to the Drug Controller General of India's office. They will probably take about 1-2 weeks on what kind of study and trial we will have to do," Poonawalla said, speaking to a CNBC-TV-18 news channel. It will take another three weeks to inject patients in hospitals, he said, adding, "We are talking about a month or month and half maximum from today...may be even sooner." The vaccine under development will be injected into 4-5,000 volunteers in Pune and Mumbai -- which have high rates of coronavirus infections -- as part of the crucial phase three of the trial which will determine if the antidote can be introduced in the market or not. Poonawalla said there is no dearth of volunteers and added that unlike the exclusion of older people in the initial phase of trials at Oxford, the Indian trials will include elderly people and health workers as well because the initial phase has conclusively proven the safety of the vaccine. Parallel to the process of applying for trials and having actual trials on humans in India, the company will be applying for a special permission to start manufacturing the vaccine in the country, which exposes it to a commercial risk if the vaccine fails at the last stage, he said. As part of the special permission, the company will manufacture up to 70 million doses of the vaccine per month up to October, and plans to take it up to 100 million per month by December, so that it is ready to hit the market once the final approvals are in place. If this goes to plan, the phase three trials will take two months after the patients get injected and the vaccine gets a final nod by November, he said, adding that in such a scenario, it can get introduced either in "quarter one or two" of next year. The company has already manufactured around 2-3 million doses of the vaccine for getting the process correct and also stabilising its machinery, Ponnawalla said, clarifying that these will never be used on humans. "If you look at the process right now, the risk of the opex (operating expenditure) which we are putting in is more than USD 200 million. If this vaccine fails, we will be down (by) USD 200 million," he said, adding the expenses exclude the opportunity cost of using the same facility for some other purpose. Poonawalla also said SII is looking at external investors for the vaccine-related endeavour and added that it has tie-ups with five other vaccine candidates which will be housed into a separate step-down subsidiary, where the family will dilute its stake by 15-20 per cent. Apart from the five tie-ups already forged, SII is in talks with two other candidates, he said, adding that a manufacturing plant with capacity to produce 1 billion units of the vaccine per year will also get housed in the subsidiary. He further said it is extremely likely that the COVID-19 vaccine would require two or more doses, like in the case of antidotes for measles and other diseases. "We have got a lot on the line and bet big on this (Oxford-AstraZeneca) candidate. And we really hope it works," he added. Meanwhile, Poonawalla Group Chairman Cyrus Poonawalla said SII is committed to producing 1 billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine after it gets the necessary approvals. He was speaking at an online discussion organised by FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO), Pune Chapter. The company wants to make the vaccine available at the lowest price possible so that even the poor can afford it, a statement quoted Cyrus Poonawalla as saying. Asked if there could be any setback in terms of productivity and output of the vaccine, he said chances of failure look remote. If the approvals are in place and trials are completed successfully, then lot of companies will manufacture the vaccine and India will be the largest producer of the Covid-19 vaccine in the world, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-to-begin-coronavirus-vaccine-trials-on-5000-volunteers-864102.html
22-07-2020||National||Upto 8 seats vehicles need not to carry extra tyre||The Union Ministry of Road Transport on Tuesday said M1 category vehicles fitted with tubeless tyres may not require to carry a spare wheel or tyre and instead carry a tyre repair kit. “Provided further that in case of M1 category of vehicle fitted with tubeless tyre and supplied with tyre repair kit as a standard item, it may not require a ready to use or temporary use a spare wheel,” Gazette notification from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said. The M1 category of vehicles are passenger-carrying vehicles having a maximum of eight seats in addition to the driver's seat. “For the purposes of this rule, a tyre repair kit means an easy-to-repair kit stored in the vehicle, which in the incident of tyre puncture is used to seal the punctured spot in the tyre tread using specific sealant poured into the tyre along with compressed air," the notification said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upto-8-seats-vehicles-need-not-to-carry-extra-tyre-864104.html
22-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 22||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 11.8 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.    On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 12,22,911 as of July 22 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 29,865 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 7,53,030 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-22-864106.html
22-07-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh journalist who was shot at in front of daughters passes away||UP journalist Vikram Joshi, who was shot at and critically wounded allegedly for lodging a complaint of harassment of his niece by some unidentified people in Ghaziabad town, near Delhi, succumbed to his injuries at the hospital on Wednesday. According to doctors, the scribe, Vikram Joshi had been shot in the head from close range. The killing of the journo triggered widespread outrage and the opposition parties launched a scathing attack on the BJP government in the state over an alleged worsening law and order situation. ''Jungle raj prevails in the state...no one safe here,'' BSP supremo Mayawati said in a tweet demanding that the culprits be brought to the book at the earliest. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said that BJP had promised 'Ram Raj' but the people got 'goonda raj'. The family members of Joshi said that the local police, despite several complaints, did not take any action against the youths, who had been harassing the scribe's niece for the past one year. Nine people have been arrested in this connection. A sub-inspector of the local police out post was also suspended for laxity. Joshi was intercepted by the assailants while he was on his way home on his motorbike with his two minor daughters late on Monday night near Mata Colony and was shot at after being thrashed.  A video, which went viral on the social networking sites, showed the scribe's daughter crying and seeking help of passers by, to take their injured father to the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-journalist-who-was-shot-at-in-front-of-daughters-passes-away-864109.html
22-07-2020||National||How TikTok gave rural Indian women fame, fun and fortune||When India banned TikTok, it closed a window to the wider world for legions of women outside the big cities that provided fun, fame and even fortune. The government outlawed the video-sharing platform, and 58 other Chinese apps, this month citing data security fears. TikTok is also reportedly under greater scrutiny elsewhere including in the United States and Australia. Married soon after she completed college, 27-year-old stay-at-home mother Mamta Verma lives in a small town in Madhya Pradesh state. One day, her daughter got her to install TikTok on her phone to watch the dizzying array of zany videos uploaded from across what used to be the app's biggest international market. Instagram and YouTube are for "the big people", Verma told AFP by phone, but TikTok she liked. She started to record and upload videos of her own. "I started with five likes on my first video. That was a big boost for me," Verma said. Soon, she had more than a million followers and was earning about 4,000 rupees ($50) per video with her slick robot dance routines shot inside her small, simple home. "It's not a lot but my earnings from TikTok helped in running the house and also in managing finances for the new house. You know even 10 rupees is a huge amount for us," she said. But it wasn't just the money. "Before TikTok, I didn't have the confidence to talk to people. I would just do my work, and as a stay-at-home wife I never made eye contact with people or even spoke much," Verma said. Speaking a vast number of languages and dialects, around 70 per cent of India's 1.3 billion people live in rural areas, a world away from big cities such as Mumbai and New Delhi. Amitabh Kumar from Social Media Matters, a group encouraging "social media for social change", said that for many people in this huge hinterland, TikTok was a "glass ceiling breaker". "Instead of Bollywood and rich people, finally there was a chance for common people to create something in 15 seconds which makes you laugh or cry or think or engage," he told AFP. Its different tools were simple to use for those who don't speak or read English or Hindi, and the app worked well on low-speed internet. "Twitter cracked the short-form storytelling in text -- with 140 and then 280 (characters). I think TikTok did it with 15 seconds," he added. And it reminded the urban elite of India's vast diversity and chasmic differences in wealth. "What we, people sitting in Delhi, probably judged and made fun of was high-class entertainment for a lot of people who never got a chance to express themselves," he said. "Here was for the first time a space that rural India was enjoying." Another minor star was Rupali Manoj Bhandole, 29, a housewife and mother who left school at 14 living in a small town in Maharashtra state that gets piped water for an hour a day and endures frequent power cuts. She would upload videos of herself poking fun at her weak economic status -- and soon amassed 300,000 followers. "A person who works with a Marathi TV show called me a star... I can't tell you happy I felt," she told AFP. "I only studied until Class 9. I'm not a big person." Bhandole said she wept when TikTok was banned. Archana Arvind Dhormise hopes the benefits she derived from the platform will last. The 35-year-old from Pimpalgaon in Maharashtra seldom left home for fear of censure from her conservative family and neighbours. But then the home beautician became the "Rani Mukherji of TikTok" -- a reference to a famous Bollywood actress -- dancing and miming to famous songs, and gaining 75,000 fans. She won a local competition for one of her TikTok videos. Now she has landed a part in a short film. "I had never in my life gone up on stage and spoken or even initiated a conversation without having a million thoughts in my head," Dhormise told AFP. "But being on TikTok and seeing all the love I was getting gave me the confidence to keep that going, and also be confident in the real world."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-tiktok-gave-rural-indian-women-fame-fun-and-fortune-864132.html
22-07-2020||National||DH Toon | 'Coronavirus has mutated to be the best excuse for all failures'||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-coronavirus-has-mutated-to-be-the-best-excuse-for-all-failures-864149.html
22-07-2020||National||Home Ministry asks states to set up specialised units to combat rise in human trafficking during pandemic||The MHA has also asked the states to work out a coordination mechanism involving various arms of the administration like the police, labour department, women and child development department, railways and border guarding forces like the BSF and the SSB to prevent the criminals from taking advantage. It also wants the states to immediately set up Anti-Human Trafficking Units (ATHUs) in all districts. While Rs 25.16 crore was released between 2010 and 2019 for such units in 332 districts, another Rs 100 crore from Nirbhaya Fund was released in March this year to extend the programme to all the 739 districts in the country. Border guarding forces also received a share from the fund. In the letter to states, MHA Deputy Secretary Arun Sobti said traffickers often exploit the vulnerabilities of people by making false promises of new jobs, better income, better living conditions and support to their families.  "Domestic violence, psychological or emotional abuse, neglect and other forms of trauma and violence makes a person vulnerable to human trafficking, who may be looking for release from his present situation. Once trafficked, the victims fall prey to many forms of unfair treatment such as forced prostitution, forced labour, forced begging, forced marriages etc," Sobti said. He said the Covid-19 pandemic has put the world under "enormous strain and continues to affect the lives" of a large number of people. Highlighting the importance of ATHUs, the letter said these are integrated task forces to prevent and combat trafficking and comprise a group of trained sensitive officials of police, women and child welfare department and other arms of administration. Emphasising that children can be transported on a large-scale for wage labour, prostitution and trafficking, the MHA said panchayats should be asked to maintain a register of people living in the villages and keep track of their movement. Police should develop specific intelligence and surveillance mechanisms to identify gangs and gather information about its history, affiliations and modus operandi. Police should also be trained in identifying children in distress, watching out for suspicious persons and keeping a vigil at transit points like railway stations, bus depots, airports and border areas to identify vulnerable populations. Personnel deployed on the state border outposts should be trained to look-out for trafficked children. They should question and detect unaccompanied children or accompanying adults with suspicious behaviour during checking. Law enforcement agencies should engage with local panchayats and community leaders and Resident Welfare Associations among others so that they get involved with the administration in identification, tracing and recovery of missing and trafficked persons, the letter said. In the letter, Sobti said children and youth are more likely to be persuaded or tricked by criminals who take advantage of their "emotional instability and missing support system".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-ministry-asks-states-to-set-up-specialised-units-to-combat-rise-in-human-trafficking-during-pandemic-864157.html
22-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally climbs to 11,92,915||India added 37,724 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday pushing the country's tally to 11,92,915, while recoveries surged to 7,53,049 with 28,472 people having recuperated in a day, the highest so far, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The death toll due to the disease rose to 28,732 with 648 people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 4,11,133 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country, while 7,53,049 people have recovered so far. Thus 63.13 per cent people have recovered. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. This is the seventh consecutive day when Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 30,000.  Of the 648 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 246 are from Maharashtra, 75 from Tamil Nadu, 62 from Andhra Pradesh, 61 from Karnataka, 37 from Uttar Pradesh, 35 from West Bengal, 34 from Gujarat, 27 from Delhi, 18 from Madhya Pradesh, 9 each from Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan. Telangana has reported seven fatalities each followed by Odisha with six deaths, Chhattisgarh four, Goa three, Jharkhand two while Kerala, Puducherry, Punjab and Tripura have registered a fatality each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-1192915-864162.html
22-07-2020||National||Army man's father killed, pregnant wife thrashed over land dispute in UP's Amethi||An army man's father was hacked to death and his pregnant wife physically assaulted in Sangrampur area here over a land dispute, police said on Wednesday. Rajendra Mishra (55) was killed with a sharp edged weapon and his pregnant daughter-in-law beaten by Ashok Shukla and his accomplices on Tuesday evening, they said. The victim's son Surya Prakash is in the Army and posted in Jammu and Kashmir. The incident took place in Thengaha Shukulpur village, police said. Superintendent of police, Khyati Garg said that the body of the victim has been sent for postmortem and a manhunt has been launched to nab Shukla and others involved in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-mans-father-killed-pregnant-wife-thrashed-over-land-dispute-in-ups-amethi-864164.html
22-07-2020||National||Coronavirus cases surge among factory workers in post-lockdown India||When Bajirao Thengde voiced his fears about going to work after dozens of colleagues fell sick with coronavirus, his boss at a motorbike factory in western India said he should "learn to live with the virus". As India's coronavirus cases exceeded one million last week, unions say similar spikes in infections in reopened factories are putting workers at risk - accusing companies of skimping on health and safety as they rush to get business back on track. It was only after several workers died and district authorities ordered a seven-day lockdown that Thengde's plant in Maharashtra state finally closed on July 10, weeks after calls for it to shut when the first cases appeared. "We were demanding that the factory be temporarily closed but work carried on," said Thengde, a union leader who has worked for more than 30 years for Bajaj Auto Ltd - India's biggest motorbike exporter. "The cases kept increasing despite us wearing masks, maintaining distance using foot pedals to access water taps and eating lunch by ourselves. And then there were the deaths." Of the plant's roughly 8,000 staff, 250 have tested positive for the virus, but with their pay dependent on showing up for shifts, Thengde said workers had little choice but to go to the factory. Bajaj Auto could not be reached to comment, but Managing Director Rajiv Bajaj said in a recent TV interview that the "factory was the safest place to be", saying employees were catching the virus in the community and bringing it to work.   Masks, social distancing  India has issued health and safety guidelines for manufacturing facilities as part of a gradual exit from a weeks-long lockdown that has left millions jobless and short of food. According to most estimates, the Indian economy will register a record contraction of over 4.5% in the current fiscal year that started on April 1 due to the pandemic. Manufacturers are implementing measures such as temperature checks, mandatory wearing of masks, smaller shift groups and social distancing, industrial associations said. State officials have also stepped up contact-tracing programmes around industrial hubs where cases have been reported, setting up special teams to work with factories on compliance and training workers on the new mandatory safeguards. "We are very concerned about workers falling ill," said Pankaj Kumar, president of the Indian Industries Association, which represents small and medium-sized businesses. Labour advocates, however, say the measures put in place do not go far enough, calling for more routine inspections, guaranteed living wages, as well as housing and transportation for workers during the pandemic. "Workers are still not central to the unlocking of industries," said Hemalata, who goes by one name and is the president of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU). "While some industries may follow protocols, who will ensure that smaller and medium-sized factories have safety measures in place? What is the point of opening up if workers returning to work are falling ill?"   'Cat and mouse game' Sharanjit Singh was among tens of thousands of migrant workers who wanted to return home when India imposed its first lockdown in March to contain the pandemic. Singh, who comes from Punjab state in northern India, was talked out of walking home by his family and has since returned to his job at a reopened steel plant in Ballari in southern Karnataka state. "Then I heard of workers falling sick and was worried," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone. "I really wanted to go back (home) then, but the company had not cleared my dues. I cannot leave without my final payment and now because of worker shortage, that is unlikely soon." More than 100 workers at the Jindal steel plant where Singh works have tested positive for coronavirus since June, with at least 10,000 quarantined after contact tracing, according to local media reports. Frederick Castro, a spokesman for JSW Group, said prompt action had been taken to control the spread of infection among employees once their patient zero - a worker whose mother had tested positive - was identified. "We're taking care of every employee who is testing positive and have also extended outreach to the community," he said. But workers remain anxious as many states reimpose lockdown measures to stem the upswing in cases. "I don't want to fall sick," Singh said, expressing a fear shared by many workers who are also desperate to start earning again. "It's like a cat and mouse game for workers," said Gopinath Parakuni of charity Cividep, which campaigns on workers' rights. "Workers need the wages but we have great concerns about what is happening on shop floors in factories. There is not much optimism that the industry will look at the workers well-being. They have not demonstrated that through the pandemic." Authorities, meanwhile, say regulatory requirements to protect workers must be balanced with the need to allow industry to recover lost ground following the strict nationwide lockdown. "A fine balance has to be maintained because economic activities cannot be stopped," said Maheshwar Rao, principal secretary of the Karnataka state labour department. "Safety guidelines have been issued and we are asking industry associations to ensure they are followed. We don't want to have a heavy hand on regulation." While Thengde and Singh are back in their jobs, both are keeping track of their sick co-workers' condition. "I worry for them as much as I worry for myself," Thengde said. "At the end of the day, we all face the same risks and so do our families."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cases-surge-among-factory-workers-in-post-lockdown-india-864165.html
22-07-2020||National||Stranded bus passengers create ruckus at railway station in Maharashtra||Upset over the discontinuation of state transport buses, passengers created ruckus at the Nallasopara railway station on Mumbai's suburban network and also tried to stop the movement of local trains on Wednesday morning, the Government Railway Police (GRP) said. An office-goer told PTI that the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) stopped plying its buses for Mumbai since morning. Hence, employees of various private companies were left stranded as they were not even able to board the local trains since they do not fall in the essential services category, he said. The Railways last month resumed suburban train services in Mumbai for ferrying staff of the essential services. The services were halted in March this year following the outbreak of Covid-19. According to a GRP officer, some irked bus passengers jumped on slow tracks at the Nallasopara station in neighbouring Palghar district and tried to stop the trains around 8 am, but they were removed from there after some time. "They first protested outside the railway station against the closure of the public bus services and later entered the station premises and tried to stop the trains," the official said. Security was later stepped up at the railway station with the deployment of additional force and the train services were resumed, he said. An office-goer said a large number of stranded passengers were still at the Nallasopara bus stand. He said the MSRTC stopped operating its buses for Mumbai since morning. This left several employees of private companies stranded as they do not fall into the category of essential services. "I used to travel by the state transport bus to reach my office at Borivali, but now I don't have any option as the bus service has been suddenly discontinued," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-bus-passengers-create-ruckus-at-railway-station-in-maharashtra-864191.html
22-07-2020||National||Rajasthan Speaker moves SC against HC order deferring action in Sachin Pilot case||Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C P Joshi on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court against the High Court's direction to stay the disqualification proceedings initiated against sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs. The petition settled by senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha contended that the High Court's July 21 order was a direct affront on the power of Legislature. It claimed that the High Court erred in passing the interim order interdicting the Speaker from proceeding under the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) of the Constitution till July 24.  It said that the Supreme Court has to ensure all authorities in the Constitution do not cross their Lakshaman Rekha.  "Judiciary was never given a role by the Constitution under the Tenth Schedule to interfere in the manner it has done in the instant case resulting in this impasse," he contended in the petition filed by advocate Sunil Fernandes. He also maintained that Speaker has "exclusive, non-transferable, and non-delegable powers and authority to adjudicate on the issues of disqualification". The Speaker relied upon the Constitution bench decision in Kihoto Hollohan (1992), which was followed consistently till as recently as in Keisham Meghachandra Singh case (2020), holding that the judicial review of the proceedings under the Tenth schedule is available only after the pronouncement of the order. He sought the hearing on the matter on Wednesday itself and granting of an ex-party stay on July 21 order by the High Court. The Speaker also sought a stay on further proceedings before the High Court in the matter. The High Court's division bench led by Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty had on Tuesday reserved order for July 24 on a plea by Sachin Pilot and his supporting MLAs against the disqualification notice issued by the Speaker on July 14, following the legislators demand for a change in leadership. It had, however, directed the Speaker not to take any action on his notice till the pronouncement of orders on July 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-speaker-moves-sc-against-hc-order-deferring-action-in-sachin-pilot-case-864194.html
22-07-2020||National||Covid-19 tally in India spikes over 11.2 lakh, recoveries surge to 7,53,049||India added 37,724 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the country's tally to 11,92,915, while recoveries surged to 7,53,049 with 28,472 people having recuperated in a day, the highest so far, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The death toll due to the disease rose to 28,732 with 648 people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 4,11,133  active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country, while 7,53,049 people having recovered so far.Thus 63.13 per cent people have recovered. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. This is the seventh consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 30,000.  Of the 648 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 246 are from Maharashtra, 75 from Tamil Nadu, 62 from Andhra Pradesh, 61 from Karnataka, 37 from Uttar Pradesh, 35 from West Bengal, 34 from Gujarat, 27 from Delhi, 18 from Madhya Pradesh, 9 each from Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan. Telangana has reported seven fatalities each followed by Odisha with six deaths, Chhattisgarh four, Goa three, Jharkhand two while Kerala, Puducherry, Punjab and Tripura have registered a fatality each. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,47,24,546 samples have been tested up to July 21 with 3,43,243 samples being tested on Tuesday. Of the total 28,732 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra tops the tally with 12,276 fatalities followed by Delhi with 3,690 deaths, Tamil Nadu 2,626, Gujarat 2,196, Karnataka 1,464, Uttar Pradesh 1,229, West Bengal 1,182, Andhra Pradesh 758 and Madhya Pradesh 756. So far, 577 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 429 in Telangana, 364 in Haryana, 263 in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir each, 217 in Bihar, 103 in Odisha, 58 in Assam, 55 in Uttarakhand and Jharkhand each and 44 in Kerala. Puducherry has registered 30 deaths, Chhattisgarh 29, Goa 26, Chandigarh 12, Himachal Pradesh 11, Tripura 8, Meghalaya 4, Arunachal Pradesh 3, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Ladakh has reported two fatality each. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of cases at 3,27,031 followed by Tamil Nadu at 1,80,643, Delhi at 1,25,096, Karnataka at 71,069, Andhra Pradesh at 58,668, Uttar Pradesh at 53,288, Gujarat at 50,379 and Telangana at 47,705. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 47,030 in West Bengal, 31,373 in Rajasthan, 28,952 in Bihar, 27,462 in Haryana, 25,382 in Assam and 24,095 in Madhya Pradesh. Odisha has reported 18,757 infections, Jammu and Kashmir 15,258, Kerala  13,994, while Punjab has 10,889 cases. A total of 6,159 have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand, 5,729 in Chhattisgarh, 4,849 in Uttarakhand, 4,027 in Goa, 3,331 in Tripura, 2,179 in Puducherry, 2,015 in Manipur, 1,664 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,198 in Ladakh. Nagaland has recorded 1,030 Covid-19 cases, Arunachal Pradesh 858, Chandigarh 751 and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu together have reported 705 cases. Meghalaya has reported 490 cases, Sikkim 330, Mizoram has registered 317 infections so far, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has recorded 212 cases. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said, adding state-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tally-in-india-spikes-over-112-lakh-recoveries-surge-to-753049-864195.html
22-07-2020||National||Supreme Court issues notices to Prashant Bhushan, Attorney General K K Venugopal, for contempt proceedings over derogatory tweet||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued a contempt notice to activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan for his tweets, bringing "administration of justice in disrepute" and "undermining the dignity and authority of the Supreme Court in general and the office of the Chief Justice of India in particular". A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari asked the counsel to explain why criminal contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him.  The court noted the June 27 tweet by Bhushan wherein he accused four CJIs of "playing a role in destruction of democracy" was also reported in the print media. In another tweet on June 29, he accused the current CJI of "riding a Rs 50 lakh bike of a BJP leader" and keeping "the SC in lockdown denying citizens their fundamental right to justice".  "We are, prima facie, of the view that the statements on Twitter have brought the administration of justice in disrepute and are capable of undermining the dignity and authority of the Institution of Supreme Court in general and the office of the Chief Justice of India in particular, in the eyes of public at large," the bench said. The Suo Motu criminal contempt case was registered by the court on July 9, after a decision was taken up on administrative side in this regard as a petition filed by advocate Mehak Maheshwari for initiating contempt proceedings against Bhushan did not carry mandatory permission from the Attorney General.     On Wednesday, the bench also issued notice to Attorney General K K Venugopal seeking his assistance.  Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, appearing for Twitter Inc, contended it has got nothing to defend in the proceedings. He said Twitter is ready to disable the tweets if there is a court order to remove it.  Bhushan himself was not present during the proceedings conducted through video conferencing. The court posted the matter for hearing on August 5. Bhushan has already faced a contempt proceedings in 2019 on a petition filed by Attorney General K K Venugopal and the Union Government for his tweets of February 1 on appointment of M Nageshwara Rao as interim CBI director. Earlier also, he faced another contempt before the top court for their statement alleging corruption against former Chief Justices of India. The Contempt of Court Act carried the maximum punishment of six months jail term for those found guilty of any act for undermining the majesty of court and obstructing the administration of justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-notices-to-prashant-bhushan-attorney-general-k-k-venugopal-for-contempt-proceedings-over-derogatory-tweet-864200.html
22-07-2020||National||Ex-SC judge B S Chauhan to head Vikas Dubey's encounter probe panel||The Supreme Court on Wednesday approved a proposal by Uttar Pradesh government to allow former top court judge, Justice B S Chauhan to head the inquiry panel to probe into incidents of July 2 leading to killings of eight policemen in Kanpur and subsequent encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen on July 10. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, however, cautioned that the state government to not let such incidents happen in future.  The court also said the reason why Dubey was out on parole was the single-most-important factor, as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta read out terms of reference of the judicial inquiry commission. Mehta said the panel also comprising former DGP K L Gupta and former judge Justice Sashi Kant Agarwal, would inquire into killing of Dubey and his alleged nexus with politicians and police. He also said the panel may seek assistance from the CBI and the NIA.  The commission would sit in Kanpur and would submit its report within two months to the top court. The state government would provide all secretarial services to the commission, which would start functioning within a week. The court was hearing a batch of PILs filed by advocates Ghanshyam Upadhyay and Anoop Prakash Awasthi and others for probe into the killings of policemen and encounter of Dubey and six accomplices. During the hearing, the court declined a plea to monitor the criminal investigation, saying it would not do so just because the case received so much media publicity. The court also clarified that pendency of panel inquiry would not come in the way of the trial of accused in killings of policemen. The state had earlier formed the judicial commission headed by former Allahabad High Court judge, Justice Sashi Kant Agarwal, to inquire into incidents between July 2 and July 10, when Dubey was killed while he allegedly tried to escape when the vehicle bringing the gangster from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident. The court had indicated to set up a judicial inquiry commission in Dubey's case in line with what it had done in Hyderabad encounter of four accused in gang rape and murder of a veterinary doctor in December 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-sc-judge-b-s-chauhan-to-head-vikas-dubeys-encounter-probe-panel-864214.html
22-07-2020||National||Babri case dismissal would be homage to temple 'martyrs': Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday said the dismissal of the Babri mosque demolition case before the ground-breaking ceremony for the Ram temple construction would be a true homage to "martyrs" of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. "When you accept (Mughal emperor) Babar was an aggressor, the Babri case itself becomes obsolete," an editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece "Saamana," said. It said even after the Supreme Court delivered verdict on the Ram temple, the CBI continues with the Babri mosque demolition case in the apex court and "leader of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement" L K Advani appears in the case as an accused. "If the Babri mosque demolition case is dismissed before the 'bhoomi pujan' of the Ram mandir, it would be a homage to the martyrs of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement," the Shiv Sena said. "When you accept Babar was an aggressor, the Babri case itself becomes obsolete," it added. A special CBI court on Monday set July 24 for recording the statement of former deputy prime minister Advani in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case. The 92-year-old BJP leader's statement under section 313 of CrPC will be recorded through video conferencing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for the 'bhoomi pujan' for the construction of the Ram temple. The Shiv Sena said the day Babri mosque was pulled down, the world saw that faces of many "warriors" turned black with fear. "'We haven't done this, this is the job of Shiv Sena', the then BJP vice president Sundar Singh Bhandari had said," the Shiv Sena claimed. "To which, late Balasaheb Thackeray thundered that if his Sainiks had indeed done it, he was proud of them," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple had stood on the same site. Advani and BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi were leading the Ram temple movement at that time||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-case-dismissal-would-be-homage-to-temple-martyrs-sena-864222.html
22-07-2020||National||1 in 5 persons developed antibodies in Delhi Covid-19 sero-survey: Report||The central government has said that there is a 22.86 percent positivity rate for the IgG antibodies. This indicates that the remaining, nearly 77 percent are vulnerable to the coronavirus, making it imperative to implement systematic safety measures and mark containment zones wherever necessary. What is a serological survey?   In medical practice, a serological test is defined as a diagnostic method, which helps identify antibodies and antigens in the patient’s sample. In other words, the test identifies antibodies created in the immune system of a person who has recovered from a disease. In the serological survey conducted in Delhi, a total of 21,387 samples was collected at random across 11 districts in the capital. These were then categorised into two groups, based on the person being above or below 18 years. The results of the survey were released on Tuesday. "The results of the sero-survey conducted from June 27-July 5 came out yesterday, and it shows that nearly one-fourth of people had developed antibodies, meaning they had got infected and recovered. Most of these people who were sampled did not know that they were infected earlier," Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. The study also indicates that a large number of infected persons remain asymptomatic, according to a Health Ministry statement. “Nearly six months into the epidemic, only 22.86 percent of the people are affected in Delhi, which has several pockets of dense population. This can be attributed to the proactive efforts taken by the Government to prevent the spread of infection…” It was a collective decision executed by a high-level committee, headed by Dr V K Paul, head of the Health and Nutrition verticals at NITI Aayog, along with AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria and NCDC and Delhi government experts to carry out this serological survey in the national capital. “Such scientific studies are extremely important and should be performed from time-to-time to understand the lessons from the past. The numbers collated are from the third week of June when the cases in Delhi were rising exponentially. It is important to note that when the survey was done the city was reporting over 3,000 cases a day. The robust data will be used well in the disease control programme,” Dr Paul told a news conference on Tuesday. He added that the containment strategies adopted by the Ministry in coordination with NCDC and the Delhi government helped them prevent the further spread of the virus. "This shows that if scientific principles are followed well then a pandemic can be controlled well," Dr Paul added. The results of the Delhi sero-survey suggested a coronavirus prevalence of more than 20 percent in eight districts. The population in the Central, Northeast and Shahdara districts have been exposed to the virus to the largest extent, as they showed the highest coronavirus prevalence of over 27 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-in-5-persons-developed-antibodies-in-delhi-covid-19-sero-survey-report-864227.html
22-07-2020||National||Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar Nidhi Scheme launched||Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme was launched through Common Service Centres (CSCs) today. The scheme is a Central Sector Scheme with full funding from Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs with the objectives of facilitating working capital loan up to Rs 10,000, to incentivize regular repayment and to reward digital transactions. The scheme intends to formalize street vendors with above objectives and will open up new opportunities in this sector to move up the economic ladder. While inaugurating the program, Sanjay Kumar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs said, “Under this program, urban street vendors will be eligible to avail a Working Capital loan of up to Rs 10,000 with tenure of 1 year and repaid in monthly installments. For this loan, no collateral will be taken by the lending institutions." He added, “We have also launched the mobile application of PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme. The app aims to provide a user friendly digital interface for Lending Institutions (LIs) and their field functionaries for sourcing and processing loan applications of street vendors under the scheme. "CSCs can do wonderful job in taking care of vendor community under this scheme. We will also help banks to provide loans to these small vendors. Digital Financial Transaction is also our objective. Enabling the vendor for applying loan and Digital transaction will be done by CSCs,” said. Dinesh Tyagi, CEO, Common Service Centre. CSC,  a special purpose vehicle under the Union Ministry of Electronics and IT to deliver government services to the door step of common man.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pradhan-mantri-street-vendors-atmanirbhar-nidhi-scheme-launched-864238.html
22-07-2020||National||Journalist's murder: Arvind Kejriwal demands strict punishment for culprits||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday demanded the "strictest punishment" for the killers of Ghaziabad-based journalist Vikram Joshi and said the scribe's murder raises questions over the law and order situation. Joshi, who was shot in the head by some assailants two days ago, succumbed to injuries on Wednesday. "The murder of Vikram Joshi, who was raising voice against molestation of his niece, raised a lot of questions over our law and order system. "There should be the strictest punishment for the killers of Vikram Joshi," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Joshi, who had made a complaint with police alleging harassment of his niece on July 16, was attacked around 10.30 pm on Monday while he was returning home in Vijay Nagar area on a two-wheeler along with his two daughters, according to officials. The scribe worked with a local Hindi daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalists-murder-arvind-kejriwal-demands-strict-punishment-for-culprits-864240.html
22-07-2020||National||BJP names MP Kashyap as its Himachal president||The BJP on Wednesday appointed Suresh Kumar Kashyap, MP from Shimla, as its Himachal Pradesh unit president, a statement said. Kashyap is an ex-serviceman and has been elected as MLA on the party's ticket earlier. He replaces Rajeev Bindal, who resigned in May within five months of his appointment after his name had cropped in police investigation in a corruption case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-names-mp-kashyap-as-its-himachal-president-864243.html
22-07-2020||National||About 82% decline in triple talaq cases since law enacted by Modi govt: Naqvi||There has been about 82 per cent decline in triple talaq cases since the law against the "social evil" was put in place, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Wednesday, terming August 1, when the legislation came into being as, "Muslim women's rights day". He also asserted the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, has taken its course whenever such a matter has been reported. In an article 'Triple Talaq -- Big Reform, Better Result' which was posted by Press Information Bureau, Naqvi said triple talaq or talaq-e-biddat was neither Islamic nor legal, but the social evil was still given "political patronage" by "merchants of votes". "August 1, 2019, is a historic day in Indian parliamentary history when the bill against triple talaq was made a law despite the obstacle by so-called 'champions of secularism', including the Congress, Communist Party, Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Trinamool Congress," Naqvi said. August 1 became the day which ensured gender equality and strengthened constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights of the Muslim women, he said, terming it the 'Muslim women's rights day'. That day will remain a "golden moment" in Indian democracy and parliamentary history, the minister said in the article. "One year has passed since the law against triple talaq was passed and there is a decline of about 82 per cent in triple talaq cases thereafter," Naqvi said, without elaborating on the figures of such cases. A law against the "social evil" of triple talaq could have been passed in 1986 when the Supreme Court had given the historic judgement in the Shah Bano case, he said. The Congress had an absolute majority in Parliament with more than 400 out of 545 Lok Sabha members and more than 159 out of the 245 Members in Rajya Sabha, but the then Rajiv Gandhi government used its strength in Parliament to make the judgement ineffective and deprive Muslim women of their constitutional and fundamental rights, Naqvi said. "The then Congress government had bowed down before the illogic of some 'narrow-minded fanatics' and committed a criminal sin to deprive the Muslim women of their constitutional rights," Naqvi said. The Congress’ "mistake of the moment" became a "punishment of decades" for the Muslim women, he said.   "The Congress was worried for 'vote ka udhaar' (the loan of votes), while our government was worried for 'samajik sudhaar" (social reform)," Naqvi said India runs on a Constitution, not on Shariat or any other religious textbook, the minority affairs minister asserted. Noting that earlier various legislations had been brought in the country to abolish social evils such as Sati and child marriage, Naqvi said the law against triple talaq has nothing to do with religion and was made purely to ensure gender equality by ending an "inhuman, cruel and unconstitutional practice". "Instant divorce by verbally saying Talaq thrice is illegal. There were several incidents coming where women had been given talaq through a letter, phone or even through messages and WhatsApp. Such incidents are unacceptable in a sensitive country and to a government committed to inclusive development," Naqvi said. Several Muslim-majority nations of the world had declared triple talaq illegal and un-Islamic such as Egypt, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Syria and Malaysia. However, it took 70 years for India to get rid of this inhuman and cruel practice, Naqvi said. The minister said the month of August is recognised as one of revolution, rights and reforms in the Indian history -- August 8, Quit India Movement; August 15, Independence Day; August 19, World Humanitarian Day; August 20, Sadbhavana Diwas; and August 5, the abolition of Article 370. The Narendra Modi government made the law against triple talaq to make the Supreme Court's judgement of May 18, 2017, effective. By enacting the triple talaq law, the Modi government has strengthened socio-economic, fundamental and constitutional rights of the Muslim women. The government is committed to social reforms and empowerment of all sections, Naqvi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-82-decline-in-triple-talaq-cases-since-law-enacted-by-modi-govt-naqvi-864244.html
22-07-2020||National||India’s largest nuclear power reactor becomes operational||India’s biggest indigenous nuclear power reactor on Wednesday became operational as criticality was achieved at the country’s first 700-MW power plant at Kakrapar atomic power station in Gujarat. With the criticality—initiation of the self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction inside the reactor’s core—achieved successfully, the N-power company will conduct few other tests and progressively increase the plant’s output, before it is connected to the grid within a week. It took 10 long years for the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd to complete the project whose construction began in November 2010. "Big Day in India's Nuclear history as indigenously designed 700 MWe Kakrapar Atomic Power Plant-3 in Gujarat achieved criticality. Nation salutes our scientists on this stellar achievement. New India is marching ahead to realise PM @NarendraModi's vision of #AatmaNirbharBharat," Amit Shah tweeted.   Big Day in India’s Nuclear history as indigenously designed 700 MWe Kakrapar Atomic Power Plant-3 in Gujarat achieved criticality. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too congratulated nuclear scientists, saying the indigenous reactor is a shining example of the 'Make in India' campaign. The fuel loading of the reactor was completed by the middle of March 2020 following which several tests and procedures were carried out during the lockdown period following all Covid-19 guidelines, NPCIL said in a statement. Barring two 540 MW units at Tarapur, majority of the Indian nuclear power reactors are pressurised heavy water reactors of 220 MW capacity. In addition, there are two 1000 MW Russian light-water units at Kudankulam, two old 160 MW boiling water reactors at Tarapur and a 200-MW unit at Rawtbhatta. NPCIL officials blamed the delay in the supply of critical equipment as the main reason for the third unit at the Kakrapar Atomic Power Project to take such a long time. The inner containment dome of KAPP-3 was installed only in June 2016. Construction of a second 700-MW unit at Kakrapar began in 2011 and is likely to be finished next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-largest-nuclear-power-reactor-becomes-operational-864256.html
22-07-2020||National||Indian tea prices jump to record as floods, Covid-19 slash output||Tea prices in the world's second-biggest producer India have jumped to a record after intense floods and coronavirus movement restrictions trimmed output in the main producing region. The price rise could support the beleaguered Indian tea industry which has struggled with rising production costs, but may limit New Delhi's exports and boost shipments from rivals such as Kenya and Sri Lanka, multiple trade sources said. Floods have damaged tea gardens in the northeastern state of Assam - which accounts for over half of India's production - where output had already been cut by labour movement restrictions to contain the coronavirus outbreak, Prabhat Bezboruah, chairman of India's Tea Board said. Floods in Assam have killed at least 84 people and displaced more than 2.75 million since May. "The 10% crop loss is expected to be compensated by a 12% price rise after eight years of price stagnation, but next year prices may decline on likely reports of higher production," Bezboruah said. Production losses have already lifted weekly auction prices to a record of 232.60 rupees ($3.11) per kg, up 57% from a year ago, according to the Tea Board. That compares to annual average price moves of around 1% to 3% in recent years, said Kalyan Sundaram, secretary of the Calcutta Tea Traders' Association. The lost crop is unlikely to be recovered as many tea gardens remain submerged and the premium second flush crop that usually fetches higher prices has been damaged, said Nazrana Ahmed, chairman of Assam Tea Planters Association. Second flush refers to the leaves that bloom from a tea plant at the beginning of monsoon season after the first set are plucked. "Production cost has gone up substantially in the last few years. Many tea producers may not survive unless prices sustain at current level," said Sujit Patra, secretary at Indian Tea Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-tea-prices-jump-to-record-as-floods-covid-19-slash-output-864259.html
22-07-2020||National||Supreme Court rules out possibility of conducting physical hearings amid coronavirus crisis||The Supreme Court Wednesday ruled out the possibility of conducting physical hearings at present in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic situation. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said that a seven-judge committee of the apex court would consider after four weeks the aspect of re-starting physical hearing in the top court. The CJI's observation came when a lawyer sought resumption of physical court hearing to deal with a batch of petitions relating to grant of quota in promotions to SC/ST employees in various states. The apex court has been conducting hearings through video-conferencing, days before the nationwide lockdown had started on March 25 to contain the spread of the deadly virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-rules-out-possibility-of-conducting-physical-hearings-amid-coronavirus-crisis-864262.html
22-07-2020||National||IAF's rapid deployment of assets in eastern Ladakh sent signal to adversary: Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday complimented the Indian Air Force for its rapid deployment of assets at forward locations in response to the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, saying its Balakot strike and the current combat readiness have sent a strong message to "adversaries". In an address to the top commanders of the IAF on the opening day of a three-day conference, the defence minister said the nation’s resolve to defend its sovereignty stands firm and that the people of the country have full confidence in the capability of its armed forces. Singh also talked about the "professional manner" in which the IAF conducted the air strikes deep inside Pakistan's Balakot last year and appreciated the force for its proactive response in bolstering its operational capabilities over the past few months. "He stated that the professional manner in which IAF conducted the air strikes in Balakot as well as rapid deployment of IAF assets at forward locations in response to the prevailing situation in eastern Ladakh has sent a strong message to the adversaries," the defence ministry said in a release. He said the nation’s resolve to defend its sovereignty stands firm on the faith its people have in the capability of its armed forces. Singh also mentioned the ongoing efforts to de-escalate tension along the Line of Actual Control and urged the IAF to stand ready to handle any eventuality. Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said that the IAF was well prepared to counter short term as well as strategic threats and the units were "evenly poised" to counter any aggressive action by the adversary. He said the response by all commands in ensuring deployment and readiness of forces was prompt and laudable. He also emphasised on the need to focus on the ability to handle situations at a short notice for ensuring a robust response. In his address, the defence minister also acknowledged the IAF’s role in adapting to changes in technology. He also talked about adopting emerging capabilities like nano technology, artificial intelligence, cyber and space domains. He assured the commanders that all requirements of the Armed Forces, whether financial or otherwise, would be fulfilled, the ministry said. In the conference, the IAF commanders will carry out an in-depth review of the country's air defence system which will include deployment of the first batch of Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh sector. The main focus of the commanders' conference will be to deliberate on the overall situation in eastern Ladakh and enhance the IAF's combat prowess over the country's air space in all sensitive sectors along the de-facto border with China including in Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Uttarakhand, the sources said. The commanders are expected to specifically deliberate on deployment of first batch of around six Rafale jets in the Ladakh sector by early next month as the aircraft are set to join the IAF's fighter fleet by July 29, the sources said. In a demonstration of its aerial prowess, the IAF has been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in the last few weeks, in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. The IAF has deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China notwithstanding disengagement of troops by Chinese military from a number of friction points. The IAF has also deployed Apache attack choppers as well as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations The IAF has also pressed into service a fleet of C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft as well as C-130J Super Hercules in transporting heavy military equipment and weaponry to several forward bases in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iafs-rapid-deployment-of-assets-in-eastern-ladakh-sent-signal-to-adversary-rajnath-singh-864267.html
22-07-2020||National||Telcos should provide location grid of bulk subscribers: DoT||Telecom operators will now have to provide the location grid of the premises of bulk subscribers during physical verification for issuing new connections, according to a DoT order. Telecom companies will have to provide a point of sale code through a portal to law enforcement agencies, the order said. The Department of Telecom (DoT) in an order issued on July 20 asked telecom operators to remove or correct gibberish text in consumer application form of all existing connections that were given to customers using electronic know you customer (e-KYC) and Digital KYC processes. "In case of issuing new mobile connections to the bulk subscriber, during the physical verification of the premises of bulk subscribers, the latitude/longitude of the premises of the bulk subscriber and data and time of the inspection shall be captured and the same shall be inserted in the CAF and database," the order said. The move will ensure that physical verification of the bulk connections is done by telecom companies. DoT has mandated telecom companies to conduct inspection of premises of bulk connection users every six month and capture the location grid. DoT has found gibberish entries in the consumer application form (CAF) submitted by telecom operators and they have been asked to remove or correct such anomalies in the existing CAFs collected through e-KYC and D-KYC processes. The Department had allowed telecom operators to use Aadhaar based e-KYC process from August 2016 but discontinued it following the Supreme Court judgement in Aadhaar related matter in September 2018. Thereafter, DoT started D-KYC whereby telcos were allowed to submit scanned copy of customer's photo ID and address proof and digitally filled basic details of the subscriber in CAF. All the phone connections at present are issued through D-KYC process. Under the new rules, telecom operators will have to verify details of the company from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs before activating the SIM cards. DoT has ordered the implementation of the new process "within three months from the date of issue of these instructions".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telcos-should-provide-location-grid-of-bulk-subscribers-dot-864268.html
22-07-2020||National||India's water crisis becoming a problem for PM Narendra Modi||By Bibhudatta Pradhan and Pratik Parija On a scorching summer day in northern India, Ajay Singh sat next to his water pump and scanned his 10 acres of farmland. He once used to grow rice each season to bring in about 150,000 rupees ($2,000) a year, well above the average income in the world’s second-most populous country. Now on six acres, he’s cultivating pearl millet, cowpeas, bottle gourd and corn — crops that consume about 80% less water than rice, and also use less labour, fertilizer and electricity. While a water conservation program pays him 7,000 ($93) rupees per acre to plant them, it’s still a gamble: Unlike rice, which the government always buys at a set price, these crops have no guaranteed market. “I am taking this risk because I have a passion to leave enough water for future generations,” Singh said from his farm in Karnal, an area a few hours drives north of the capital, New Delhi. India’s 1.3 billion people have access to only about 4% of the world’s water resources, and farmers consume almost 90% of the groundwater water available. As global temperatures rise and overuse of water depletes existing resources, the threat to lives and businesses in Asia’s third-largest economy is projected to grow. Water shortages are already acute: nearly half the country’s population faces high-to-extreme water stress and about 200,000 die each year due to inadequate access to safe water. Stoked by climate change, the water crisis has forced Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to try and turn around decades of established farming practices and convince the country’s most powerful voting bloc to change the crops they plant. Water-guzzlers like rice and wheat are out, corn and pulses are in. “This is just the beginning,” Siraj Hussain, former secretary of agriculture and a visiting senior fellow at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations in New Delhi said of the program farmers as Singh have joined. “Sooner or later, it will have to be replicated across the country. Ideally, the central government should finance part of the expenditure in providing incentives to the farmers for making the shift from paddy and sugarcane. States alone can not afford such an ambitious plan.” For Modi, pushing farmers to change is risky business because of their sheer numbers and political power. Farm income is untaxed in the South Asian nation, and water and electricity are heavily subsidized. Lowering the minimum price at which the government buys food grains from farmers could also backfire at the polls. Although Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party dominates parliament after a big win in last year’s election, he needs to tread a fine balance between shifting to less water-intensive crops and ensuring his government produces enough food to feed the poor. That makes incentives like those given to farmers like Singh an important test for whether India can reverse its chronic water problems. If the program in Karnal is any indicator, the task isn’t going to be easy. Farmers love rice and wheat primarily because of stable prices and assured state purchases. These two staples, along with another thirsty crop, sugar cane, are grown in 40% of the country’s gross farmed area but consume about 80% of its irrigation water. Corn and millets may use less water, but their price stability is unproven. In the long run, experts say water shortages will make crop diversification an inevitability. Currently, India is the world’s biggest extractor of groundwater — more than China and the U.S. combined — accounting for almost a quarter of the total extracted globally. Between 2000 and 2017 its groundwater depletion increased by as much as 23%. But the change needs to be carefully managed, said Aditya Pratap Dabas, deputy director agriculture and the officer managing the Karnal project. “Changing the farmers’ mindset is the main challenge in implementing the program.” Heavier tactics backfire. Protests erupted earlier this year when the provincial government tried to restrict rice cultivation to just half the farmed area in some parts of Haryana. The farmers, some backed by the opposition Congress party, said the government couldn’t deprive farmers of the right to grow crops that fetched the best price. It will take time to change the mindset of farmers, said Rajinder Singh, 61, an activist with four decades of farming experience who is now urging others to join the program. “The government should give assurance to procure these crops, more access to market and set up infrastructural facilities like cold storage,” he said. India’s food policy has remained focused on wheat and rice since the 1960s when the Green Revolution changed the farming landscape and made the country food self-sufficient for the first time. The road to becoming the world’s second-largest producer of those two staple grains was paved by federal and state subsidies for fertilizer, power and water. The crops are then purchased by governments — even in times of glut — at a minimum support price. For India’s farmers, these are hard habits to break. “Diversification incentives are not a bad idea,” said Ila Patnaik, former principal economic adviser to the federal government and a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “Many of these reforms will have to be demonstrated to farmers before they gain faith in the government. We must also give time for reforms to play out.” Besides Haryana, some other states have indirect programs to motivate farmers to move to less water-intensive crops. Northern Punjab, a major producer of wheat and rice, is offering cash incentives to farmers who use less electricity to extract groundwater. In Maharashtra, home to the financial hub Mumbai, farmers are encouraged to use drip irrigation for sugarcane cultivation. But for Mahavir Sharma, a 63-year-old farmer in Karnal, it was water scarcity in his part of Haryana that pushed him to start experimenting with corn on four of his 19 acres. “I have seen in my own experience how rapidly the water level has fallen — it’s now our biggest problem,” Sharma said. “Our work will motivate others. People will realize every drop matters.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-water-crisis-becoming-a-problem-for-pm-narendra-modi-864275.html
22-07-2020||National||Media bodies demand judicial probe into attack on Ghaziabad journalist||Media bodies on Wednesday condemned the attack on Ghaziabad-based journalist Vikram Joshi, who succumbed to his injuries during treatment and demanded a judicial probe into it as well as other incidents of assault on scribes in Uttar Pradesh. Observing that attack on journalists, especially in Uttar Pradesh, has been increasing in the recent times, the Press Association and the Indian Women's Press Corps (IWPC) demanded that the Uttar Pradesh government bring to book all the culprits in the attack on Joshi as well as in other assault on scribes in the state. Joshi, who was shot in the head by some assailants, succumbed to injuries at a private hospital early on Wednesday. He had lodged a complaint with the police alleging harassment of his niece on July 16 and was shot around 10.30 pm on Monday near his home in Vijay Nagar area, according to officials. The Press Association and the IWPC condemned the "dastardly attack" on Joshi. "We observe that attack on journalists, especially in Uttar Pradesh, is increasing in recent times. At the same time, no concrete action has been taken by the state government in many of the cases," the Press Association and IWPC said in a joint statement. "We demand that all the culprits in this case as well as in previous cases must be brought to book by launching a 'special operation' by the state government," they said. The two media bodies also demanded adequate financial help for the bereaved family of Joshi. More importantly, considering the past record of murderous attacks on the next of kin of the victims in Uttar Pradesh, the state government must provide adequate security to the members of Joshi's family, the statement said. There also should be a high-level judicial inquiry into this incident and past incidents of attack on journalists, they said. "We understand that nine accused have been arrested and the station in-charge has been suspended with the initiation of departmental inquiry after the family of the journalist alleged inaction by the police. But these are not enough to bring out the truths and bring the culprits to book," the Press Association and IWPC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-bodies-demand-judicial-probe-into-attack-on-ghaziabad-journalist-864279.html
22-07-2020||National||All 11 ex-cops guilty of killing Bharatpur royal scion & his two colleagues given life term||All 11 former policemen from Rajasthan, convicted for killing Raja Man Singh of the erstwhile Bharatpur royal family and his two colleagues over 35 years ago in Deeg area of the state, were awarded life sentence by a court here on Wednesday. The convicts, who were sentenced to life term by Mathura District Judge Sadhna Rani Thakur, include former Deeg Dy SP Kan Singh, 82, and local police station in-charge, sub-inspector Virendra Singh, 78, who had led a police team in killing the Bharatpur royal scion and his two colleagues Sumer Singh and Hari Singh on February 21, 1985. The other policemen sentenced for the crime are ex-ASI Ravi Shekhar and former constables Sukh Ram, Jeevan Ram, Jag Mohan, Bhanwar Singh, Hari Singh, Chhatar Singh, Sher Singh, Daya Ram and Ravi Shekhar, all above 70 years of age. The encounter had taken place in Deeg grain market a day after Raja Man Singh, then contesting the state Vidhan Sabha election as an independent candidate, had allegedly banged his jeep into former Rajasthan's chief minister Shiv Charan Mathur’s helicopter. According to the prosecution, he was also accused of damaging some publicity material and a stage set up for Mathur to address an election rally in favour of the Congress candidate Brajendra Singh, a retired IAS officer, the prosecution had told the court. Days after the killings of the royal family chief and his two colleagues, the case was transferred by the then central government to the CBI on February 27, 1985. The trial was later shifted from a Jaipur special court to Mathura in Uttar Pradesh by the Supreme Court in November 1989 on the plea of complainant Vijay Singh, a son-in-law of the slain chief of the erstwhile riyasat. “Besides undergoing life imprisonment, all the eleven convicts will have to furnish a fine of Rs 10,000 each failing which they will have to undergo additional imprisonment of two months each,” District & Session Judge Thakur announced in a jam-packed courtroom. Besides being held guilty of murder, all 11 former policemen were also convicted for “committing riots armed with deadly weapons” and being part of the unlawful assembly committing an offence with common objective under sections 148 and 149 of the IPC respectively. For these two offences, all 11 convicts were sentenced to two years and six months respectively in jail and were imposed fines of Rs 2,000 each. All sentences would run concurrently, the court said. The court also ordered payment of Rs 30,000 to the next of kin of each of the deceased and Rs 2,000 to the four injured persons, Vijai Singh, Chandan Singh, Nawab Singh and Babu Lal, in the encounter. Out of 18 persons sent up for trial by the CBI, three policemen, Sita Ram, Neki Ram and Kuldeep, had died during its pendency and the case was abated against them. The three ex-policemen who were acquitted of charges of shielding their colleagues by creating false records are former inspector Kan Singh Shirvi of Bharatpur Crime Branch and head constables Hari Kishan and Govind Prasad. One former policeman, Mahendra Singh, was discharged in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-11-ex-cops-guilty-of-killing-bharatpur-royal-scion-his-two-colleagues-given-life-term-864280.html
22-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 63.13% with record 28,472 patients recuperating in 24 hours||India on Wednesday registered the highest ever recoveries from Covid-19 in a single day even as the total infections surged past the 12-lakh mark. According to the Health Ministry, 28,472 persons recovered from Covid-19 on Tuesday taking the total recoveries to 7,53,050 or 63.13% of the total number of persons infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus. The infectious disease has so far claimed 28,732 lives across the country so far, pegging the case fatality rate at 2.41%, a consistent decline from the 3.36% recorded on June 17. A sero-survey conducted by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi revealed that Covid-19 infections were prevalent in 23% of the 1.9 crore population of the city. “We are planning to undertake sero-surveys in many cities,” Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director, NCDC said here. ICMR has stepped up testing for Covid-19. It had tested 3.43 lakh samples on Tuesday and plans to step it up to five lakh samples per day within the next one month. The increase in testing has helped early detection and timely and effective clinical management of Covid-19 cases, the health ministry said. The national average of tests per million population is 180, which is higher than the guidance given by the World Health Organisation. According to Rajesh Bhushan, Union Health Secretary-designate, the test positivity rate for India was 8.07% and declining gradually. Bhushan said there were 30 states and union territories that had test positivity rate lower than the national average. Among large states, the states with test positivity rate lower than the national average are – Karnataka (7.29%), West Bengal (6.94%), Haryana (6.47%), Andhra Pradesh (4.16%), Uttar Pradesh (4.06%), Assam (4.03%), Madhya Pradesh (3.90%) and Rajasthan (2.46%). According to the DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 12,04,113 total confirmed cases of the infectious disease, while the death toll had touched 29,363 at 6:30 p.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-6313-with-record-28472-patients-recuperating-in-24-hours-864284.html
22-07-2020||National||Supreme Court refuses interim order on promotion of SC/ST employees||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to consider a plea by the Union government for clarification on an order, passed on April 15, 2019, to maintain status quo on reservation in promotion to the SC/ST employees.  "We are not going to disturb the order of status quo as of now. In the interest of justice, we will hear the matter finally after four weeks," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswara Rao orally told Attorney General K K Venugopal. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, along with advocate Kumar Parimal, appearing for general category of employees, opposed the plea for passing any interim order in the matter. They said that the matter should be heard in physical courts instead of the virtual one. On this, the bench said a seven-judge panel was considering the issue of resumption of physical courts which is likely to determine the issue within four weeks. So all these instant matters would be taken up after four weeks, the bench added. The Centre was concerned particularly with the fact that as on January 31, 2020, more than 1.3 lakh promotions were held up in 23 out of a total of 78 departments, causing resentment and financial loss to the employee. In an application, the Union government sought permission to make "ad-hoc promotions to the large number of vacant posts" subject to outcome of the cases.  It said, "the status quo ordered on April 15, 2019  has resulted in a complete stoppage of all promotions" in reserved and general category. It said a significant numbers of government servants were retiring every month without getting the promotions due to them. "This is causing resentment, demoralisation and confusion amongst a large section of the government servants, besides financial losses," it said.  In the pandemic, government employees are at the forefront of providing various relief measures to the public and it is important to keep up their morale, the government further said. It submitted that the application was necessitated as previously the court by its order on May 17, 2018 and June 5, 2018 permitted for going ahead with the promotion. The Delhi High Court has on August 23, 2017 quashed the office memorandum of August 13, 1997 providing for reservation in promotions to the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs). The special leave petition by the Union government is still pending before the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-interim-order-on-promotion-of-sc/st-employees-864286.html
22-07-2020||National||Glenmark's favipiravir version shows promise in late-stage Covid-19 trial||India's Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd said on Wednesday its version of anti-flu drug favipiravir showed promise in a late-stage study of 150 patients with mild to moderate coronavirus infection. About 70% of patients being treated by FabiFlu achieved "clinical cure" by the fourth day of the study, compared with about 45% seen in the group treated with standard supportive care, the company said in a statement||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/glenmarks-favipiravir-version-shows-promise-in-late-stage-covid-19-trial-864294.html
22-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Another explosion at Baghjan oil well in Assam||In today’s episode, Another explosion rocks OIL’s gas well at Baghjan in eastern Assam's Tinsukia district; Gold prices in the national capital hit a record high rising by Rs 430; Congress Chief spokesman Randeep Surjewala has said that the Centre has created a 'raid raj' but the Congress won't be scared and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has urged 45 newly-elected members of the House to uphold rules and procedures while discharging their duties as lawmakers and not fall prey to disruptions.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-another-explosion-at-baghjan-oil-well-in-assam-864310.html
22-07-2020||National||Indian Railways: First set of private trains likely by March 2023||With several corporate houses including Bombardier India, Bharat Forge and GMR group showing interest to operate private passenger trains, Indian Railways is hoping to start the first set of 12 trains by March 2023. As per Indian Railways' plan, the tenders will be finalised by March 2021 and trains will operate from March 2023, said an official from the Railways Ministry. As the railways proposes to allow private players to operate 151 trains, the first set of 12 are expected to start operation by March 2023, followed by 45 more in 2024-25 financial year, another 50 in 2025-26 and the remaining 44 in 2026-27. A total of 16 private companies' representatives including GMR group, Bombardier India, Spanish coach and component maker CAF, IRCTC, Medha Group,  RK Associates, Bharat Forge and JKB Infrastructure, PSUs RITES and Bharat Heavy Electricals have participated in the first pre-bid meeting conducted by railways on Tuesday. The second such meeting will be held in second week of August. Earlier, the railways formally kickstarted its plans to allow private entities to operate passenger trains on its network by inviting request for qualifications (RFQ) for participation on 109 pairs of routes through 151 modern trains. In 2019, a total  of 8.4 billion passengers travelled in trains while the number will be 30 billion by 2030. Keeping with demand, the railways will continue to introduce new trains, the ministry said. "Indian Railways network is about 68,000 route kilometers. In the year 2018-19, the reserved passenger volume was 16% (0.59 billion) of the total originating non- suburban passengers (3.65 billion).  Almost 8.85 crore of waitlisted passengers could not be accommodated," said the official from the railways. During pre-lockdown period IRCTC, the catering and ticketing arm of railways operated three trains-New Delhi-Lucknow, Mumbai -Ahmedabad and Ujjain-Varanasi. Since all the three trains operated successfully with occupancy more than 70%, the railways wanted to hand over more routes to private companies, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-first-set-of-private-trains-likely-by-march-2023-864315.html
22-07-2020||National||Bombay HC raps govt for not allowing those aged above 65 on film sets||How can a physically fit person above 65 years of age be expected to live a dignified life if he is not allowed to go out and earn his livelihood, the Bombay High Court asked while pulling up the Maharashtra government for prohibiting those above that age on sets of film and TV shows. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla made the remarks on Tuesday while hearing a petition filed by one Pramod Pandey, challenging guidelines issued by the state government on May 30, 2020, which stated that no cast/crew member above the age of 65 years will be allowed on film and television sets during shooting. The 70-year-old petitioner said he was doing small roles in films and TV serials for four decades, and that he does not have any other source of livelihood. He further said in his petition that though he is physically fit, he is not allowed to go to studios and participate in shootings. The high court told the government that actors performing small roles are required to go to studios and request for work to enable them to have their two meals, and no producer/director is going to shoot their role via FaceTime, Zoom or Skype. "The state government shall explain in an affidavit how a physically fit person who is 65 years or above is expected to live a dignified life if he is not allowed to go out and earn his livelihood, the court said. The bench said the government in its affidavit shall also say whether any data or statistics were taken into consideration before issuing the guidelines restraining cast/crew members above the age of 65 years from attending studio/shooting sites. The affidavit shall also say whether a similar rule is made applicable to individuals who are 65 years and above and are travelling by trains/buses and aircraft, whether a similar rule is made applicable to the employers/staff who are currently attending shops/private offices," the court said. It also asked the government to say in its affidavit whether a similar rule is made applicable to individuals who are allowed to attend funerals or marriage functions. The court posted the petition for further hearing on July 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-raps-govt-for-not-allowing-those-aged-above-65-on-film-sets-864317.html
22-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Punjab CM issues directions for framing guidelines for shooting films, songs||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday directed the Chief Secretary to formulate guidelines for shooting of films, songs and shows amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister's directive came after three Punjabi singers/actors made a representation to him through a video conference shortly after the Cabinet meeting here on Wednesday, a government release said. Rupinder Singh 'Gippy Grewal', Ranjit Bawa and Gurpreet Ghuggi pointed out that even though the chief minister had last month announced the resumption of shooting in the state, the absence of clearly defined guidelines was making it difficult for them to resume work, which had been completely suspended during the lockdown period. Taking note of their concern, Singh asked Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to come out with the necessary guidelines at the earliest to ensure that shooting can recommence smoothly with full Covid-19 safety protocols in place, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-punjab-cm-issues-directions-for-framing-guidelines-for-shooting-films-songs-864346.html
22-07-2020||National||10 trade unions call for nation-wide protest on August 9 against worker policies||As many as 10 central trade unions have given a call for observing nationwide protest on August 9 against the policies of the government, a statement said on Wednesday. On 9th August, the 'Quit India Day' should be observed as 'Save India Day' through countrywide stayagraha, jail bharo or any other form of militant agitations in all workplaces, industrial centres, district headquarters and rural areas, the joint statement by 10 central trade unions said. The 10 unions are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC. There are 12 central trade unions in the country. "The united platform of Central Trade Unions and Federations /Associations called upon to step up the struggles against the anti-people, anti-worker policies of the government both on a sectoral and national level with continuity," the statement said. It stated that on the day of coal workers strike on 18th August 2020, militant solidarity actions in all workplaces and the PSUs in particular; the possibility of strike action should be explored wherever is possible. The defence sector unions and federations have been jointly planning to give notice for a strike on the basis of the strike ballot approved by more than 99 per cent workers. They may go for strike action sometimes in mid-September 2020. The statement noted that the Scheme workers' unions and federations (Anganwadi, ASHA, Mid Day Meal etc) have jointly decided to go for two days strike on 7th and 8th August which will converge with countrywide agitation on August 9. It has also been decided to continue the countrywide campaign against the government move on railway privatization in coordination with the unions/federations with the Railway Sector and also independently, it added. Railway federations have reported that they are also planning and preparing for their response/actions at appropriate time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-trade-unions-call-for-nation-wide-protest-on-august-9-against-worker-policies-864354.html
22-07-2020||National||Trinamool against virtual Parliamentary session; bats for virtual panel meetings||Trinamool Congress on Wednesday batted for virtual meetings of Parliamentary committees during the Covid-19 pandemic, arguing that a panel has already held deliberations on digital mode in April and there was no reason why it should not be allowed for others. However, the party was not in favour of holding a virtual session of Parliament. The party's position was articulated in a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu by Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien. "We do not subscribe to the idea of conducting a Parliament session virtually. We have thoroughly examined the issue and feel that a 100% virtual session of Parliament would be impractical. However, we would humbly urge your good offices to conduct virtual meetings of Parliamentary committees including department related standing committees, consultative committees and select committees," O'Brien wrote. Demands for holding virtual meetings of Parliamentary panels have been raised by several leaders, including Congress' Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor, BJD's Bhatruhari Mahtab and DMK's Dayanidhi Maran among others. The Secretariats of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha had briefed both Naidu and Birla that the Parliament needs to pass a resolution for holding virtual meetings and questions of maintaining confidentiality have also to be addressed before going the digital way.  Arguing for digital meetings, O'Brien pointed that there is a precedent to hold virtual meetings of committees. He said the Joint Committee on Salary and Allowances summoned "two virtual meetings on 6 April, 2020" and 12 MPs participated in these meetings. "I am aware that this committee was set up in 1954 Under the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act. If a parliamentary committee set up by a particular law can meet virtually, then all parliamentary committees should be allowed to meet virtually to do legislative work," he wrote. Seeking to counter the arguments against virtual meetings, he also cited Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of both the Houses. He pointed to the Rules 267 and 331K on Lok Sabha business, which said the sittings of a committee should be held within the precincts of the Parliament House, and "if it becomes necessary to change the place of sitting outside the Parliament House, the matter shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final". "The Standing Committees shall not work in any other place except the precincts of Parliament House, unless otherwise specifically permitted by the Chairperson, Rajya Sabha or the Speaker, as the case may be," O'Brien cited the Rule 331K in his defence. In Rajya Sabha rules and procedures, O'Brien cited Rules 81 and 87 that dealt with Select Committee meetings, which were similar to the regulations in Lok Sabha rule book.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trinamool-against-virtual-parliamentary-session-bats-for-virtual-panel-meetings-864358.html
22-07-2020||National||Coronavirus in India: 'PM Modi, please make men share housework!'||Quibbles over who does the housework during the recent coronavirus lockdown have brought the gender politics of India’s homes into the open, writes the BBC’s Geeta Pandey in Delhi. Housework in India usually involves a lot of heavy lifting. Unlike in the West, few Indian homes are equipped with dishwashers, vacuum cleaners or washing machines. So, dishes have to be individually cleaned, clothes have to be washed in buckets and hung out to dry, and homes have to be swept with brooms and mopped with rags. Then there are children to be looked after and the elderly and infirm to be cared for. In millions of middle-class homes, the housework is delegated to the hired domestic help - part-time cooks, cleaners and nannies. But what happens when the help can’t come to work because there is a nationwide lockdown? The answer is friction and fighting - and in one unique case, a petition urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene. “Does the handle of a jhadu (broom) come printed with the words: ‘to be operated by women only’?” asks the petition, published on change.org.  “What about the manual of the washing machine or gas stove? Then why is it that most men are not doing their share of housework!” The petition’s author, Subarna Ghosh, who was fed up of cooking and cleaning and doing laundry while trying to work from home, wants the prime minister “to address the issue in his next speech” and to “encourage all Indian men to do an equal share of housework”. “It’s a fundamental question, why don’t more people talk about it?” she wrote. In Ms Ghosh’s Mumbai home it was no different. The petition, she told the BBC, came out of “life experiences of my own, and also of lots of women around me”. The burden of housework had always been hers, she said. “I do cooking, cleaning, making beds, laundry, folding clothes and everything else.” Her husband, a banker, was “not the type to help with the housework”, she said. Her teenage son and daughter sometimes chip in. Ms Ghosh, who runs a charity which works on reproductive justice, said the expectation that she would be the one to compromise on work was much higher during the lockdown. “My work suffered, at least in April, the first month of the lockdown. I was exhausted all the time, I was tired every day. Our family dynamics changed. I definitely complained a lot. And when I complained people said, ‘Then don’t do it’.”  Ms Ghosh took their advice - for three days in early May, she didn’t do any dishes or fold any clothes. “The sink was overflowing with unwashed dishes and the pile of laundry grew bigger and bigger,” she said. Her husband and children realised how upset she was and they cleaned up the mess. “My husband has started helping me with chores. He understood I was very affected by it, that it was bothering me a lot,” she said. “But our men are also victims of this culture and society. They have not been trained to do housework. They require a little bit of hand-holding.” That’s because in India, as in many other patriarchal societies, girls are groomed from a young age to be perfect homemakers. It is taken for granted that the housework is their responsibility and if they went out and got themselves a job, they would just have to do “double duty” - manage both home and work. “As a child, it was always me who had to do house chores, work in the kitchen and help out my mom,” wrote one woman, Pallavi Sareen, when I asked friends and colleagues on Facebook for their stories about the division of labour. “My brother wouldn’t even serve himself lunch,” she said. Most who replied saying their homes were gender-neutral had either lived abroad or married men who had spent time in the West. The stories closer to home were different. “Housework is still considered a woman’s job,” wrote Upasana Bhat. “Even if men offer to help, how many will do so if the couple lives with the in-laws? That would be a truly progressive day. I know of women whose husbands help out, but can’t lift a finger in the kitchen when his parents visit.”  But in reality, the cost of housework is rarely calculated. It is seen as something a woman does out of love. Growing up, Ms Ghosh thought differently. She saw her mother and aunts do all the housework and thought, “No way I’m going to be like that”. When she married, the fault lines over housework were partly hidden because of the presence of domestic help, leading to a false sense of equality at home. “Domestic help also helps maintain peace in our homes,” she said. “The chores are taken care of and it seems all is well.” But the lockdown brought the family face-to-face with the daily drudgery of housework and with the inequality that had been “shoved under the carpet”. “The lockdown made these chasms more glaring,” Ms Ghosh said. “It also gave me an opportunity to look it in the eye and lay it bare.” So she set about petitioning the prime minister. The women she spoke to in her neighbourhood said they were equally frustrated with housework, but most found the idea that their husbands help around the house ludicrous. “Many asked me, ‘How can he cook or clean?’ Many, in fact, praised their husbands for being easy-going. They’d say, ‘He’s very nice, whatever I cook he eats without complaining’.” The issue was so close to home that it was difficult to confront, Ms Ghosh said. “When it’s your own father, brother or husband, how do you question them? But the personal is political too - so I need to talk about it, but I also have to play the good wife.” When Ms Ghosh told her husband that she was starting a petition he was “very supportive”, she said. “His friends made fun of him. They asked him, ‘Why didn’t you just do some housework? Look, now your wife has gone and petitioned Modi!’ “He took it on the chin,” she said, laughing. “He told them, ‘Because more men listen to Mr Modi than their own wives’.” Ms Ghosh’s petition was also criticised by a lot of people on social media. Many chided her for bothering the prime minister with “a frivolous matter”. “Some people wrote to me saying Indian women need to do their housework. Yes, we do, but where are the men?” I asked her if she thought Mr Modi would talk about housework. “I’m hopeful,” she said. “Mr Modi has a huge support base among women, so he should talk about an issue that’s important to women. When the rainy season started, he talked about cough and cold, so why can’t he talk about gender equality?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-in-india-pm-modi-please-make-men-share-housework-864359.html
22-07-2020||National||Indian job seekers slowly losing interest in opportunities in US: Report||While the US remains the favourite destination for Indians looking for jobs overseas, there has been a substantial fall in the number of searches looking for employment opportunities in America, a report by global job portal Indeed has said. According to the Indeed data, job searches for the USA fell to 42 percent in June 2020 from a high of 58 percent in January 2019. However, the US remained the favourite destination for Indians looking at jobs abroad, the report noted. A downward trend that predates impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic, and corresponds instead with uncertainty around and tightening of the US immigration policy, it added. The data for this report is compiled and analysed from job searches on the Indeed platform. Indian job seekers remained keen to explore work opportunities across the globe, making up a significant fraction of those employed in various sectors such as technology, administration and management, sales and consumer marketing, among others internationally, the report said. Over the same period, there was a rise in searches for these roles in Canada, the UAE, the United Kingdom, Singapore, Australia and Qatar, it added. As a group, Indian job seekers are highly focused on tech in their job searches – almost nine of the top 10 clicked jobs by Indians to the USA are related to tech roles.  While looking for employment abroad, there is greater demand for jobs in this sector, especially for niche roles, including full-stack developer, development operations engineers, business analysts. "India is a unique market, not only in terms of its large and youthful labour pool, but also in the way that it is woven into the global economy. It is one of the few countries in the world that has a very high rate of mobility. People from India are willing to work in different parts of the world and return home for opportunities as well," Indeed India MD Sashi Kumar said. This two-way migration connects India to the global labour force and means India holds tremendous potential in terms of supplying the world's talent, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-job-seekers-slowly-losing-interest-in-opportunities-in-us-report-864364.html
22-07-2020||National||India a key pillar of Trump's foreign policy: Mike Pompeo||Describing India as one of the few trusted like-minded countries, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday that New Delhi is an important partner and a key pillar of President Donald Trump's foreign policy. In his virtual keynote address to the annual 'India Ideas Summit' of the US India Business Council (USIBC), Pompeo said he was happy to report that India is a "rising" US defense and security partner in the Indo-Pacific and globally. The United States, he said, "desires a new age of ambition" in its relationship with India. Asserting that the US has never been more supportive of India's security, he said New Delhi too, is an important partner and a key pillar of President Trump's foreign policy. “We don't just interact on a bilateral basis. We see each other for what we are great democracies, global powers and really good friends. India is one of the few trusted like-minded countries whose leaders I call on a regular basis for counsel and collaboration on issues that span continents,” Pompeo said. "I'm confident that our relationship is only getting stronger. Let's emerge from this current challenge more resilient and innovative than before. And let's seize this moment to deepen cooperation between two of the world's greatest democracies," he added. Pompeo said the US has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the next G7 meeting to be hosted by President Trump. "We will advance the economic prosperity network. It is the group of countries and organisations that we consider natural partners with we share values like democracy, transparency and rule of law," Pompeo said. The Group of Seven (G-7) is an international intergovernmental economic organisation consisting of seven major developed countries: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States, which are some of the largest IMF-advanced economies in the world. Pompeo also said that he was happy to report that India is a rising US defense and security partner, in the Indo-Pacific and globally. “I'm confident that with our concerted efforts, we can protect our interests” he said. “We've revived the so-called quad that comprised the US, India, Japan and Australia. India is also part of a group of likeminded nations that I've convened regularly to advance shared interests,” he said. Navies from the US, India, Australia, Japan and France have been deepening their mutual cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region in view of China's growing attempt to expand military influence in the resource-rich region. On Monday, a US Navy carrier strike group led by nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Nimitz carried out a military drill with a fleet of Indian warships off the coast of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Four frontline warships of the Indian Navy participated in the "PASSEX" exercise when the US carrier strike group was transiting through the Indian Ocean Region on its way from the South China Sea. The USS Nimitz is the world's largest warship and the exercise between the two navies assumed significance as it took place in the midst of tensions between India and China in eastern Ladakh as well as in China’s military assertiveness in South China Sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-a-key-pillar-of-trumps-foreign-policy-mike-pompeo-864369.html
22-07-2020||National||22 million children from South Asia missed out on early childhood education due to Covid-19: UNICEF||Nearly 22 million children from South Asian countries, including India, have missed out on early childhood education in their critical pre-school year due to coronavirus outbreak, according to new research by UNICEF. The research brief released on Wednesday looks at the state of childcare and early childhood education globally and includes an analysis of the impact of widespread Covid-19 closure of vital family services. In the South Asia region, the United Nations International Children's Fund (UNICEF) covered Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka for the research. “Children are among the hardest hit by the Covid-19 pandemic in South Asia. Prolonged school closure and limited access to distant learning have deprived children of their universal right to education,” UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia, Jean Gough said. “Childcare and early childhood education are foundational in helping children reach their full potential. Failing to act now will jeopardise the futures of millions of children in the region,” Gough said. The research noted that lockdown has left many parents struggling to balance childcare and paid employment, with a disproportionate burden placed on women who, on average, spend more than three times longer on care and housework than men.  "At least 40 million children worldwide, of which nearly 22 million are from South Asia, have missed out on early childhood education in their critical pre-school year as Covid-19 shuttered childcare and early education facilities," according to the research brief published by UNICEF. The closures have also exposed a deeper crisis for families of young children especially in low- and middle-income countries, many of whom were already unable to access social protection services, it said. Lack of childcare and early education options also leave many parents, particularly mothers working in the informal sector, with no choice but to bring their young children to work, the report based on the research said. "More than 9 in 10 women in Africa and nearly 7 in 10 in Asia and the Pacific work in the informal sector and have limited to no access to any form of social protection. Many parents become trapped in this unreliable, poorly paid employment, contributing to intergenerational cycles of poverty," it said. The research brief also gave guidance on how governments and employers can improve their childcare and early childhood education policies, including by enabling all children to access high-quality, age-appropriate, affordable and accessible childcare centres, irrespective of family circumstances. The guidance outlined additional policies including paid parental leave for all parents so that there is no gap between the end of parental leave and the start of affordable childcare, flexible work arrangements that address the needs of working parents and investment in the non-family childcare workforce. The research also recommended social protection systems including cash transfers that reach families working in non-formal employment. “It takes a village to raise a child. Parents and caregivers are undoubtedly feeling the stress from juggling work, household duties and childcare. Governments and employers must play their part to help ensure proper childcare and access to education,” Gough added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-million-children-from-south-asia-missed-out-on-early-childhood-education-due-to-covid-19-unicef-864371.html
22-07-2020||National||Digital platforms need to be responsive to concerns of soverign nations: Ravi Shankar Prasad takes swipe at China||Without naming China, IT and Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad took a swipe at the neighbouring country on Wednesday by saying that digital platforms need to be responsive, accountable, and sensitive to the concerns of sovereign nations as far as safety, defence and privacy are concerned. The Minister was addressing the G20 Digital Economy Ministerial meeting through video conference. India recently banned 59 Chinese linked apps citing threats to national security and privacy.  "Data must belong to the sovereign nation concerned to protect the privacy and digital concerns of its people," said in his first address in Global platform after the government decision to ban on neighbourng country mobile application. "Data is very important for the growth of the digital economy and there is a need to balance different aspects such as innovation, enterprise & safety regarding this," he said. A trustworthy AI can never emerge unless there is a trustworthy digital ecosystem. Therefore, data safety and security and a safe cyber environment are very important issues, the Minister said. Explaining how India has managed the COVID-19 crisis far better than many other countries, he said "The bold decision of the Prime Minister to go for an early nationwide lockdown helped in the country in curbing the spread of the virus as well as prepare for the upcoming challenges effectively." Emphasising the need for building a resilient global supply chain, Prasad shared the PM Narendra Modi's vision for making India an attractive destination for investment closely integrated with global supply chains. The Minister also said  India is soon going to put in place a robust personal data protection law that will not only address the data privacy-related concerns of citizens but also ensure the availability of data for innovation and economic development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-platforms-need-to-be-responsive-to-concerns-of-soverign-nations-ravi-shankar-prasad-takes-swipe-at-china-864374.html
22-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi invites US firms to invest in India||Amid worsening US-China relations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Wednesday invited US businesses to invest in India as the country was on the largest ever infrastructure creation drive and urged Washington to see India’s rise as a rise in trade opportunities with a nation they can trust. The invitation was extended in a host of other sectors like civil aviation, defence, space, finance and insurance, with Modi saying there were few better partners than the US and India, who could play an important role in helping the world bounce back from the pandemic. “The rise of India means, a rise in trade opportunities with a nation that you can trust, a rise in global integration with increasing openness, a rise in your competitiveness with access to a market which offers scale. And a rise in returns with the availability of skilled workers,” Modi said addressing a virtual summit by US-India Business Council in a subtle attack on China. India is emerging as a land of opportunities, the prime minister said citing the rise of internet users in rural India in recent times than in urban India. Experts however say that internet use in rural India has increased ever since the migrant labourers went back to villages from urban centres. The Prime minister said there were about half a billion active internet users in India now and an equal number were being connected. He said the pandemic has taught us to build resilience against external shocks, referring to supply-chain disruptions during the world-wide lockdown. The prime minister said global economic resilience can be achieved by stronger domestic economic capacities. “India is contributing towards a prosperous and resilient world through the clarion call of an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. And, for that, we await your partnership," he said, adding in a light vein that he was giving advice to US companies, without charging them a consultancy fee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-invites-us-firms-to-invest-in-india-864375.html
22-07-2020||National||China will face consequences of misplaced aggression: Expert||China will face the consequences of its misplaced aggression in eastern Ladakh and other parts of Asia because its misadventures may trigger nationalist counter-responses among neighbours who will simply not accept any attempted domination, a strategic affairs expert said Wednesday. Prof. C. Raja Mohan, who heads a prestigious institution in Singapore, also said China’s actions in eastern Ladakh have created conditions for a "fundamental reset" of New Delhi’s ties with Beijing as its "unacceptable assertion" of power and quest to grab more land undercut nearly three decades of efforts to build mutual trust. China has been equally belligerent in South China Sea and East China Sea much to the chagrin of countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia, Philippines and Malaysia. Prof Mohan said China will face consequences for its misplaced aggression as Asian countries will produce counter-responses, including a push for re-balancing of power in the region. "We are beginning to see that the rest of the world will not simply accept the domination of one power," he said. "I think the important point here is that the Chinese might have fundamentally miscalculated the nature of nationalism in Asia. Most countries in Asia are nationalist, India is nationalist. There is a strong sense of nationalism all across South East Asia," Prof Mohan told PTI in a telephonic interview from Singapore. "The very attempt at imposing one nation's will is going to produce a backlash just as most Asian countries like China fought off colonial powers. So they are not going to simply accept the attempted domination by any new power in Asia," he said. The noted Indian strategic affairs expert is currently serving as director of the Institute of South Asian Studies at the National University of Singapore. He said China has been pushing the countries closer to the US by its aggressive behaviour, adding there has been resistance from the rest of the world to counter Beijing as the global community cannot simply accept the attempted domination of one power. "What China has done is to nudge most of the countries towards the US. The countries which were hesitant or reluctant to deal with the US. China is compelling many of its neighbours to build stronger ties with the US including on defence and security cooperation," he said. "So the effect of its action is counter-productive even from China's own perspective purely looking at it as an analytical thing. So my sense is, even within China, I am sure there are people who see this as a miscalculation and that the consequences of needless assertion will cost China," Prof Mohan observed. He said the primary consequence of China's misadventure in eastern Ladakh including the Galwan Valley clashes was the impact on the three decades of normalisation of India-China relationship that began with the visit of then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1988 and subsequent signing of a series of agreements. The relationship suffered a massive setback when 20 Indian army personnel were killed in Galwan Valley clashes on June 15. "But by unilaterally trying to change the border and adopting an aggressive posture on the Ladakh frontier and other places, China has dramatically undercut the developing trust in Beijing by the Indian people and this has created conditions for a fundamental reset of the relationship," Prof Mohan said. "What China might gain in territory, it loses in terms of the steady expansion of goodwill for China among the Indian population and the larger benefits of economic cooperation with India," he added. During an interview with PTI last month, Chinese Ambassador Sun Weidong had refused to answer why China resorted to such aggressive military behaviour when the world was battling Covid-19. He wouldn’t say what was the motive behind the massive build-up of troops and why Chinese military carried out the brutal assault on Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley. The Chinese envoy was also asked whether China will punish the soldiers involved in the attacks on Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley, or what the Chinese casualty figure was. He wouldn’t even say why China has not allowed Indian patrols from Finger 4 to Finger 8 areas in Pangong Tso and remained mum when asked if he thought the border standoff will have a huge impact on economic ties between the two countries. The Chinese envoy also did not respond to questions in the course of the interview on why China violated an agreement the two sides reached on June 6 to disengage from all the friction points on the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in eastern Ladakh. When asked about the Chinese behaviour on the Indian border, Prof Mohan said it might have been quite surprising to a large number of people in India, but appears to be part of a general pattern that has been seen elsewhere. He said China under Deng Xiaoping in the 1980s and 90s agreed to put aside territorial disputes and focus on regional cooperation. "Deng Xioaping's philosophy was there must be peace on the frontiers, and India-China normalisation was also based on Deng's formula of keeping peace on the borders. What we have seen under Xi Jinping's leadership in the last few years is to abandon the approach of peace and unilaterally assert China's territorial claims in the South China Sea, in the east China Sea, more muscular behaviour towards Hong Kong and Taiwan, and the Indian case," he said. Prof Mohan said China's aggression in eastern Ladakh is not exclusive to India, but seems to be part of a pattern where China has asserted itself in a "strange ways" on its territorial disputes. "This is part of a larger transformation of China that is taking place under Xi Jinping," he added. Asked whether China has been attempting to change the world order, Prof Mohan said China benchmarks itself against the US and sees itself as about to overtake the US, believing that it has the means and the capacity to restructure the global order. He said one of the negative consequences of what China's behaviour has been is making the US an ally of nationalist sentiments in Asia. "Today, because of its actions, it is making the US a natural ally of nationalism in Asia." "By aggressively embarking on a unilateral change of territory and unilateral assertion of power, China is pushing the rest of the world to counter. Normally, the tendency by most of the states is that look when you have a strong power, you do not want to pick a fight especially when you have a lot of economic stakes in the relationship." He said all of Asia was looking up to China as there has been deeper and greater economic interdependence with that country. But today, because of China's pressure, he observed, there is a pushback from the rest of the world. Prof Mohan said most countries want economic cooperation with China but are reconsidering such commercial engagement because of its expansionism. "People are trying to get together to deal with Chinese assertion of their power. Maybe Beijing calculated that others will not react or that it is not possible for them to resist. But we have already seen in the case of 5G, in the case of emergence of new institutions of collaboration like the Quad and other institutions." "When you are pushed around by somebody, you try to balance. I think that is the natural impulse. If China rides roughshod over its neighbouring countries, the countries will seek balance. I think that is what is beginning to happen," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-will-face-consequences-of-misplaced-aggression-expert-864383.html
22-07-2020||National||India’s anti-tank guided missile ‘Dhruvastra’ test-fired||India has successfully conducted three flight tests of its indigenously developed anti-tank guided missile 'Dhruvastra' from the Integrated Test Range at Chandipur in Odisha, defence sources said on Wednesday. Developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), the helicopter-launched anti-tank guided missile (ATGM) is one of the most advanced anti-tank weapons in the world. The sophisticated missile was test-fired twice on July 15 and once on July 16 from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) as part of the developmental trials conducted by DRDO, they said. All the three developmental trials of the state-of-the-art anti-tank guided missile, carried out in a direct and top attack mode, were successful and the data was being analysed, they said. It was ground tested from a launcher to evaluate some of its major parameters, the sources said. Dhruvastra is the helicopter version of ‘Nag Helina’ with several new features and meant to be fired from air to destroy enemy bunkers, armoured vehicles and main battle tanks. During the trial, the weapon system released smoothly from the ground launch platform at launch pad-3 of the ITR, and the missile successfully tracked the target all through its course before hitting it with high precision, they said. The ATGM is guided by an infrared imaging seeker (IIS) operating in the lock-on before-launch mode and helps in further strengthening the defence capabilities of the country. All parameters of the flight test have been monitored by telemetry stations, tracking systems and helicopters deployed by the Army, the sources said. Three round trials of Helina were conducted on July 13, 2015, at a firing range at Jaisalmer in Rajasthan. Again on August 19, 2018, Helina was successfully test-fired from a Rudra helicopter at Pokhran test range. The ground-based Nag missile was also successfully tested 12 times between July 7 and 18, 2019, under extreme weather conditions during day and night successfully, the DRDO sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-anti-tank-guided-missile-dhruvastra-test-fired-864384.html
22-07-2020||National||Ex bureaucrats move SC for inquiry into mismanagement of Covid-19 pandemic||A group of six former senior bureaucrats has approached the Supreme Court for an independent inquiry into the Union government's "gross mismanagement" of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. K P Fabian and others through advocate Prashant Bhushan contended that the response of the government to the pandemic and the deleterious impact of it on the lives and livelihoods of citizens of the country was a matter of public importance. It warranted the appointment of a Commission under Section 3 of the Commission of Inquiry Act, they pleaded. They said a Commission headed by a former Supreme Court judge and comprising experts from fields of medical science, epidemiology, public health, law, and social sciences should be formed to conduct an independent inquiry into issues of failure to take early measures for containment of the disease, abrupt and arbitrary declaration of lockdown, failure of lockdown to contain transmission of the disease and misery wrought upon ordinary citizens, owing to unplanned and sudden nature of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-bureaucrats-move-sc-for-inquiry-into-mismanagement-of-covid-19-pandemic-864385.html
22-07-2020||National||'Covid-19 widens inequality in India; income, consumption recovery in mass market lags average'||The bounceback in consumption in June is an uneven one, illustrating an aggravation in the already existing inequalities in India during the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a report. People have suffered from an income generation perspective as well, which has resulted in the broadening of the base at the lower tiers of the earning hierarchies during the pandemic, said the report by credit risk firm Creditvidya. Experts have been observing a recovery in demand visible in the consumption levels for June as compared to April. The positive numbers are shown by FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods) brands in earnings this week also pointed to the same. "Even without any demand stimulus, we see some revival of consumption and income in June, with an increase in economic activity. The recovery has, however, been uneven along income lines, exacerbating inequality in India," the company's co-founder and Chief Executive Officer Abhishek Agarwal said. Over 70 per cent of its sample size of 5 lakh people in urban areas were what it defined as the "mass market" segment, having a monthly income between Rs 10,000 and Rs 20,000, and the segment has expanded 14 per cent in June, indicating a decline in earnings, as per the report. Even after a 9.6 per cent increase over May in June, consumption by the mass market segment remains 35 per cent below the pre-Covid-19 levels by value, as against a 26 per cent jump in overall consumption over May by value, it said.  The value of goods and services consumed in June 2020 was 17 per cent lower than the pre-Covid-19 levels, it said. The consumption among the affluent segment (classified as those earning above Rs 60,000 a month) is only 5 per cent below the pre-Covid-19 level, having grown 20 per cent in June over May by value, it said. Share of people who are earning less than Rs 3,000 a month continues to be high, with the 24 per cent of those surveyed falling under this bracket as against 15 per cent in the pre-Covid-19 times, it said. However, the share of those with zero earnings has come down to 6.5 per cent, which is just a notch above the pre-Covid-19 level of 6 per cent, it said. From an earning perspective, the overall incomes by value rose 25 per cent in June over May, but were still 12 per cent below the pre-Covid-19 levels, the analysis showed. The inequalities are existent on the earnings front as well, with the incomes of the mass market segment being 30 per cent below the pre-Covid-19 levels despite a 12 per cent recovery in June over May. More numbers of Indians are digging into their savings and the overall savings decreased 18 per cent at the end of June as compared with the pre-Covid-19 levels, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-widens-inequality-in-india-income-consumption-recovery-in-mass-market-lags-average-864388.html
22-07-2020||National||China border row: Ajit Doval, Wang Yi to discuss roadblocks in troop pullout process||The Special Representatives of India and China are likely to hold yet another round of talks soon to discuss the roadblocks in the process of withdrawal of troops from the scenes of the face-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations. New Delhi is worried after the Indian Army noticed that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had not yet withdrawn troops from the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake as well as several other face-off scenes along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations. The PLA also maintained additional deployment of nearly 40,000-45,000 troops in the “depth” areas on China’s side of the LAC.   India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi – the Special Representatives of the two governments for boundary negotiation and strategic consultations – will review the progress in the process of “disengagement” the two sides had agreed upon earlier this month to resolve the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The “disengagement” started after the Senior Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had agreed upon it after three rounds of meetings on June 6, 22 and 30. A two-hour-long phone call between Doval and Wang on July 5 added momentum to the process. The senior commanders of the two armies had another round of talks on July 14. The stand-off took New Delhi’s relations with Beijing to a new low, particularly after the violent clash between the Indian and Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the violent face-off. New Delhi is worried about the continuing stand-off on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake), where the Chinese PLA deployed soldiers and built structures at the “Finger 4” area, thus denying access to Indian Army to areas up to its earlier patrolling limit – the “Finger 8”. Sources said that although the PLA had apparently thinned out some of its troops and vehicles from “Finger 4”, the numbers were not significant.        China also showed no sign of withdrawing the large number of troops it deployed over the past few weeks in the rear areas on its side of its disputed boundary with India – flouting the 1993 bilateral agreement, which required each side to “keep its military forces in the areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to a minimum level”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-border-row-ajit-doval-wang-yi-to-discuss-roadblocks-in-troop-pullout-process-864389.html
22-07-2020||National||SC notice to Madhya Pradesh CM on plea alleging appointment of ministers beyond 15% cap||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued a notice to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on a plea by former Speaker N P Prajapati challenging appointment of total 34 ministers, beyond the constitutional limit of 15 per cent of the total members of the House. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian agreed to examine the matter and sought a response from the Chief Minister. Chouhan was sworn in as the Chief Minister in March this year after resignations of 22 MLAs belonging to Congress party in the wake of decision of Jyotiraditya Scindia to quit the party. The petitioner, represented by senior advocates Kapil Sibal, and Vivek Tankha and advocate Varun K Chopra, contended that the Chief Minister's decision to induct as many as 28 new ministers recently, taking the total number of council of ministers to 34, was in "clear defiance of Article 164(1A) of the Constitution". The provision stipulated that the total of number of ministers should not exceed 15 per cent of the total members of legislative assembly. Though the full strength of the legislative assembly is 230, with the death of two members and resignation of 22 MLAs from Congress party, the total number has been reduced to 206. The respondents have misread and misinterpreted the dictum of Article 164(1A) to be 15 per cent of the total seat of the Assembly while the careful usage of words in the provision read as the number of ministers "shall not exceed 15% of the total members of the legislative assembly of the state", the petitioner contended. The petitioner sought a direction to the Chief Minister to bring down the number of council of ministers in conformity with 15 per cent of existing members of the House. He also sought a declaration that in the context of Article 164(1A) of the Constitution, the total numbers of members of legislative assembly would mean present and sitting members only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-madhya-pradesh-cm-on-plea-alleging-appointment-of-ministers-beyond-15-cap-864415.html
22-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Speaker moves SC against HC's order for no action against Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs||Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C P Joshi on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court against the High Court's direction to stay the disqualification proceedings initiated against sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari would take up the petition settled by senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha contending that the High Court's July 21 order was a direct affront on the power of Legislature. It claimed that the High Court erred in passing the interim order interdicting the Speaker from proceeding under the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) of the Constitution till July 24. It said that the Supreme Court has to ensure all authorities in the Constitution do not cross their Lakshaman Rekha. "Judiciary was never given a role by the Constitution under the Tenth Schedule to interfere in the manner it has done in the instant case resulting in this impasse," he contended in the petition filed by advocate Sunil Fernandes. Sibal also mentioned the matter for urgent hearing before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, who asked him to approach the registry. By the evening, the matter was shown as listed before virtual court number two. In his petition, Joshi also maintained that Speaker has "exclusive, non-transferable, and non-delegable powers and authority to adjudicate on the issues of disqualification". The Speaker relied upon the Constitution bench decision in Kihoto Hollohan (1992) followed consistently till as recently as in Keisham Meghachandra Singh's case (2020), holding that the judicial review of the proceedings under the Tenth schedule is available only after the pronouncement of the order. He sought to hear on the matter on Wednesday itself and granting of an ex-party stay on July 21 order by the High Court. The Speaker also sought stay on further proceedings before the HC in the matter. The High Court's division bench led by Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty had on Tuesday reserved order for July 24 on a plea by Pilot and his supporting MLAs against the disqualification notice issued by the Speaker on July 14, following the legislators demanded a change in leadership. It had, however, directed the Speaker not to take any action on his notice till the pronouncement of orders on July 24. The Speaker is also likely to file a separate petition for transferring the pending matter from the High Court to the top court. Meanwhile, Pilot and his supporting MLAs also filed a caveat in the top court, asking it not to pass any order in the matter without hearing them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-speaker-moves-sc-against-hcs-order-for-no-action-against-sachin-pilot-and-18-mlas-864140.html
22-07-2020||National Politics||UP journalist killing: Rahul says people were promised 'Ram Raj', got 'Gundaraj'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the killing of a journalist and said people were promised 'Ram Raj' but got 'Gundaraj' instead. He also condoled the death of Ghaziabad-based journalist Vikram Joshi, who was shot in the head by miscreants on Monday night and succumbed to his injuries early Wednesday. Joshi had lodged a complaint with the police alleging harassment of his niece on July 16. "Journalist Vikram Joshi was killed for opposing the molestation of his niece. My condolences to the bereaved family. The promise was of giving 'Ram Raj', but gave 'Gundaraj'," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress leader Ahmed Patel said the killing of the journalist is shocking and another example of the breakdown of law and order in Uttar Pradesh. "It is also a grim reminder of how the media has been systematically intimidated since the last six years," he said on Twitter. "Our condolences to the family of Mr Joshi. We stand behind fearless journalism," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-journalist-killing-rahul-says-people-were-promised-ram-raj-got-gundaraj-864193.html
22-07-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi has created 'raid raj' in India, we are not scared: Congress||The Centre has created a 'raid raj' but the Congress won't be scared, the party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Wednesday after the Enforcement Directorate conducted searches at the home of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's brother. The Congress leader also reacted to the killing of a journalist in Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and said there was ''gunda raj'' and ''jungle raj'' in the state. "It is clear there is no law and order in Uttar Pradesh. Becoming a journalist in Uttar Pradesh has become a sin," he said. "Being a journalist, Vikram Joshi went to the Uttar Pradesh police to get a case filed, but Adityanath and his police did not file a case," he said. "We demand that if Adityanath ji is unable to protect the citizens of Uttar Pradesh, which is clearly proved, then he has no right to sit on his throne. Such a Chief Minister should resign on his own," he said. The Congress leader also pointed at similar cases of violence or cases filed against journalists across UP. "Friends, in Uttar Pradesh, journalism and journalists have become sinful. Remember, on 29th October 2019, a journalist named Ramesh Mishra was murdered in Lakhimpur, but Adityanath ji did nothing till today," he said. "A case was also filed against journalist Supriya Sharma, who exposed the reality of the village adopted by Prime Minister Modi in Banaras," he slammed at the Centre. "In Mirzapur, an FIR was lodged against a journalist who showed him the news of feeding salt bread in the mid-day meal. An FIR was also lodged against a journalist who opened a bud in Uttar Pradesh by showing the news of mixing water in milk with water in mid-day meal," he pointed out. Responding to the raids against Agrasen Gehlot in Jodhpur, Surjewala told reporters, "Prime Minister Modi has created 'raid raj' in the country but we are not going be scared." When the Centre's gimmicks failed to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan, ED raids started at the premises of Gehlot's elder brother, the spokesperson said. He added that a CBI team was sent to conduct a raid at a location linked to legislator Krishna Poonia after the Centre's tactics failed to topple an elected government. An Olympian who brought laurels for the nation is being threatened, Surjewala said. "The CBI also interrogated CM''s OSD and now ED raids are being conducted at CM''s elder brother residence," he said. The ED raids against the chief minister's brother are part of countrywide raids in connection with a money laundering case linked to a fertiliser scam, officials said. Agrasen Gehlot faces a Rs 7 crore customs penalty in this alleged fertiliser case, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-has-created-raid-raj-in-india-we-are-not-scared-congress-864205.html
22-07-2020||National Politics||45 out of 61 new RS MPs take oath; Gowda, other 16 skipped ceremony||Forty-five of the 61 newly-elected Rajya Sabha MPs, including Sharad Pawar, Mallikarjun Kharge and Jyotiraditya Scindia, took oath on Wednesday as Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu urged them to uphold rules and procedures while discharging their duties as lawmaker and not fall prey to disruptions. Among the 16 MPs, who did not make it to the oath taking ceremony, include former Prime Minister Deve Gowda, DMK's Tiruchi Siva, TRS' Dr K Keshava Rao and four Trinamool Congress MPs among others. Those members who skipped the ceremony will take the oath during the Monsoon Session. Outgoing Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale, former Lok Sabha Deputy Speaker M Thambi Durai, senior Congress leaders Digvijay Singh, K C Venugopal and Shaktisinh Gohail, BJP's Bhubhaneswar Kalita, RJD's Prem Chand Gupta, Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi and CPI(M)'s Vikas Ranjan Bhattacharya were among the new MPs who took oath in the ceremony held in Rajya Sabha Chamber. Except for Gowda, all the three MPs from Karnataka -- Kharge (Congress), Ashok Gasti and Iranna Kadadi (both BJP) -- took oath. All three, who took oath in Kannada, are first timers in Rajya Sabha, though Kharge had been a member of Lok Sabha several times. This is the first time in Rajya Sabha's history that the oath taking ceremony was held in Rajya Sabha Chamber when Parliament is not in session. Usually, in such circumstances, the oath is taken at the Rajya Sabha Chairman's chamber. Of the 45 MPs who took oath, 36 are first-timers in Rajya Sabha. The members took oath in ten languages -- Kannada, Telugu, Bodo, Manipuri, Marathi, Oriya, Tamil, Bengali, Hindi and English. Some of the MPs were wearing masks and gloves, while sanitisers were also kept available. For signing on the register, separate pens were given to MPs, who were not carrying one with them. Scindia, who left Congress to join the BJP along with his supporters in Madhya Pradesh leading to the fall of Congress government there, greeted his former leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kharge and Digvijay Singh before his oath-taking. Scindia and Singh were at loggerheads in Madhya Pradesh. While taking oath, BJP MP from Maharashtra Udayanraje Bhosale chanted "Jai Hind, Hau Maharashtra, Jai Bhavani, Jai Shivaji". Naidu said the plan to administer oath earlier had to be put on hold on account of Covid-19 induced travel restrictions and quite a few newly elected have expressed concerns over travelling long distances for oath taking even after they were relaxed. With Parliamentary Committees resuming meetings this month, Naidu said, oath taking has been accordingly planned to enable participation of new MPs in the panel meetings right away and in the Monsoon Session to follow. The new MPs will be nominated on various committees in a day or two, he said. He said the MPs should hold themselves to account with regard to their conduct, both within and outside the House, so as to enhance the standing of the institution in the eyes of the people. The MPs should "not fall prey to the temptation of disrupting the proceedings of the House for short term gains", he said emphasising that "ensuring rule of law is the spirit of our law of the land. "It shall begin with your compliance with the rules and procedures of this House," Naidu said. Suggesting to the new MPs to question themselves if they had acted to enhance the dignity of the institution or to the contrary at the end of each day during session and if their conduct was ethical during the inter-session period, he said, "answers to these simple questions would guide you on the right path."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/45-out-of-61-new-rs-mps-take-oath-gowda-other-16-skipped-ceremony-864236.html
22-07-2020||National Politics||Despicable attempts made to destabilise Rajasthan govt: Gehlot writes to PM Modi||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding “despicable attempts” made by the BJP and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to destablise his government at a time when the nation was battling a public health crisis. In the letter dated July 19, Gehlot did not mention rebel leader Sachin Pilot but only referred to “some very ambitious leaders” of the Congress were also involved in the act of destabilising the Rajasthan government. Gehlot released copies of the letter on Wednesday in which he asserted that his government would complete its full term. The Chief Minister said attempts to topple his government were being made even as the nation was in the middle of a fight against the coronavirus. “In these attempts, Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, other BJP leaders and some ambitious leaders of my party are involved." “I do not know to what extent all this is in your knowledge or if you are being misled. But, history will never forgive those who are party to such acts,” Gehlot said in a two-page letter that also invoked the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s contribution in strengthening anti-defection laws. “I am completely convinced that ultimately, along with the truth, healthy democratic traditions and Constitutional values will prevail and our government will give good governance, and will complete the term,” he said. Gehlot said the attempts to destabilise democratically-elected governments were in complete disregard of the spirit of the anti-defection law enacted by the Rajiv Gandhi government in 1985 and amended later by Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “This is an insult to the people's mandate and open violation of constitutional values. Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh are prime examples of this,” Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/despicable-attempts-made-to-destabilise-rajasthan-govt-gehlot-writes-to-pm-modi-864382.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||From Leh to Delhi, a mother sends her milk to her newborn everyday||For nearly a month, 33-year-old Jikmet Wangdus and his brother-in-law have been going to the Delhi international airport daily to collect a box flown all the way from Leh. Except, the package is not an ordinary one. The box has seven small containers inside, each carrying the precious breast milk of Wangdus' wife for their newborn, who underwent a complex life-saving surgery recently at a private hospital here. The boy was born through a C-section on June 16 at Sonam Nurboo Memorial Hospital in Leh and 30-year-old Dorjey Palmo found out that her baby was unable to suckle when she tried to feed him. "I was in Mysore when my family in Leh contacted me and my Guruji's family members, who are doctors, suggested sending the baby immediately to Delhi or Chandigarh at a bigger hospital. So, my wife's brother, Jigmat Gyalpo, took a flight from Leh and brought my child to Delhi on June 18 morning," Wangdus said. Wangdus, who works as a manager in an educational institution in Mysore, took a flight too and reached early morning on the same day. Leh and Delhi are 1000-km apart by road and a direct flight takes one hour and 15 minutes. "I only once took my child in my hands when he was two days old. I didn't touch him much because I had travelled from Karnataka and there was so much Covid scare. My brother-in-law carried him," he told PTI. Upon landing at the Delhi airport, the baby was rushed by his father and uncle to the Max hospital, Shalimar Bagh in an ambulance and was admitted to its NICU (neonatal intensive care unit), hospital authorities said. At Max hospital, Dr Harshwardhan, Principal Consultant, Paediatric Department, diagnosed the baby with tracheoesophageal fistula with esophageal atresia, which he said, is not very uncommon, but affects about "three in every thousand children". Basically, in this condition, the child's food pipe and trachea were connected, and it was unable to feed. When the child was brought to our nursery, the baby also had a respiratory infection "so we had to stabilise him first," he said. "We conducted the surgery, lasting about three hours, the next day and it was a complex surgery, considering the baby was just four-days-old. But, the surgery was successful," he said. The doctor said the baby was kept in NICU for three days and fed through nose via a tube, when he suggested the father about the need of mother's milk. Wangdus said his friends at Leh airport, a very generous private airline which ferried the box free of cost every day, and "good-hearted passengers" helped the family in getting a daily supply of the mother's milk from Leh to Delhi to fortify the baby who was recovering from the surgery. "My wife was unable to travel to Delhi due to the coronavirus scare and therefore we had to manage in this manner," he said. "From end of June, this has been our routine, and on alternate days, I and my brother-in-law, go to Delhi's T3 terminal and wait eagerly for the box, which have our contact numbers on it," he said. "Today, my brother-in-law collected it, and my wife will keep sending the milk till our last day in Delhi," the father said. Each box has seven containers, of 60 ml capacity each, and every day the boxes are also returned to Leh for refill the next day, Wangdus added. An emotionally overwhelmed father, said, his gurus in Bangalore were sending blessings every day for his well-being and "so many good souls have helped us through this journey in this difficult time. "Two days ago, my Guruji named my child Rigzin Wangchuk. Our flight tickets are booked for Friday, and we all will be going home finally," he said. Wangdus said the baby's mother, who works in the Revenue Department in Leh, is on maternity leave and eagerly waiting to hold her child back in her arms. "Every day, she was sending not just her milk for the newborn, which is needed for his healthy growth, but also her love for her child, from 1000 km away. I am happy, my baby is alright now," he said. Max hospital, Shalimar Bagh is a dedicated COVID-19 facility and Dr Harshvardhan said, the baby was brought to the nursery section of the hospital which has no coronavirus cases. "Post-surgery, we also ran a COVID test on the baby just to be sure, and it came negative. We are very happy that the healthy baby will now be reunited with her mother on Friday," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-leh-to-delhi-a-mother-sends-her-milk-to-her-newborn-everyday-864076.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||International passengers will have to pay for 7-day institutional quarantine, says Delhi Airport||The guidelines by the airport authority stated that an undertaking of acceptance will have to be signed, which will be retained by the overseas embassy prior to the passenger's booking confirmation. Important quarantine guidelines for Delhi Airport passengers: Those arriving by international flight at the airport, you will also be required to undergo a secondary screening at Delhi Govt post after which you will be allowed to proceed to the approved quarantine location. The international passengers who plan to stay in the Delhi-NCR region will have to go through health screenings and check-ups carried out by the airport health officials. There will be another mandatory screening as precautionary measures at the Delhi government. Only after completion of the dual-screening will the passengers proceed to the designated quarantine locations. Pregnant women, parents travelling with children aged below 10 years, passengers who have lost a family member and those suffering from a serious illness will be given an exception. This will be approved only if the undertaking form and the required documents are mailed to airportcovid@gmail.com. Mandatory thermal screening check-points have been set up near the exit gates of the Delhi airport for all domestic passengers. After temperature-scanning, only the asymptomatic will be allowed to leave the premises. They will have to undergo home quarantine for a seven-day period.  The passengers who are travelling will be screened at both departure and entry gates before boarding their flight. "Passengers arriving on an international Vande Bharat Mission flight may only take a connecting domestic flight if it also comes under the Vande Bharat Mission. However, passengers who are planning to board onward domestic flights will have to obtain an authorised exemption certificate, if they are coming through non-Vande Bharat international flights," the authority further said. Delhi has so far reported 1.25 lakh positive coronavirus cases. The state's sero-prevalence study has found that 23.48 percent of the people have been affected by Covid-19 in the city, which has several pockets of dense population.  A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of individuals to check for the prevalence of antibodies against an infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/international-passengers-will-have-to-pay-for-7-day-institutional-quarantine-says-delhi-airport-864161.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Woman who set herself on fire outside UP CM Yogi Adityanath's office dies||Fifty year old Safia, who had attempted self-immolation with her daughter before Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's office at Lok Bhavan in protest against alleged police apathy, died at hospital. Safia, a resident of Jamo area in the state's Amethi district, about 150 kilometres from here, who had sustained 80 per cent burn injuries, breathed her last Tuesday night after battling for life for four days.  Her daughter was stated to be out of danger.  The duo were upset with the local police for not acting against some people, who had assaulted them following a dispute over a piece of land. Though the police had lodged a complaint after intervention of the senior officials but did not take any action in the matter. The duo were again assaulted a day before they attempted self-immolation. The police, however, claimed that the duo were 'incited' by some opposition politicians to immolate themselves in front of the the CM office. A leader of AIMIM and two members of Safia's family have been arrested. Opposition parties rejected the claim and said that the police were trying to cover up their failure. Four police personnel were suspended for laxity. Earlier a woman from Unnao district in the state had tried to immolate herself in front of the CM residence here in 2018 in protest against the failure of the police to act against the then BJP MLA Kuldeep Senger, who had allegedly raped her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-who-set-herself-on-fire-outside-up-cm-yogi-adityanaths-office-dies-864166.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||ED raids premises of Rajasthan CM Gehlot's brother over fertiliser scam||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday conducted raids at the premises of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's brother in connection with a money laundering case linked to an alleged fertiliser scam. The searches, which are being held in other cities, at the premises of Gehlot's elder brother Agrasain Gehlot in connection with the ED registering an FIR based on a Customs case in which the latter's company was slapped with a penalty of around Rs seven crore. This is the third action by a central agency after Congress leader Sachin Pilot rose in revolt against Gehlot, leading to his subsequent sacking as Deputy Chief Minister. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said they were not going to be scared by the 'raid raj' created by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the Centre's "gimmicks" failed to topple the Rajasthan government. Days ago, Gehlot government had also named senior BJP leader and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat of conspiring to topple the government by offering money to a section of Congress MLAs belonging to Pilot camp, besides arresting a couple of saffron party-linked persons. Earlier on July 13, the Income Tax conducted searches at the premises of two Congress leaders, who is considered close to Gehlot, in connection with a tax evasion case while the Chief Minister's Officer on Special Duty Deva Ram Saini and Congress MLA Krishna Poonia were questioned by the CBI in connection with the suicide of a police officer, who claimed that he was under pressure from certain quarters. Officials said the ED team was assisted by personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who were seen standing guard at the farmhouse and residence of Agrasain Gehlot in Mandore of Jodhpur district. They said searches were conducted in at least six locations in Rajasthan, including at the premises of a former Congress MP who is said to have business links with Agrasain Gehlot, as well as four locations in Gujarat, two in West Bengal and one in Delhi. The ED case is based on a Customs case of 2007-09 in connection with the supply of subsidised Muriate of Potash (MOP) to farmers, whose investigation was wrapped up in 2013. The Customs had slapped a Rs seven crore penalty on Agrasain's firm earlier. The ED, which had studied the chargesheet filed by Customs, is now investigating the money laundering aspect in the case. Officials also said the ED is also probing a case in connection with forex law violation allegedly by Jaipur-based businessman Ratan Kant Sharma, who is claimed to have business ties with the Chief Minister's son Vaibhav in the past. Responding to the raids, Surjewala said, "Prime Minister Modi has created 'raid raj' in the country but we are not going to be scared" while claiming that the ED started raids after the Centre's gimmicks failed to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan. "A CBI team was sent to conduct a raid at a location linked to Krishna Poonia after the Centre's tactics failed to topple an elected government. An Olympian who brought laurels for the nation is being threatened. The CBI also questioned the Chief Minister's OSD and now ED raids are being conducted at the residence of his elder brother," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-raids-premises-of-rajasthan-cm-gehlots-brother-over-fertiliser-scam-864187.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Terror hideout unearthed in Rajouri, arms recovered||Security forces on Wednesday unearthed a terror hideout and recovered a Pika gun among other arms and ammunition in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, a police officer said. The hideout was unearthed during a major anti-militancy operation launched by police and the Army's Thanamandi-based 38 Rashtriya Rifles in Manyal area, Senior Superintendent of Police, Rajouri, Chandan Kohli said. He said teams of Rajouri police, Special Operation Group and 38 Rashtriya Rifles launched a Cordon and Search Operation late Tuesday following information on presence of the hideout. "The entire area was kept under cordon and in the wee hours of Wednesday, searches were launched during which a militant hideout established under a portion of dense bushes was busted," said the SSP. A Pika rifle, a Chinese pistol, a local pistol, an AK magazines, 2 pistol magazines, 168 pika rounds, 47 AK rounds, 4 pistol rounds, 2 UBGL grenades and 8 ammunition belts have been recovered from the hideout. Searches are still underway in the area. "Pro-active approach of forces and close synergy with all sister agencies is playing its role and nefarious designs of anti-social elements are being foiled," the SSP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terror-hideout-unearthed-in-rajouri-arms-recovered-864217.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Six-day lockdown in Kashmir Valley to stem Covid\-19 spread||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has imposed a six-day complete lockdown across Kashmir Valley, except for Bandipora district, following a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the last three weeks, officials said on Wednesday. The decision comes into effect on Wednesday evening and will be reviewed after six days, they said as the Valley recorded 502 fresh cases. Agriculture, horticulture and construction activities will continue in accordance with disaster management guidelines. The movement of goods carriers, LPG and oil tankers will also continue unhindered. "Complete lockdown in all Red districts (excluding Bandipora) of Kmr (Kashmir)  Div (Division) from today evening till 6 am on 27-7-2020," the Jammu and Kashmir administration's Department of Information and Public Relations said on Twitter. The Valley counts for 243 deaths of the total 263 reported in the union territory. According to Union Health Ministry figures on Wednesday, the number of cases in Jammu and Kashmir has risen to 15,258, up from 7,497 on June 30. The Valley has 5,263 active cases of the 6,540 in the union territory. The highest single-day spike was on Monday when 751 Covid-19 cases were recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-day-lockdown-in-kashmir-valley-to-stem-covid-19-spread-864225.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt plans more monthly sero-surveys, next to be done in August: Satyendar Jain||The Delhi government has decided to conduct sero-surveys every month to formulate better policies for tackling Covid-19 in the national capital, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. The decision comes after the city government analysed the results of the latest sero-survey which showed that 23 per cent of the people here had exposure to the novel coronavirus. Interacting with reporters, he also said, the next survey will be conducted from August 1-5. "The results of the sero-survey conducted from June 27-July 5 came out yesterday, and it shows that nearly one-fourth of people had developed antibodies, meaning they had got infected and recovered. Most of these people who were sampled did not know that they were infected earlier," Jain told reporters. The Delhi government has now decided to conduct more monthly sero-surveys to find greater percentage of such people who had got infected and recovered, so as to formulate better policies for tackling Covid-19, he said. On a query that there were reports of some people trying to indulge in monetary transactions for convalescent plasma, Jain warned that "strict action" will be taken if anyone tries to buy or sell plasma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-plans-more-monthly-sero-surveys-next-to-be-done-in-august-satyendar-jain-864229.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports 2,300 new Covid-19 cases, 34 fatalities||A total of 34 persons died of Covid-19 and 2,300 tested positive for the infection on Wednesday, raising the death toll due to the disease to 1,263 and total cases to 55,588 in Uttar Pradesh. The active Covid-19 cases in the state, however, stands at 20,825, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said on Wednesday. "As many as 1,263 Covid-19 patients have died in the state, while the count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 20,825," he added. He also said the count of fresh cases in the state stands at 2,308. Prasad said as many as 33,500 Covid-19 patients have been discharged so far. The count of total Covid-19 cases was 53,283 in the state on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-2300-new-covid-19-cases-34-fatalities-864300.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: 40 organisations demand release of Gulfisha Fatima booked under UAPA||Over 40 organisations, including NGOs, have demanded the release of 27-year-old student Gulfisha Fatima who has been booked under the stringent UAPA for her alleged involvement in the riots in northeast Delhi and lodged in Tihar jail. Faitma was arrested on April 9, during the first phase of the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus infection. "She has been falsely charged under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for daring to defend the Constitution and for peacefully resisting the anti-people CAA-NRC-NPR," alleged a statement signed by over 200 activists and lawyers. "She was reportedly mentally tortured while in police custody. To add to that, her bail applications have been repeatedly rejected by the courts on technicalities," it alleged. They also demanded that the state immediately drop, what they claim, all "false" charges against Fatima. The statement added that the activists and lawyers stand by all other young activists, students and other leaders, including Safoora Zargar, Ishrat Jahan, Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, Meeran Haider, Sharjeel Imam, Sharjeel Usmani, Khalid Saifi, Akhil Gogoi, Dhairjya Konwar, Bittu Sonowal, Manash Konwar, who were arrested during the anti-CAA protests. The statement was signed by representative from various organisations including Forum Against Oppression of Women, All India Democratic Women's Association, Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action and Forum for Justice and Peace. Fatima, an MBA student and anti-CAA activist associated with women's collective Pinjra Tod, was given bail by a Delhi court on May 13 in a case related to communal violence during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in northeast Delhi in February. She was arrested for allegedly instigating a crowd of protestors that led to riots in the area. According to the FIR, she, along with others, allegedly instigated a crowd to block the road near Jaffrabad metro station on February 22 to protest against the CAA and National Register for Citizens (NRC). Fatima was also arrested in a separate case related to northeast Delhi violence in which JCC member Meeran Haider, Zargar and suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain have been booked under the UAPA. In February, the northeastern parts of the national capital was rocked by communal riots that erupted over protests against the amended Citizenship Law. The violence claimed at least 53 lives and injured many.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-40-organisations-demand-release-of-gulfisha-fatima-booked-under-uapa-864305.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Rains continue to drench Delhi, no relief from waterlogging woes||Another spell of heavy rains, the second in four days, submerged many areas in waist-deep water and brought traffic to a standstill in the national capital on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the rains covered most parts of Delhi and the adjoining areas of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.  The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 67.6 mm rainfall till 2:30 pm. It has recorded 157.4 mm rainfall so far in July, 13 percent more than the normal of 139.1 mm. The Palam and Lodhi Road weather stations gauged 81.2 mm and 72 mm precipitation respectively.  Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy, according to the IMD. The Delhi Traffic Police reported snarls near the World Health Organization building, Minto Bridge and ITO among others.  Residents shared pictures and videos of rainwater gushing into their houses and vehicles wading through waterlogged areas on social media platforms. Municipal bodies reported 10 incidents of trees being uprooted due to the rains. A part of Ashoka Road in central Delhi caved in due to the downpour, while the wall of a house collapsed in the Kotla Mubarakpur area. Earlier, the IMD had forecast widespread rainfall with "isolated heavy to very heavy rain" in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The rainfall intensity and distribution are very likely to decrease significantly Thursday onwards, it had said. The convergence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal and southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea is likely to continue over northwest India for another two-three days, weather experts said. The monsoon trough is also running through the region. These two factors led to moderate to heavy rains in Delhi-NCR, they said. Delhi had recorded moderate rainfall (24.8 mm) on Tuesday. Four persons lost their lives due to heavy rains on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-continue-to-drench-delhi-no-relief-from-waterlogging-woes-864306.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi coronavirus cases dip; more states impose lockdown||Delhi recorded fewer than 1,000 coronavirus cases for the first time in seven weeks on Tuesday, even as more Indian states imposed restrictions to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. India last week became the third country after the United States and Brazil to hit one million cases but many experts say that with testing rates low, the true number could be much higher. More than 28,000 people have died, with Maharashtra, home to Mumbai, suffering the highest death toll followed by the national capital and Tamil Nadu. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government imposed one of the world's strictest lockdowns in late March, but it has been steadily eased in recent months to lessen the devastating economic impact. But, independently from the federal government, individual states have been tightening restrictions as case numbers have soared -- including in Bengaluru, Bihar and parts of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. On Monday authorities in West Bengal, home to about 90 million people, imposed a strict lockdown two days a week beginning Thursday. "The state government feels that the efforts to break the chain of Covid-19 spread have to be initiated in a strong manner," the state's home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay said. All government and private offices will be closed and there will be no public transport. Private vehicles will be allowed for essential needs only. The small northeastern state of Sikkim, bordering Tibet, on Monday also ordered a lockdown until July 27. Delhi has offered a rare piece of good news, however, with the crisis easing since June, when hospitals and morgues in the sprawling megacity of 20 million people appeared close to collapse. Monday's count of 954 new infections in the city marked the first time the daily tally was under 1,000 in 49 days, and was down from a peak of almost 4,000 in late June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-coronavirus-cases-dip-more-states-impose-lockdown-864311.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Himachal CM in self-quarantine after deputy secretary in his office tests positive for virus||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said he was going into self-quarantine after a deputy secretary in his office tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Wednesday. “As per coronavirus protocol, I am going to quarantine myself," Thakur told the media before leaving his office for his residence. He then quarantined himself at his official residence at Oakover here. The CM's sample will soon be collected for testing for novel coronavirus, a senior health official said. Thakur said that samples of officials and media persons who came in contact with the deputy secretary will be collected for testing as per protocol. Meanwhile, all the appointments of the chief minister have been cancelled till further orders, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-cm-in-self-quarantine-after-deputy-secretary-in-his-office-tests-positive-for-virus-864320.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||'Crime virus' more active than coronavirus in UP: Mayawati||BSP chief Mayawati on Wednesday said "crime virus" spread by criminals is more active than coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh. "The way heinous crimes like murder and those against women are continuing unabated, it is clear that instead of law and order, jungle raj is prevailing in UP. Crime virus of criminals is more active than coronavirus in UP. People are fed up and the government must address this issue," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. 2. साथ ही, बी.एस.पी. की यह भी माँग है कि यू.पी सरकार द्वारा पीड़ित परिवार को आज जो कुछ भी मदद करने की बात कही गई है तो उसे सरकार समय से भी दे और इसके लिए पीड़ित परिवार को अधिकारियों के चक्कर न काटने पड़े तो यह बेहतर होगा। 2/2 The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister did not mention any specific incident in her post. However, the Bahujan Samaj Party chief's tweet came hours after a Ghaziabad-based journalist, who was shot in the head by some assailants, succumbed to injuries early Wednesday. Vikram Joshi had lodged a complaint with the police alleging harassment of his niece on July 16 and was shot at around 10:30 pm on Monday near his home in Vijay Nagar area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crime-virus-more-active-than-coronavirus-in-up-mayawati-864326.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Woman held for getting husband shot dead over property||A middle-aged woman has been arrested for getting her 57-year-old husband killed in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district, police said on Wednesday. They said that Saroj, around 50, got her husband Shripal shot dead because he wanted to give away his property, including farmland, to his brothers instead of his wife and children. Upset over her husband's plan, Saroj hired a man to kill her husband and promised him Rs 1 lakh for it, Senior Superintendent of Police, Bulandshahr, Santosh Kumar Singh said. "The couple lived in Gangapur village, under Dibai police station area. Shripal had a troubled relationship with his wife, two daughters and a divyang son. He wanted to give away his property, including farmland, to his brothers," Singh said. "Angered over with her husband's decision, Saroj contacted a person in their village who has a criminal history and plotted the killing. Shripal's body was found in his farmland on the morning of July 15 with a gunshot injury," the officer said. He added that an FIR was eventually lodged and investigation taken up which led the police to Saroj's role in the conspiracy and she was arrested. Prempal, the man who shot Shripal dead, was assured by Saroj that she would sell some land after her husband's death and give him Rs 1 lakh, Singh said, adding that Prempal is absconding and searches are underway to arrest him too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-woman-held-for-getting-husband-shot-dead-over-property-864339.html
22-07-2020||North and Central||Death toll in Uttarakhand cloudburst rises to 10||The death toll in a cloudburst that wreaked havock in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh district two days ago has risen to 10 with the recovery of three more bodies from a village on Wednesday, officials said. Four bodies had been pulled out from the debris in Tanga village on Tuesday, Pithoragarh District Magistrate (DM) V K Jogdande said. Three bodies were recovered from the adjoining Gaila Pattharkot village on Monday. Earlier in the day, the state emergency operation centre in Dehradun had said five bodies had been recovered in the village by Tuesday evening. However, the district administration later said four bodies were pulled out from the rubble in the village on Tuesday, followed by three on Wednesday. Eleven people had gone missing after the cloudburst hit around 3.40 am on Monday, the DM said. The bodies recovered so far have been identified as those of Madhav Singh (70), his wife Tulsi Devi (60), their son Ganesh Singh (40), his wife Hira Devi (30), their son Divyanshu (12), Roshan Kumar (17) and Latika (10). A search was underway for another missing person, Jogdande said. A total of four villages were affected by the cloudburst -- Gaila Pattharkot, Tanga, Bata and Sirtaul. Damage to five houses and livestock casualties were reported from Bata and Sirtaul.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-toll-in-uttarakhand-cloudburst-rises-to-10-864360.html
22-07-2020||Panorama||Brace for an unusual situation: Inflation amidst a recession||The pandemic has caused the world to go into a deep recession this year. India is no exception. The Indian economy will shrink by about 6% this financial year. Which means that national income will be lower than last year, and every household on an average will have less money to spend. In a recession, demand falls, and so factories remain idle. A lot of the production capacity is unutilised. You can see this across many sectors, including primary ones like steel and cement, or secondary ones like automobiles and washing machines. So, producers are forced to cut prices to boost their sales. Don’t be surprised to see large discounts being offered on consumer durable goods. In a falling demand scenario, we should expect prices to fall, too. Which means inflation should remain benign, right? This does not seem to be bearing out. It may be true that on certain items, like cars and scooters, or televisions and furniture, large discounts are being offered. But since these price reductions are on discretionary spending items, the demand will still be lukewarm, despite the discounts. Many retailers of consumer goods, both durable and non-durable, make robust business during the Diwali and subsequent holiday shopping season. Some retailers make 60-70% of their annual profit in the months between Dasara and Christmas. That is unlikely to happen this year, since people are cutting back on discretionary spending. When there has been loss of livelihoods, or anxiety about jobs and income, the first thing is to cut back on all non-essential spending. Even weddings, which are a perennial boost to the economy, will be subdued, not just because of the economy, but also to adhere to social distancing needs. If you just keep track of discounts and price drops on such items, you may wrongly conclude that inflation has come down. The inflation experienced by the common man or woman is based on the items purchased. There has been a marked change in expenditure patterns after the lockdown started in March. These changes may not have been adequately reflected in the basket of consumption goods and services tracked by the government. So, the officially reported consumer price index (CPI) based inflation may be underestimated. Even though it is an imperfect underestimate, the official June inflation was already above 6%, beyond the tolerable band of the Reserve Bank of India. Given that in urban areas many retail outlets, especially malls and restaurants are still shut, the buying pattern has changed considerably. Households may be spending more on food, including processed food eaten at home, and less on eating out, clothes, recreation or travel. If their food purchases are facing higher prices, this effect can get hidden or understated if we continue to use the pre-Covid consumption basket to compute the CPI. Hence, Professor Alberto Cavallo of Harvard University, used actual data from transactions to compute a “Covid inflation” rate. His research shows that official CPI understates the Covid-CPI inflation in 10 out of 16 countries that he studied. This gap between official CPI and Covid-CPI is widening. His data does not include India. But researchers at the State Bank of India extended Professor Cavallo’s method to India and have found the same phenomenon. That the official number published by the government is an underestimate. For instance, according to SBI research, the actual June inflation could be 7%. And in the severe lockdown months of April and May, it could have been understated by more than 2%. Truth is, if we focus on items of actual consumption, the inflation trend is worrying. In June, as per official data, food inflation was running at 7.3%. Pulses, which are a key source of proteins, were rising at 16.7% and fish and meat at 16.2%. Milk prices rose at 8.4% in June. The story of milk is interesting. The demand for milk has actually fallen, as per data from Maharashtra. This is because the demand from the hotel and restaurant industry is sharply down, thanks to the lockdown. As a result, milk producers in the state claim that they are receiving Rs 10-15 less per litre than pre-Covid prices. Their stock remains unsold. According to leaders of the farmers’ organisation Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, out of 13 million litres produced daily, around 5.2 million litres remain unsold. And yet, city consumers are facing higher prices for milk delivered at their doorstep. Even the national data on CPI shows milk inflation at above 8%. In June, we also had a sharp increase in diesel prices, which is used to transport food items. This was an administered price increase of Rs 10 a litre, including central excise and road cess. This, too, will feed into inflation, not just for food products but overall CPI. Despite weak demand, steel companies announced that they were raising prices due to rising input costs. Higher import duties on Chinese goods will feed into overall consumer inflation. Higher levels of non-performing assets, or bad loans, would mean that banks cannot offer lower interest rates on loans. So, the cost of working capital will remain high or go higher. Additionally, the requirements of hygiene, packaging, and safety would also add to the cost of goods. The throughput of sales will also have to be moderated to observe social distancing. We thus have to brace for an unusual combination of a recession and rising inflation. With loss of incomes, and rising unaffordability, many households may fall back into poverty and even food insecurity. If there is any illness in a family, Covid-related or not, that is an additional shock. The government must be prepared to avert a hunger crisis by vastly expanding the food-grain distribution through the PDS and expanding it to include items like cooking oil and soap, too. Farmers’ income may need to be supported, in case their remuneration for a bumper crop is inadequate. And, of course, a strong fiscal impetus is required to generate demand and jobs and livelihoods. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate:The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/brace-for-an-unusual-situation-inflation-amidst-a-recession-864090.html
22-07-2020||Panorama||Hackers tell the story of the Twitter attack from the inside||A Twitter hacking scheme that targeted political, corporate and cultural elites this week began with a teasing message between two hackers late Tuesday on online messaging platform Discord. “yoo bro,” wrote a user named “Kirk,” according to a screenshot of the conversation shared with The New York Times. “i work at twitter / don’t show this to anyone / seriously.” He then demonstrated that he could take control of valuable Twitter accounts — the sort of thing that would require insider access to the company’s computer network. The hacker who received the message, using the screen name “lol,” decided over the next 24 hours that Kirk did not actually work for Twitter because he was too willing to damage the company. But Kirk did have access to Twitter’s most sensitive tools, which allowed him to take control of almost any Twitter account, including those of former President Barack Obama, former Vice President Joe Biden, Elon Musk and many other celebrities. Despite global attention on the intrusion, which has shaken confidence in Twitter and the security provided by other technology companies, the basic details of who were the people responsible, and how they did it, have been a mystery. Officials are still in the early stages of their investigation. But four people who participated in the scheme spoke with The Times and shared numerous logs and screenshots of the conversations they had Tuesday and Wednesday, demonstrating their involvement both before and after the hack became public. The interviews indicate that the attack was not the work of a single country like Russia or a sophisticated group of hackers. Instead, it was done by a group of young people — one of whom says he lives at home with his mother — who got to know one another because of their obsession with owning early or unusual screen names, particularly one letter or number, like @y or @6. The Times verified that the four people were connected to the hack by matching their social media and cryptocurrency accounts to accounts that were involved with the events Wednesday. They also presented corroborating evidence of their involvement, like the logs from their conversations on Discord, a messaging platform popular with gamers and hackers, and Twitter. Playing a central role in the attack was Kirk, who was taking money in and out of the same Bitcoin address as the day went on, according to an analysis of the bitcoin transactions by The Times, with assistance from research firm Chainalysis. But the identity of Kirk, his motivation and whether he shared his access to Twitter with anyone else remain a mystery even to the people who worked with him. It is still unclear how much Kirk used his access to the accounts of people like Biden and Musk to gain more privileged information, like their private conversations on Twitter. The hacker “lol” and another one he worked with, who went by the screen name “ever so anxious,” told The Times that they wanted to talk about their work with Kirk in order to prove that they had only facilitated the purchases and takeovers of lesser-known Twitter addresses early in the day. They said they had not continued to work with Kirk once he began more high-profile attacks around 3:30 p.m. Eastern time Wednesday. “I just wanted to tell you my story because I think you might be able to clear some thing up about me and ever so anxious,” “lol” said in a chat on Discord, where he shared all the logs of his conversation with Kirk and proved his ownership of the cryptocurrency accounts he used to transact with Kirk. “lol” did not confirm his real-world identity but said he lived on the West Coast and was in his 20s. “ever so anxious” said he was 19 and lived in the south of England with his mother. The user known as Kirk did not have much of a reputation in hacker circles before Wednesday. His profile on Discord had been created only July 7. But “lol” and “ever so anxious” were well known on the website OGusers.com, where hackers have met for years to buy and sell valuable social media screen names, security experts said. For online gamers, Twitter users and hackers, so-called OG usernames — usually a short word or even a number — are hotly desired. These eye-catching handles are often snapped up by early adopters of a new online platform, the “original gangsters” of a fresh app. Users who arrive on the platform later often crave the credibility of an OG username and will pay thousands of dollars to hackers who steal them from their original owners. Kirk connected with “lol” late Tuesday and then “ever so anxious” on Discord early Wednesday, and asked if they wanted to be his middlemen, selling Twitter accounts to the online underworld where they were known. They would take a cut from each transaction. In one of the first transactions, “lol” brokered a deal for someone who was willing to pay $1,500, in bitcoins, for the Twitter user name @y. The money went to the same bitcoin wallet that Kirk used later in the day when he got payments from hacking the Twitter accounts of celebrities, the public ledger of bitcoin transactions shows. The group posted an ad on OGusers.com, offering Twitter handles in exchange for bitcoins. “ever so anxious” took the screen name @anxious, which he had long coveted. (His personalized details still sit atop the suspended account.) “I just kinda found it cool having a username that other people would want,” “ever so anxious” said in a chat with The Times. As the morning went on, customers poured in, and the prices that Kirk demanded went up. He also demonstrated how much access he had to Twitter’s systems. He was able to quickly change the most fundamental security settings on any username and sent out pictures of Twitter’s internal dashboards as proof that he had taken control of the requested accounts. The group handed over @dark, @w, @l, @50 and @vague, among many others. One of their customers was another well-known figure among hackers dealing in usernames — a young man known as “PlugWalkJoe.” On Thursday, PlugWalkJoe was the subject of an article by security journalist Brian Krebs, who identified the hacker as a key player in the Twitter intrusion. Discord logs show that while PlugWalkJoe acquired the Twitter account @6 through “ever so anxious,” and briefly personalized it, he was not otherwise involved in the conversation. PlugWalkJoe, who said his real name is Joseph O’Connor, added in an interview with The Times that he had been getting a massage near his current home in Spain as the events occurred. “I don’t care,” said O’Connor, who said he was 21 and British. “They can come arrest me. I would laugh at them. I haven’t done anything.” O’Connor said other hackers had informed him that Kirk got access to the Twitter credentials when he found a way into Twitter’s internal Slack messaging channel and saw them posted there, along with a service that gave him access to the company’s servers. People investigating the case said that was consistent with what they had learned. A Twitter spokesman declined to comment, citing the active investigation. All of the transactions involving “lol” and “ever so anxious” took place before the world knew what was going on. But shortly before 3:30 p.m., tweets from the biggest cryptocurrency companies, like Coinbase, started asking for bitcoin donations to the site cryptoforhealth.com. “we just hit cb,” an abbreviation for Coinbase, Kirk wrote to “lol” on Discord a minute after taking over the company’s Twitter account. The public ledger of bitcoin transactions shows that the bitcoin wallet that paid to set up cryptoforhealth.com was the wallet that Kirk had been using all morning, according to three investigators, who said they could not speak on the record because of the open investigation. In several messages Wednesday morning, “ever so anxious” talked about his need to get some sleep, given that it was later in the day in England. Shortly before the big hacks began, he sent a phone message to his girlfriend saying, “nap time nap time,” and he disappeared from the Discord logs. Kirk quickly escalated his efforts, posting a message from accounts belonging to celebrities like Kanye West and tech titans like Jeff Bezos: Send bitcoin to a specific account and your money will be sent back, doubled. Shortly after 6 p.m., Twitter seemed to catch up with the attacker, and the messages stopped. But the company had to turn off access for broad swaths of users, and days later the company is still piecing together what happened. International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/hackers-tell-the-story-of-the-twitter-attack-from-the-inside-864091.html
22-07-2020||Panorama||Time to rethink rural management||The Covid-19 pandemic and its economic impact have sharply brought to the forefront of public health as a policy-making challenge. While the sight of lakhs of migrant workers walking miles to reach their native villages, glaringly revealed the disruption of our urban economy, rural India has suffered far worse. The massive reverse migration has also created an intense need to create new growth pathways in rural India. Post Covid times have poised India to rethink its model of metro city-centric economic development. This is an opportune time to recalibrate rural-urban dynamics and interdependencies. Essentially this means that the economic and cultural contribution of rural settlements, small and medium-sized towns should be understood and factored in planning inclusive and sustainable human development in India.  There is bound to be an increase in demand for rural management/development studies professionals shortly. For students contemplating studying management or development studies, a course in rural management might be an intelligent and socially conscious choice at this juncture. As economic activities expand to newer areas and new settlements come up, the age-old boundaries between urban and rural have melted away with rurban economic clusters being the new normal. As the epidemic further spurs localisation of industries and employment with the digitisation of businesses and remote working as the new norm, the definition of rural management itself has changed.  The resilience of the rural economy will outlast coronavirus pandemic  No doubt, coronavirus has brought about a sudden halt and exposed the fault lines in India’s economic growth story. Rural India that houses 69% of India’s population constituting more than 800 million people is suddenly experiencing a further overburdening of its already dissipating agricultural economy. However, a series of expenditure-based initiatives announced by the government for the rural economy such as raising of MNREGA allocations as well as recent Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan with a focus on rural housing, roads, plantations, drinking water, toilets, mandis, and cattle sheds, etc. are bound to have a multiplier effect on investment, employment generation and consumption. A renewed impetus on food processing, livestock, fisheries, dairy, warehousing, and logistics and non-agricultural pursuits such as light manufacturing, retail, construction, and financial services, rural India can glide into a promising future. A report has recently forecast that the reverse migration can catalyze housing demand in tier II & III cities after Covid-19, creating new employment opportunities for millions. The Covid-19 crisis has propelled us to a policy future where diversification of the rural economy, improvement of health and education indices of the rural population, and creation of new employment opportunities in villages will be center of India’s development focus. About 3 million NGOs are operating mainly in rural India. A cohort of new entrepreneurs moves from big IT cities to set up agritech-based start-ups in tier II and III towns. Big multinationals outsourcing their processes to smaller towns has reshaped the job landscape. Of a staggering 6.3 crore MSMEs manufacturing over 6,000 products, more than 50% operate in rural India. Add to this the massive government machinery that works in rural India. As Central and state governments, apart from multilateral organisations, would increasingly conduct feasibility/impact studies of schemes in rural areas, there will be a need for a vast number of rural development and management professionals.  Rural Management education governs the study of managing and optimising agricultural resources effectively. It also includes planning and executing rural development programs, promoting rural livelihoods, and engineering diverse livelihood opportunities outside agriculture for the rural population. The impact of Covid-19 will have long term implications on the rural economy.  (The writer is the Dean of SDS, IIHMR University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/time-to-rethink-rural-management-864092.html
22-07-2020||Panorama||The key to sustainable development||Looking at the happenings around the world since last few months, the physical environment is now gaining more and more attention worldwide because there is now a greater realisation of the serious danger posed by the depletion of the ozone layer and of the threat of the greenhouse effect— the former resulting in an increase in ultra-violet radiation and the later in grave consequences in the form of global warming and the rise in the level of oceans, which, in turn, will wipe off many islands and coastal countries from the map of the world. Hence, in the context of preservation of the environment and planning for development, ‘sustainable’ has become a catchword. And that is why it is now being emphasised that our efforts to improve the living standards of people in the under-developed countries, as also our means of production and transport shouldnot result in depletion of natural resources and degradation of the environment.  World over, if population continues to grow and to meet the demands of that population, developmental efforts also increase, then there would definitely take place some deterioration in the environment. Similarly, if the lifestyle of the people in the developed countries continues to be what it is today, then there would certainly be a depletion of natural resources. Combining the two factors together, one can say that ‘sustainable development would then be a dream rather than a reality. If, therefore, we wish to avert a major catastrophe because of these two grave threats, we must inspire people to have self-control and a simple lifestyle and for that purpose, adopt a spiritual outlook on life. And for that, we need to realise our spiritual identity and values. Such awareness will make us naturally eco-friendly, and send out positive energy that will bring the elements of nature into harmony with us again. If a critical mass of humans begin to live with this spiritual awareness, nature will by itself become our friend, and humanity will look at a golden instead of a doubtful future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-key-to-sustainable-development-864093.html
22-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Life starts with everyone clapping||The pun in his remark got me clapping involuntarily. Wonder, how else could anyone react to Grammy winner rapper Jay-Z holding former US President Bill Clinton as the ultimate rockstar, “people clap in a restaurant when he finishes dinner.” And, he didn’t stop at just that adding “I don’t get that treatment. I get it when I walk onstage, but not when I have dinner.” There is not much to read into it other than the fact that anything that induces clapping should be worth a cause. And, I mean it! I say so because I find that clapping benefits us more than what it is credited for. People clap in the park, yoga teachers induce clapping as an essential step and acupressure technique counts on clapping to trigger a healthy body response. As old as human existence, clapping both hands is more than what we might ever consider it to be. It is clearly emerged more than a standard civic gesture to attract attention; to celebrate success and to express admiration as a sign of approval. Clapping gives an adrenaline boost to the one who is at the receiving end, be it in a political rally or a public performance. But it works the other way round too! Don’t you recall ‘slow’ clapping has often been used to pull down a bad speaker or boo a poor performance --as an act of disapproval? The musical aspect of clapping has often been underrated. Be it classical or western music, clapping has been tried as an interesting interlude. While it is somewhat organic to qawali, in other genre, it has emerged as a creative interlude that a few music composers have been able to master. Who can forget several such compositions by noted musician O P Nayyar who had turned to the clap as his signature tune for numerous Bollywood songs from the 50’s through the 70’s. Clapping is after all the most common sound that we, as humans, have been using without our vocal cords. Need it be said that clapping with hands is the first act that all of us have learnt as a child. It is only in our later years that we become conservative in our use of clapping as a social gesture. No wonder, we now find claquers filling the gaps in radio programs and television. Why clap when one could be paid to do so, I imagine!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/life-starts-with-everyone-clapping-864089.html
22-07-2020||Second Edit||Consumers must make use of updated law||The Consumer Protection Act, 2019, which came into force on Monday, is a welcome improvement on the 1986 law. It has strengthened a number of provisions of the old law, which had for the first time recognised consumers’ needs and interests as legally enforceable rights. There were loopholes in the old law and many of these have been plugged. More safeguards have been introduced. A number of issues which are relevant to consumers’ interests have emerged in the past three decades and they needed to be addressed. E-commerce did not exist in 1986 and so problems related to e-marketing, direct selling and other digital-age practices had to be taken care of. The media, which advertises goods and services, had not grown to the present stage. The new law has provisions which address the concerns and needs in these areas.   The new law broadens the definition of ‘consumer’ and seeks to give them more power. One important provision is for setting up a Central Consumer Protection Authority to promote, protect and enforce the rights of consumers as a class. It will make interventions to protect consumers from unfair trade practices and can also initiate class action, including enforcing recall, refund and return of products. The law also seeks to revamp the process of administration and settlement of disputes, with strict penalties, including jail term for adulteration and misleading ads by firms. The dispute resolution process will be simplified, and the consumer will be able to file cases at a place near one’s home. It makes sellers liable for misleading advertisements and for faulty products or services and provides for early closure of cases. There is no provision for jail for celebrities for misleading advertisements, but they could be banned for endorsing products that do not live up to the claims made about them. Some provisions, including those relating to e-commerce and celebrity endorsements, have yet to be notified. The new law and the rules under it will hopefully create a better consumer protection regime. But there are challenges in the way of making the added benefits real for the consumer. Though many of the grievances and disputes that come before the courts can be settled in a few days, cases often drag on. Immediate relief is very important in all consumer complaints. The most important requirement is for the law to be effectively implemented. Weaknesses and shortcomings will arise in the course of implementation and they need to be addressed. Consumer protection is an evolving area and awareness is growing, and so the law will need changes on the move, rather than a rewriting after 30 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/consumers-must-make-use-of-updated-law-864081.html
22-07-2020||South||Kerala youth who once averted train mishap gives fresh life to 8 through organ donation||Ten years back, two teenagers at Kollam district in Kerala were in the news after they averted a train mishap by alerting the loco pilot about a crack in the track. On Tuesday, one of them gave a fresh lease of life to eight others through organ donation. Anujith, 27 a native of Kottarakkara in Kollam district, was declared brain dead the other day. He was under treatment at a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram following a road accident on July 14. As per his wish, his wife and other family members decided to donate his organs. His heart, kidneys, corneas, small intestine and hands were donated to eight different patients. The heart was air-lifted for transplantation on a patient in Kochi on Tuesday. A few days back, Kerala had witnessed a similar organ transplant of a brain dead person in Kochi. The transplants were carried out through the state government's Kerala Network for Organ Sharing. Health department sources said that Anujith was one of the two students who alerted a loco pilot about a crack in the rail track in 2010. On spotting the crack, they ran about 500 metres along the track and waved their red college bags to alert the loco pilot of an approaching train about the danger ahead. Thus, the loco pilot managed to stop the train and a mishap was averted. Anujith, who was working as a driver, recently started a job as a salesman at a supermarket following lockdown. The 27-year-old, who hailed from a financially-weak background, was quite active in voluntary services. His father Sasidharan Pillai was a farmer and wife Princy was working in a jewellery shop. He is survived by his mother, a three-year-old son and sister. Health Minister K K Shailaja, who made arrangement for swift transplant procedures, hailed the relatives of the donor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-youth-who-once-averted-train-mishap-gives-fresh-life-to-8-through-organ-donation-864163.html
22-07-2020||South||Tata's 540-bed Covid-19 hospital in Kasaragod may become functional in August||The state government has also initiated steps for recruiting doctors and other staff for the hospital and it is expected to be commissioned by next month. Tata offered to set up the Covid-19 hospital after the Kasaragod district's weak healthcare infrastructure got highlighted when the district witnessed an alarming increase in Covid-19 positive patients in March. The hospital is coming up at Thekkil, about 10 kilometres from Kasaragod town. Work on the hospital began at the end of April at a land allotted by the state government. As many as 128 fibre reinforced polymer units have been installed. There will three zones, two catering to quarantine facility and one for treating Covid-19 patients.  Tata is setting up the infrastructure with basic amenities at a cost of around Rs 60 crore, while the state government will have to set up medical infrastructures like ventilators and IC units and widen the road. Udma MLA K Kunhiraman, who reviewed the progress of work on Tuesday, told DH that notification for recruitment was already issued. The hospital would start function by next month, he said. At present, the district has over 400 active patients. Around 30 areas of the district have been identified as hotspots. Hence the number of patients are likely to go up. Following the grim scenario in the district, the government had converted the administrative block of the upcoming medical college to a Covid-19 hospital on a war-footing in April. Meanwhile, one curious question that is doing the rounds in Kasaragod now is whether Tata's Covid-19 care facility would be a permanent one. Kunhiraman said that since Tata would be handing over the facility to Kerala government as part of their CSR project, the state government could effectively retain it as a hospital for the district. The government, however, will take a final call on the matter, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tatas-540-bed-covid-19-hospital-in-kasaragod-may-become-functional-in-august-864201.html
22-07-2020||South||Maoists set ablaze 2 vehicles used in road construction work in Telangana||Maoists set fire to machinery engaged for construction of road in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district of Telangana, police said on Wednesday. A group of ultras from bordering Chhattisgarh set on fire a dozer and a road roller at Tippapuram village of the district late on Tuesday night after threatening the villagers, Bhadradri-Kothagudem District Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt told PTI. A hunt was launched to nab the rebels who fled after the incident. Last week two groups of Maoists, including five members led by Bhaskar, Telangana "State Committee" member of CPI (Maoist), carrying a reward of Rs 25 lakh, had escaped after an exchange of fire with police in the forest areas in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district and Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. Police had intensified combing operation in the areas following the two incidents of exchange of fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maoists-set-ablaze-2-vehicles-used-in-road-construction-work-in-telangana-864252.html
22-07-2020||South||Two more students who appeared for Kerala entrance exam test Covid-19 positive||While two more students who appeared for Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical entrance examination were tested Covid-19 positive, a police case was registered against hundreds of parents who gathered in front of a school in Thiruvananthapuram flouting social distancing norms. So far four students who appeared for the entrance exam and father of one of the students tested Covid-19 positive. The picture of the parents gathering in front of a school during the exam on July 16 had gone viral on social media. It also triggered strong reactions against the government for conducting the entrance examination amid a Covid-19 spike. Hence the police registered a case against 300 odd parents, who were yet to be identified, on charges of flouting the social distancing norms. Even after students who appeared for the entrance were tested Covid positive, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified the decision to conduct the examination citing that adequate safety measures were made at all the centers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-more-students-who-appeared-for-kerala-entrance-exam-test-covid-19-positive-864291.html
22-07-2020||South||Telangana CM directs release of prisoners with good conduct on occasion of Independence Day||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday instructed the police department to release prisoners with good conduct on the occasion of this year's Independence Day. He asked the department to prepare a list for the purpose, an official release said. Rao, who held a meeting with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M Mahendar Reddy and other officials here, examined the guidelines pertaining to the release of the prisoners, it added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-directs-release-of-prisoners-with-good-conduct-on-occasion-of-independence-day-864296.html
22-07-2020||South||ED registers Enforcement Case Information Report in Kerala gold smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering complaint in connection with the Kerala 'diplomatic baggage' gold smuggling case, officials said on Wednesday. They said the agency has registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR), equivalent of a police FIR, after studying the NIA complaint filed in the case recently. The ED case has been booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the agency will record the statement of the accused, they said. The central agency will investigate if proceeds of crime were generated by the accused by laundering of funds that were earned through the alleged gold smuggling racket. The ED also has powers to attach the immovable and movable properties of the accused under the PMLA. The case emerged on July 5 when gold, weighing over 30 kg, was seized by the Customs department from the "diplomatic baggage" that had landed by air cargo at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport from the Gulf. The seized gold is stated to worth nearly Rs 15 crore. The ED is the fourth central agency that is probing the accused involved in the case after the Customs, NIA and the Income Tax Department. The NIA had arrested the prime accused in the case, Swapna Suresh and her associate Sandeep Nair, from Bengaluru on July 11. The NIA had told a special court in Kochi on Tuesday that Suresh, Nair and others conspired to damage the country's monetary stability by smuggling large quantity of gold from abroad. In a report submitted to the court, the NIA also said it is suspected that the accused had used the proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means. The accused deliberately used the diplomatic baggage of UAE as a cover to transact illegal business and it may have serious repercussions in India's diplomatic relations with the UAE government and it is prejudicial to the monetary and economic security of India as well, the NIA said. The NIA has interrogated Suresh and Nair who are in its custody till July 24. It has booked Suresh, Sarith P S, Nair and Fasil Fareed under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Suresh was working in the Information Technology department and her contractual service terminated after her name cropped up in the gold smuggling case. IAS officer M Sivasakar was removed as Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the state IT Secretary over his alleged links with Suresh and other accused in the case.  She is also stated to be a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Sarith P S, also a former employee of the UAE consulate in Kerala, was arrested by the Customs department after the gold was seized. Dubai-based businessman Fareed is still at large.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-registers-enforcement-case-information-report-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-864301.html
22-07-2020||South||Kerala: UAE consulate gunman's house raided in connection with gold smuggling||Customs on Wednesday raided the house of a gunman belonging to the UAE consulate who made a bid to end his life recently. Jayaghosh, who is a civil police officer with the Kerala police, was also placed under suspension for dereliction in duty as he did not report to his higher authorities about the chargé d'affaires Rashed Khamis Al Ashmia leaving India. Customs suspect Jayaghosh's nexus with the smuggling racket as he was suspected to have accompanied a former employees of the consulate for clearing baggage from the Thruvananthapuram airport. At least ten pieces of baggage with gold were suspected to be cleared using the diplomatic tag over the last one year. Customs also held one more person was held from Malappuram distinct by the customs. So fare nearly 15 persons were held by the customs, which included those who invested money for smuggling gold. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress alleged that a recent repair of CCTV cameras of the government Secretariat was dubious. It could be an attempt to erase visuals of the smuggling cases accused former UAE consulate employees visits to offices of many bureaucrats, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-uae-consulate-gunmans-house-raided-in-connection-with-gold-smuggling-864350.html
22-07-2020||South||Kochi's coastal areas hit by double whammy of sea erosion, Covid-19 spike||The coastal areas of Kochi in Kerala are struggling with the spike in Covid-19 cases and flooding of houses owing to sea erosion. The Chellanam coastal areas were the worst-hit with over hundred houses getting flooded. Over 200 persons in the locality also tested Covid-19 positive. While a triple lockdown was put in place in the locality owing to Covid-19, those on quarantine were forced to come out of their houses. Many were taking shelter on rooftops. Though the people of the area earlier used to shift to houses of relatives, now it was also not possible owing to the Covid-19 scenario. Covid-19 first line treatment was opened in the area and steps like free ration supply were initiated on the direction of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kochis-coastal-areas-hit-by-double-whammy-of-sea-erosion-covid-19-spike-864352.html
22-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports single day high of over 5,000 Covid-19 cases,74 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported an all-time single-day high of 5,849 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 1,86,492, while recoveries rose to 1,31,583 with 4,910 people getting cured, the health department said. The state continued with its aggressive testing of samples with 60,112 specimens being examined, pushing the tally to 20,95,757. The health department bulletin said 74 fatalities were reported today, taking the death toll to 3,144. The bulletin said of the deaths, 444 of them were notified after a report was submitted by the death reconciliation committee constituted by the state government. Recoveries remained significant as 4,910 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of those cured in the state to 1,31,583. Chennai reported 1,171 new Covid-19 positive cases today, pushing the count to 89,561.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-single-day-high-of-over-5000-covid-19-cases74-deaths-864365.html
22-07-2020||South||Youth dies three days after being allegedly manhandled by cops for not wearing Covid-19 mask||A 26-year-old man died three days after he jumped off a police jeep allegedly because he was manhandled by the cops for not wearing a mask as Covid-19 precaution. The incident occurred on Saturday in Chirala town of Andhra Pradesh. Y Kiran Kumar succumbed to his head injuries on Tuesday night. The state government has ordered a police enquiry into the case while announcing a Rs 10 lakh compensation to the family of the man belonging to the Scheduled Caste.  On Saturday night, Kumar had come out with a friend Shiny Abraham on a two-wheeler. The police stopped them at a checkpoint and questioned the duo, said to be in an inebriated state, for not wearing a mask in a place registering several Covid-19 cases. Following their altercation with the constables, Chirala II-town Sub Inspector Vijay Kumar reached the spot and took them into custody. District police officials said that while the two were being taken to the police station, Kumar jumped off the moving jeep, fell on the road and suffered head injuries.    Kumar was first taken to a local government hospital and then to the Government General Hospital in Guntur. As his condition was deteriorating, he was later shifted to a private hospital where he died Tuesday late night. Kumar’s family attributed the death to police excesses. Kumar’s father Mohan Rao alleged that the police did not respond immediately when his son was hurt and bleeding profusely. “If he is intoxicated, as parents, we should have been informed. Why did the police inside the jeep not restrain if my son was behaving under alcohol influence?” Rao questioned.   TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh charged the police “for the death of the Dalit youth.” “Just for not wearing a mask, the police attacked him leading to his eventual death.” Chirala incident follows the Seethanagaram episode where one SC youth was allegedly assaulted, tonsured in a police station in the East Godavari district.   Telugu Desam Party chief and opposition leader Chandrababu Naidu has charged the involvement of YSRCP men in Monday’s “tonsure incident”. Naidu said the man was humiliated as he had questioned the illegal sand mining in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youth-dies-three-days-after-being-allegedly-manhandled-by-cops-for-not-wearing-covid-19-mask-864372.html
22-07-2020||South||Ahead of Bakrid, Telangana warns against camel slaughter||Complying with an order of the Telangana High Court, the state government on Wednesday said transportation of camels for any purpose, including slaughter, into the state is illegal and anyone violating the law would be prosecuted. Passing interim orders on a PIL which sought steps to prevent killing of camels during the coming Bakrid festival, the court had said it was the duty of the state to ensure that the camels were not slaughtered in the name of "tradition". The transportation of camels into Telangana is strictly prohibited and no person shall slaughter or offer to slaughter the camel in the state. Any such violators will be prosecuted and punished as per the law, a press note issued by the Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Department said. It also cited the Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) 2015 Act which prohibits transportation of the animal from the western state. The high court had on July 17 said slaughtering of camels was "inhumane, unconstitutional and will be treated as a criminal offence." Moreover, since the transportation of camels out of Rajasthan was prohibited, Telangana had a duty to ensure that they were not brought into the state clandestinely, it said. The court also directed the departments concerned to step up their efforts and to carry out inspection of licensed and unlicensed slaughterhouses in the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad and neighbouring Ranga Reddy district and prevent the illegal killing of camels and take action against those violating the laws. The petitioner's counsel had submitted that during the period of Ramadan, especially of Bakrid there was "a tradition" of consuming camel meet in the state and the animals were invariably illegally brought from Rajasthan. "Subsequently, they are slaughtered for public consumption," the counsel had said adding the Rajasthan act clearly prohibited the transportation of camel outside the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ahead-of-bakrid-telangana-warns-against-camel-slaughter-864373.html
22-07-2020||South||Reinstate state election commissioner: Andhra Pradesh Governor to govt||Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan has directed the state government to reinstate Nimmagadda Ramesh as the state election commissioner. In April, the Jaganmohan Reddy government had, through an ordinance, removed Nimmagadda from the office that conducts the local body elections. The move was following Nimmagadda’s decision to postpone the panchayat and municipal polls in the state scheduled in the second half of March by six weeks, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Reddy had then accused the SEC as functioning unilaterally and in a partisan manner. Based on petitions challenging the removal, the Andhra Pradesh high court had in May annulled the ordinance. The court has ordered Nimmagadda’s reinstatement with immediate effect, while cancelling the appointment of Justice V Kanagaraj, a retired judge of the Madras High Court, in his place. However, the Reddy government was not inclined to reappoint Nimmagadda and took the matter to the Supreme Court, which refused a stay on the HC order. Based on the APHC direction, Nimmagadda met the Governor on Monday seeking his restoration in the SEC chair. In a communication to Nimmagadda, through his secretary, on Tuesday, the Governor directed the state government to implement the HC orders. Two new ministers take oath On Wednesday, Governor Harichandan administered the oath of office to two new ministers - Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venu Gopala Krishna, MLA, Ramachandrapuram and Dr Seediri Appalaraju, MLA, Palasa, as ministers in the Reddy’s government. The two new ministers replaced the spots of Mopidevi Venkatramana, Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose, senior YSRCP leaders, who were elected to the Rajya Sabha recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/reinstate-state-election-commissioner-andhra-pradesh-governor-to-govt-864377.html
22-07-2020||South||After last week's flooding, Osmania hospital's old block ordered to be sealed||The Telangana government has on Wednesday ordered the sealing of the century old block of the Osmania General Hospital with immediate effect. Last week, visuals of wards in the heritage structure inundated following rains and patients sitting haplessly on beds, while their attendants and health workers waded in knee deep waters has put the government in an embarrassing situation.     The building from the Hyderabad Nizam’s era is a historic site in Hyderabad, on the river Musi bank, with another imposing structure –the Telangana High Court – standing on the other side. Earlier this week, OGH doctors and other staff staged a protest for the immediate initiation of the construction of a new building in place of the structure which they said was crumbling and is a disaster waiting to happen.      With last week’s flooding of the hospital, the opposition BJP, Congress etc., parties blamed the Chandrasekhar Rao government for the neglect the structure has suffered. In Wednesday’s orders to the OGH superintendent, Telangana health department officials asked that the patients be shifted to other blocks and the old building be vacated. “No activity should be undertaken in the old building,” the letter stated. With the other major general hospital in the city – Gandhi Hospital – designated as a Covid-19 treatment centre, common ailment patients were being directed to the OGH. Meanwhile, 1430 new cases were reported on Tuesday and the total Covid-19 cases in Telangana stood at 47,705 as of Tuesday evening, with 429 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-last-weeks-flooding-osmania-hospitals-old-block-ordered-to-be-sealed-864390.html
22-07-2020||South||Kerala mulls lockdown as daily Covid-19 cases cross 1,000-mark||Daily fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala crossed the 1,000 mark for the first time on Wednesday as 1,038 were tested positive. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that as the Covid-19 numbers were going up, the state would have to even consider a total lockdown.  The total Covid-19 cases in Kerala so far crossed the 15,000-mark to reach 15,032. Of this 8,821 were now under treatment. While 6,162 recovered, 45 persons died so far, which included a 75 -year-old woman in Idukki district that was reported on Wednesday.  As many as 785 of the 1,038 fresh cases on Wednesday were due to local contact. In Thiruvananthapuram, of the 226 fresh cases, 190 were due to local contact, most of which were in coastal areas. Four ward councillors in Thiruvananthapuram were also also tested positive, triggering the scare of more local spread.  Vijayan said that even as the state's Covid-19 scenario was alarming, the cases per million in Kerala was only 419.1 while it was 864.4 cases nationally. Fatality rate in Kerala is 0.31 percent while at the national level it was 2.41 percent. He also said that the recovery rate in Kerala was comparatively low as the state was following a stringent discharge policy of two negative test results, whereas in other places those without symptom after ten days of hospitalisation was being discharged. Even as the state now decided to discharge Covid-19 patients based on antigen test instead of RT-PCR test, the other discharge norms could be followed as such. Compared to other states, the rate of fresh case in Kerala was also low, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mulls-lockdown-as-daily-covid-19-cases-cross-1000-mark-864404.html
22-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: PPE kits, medical equipment disposed of unscientifically in Mysuru||Even as containing the spread of Covid-19 is a challenge, unscientific disposal of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, used by healthcare personnel, and other bio-medical waste in parts of the city is an additional burden on the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). The authorities of the MCC suspect the role of rural local bodies, adjoining the MCC as no common people use the kits and the local bodies should dispose of the kits. A bundle of used PPE kits and other medical equipment were lying beside the street near Mysuru Pinjarapole Society, at the foot of Chamundi Hill. The waste was disposed of unscientifically. It has to be recalled that a few days back, a large quantity of similar equipment was found at Vijayanagar III Stage near Vijayanagar Police Station. However, the authorities of MCC cleared them soon after they received a message. An officer of MCC suspected the role of gram panchayat behind the incident. No common people use PPE kits in Mysuru and all kits used by medical professionals in the city limits are scientifically disposed of by MCC authorities. The equipment are found on the borders of the MCC limits. MCC Health Officer Dr. Jayanth said, “The teams from MCC visited the spot and cleared the PPE kits and other waste near Pinjara Pole. I have informed Mysuru taluk administration and the authorities concerned to keep a vigil. It may be a common man or the officials. We will not spare the culprits.” According to him, except medical professionals and warriors, who work closely with the Covid-infected, no common people use PPE kits. The final rites of Covid victims is also done by the MCC personnel and the kits will be burnt soon after the process, he said. As the used kits are lying beside the streets, residents are under fear of Covid. A resident of Vijayanagar, Chandrakala, blamed the authorities. She said, “When Covid-19 is rapidly spreading, the authorities have failed to take measures to check violations. The authorities must consider it as a grave issue and identify the culprits without delay.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-ppe-kits-medical-equipment-disposed-of-unscientifically-in-mysuru-864378.html
22-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No hospital should deny admission to Covid-19 patients: Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said no hospital should deny admission to Covid-19 patients regardless of whether or not they have symptoms.  He said this during a meeting with ministers and officials in charge of Bengaluru’s Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Dasarahalli, Bommanahalli and Mahadevapura municipal zones to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. The meeting coincided with the first day of Bengaluru coming out of the 7-day lockdown.  “It has been directed that hospitals should first admit Covid-19 patients and administer primary healthcare. Later on, depending on the status of the infection, a decision can be made,” Yediyurappa said, according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office.  Asymptomatic patients without other ailments should be admitted to hospitals lest it leads to crowding. “The beds available in hospitals must be made available to those who need treatment,” he said. The priority should be to save lives by ensuring treatment to patients whose infection is serious in nature. “It must be ensured that only trained doctors provide treatment to serious Covid-19 patients. This way, the number of deaths can be reduced,” Yediyurappa said. The CM also asked the ministers and officials to prioritise testing. “Do more tests and give results within 24 hours,” he said. The CMO said Yediyurappa had fixed targets and officials face action if they are not met.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-hospital-should-deny-admission-to-covid-19-patients-karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-864391.html
22-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tiger Mayar King, a new attraction at Bandipur||A video clip of a male tiger, walking majestically at Bandipur Tiger Reserve, has gone viral on the social media. Bandipur Tiger Project director T Balachandra has confirmed that the video was of Bandipur forest. The tiger may be around six to eight years, it is said. The tiger is being spotted frequently for the last few days, but was not disturbed by the human presence, it is said. The Forest department personnel have named it as ‘Mayar King’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tiger-mayar-king-a-new-attraction-at-bandipur-864394.html
22-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC issues notice to government over diverting grassland for canal||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday ordered issuance of notice to the state government on a PIL challenging the allotment of Amrut Mahal Kaval land for the construction of a canal in Kadur taluk of Chikkamagaluru district. The petition stated that the construction in question is for the Tumkur diversion canal as part of the Upper Bhadra Project. The project aims to draw water from Tunga River and Bhadra Reservoir to supply it to Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Tumakuru and Davangere districts. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M Nagaprasanna issued notice on the PIL filed by D V Girish and others. The petitioners contended that the diversion of 61.41 acres of grassland by the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences Department to Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam Ltd is in violation of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, The Forest (Conservation) Act and other environmental laws. "Being an area protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, no diversion of land for the construction of the proposed canal can be undertaken," the petitioner stated. The petition said that Karnataka’s extensive grasslands, maintained as Amruth Mahal Kaval, have now been fragmented and only around 30,000 acres of grasslands are left in the state. Karnataka state had more than 4 lakh acres of grasslands at the time of independence, the petitioner added. The petition claimed that the construction of canal has already begun in the nearby Gomala land, about two km away from the grassland. The matter was adjourned to August 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-issues-notice-to-government-over-diverting-grassland-for-canal-864397.html
22-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kodagu reports 16 fresh coronavirus cases||Authorities revealed 16 new Covid-19 cases in the district on Wednesday. The new cases include a 36-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman with a travel history of Bengaluru and natives of Bailebane, Mutharmudi in Murnadu, a 44-year-old man diagnosed with Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) symptoms and a resident of Hemraj compound, Ranipet in Madikeri. A 40-year-old man with ILI symptoms and from Vaddaramadu, Virajpet, a 44-year-old woman, who is a primary contact of Covid-19 positive case from Mysuru and a native of Bekkesodluru, Virajpet, a 37-year-old man with ILI symptoms and a resident of Dasavala Road in Madikeri are the other infected persons. A 32-year-old woman, who is the primary contact of Covid-19 positive person from Shanivarasanthe in Somwarpet, a 47-year-old man, a 46-year-old woman and a 24-year-old woman, who are the primary contacts of the infected person from Taltarashettalli in Somwarpet have also tested positive. The other infected cases are a 55-year-old man, a 25-year-old woman and a 20-year-old woman from Jayanagara I Stage, Madikeri, a 42-year-old woman from Heggala, Virajpet, a 54-year-old woman from Hulase, Kushalnagar and a 23-year-old man from Gonikoppa. Following the emergence of fresh cases, the following areas have been brought under the containment zones: Bailebane, Mutharmudi in Murnad, Ranipet in Madikeri, Vaddaramadu in Virajpet, Dasavala Road in Madikeri, Jayanagara in Madikeri, Kanive and surroundings of Gonikoppa hospital premises. Meanwhile, the containment zone at Perumbadi in Arji, Virajpet, has been denotified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kodagu-reports-16-fresh-coronavirus-cases-864406.html
22-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Formulate SOP to curb child porn, Karnataka HC tells government||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the state government to formulate Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for child protection, particularly for cases of child pornography and child missing. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M Nagaprasanna passed a detailed order and asked the state government to submit compliance within three months. The division bench passed the order on two PILs, including a suo motu litigation registered in 2018. The PILs were registered to ensure effective implementation of the directions of the Supreme Court on the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (JJ Act). The bench observed that in normal courses, courts do not issue writ of mandamus to the legislature on rule-making aspects. However, when the failure of the state is demonstrated under exceptional circumstances, courts can issue directions. The bench directed the state government to expedite the rule-making process to ensure proper implementation of the JJ Act. The bench expressed displeasure on the insensitive police investigation in cases of child pornography. “The police machinery did not show the sensitivity expected from it while dealing with cases of alleged child pornography. Therefore, it will be appropriate if the state issues SOP or guidelines for dealing with cases of child pornography so that proper investigation is carried out in such cases. As we are directing the formation of SOP for dealing with child pornography cases, the state is also directed to formulate guidelines on child missing cases,” the bench said. The bench had been issuing several directions since 2018 and has also been monitoring police investigations. The court observed that while the state government has incorporated several directions, some issues still remain unaddressed. The bench directed the government to have dedicated staff for the Directorate of Integrated Child Protection Scheme considering the sensitive nature of work. On working of Juvenile Justice Boards (JJB), the court asked the Registrar General of the Karnataka High Court to issue directions to the principal magistrates of all the JJBs in the state to sit on all working days for a minimum of six hours a day.  The high court directed the state to exercise the rule-making powers for obtaining an annual report from the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/formulate-sop-to-curb-child-porn-karnataka-hc-tells-government-864420.html
22-07-2020||West||Pune foundation comes to the help of Varanasi boatmen||The economic hardship induced by the lockdown has left the boatmen living in Aasi Ghat with no source of income. Their misery has been compounded with the onset of monsoon as they cannot venture into the Ganga.  The timely intervention of the Mukul Madhav Foundation and Finolex Industries to provide them with grocery kits helped them overcome a humanitarian crisis. For those living on the banks of the Aasi Ghat, tourism is the mainstay and the lockdown robbed them of their livelihood as they were not allowed to venture into the river at a time when it’s their main season, before the onset of monsoon.    The Foundation stepped forward to support not only 700 boatman families but also widows, transgender and physically challenged who have been left helpless during the crisis.  A cumulative of 2,000 grocery kits were distributed in the presence of Nikhil Zanvar Mushtaque Ali, former Indian Football team captain Lalit Upadhyay, Indian Men's Hockey team player Vinod Singh, Director of Sheat Engineering College, a press statement said. Over the last four months, FIL and MMF have been providing grocery kits to daily wage workers, slum dwellers, rag pickers, migrants, transgender communities, sex workers primarily in Maharashtra.  MMF had also assisted those affected in West Bengal by the Amphan Cyclone. The Foundation claims to have helped a total of 80,000 people so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-foundation-comes-to-the-help-of-varanasi-boatmen-864123.html
22-07-2020||West||Mumbai Covid-19 situation 'in control': BMC official||The Covid-19 situation "is in control" in Mumbai with the number of positive cases daily being reported below 1,500, a senior official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said. Everyday, 6,000 to 7,000 tests are being done and most of the citizens are following the safety protocols, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told PTI. The city has been daily reporting less than 1,500 Covid-19 cases since the last many days. "The situation is in control," Kakani said. After the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city, the BMC focussed on slum pockets by tracing high-risk contacts and sending them to quarantine centres, and if they tested positive, they were kept at isolation facilities, he said. In the slum areas, the BMC took steps like house-to-house surveys for finding out symptomatic patients, setting up fever clinics and X-ray vans, taking help of local doctors and providing them all medical equipment and frequent sanitisation of common toilets, he said. Kakani said the civic body will now focus on residential buildings and housing societies for raising awareness about hygiene, cleanliness, social distancing, need to wear masks and sanitisation of common areas like lifts, staircases, lobbies and toilets. Guidelines will soon be issued for housing societies to ensure they do not allow outsiders without masks, he said. There should be arrangements for thermal screening and hand sanitisers at the entrance of housing societies and people should be alert even at home, he said, adding that the BMC also has the task of focusing on monsoon-related ailments. Kakani also said that Ganesh mandals in the city have been asked to keep the Ganpati festival celebrations simple and low-key this year and focus on social service. The civic body has come up with a concept of 'one ward-one Ganpati' and left it to the local authorities to take a call on it, he said. Vishwas Mote, the assistant municipal commissioner of K-West ward, which covers Andheri-West, Juhu, Versova and other prominent areas, last week appealed to the Ganpati mandals in his ward to follow the 'one ward-one Ganpati' concept The 10-day festival begins on 'Ganesh Chaturthi', which falls on August 22 this year. On Tuesday, Mumbai's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,03,262 with the addition of 995 new cases, while the death toll increased to 5,814 after 62 more patients succumbed to the infection, according to the BMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-covid-19-situation-in-control-bmc-official-864180.html
22-07-2020||West||Stranded commuters block local train in Mumbai's Nalasopara||Hundreds of commuters staged an impromptu 'rail-roko' agitation at the Nalasopara station demanding resumption of suburban trains in Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The Nalasapora station on the Western Railway is located in the Palghar district. The commuters said they were stranded as the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), which operates services to Mumbai, Thane and Raigad, was not operating the services on Thursday. People squatted on the tracks, halting the special local trains, demanding they should be allowed to travel in these special suburban locals that are being run in MMR by Central Railway and Western Railway. Later, the GRP and RPF officers and personnel reached and managed to disperse the commuters crowd peacefully. More than 200 persons arrived on the platform at the Nalasopara station at around 8:25 hours as the state transport bus services were disrupted.  A local train VR-37 was stopped by commuters at Nalasopara's platform one from 8.27 hours to 8.31 hours.  "Commuters were suitably counselled by RPF/GRP that special suburban services are being operated only for the staff of essential categories as notified. The situation normalised later, " WR chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stranded-commuters-block-local-train-in-mumbais-nalasopara-864181.html
22-07-2020||West||Spurt in Covid-19 cases in Solapur raises Maharashtra govt's concern||After the Mumbai-Pune belt, Solapur is the biggest concern for the Maharashtra government. Hence, the government has now decided to implement the Chase-the-Virus model, which is being implemented in Mumbai and its suburban areas, in the district.  The business activities in the historic Solapur town, known for its Solapuri chaddars, towels, textiles, power looms, cotton mills and beedis, has been deeply affected due to the pandemic.   Earlier this month, during the Ashadi-Ekadashi, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Pandharpur to offer prayers to Lord Vithoba and Rakhumai, during which he also reviewed the situation. Before that, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope visited to oversee the arrangements in Solapur. NCP president Sharad Pawar and Tope visited the town over the last weekend. “One of the major cause of concern is the vulnerability of people who work in textile and beedi industries. Since they have been exposed to toxic conditions, they have pre-existing lung and respiratory issues,” health officials said. At a review meeting, Thackeray has asked to increase the quarantine and isolation facilities in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases in the district.   According to Pune divisional commissioner Dr Deepak Maisekar and Solapur district collector Milind Shabharkar, contact tracing has been intensified in the city and district. The spurt in cases in Solapur was reported after the lockdown was eased and unlocking started on June 3. “Solapur has seen a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. Roughly 36,000-plus tests have been conducted till date and 6,000-plus positive cases have been detected. The situation is grim as nearly 20% results of you see are coming positive. Being a labour-driven district, Solapur has mostly a housing structure such that social distancing is next to impossible,” Amitkumar Jain, Director, Solapur Garment Manufacturing Association, told DH over the phone. “The main thing to control this pandemic in Solapur is to ensure that you have timely treatment available. Solapur has more than 2 lakh labourers who are involved in beed making and textile industry,” he said. According to Jain, the administration will have to make ready at least a 2,000-plus-bed temporary hospital as the district is reporting about 400-500 positive Covid-19 cases daily. “The only solution is to be ready with a dedicated Covid Centre as soon as the beds of all hospitals get exhausted. Solapur is already facing high mortality rate, with poor and middle-class people not having any access to treatment, the situation will worsen further,” he said, adding that public unrest cannot be ruled out. A total lockdown has been announced in Solapur from July 17 to 27 and outside vehicles have been prohibited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/spurt-in-covid-19-cases-in-solapur-raises-maharashtra-govts-concern-864182.html
22-07-2020||West||Sheena murder case: Court rejects bail plea of Shyamwar Rai||A special CBI court here on Wednesday rejected the interim bail plea of Shyamwar Rai, an accused-turned-approver in the Sheena Bora murder case. Rai, who is currently lodged in Thane jail, had sought temporary bail for 45 days, citing that there was a risk of contracting Covid-19 in the prison. He had approached court through an e-mail. Special CBI judge J C Jagdale rejected his plea on Wednesday. Rai, who was the driver of Sheen Bora murder case co-accused Indrani Mukerjea, was arrested in connection with an illegal firearm case in 2015. During questioning, Rai spilled the beans about the murder of Sheena Bora, Indrani Mukerjea's daughter from an earlier relationship. It led to the arrest of Mukerjea and her former husband Sanjeev Khanna. Sheena Bora (24) was allegedly strangled in a car by Mukerjea, Rai and Khanna in April 2012. Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district. Khanna is a co-accused in the case. Former media baron Peter Mukerjea was also later arrested for allegedly being part of the conspiracy. He is currently out on bail, which was granted by the Bombay High Court earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sheena-murder-case-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-shyamwar-rai-864257.html
22-07-2020||West||Complex heart valve replacement surgery gives new life to farmer||Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, first of its kind Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) was performed at Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital to save a 62-year-old farmer who was brought to the hospital with heart failure.   The special type of TAVR, which is Valve-in-Valve procedure was performed within 4 hours of the patient’s relatives and doctors agreeing for the procedure. The Mumbai resident, was brought to Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital (Sir HNRFH) on the evening of June 20 gasping for breath. Initial assessment showed he had very low blood pressure, no urine output and swelling all over the body, suggestive of severe heart failure. “When we assessed the patient in our emergency ward, we knew he had severe heart failure because of dysfunction of one of his artificial heart valves that was implanted with an open heart surgery six years ago. He was immediately put on dialysis and multiple medicines to support his dropping blood pressure levels,” said Dr Maulik Parekh, cardiologist at Sir HNRFH, who headed the medical team for TAVR. He said while the medical team were sure that the patient needed a valve replacement, a repeat open heart surgery was considered to be extremely high risk because of his critical condition and previous surgical history. Hence, we offered the Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) as a safer alternative. “TAVR is a complex minimally invasive cardiac procedure to treat severe narrowing (stenosis) of aortic valve (valve between heart and the main blood vessel). Once the patient’s relatives gave a go ahead, within a short time of 4 hours, the patient was taken up for the procedure” said Dr Parekh.   As it is well known, TAVR is a planned/elective procedure. To organise a TAVR procedure, it takes 15-17 days which involves a battery of diagnostic tests, planning of team of doctors, deciding on right size of the valve etc. The planning of TAVR was a herculean task as the patient was critical and was not fit for a CT scan that is required to find the right size of the valve. With his deteriorating health, it was a race against time to arrange logistics for ordering the right size of the valve in short time. In this patient’s case, luckily he had undergone angiography a week before he was brought to Sir HNRF, which further helped the doctors to judge the exact type and size of the previously implanted valve and place the request for the appropriate valve for him.  In the hour long procedure, cardiologists inserted a new valve inside the previously implanted valve which had failed without opening the chest. “I am happy that we decided and managed to do the procedure within 4 hours of the decision. For this patient, TAVR turned out to be lifesaving procedure. Within two hours of the procedure, all his vital parameters came in control. He was discharged on July 2,” said Dr Parekh. Vitthal Kadam’s nephew Sanjay Kadam said it was a rebirth for his uncle at Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital.  A doctor himself by profession, Sanjay Kadam said, “My uncle is leading an absolutely normal life. Today, if he is alive with us, it is because of doctors at Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital. Being a doctor, I know it was next to impossible to save my uncle. They were thinking to do a bypass but the team decided, and we consented to go ahead with TAVI. My entire family is indebted to entire team at Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital for saving my uncle’s life.” In the lockdown, this was the third case in TAVR in Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital. The earlier ones were planned procedures and all the patients are doing well. Sir HNRFH is a centre of excellence for this particular type of surgery since it boasts of a proctor-free interventional cardiology team, which has the most experience for this procedure and a hybrid cathlab, which is ideally suited for such interventional surgeries. Team of doctors included Dr. Maulik Parekh (TAVR expert, Proctor), Dr. Anvay Mulay (Surgeon) , Dr. Manoj Mashru (Cardiologist) , Dr. Ajit Menon (Cardiologist), Dr Pravin Kulkarni, Dr Talha Meeran, Dr Niranjan, Dr Himanshu, Dr Bhavesh Vora.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/complex-heart-valve-replacement-surgery-gives-new-life-to-farmer-864282.html
22-07-2020||West||Maharashtra minister Abdul Sattar tests coronavirus positive||Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Abdul Sattar on Wednesday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. In a Facebook post, Sattar, who is an MLA from Sillod constituency in Aurangabad and is a minister of state in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, said he his home quarantined in Mumbai and appealed to those who came in contact with him to get themselves tested. Earlier, state cabinet ministers Jitendra Awhad, Ashok Chavan and Dhananjay Munde had tested positive for the disease and later recovered. Another Maharashtra minister Aslam Shaikh on Monday said he has tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-abdul-sattar-tests-coronavirus-positive-864295.html
22-07-2020||West||Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients can now home quarantine themselves: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||Amid severe flak received by the Health Ministry over mismanagement and poor infrastructure at the state’s Covid care centres which house asymptomatic patients, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that asymptomatic patients would be allowed to home quarantine themselves henceforth. Speaking to reporters at the State Secretariat following a meeting of the Goa cabinet, Sawant also said that those asymptomatic patients who could fully isolate themselves at home would be allowed to stay in home quarantine, after due permissions from the local Deputy Collector. "Several states in the country are home quarantining asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. We have also decided to do the same. Any person willing to be home quarantined, should seek permission from the local Deputy Collector's office," the Chief Minister told reporters at a media briefing. The move is expected to take the load off the already taxed health infrastructure in the state which has been put in place to combat the pandemic spread. Currently, asymptomatic Covid-19 patients are admitted to the numerous Covid Care centres set up by the Goa Health Ministry, while symptomatic patients who need better quality of care are hospitalised to Goa’s only designated Covid-19 hospital. The Chief Minister also said that his government had refrained from allowing home quarantine for asymptomatic patients, because of the criticism the move was like to attract. "People would have been ready to criticise the decision, saying now positive patients are now being asked to stay home (and not admitted to government facilities)," the Chief Minister said. The Sawant-led administration has been under fire, after videos of chaotic scenes at the Covid care centres went viral. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat had complained to Governor Satya Pal Malik about the “pathetic conditions” at the Covid care centres, urging the latter’s intervention. The coastal state has witnessed a sustained spike in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks, with the number of active cases crossing 1500.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-can-now-home-quarantine-themselves-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-864353.html
