23-07-2020||First Edit||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa's address raises hope||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa must be complimented for his statesman-like address through social media platforms in which he assured the people about the preparedness to tackle Covid-19, extended an olive branch to the Opposition, addressed the issue of corruption, issued a warning to those not following precautions and, above all, lifted the week-long lockdown. Now that the lockdown is gone, the remaining restrictions, like night curfew and Sunday shutdown, too, should be withdrawn soon. The chief minister’s categorical assurance that a lockdown will not be imposed again either in Bengaluru or in the rest of the state and that work on combating the pandemic and reviving the economy should go hand-in-hand comes as a relief both to the general public and the business community. While Yediyurappa appears to have been ill-advised on imposing the just-concluded lockdown, despite many experts saying that it would not serve any purpose, he seems to have emerged wiser now, having declared that lockdowns are not the solution to controlling the spread of the virus, while stressing that resource mobilisation is equally important for the government. Addressing the issue of suspected corruption, the chief minister explained how he had intervened and struck down a deal in which beds and peripherals were rented at an exorbitant cost, even as he assured the Opposition that the government would clarify their queries or allegations within 24 hours. An assertive, combative and confident Yediyurappa gave the impression that he may have managed to unshackle himself from some of his colleagues who were pulling him in different directions, leading to a lack of consistency in the government’s actions. The absence of strong leadership had, of late, dented the state’s fight against Covid-19. Now that Yediyurappa has left no one in doubt who the boss is, it is hoped that the loose ends will be tied. A common complaint is that the chief minister, who is otherwise sensitive to public issues, is being pulled down by the coterie around him. It is thus imperative that he takes urgent steps to surround himself with the right people. Yediyurappa should also give attention to the absence of a strong chain of command, which has led to a lack of unity of purpose in the war on Covid-19. At least 60 IAS, IPS and IFS officers, not to mention some 10 ministers, are swarming Bengaluru, leaving not only the rank-and-file in chaos but creating a multi-layered decision-making process leading to all-round confusion. Unless this is addressed first, the government’s efforts may come to naught and end up as a typical case of too many cooks spoiling the broth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappas-address-raises-hope-864425.html
23-07-2020||Gadag, Haveri, Ballari||Karnataka: Customers allege sale of petrol mixed with water||A video of customers alleging sale petrol mixed with water at Jyothi Oil Petrol Bunk located near the first rail gate at Cowl Bazaar of the city went viral on Thursday. In the video, the bike riders are heard alleging that petrol is mixed with 90% water, showing the bottle containing petrol. Due to the contaminated petrol, vehicles stop abruptly on the roads inviting accidents. Will the proprietor of the petrol bunk be held responsible for it, they asked. The proprietor who arrived at the spot, claimed that water has not been mixed with the petrol. Due to incessant rainfall, water may have mixed through pipe. It will be set right immediately, he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gadag-haveri-ballari/karnataka-customers-allege-sale-of-petrol-mixed-with-water-864688.html
23-07-2020||In Perspective||Empowering parents to demand quality education||In just 20 years, the share of India’s children going to government schools has dropped from 71% to the current 52%. Nearly half of India’s school students attend private schools, with 70% of them paying monthly fees of less than Rs 1,000. Fuelling this dramatic growth of India’s private school sector are the aspirations of millions of middle and low-income families – India’s “next half billion” -- who believe that private schools will provide their children superior quality education and a passport to a better life. Nearly 40% of the children studying in private unaided schools come from the “aspiring” or “deprived” segments. However, learning outcomes in private schools are not materially different from those in government schools. While India has secured near-universal access to schooling, it has faltered at the next step. India’s children are not learning. Alarming trends such as only half of Class V students being able to read Class II level texts (ASER 2018) point to an urgent need to focus on quality learning outcomes as the primary goal of education policies. Given the scale of the sector, improving learning outcomes in private schools needs to become an essential part of the human capital development agenda for India. The dramatic shift towards private schools represents the conscious exercise of choice by parents. The time has therefore come for India to be more purposeful in empowering parents with the means to make informed decisions about their school choices. We must make it easier for parents to judge the quality of schools and strengthen their voice in demanding quality education for their children. Why do parents choose to send their children to private schools instead of government schools, which are less of a financial burden? Their preference is partly influenced by the perceived failure of government schools; parents will likely choose private schools when the government school has teacher absenteeism and high pupil-teacher ratio. More importantly though, three key perceptions drive the demand for private schools: access to “English-medium” education, “better” teaching and learning, and a set of aspirational factors not linked to learning outcomes. And across these areas, there is a gap between perception and the reality. English is at least one medium of instruction in 42% of private schools, compared to 10.4% of government schools. However, it is quite common to see schools that profess to be “English-medium” and with English textbooks using the regional language as the dominant mode of communication in the classroom: both between teachers and the students and amongst the students themselves. “Knowledge” of English is demonstrated by rote learning of some limited content. A 2019 survey by the Azim Premji Foundation in four Indian states reported that  nearly 60% of the children supposed to be going to English-medium schools are actually studying in Hindi or Kannada. About 18% of the children attended schools that had textbooks in English but with teachers translating them into the regional language while teaching. Parents also perceive that private schools have “better teaching and learning”. The Azim Premji Foundation study found that of the government school teachers, over 90% were graduates, 98% professionally qualified and on average, had 160 months’ experience. In the case of private schools, just 76% of teachers were graduates and 64% professionally qualified. In these schools, the average experience of teachers was 74 months.  Aspirational factors not related to learning -- such as computers, uniforms, CCTV cameras and school transport -- also influence parents’ choices. These aspects are usually emphasised in private schools’ marketing campaigns. The lack of consistent ways of reporting board examination results also makes it difficult for parents to get a complete and fair picture. Philanthropic funding and eventually impact investing capital can play a vital role in supporting initiatives to build parent demand for quality learning.  Empowering parents to demand quality education has three dimensions: building greater awareness, increased transparency from the schools themselves, and improving the quality of engagement between parents and schools. In all these, the government and regulators must also meaningfully step in by making regulation more outcome-oriented instead of inputs-based. And philanthropic capital can play a vital role in laying the ground. Efforts by philanthropic funders can make the “invisible” factors of quality more visible – they can support awareness-building campaigns on what a “quality” education means and deployment of frameworks for greater transparency by schools. For example, publishing comparisons of school results in simple consistent formats and standardised ways of disseminating information on teacher competencies. They can also fund pilots of innovative constructs of engagement between the parents and schools that can serve to demonstrate “what good looks like.” Another area that philanthropic capital can explore supporting is independent third-party assessments of learning interventions. The policy efforts, discussions and debates around improving education quality have so far mainly (and perhaps rightly) focussed on the supply side. The demand side – building the capacity of parents from the “next half billion” to understand and demand a quality education – is a tough problem. It’s a long journey, and critical to embark upon at the earliest, for our children’s future. (Roopa Kudva is Managing Director and Namita Dalmia is Director, Investments, at Omidyar Network India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/empowering-parents-to-demand-quality-education-864426.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Miners, banks adopt animals at Hosapete zoo||The animal adoption scheme at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Zoological Park, under the Bilikal Reserve Forest, has found many takers.Three banks and as many mining companies adopted as many as eight animals, including two tigers and a lion, at the animal adoption programme held at the zoological park on Wednesday. The Sandur-based mining company Veerbhadrappa Sangappa & Company adopted a tiger named Vayuputra for a period of three years. P Balasubba Setty & Son of Hosapete adopted a tigress named Chamundi while the Bengaluru-based mining company Kumaraswamy Mineral Export Pvt Ltd has adopted a lion named Kesari. All the companies paid Rs 1 lakh each to the zoo for upkeep of three big cats. The Vijaya Bank (Hosapete branch) adopted a fox and a nilgai while Dena Bank picked a jackal and a nilgai for adoption, paying Rs 30,000 each. The HDFC Bank adopted a hyena for a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/miners-banks-adopt-animals-at-hosapete-zoo-864421.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Prohibitory orders under Section 144 surrounding BIMS||Prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC will be imposed th areas surrounding Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital to prevent crowd gathering in the wake of violence by relatives of a patient who passed away on Wednesday night alleging medical negligence. The relatives threw stones at the facility and set an ambulance on fire. Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath visited BIMS on Wednesday night and held a meeting with the doctors and nurses treating the patients and those who were at the receiving end of the violence. Hiremath said that he instilled confidence among the doctors and nurses and assured them that safety measures would be taken. Security arrangements will be made and prohibitory orders will be imposed. Presently entry of people has been banned, he said. Police Commissioner Dr K Thiyagarajan said that cases will be filed against all those responsible for the violence. People whose vehicles have been damaged can also file complaints. City Police have made security arrangements at all places and there were no lapses. We see police presence at all places, he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-prohibitory-orders-under-section-144-surrounding-bims-864574.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 patient ends life in Mandya||Upset over contracting Covid 19, a 55-year-old man, ended his life by hanging himself, at the designated Covid hospital, in Mandya, on Wednesday night. The deceased patient is from Kandegala village, Malvalli taluk, Mandya district. He was ailing from renal problems and was under treatment. However, he contracted the virus and tested positive for Covid-19. Upset over this, he ended his life by hanging himself on the window grill, in the hospital bathroom, midnight. The incident came to light when other patients went to the toilet. His last rites were conducted as per the designated Covid-19 protocol, on Thursday, said District Health Officer Dr H P Manchegowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-patient-ends-life-in-mandya-864643.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Seven wards sealed in Karnataka's Shivamogga, residents oppose||Folllowing the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and a city corporation staff testing positive for Covid-19, the corporation office was sealed for four days, on Thursday. City Corporation Commissioner Chidananda Vatare is in institutional quarantine in the city and many staff are in home quarantine. People have been asked to visit the office on July 27. Firefighting staff sanitised office of the corporation. Residents of Kumbara street in the city opposed the complete shut down of seven wards of the city enforced by corporation to contain the spread of Covid 19. They said while Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had stated that the lockdown would not be extended, it has been enforced in his home district. They claimed sealing of the wards was causing inconvenience to residents of the area. People are unable to celebrate festivals which are around the corner, the seal down must be withdrawn, they urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seven-wards-sealed-in-karnatakas-shivamogga-residents-oppose-864649.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||5 more Covid-19 fatalities, 162 new cases in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada district recorded five more Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll of virus-related deaths to 92. Among the other fatalities was a 70-year-old man from Puttur with cardiac ailment, diabetes and chronic hepatitis-B. He was admitted to a private hospital on July 8 and failed to respond to the treatment and died on July 21. He too tested positive for the virus. A 75-year-old woman from Mangaluru, a 54-year-old man from Davangere and a 60-year-old from Mangaluru were the others who succumbed to the virus. The 75-year-old woman from Mangaluru with acute coronary syndrome, anteroseptal myocardial infarction, acute kidney failure, type II diabetes mellitus, chronic hepatitis-B in addition to Covid-19, was admitted to a private hospital on July 19 and died on July 21. The 54-year-old man from Davangere suffering from cardiac arrest, acute kidney injury, and acute respiratory distress was admitted to a private hospital on June 14 and died on July 21. In another case, a 60-year-old woman from Mangaluru suffering from Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), septic shock and bacterial infection admitted to a private hospital on July 19, died on July 20. 162 new cases The district recorded 162 fresh cases including two police personnel from Puttur town police station on Wednesday. The DC said that of the fresh cases, 70 persons were suffering from symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 18 with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Further, 13 persons who were tested positive are the primary contacts of already infected persons. The contact tracing of 60 infected is underway, while one with international travel history has been tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/5-more-covid-19-fatalities-162-new-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-864677.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Locals oppose burial of Kannada writer's body||A group of villagers on Thursday opposed the burial of the body of a Kannada woman writer, who died of Covid-19, on the outskirts of the town. The writer had succumbed to novel coronavirus at the designated Covid hospital in Haveri on Wednesday. The taluk administration had made arrangements for the funeral of the 68-year-old writer at a government land off Madleri Road on the outskirts. As soon as the locals got the news that a Covid body was to be buried at the government site near Forest IB, hundreds of people gathered and opposed the funeral saying that they would not allow the burial/cremation of a Covid body in the designated area as it was close to the residential areas. After MLA Arunkumar Pujar intervened, the mortal remains of the writer were eventually laid to rest at the Veerashaiva burial ground off Devaragudda Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-locals-oppose-burial-of-kannada-writers-body-864801.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||One-day-old elephant calf rescued||An elephant calf that had fallen into a trench was rescued and reunited with its mother by Forest department personnel. The calf was only a day old. A cow elephant had given birth to the calf in the plantation belonging to one Titira Vasu in Taila village, near Kutta. But, the calf got stuck in a trench. Unable to take the calf out of the trench, the mother elephant went away with the herd to the forest. Forest department personnel from Srimangala rescued the calf by pulling it out of the trench. The forest department team tracked the mother elephant which, along with the herd, was in Brahmagiri wildlife zone, three km away from the plantation. They reunited the calf with the mother. Before the reunion, the elephant calf was subjected to medical examination. Srimangala Range Forest Officer Veerendra said that the calf was healthy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-day-old-elephant-calf-rescued-864804.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: KSRTC to rope in recovered employees to boost morale of work force||In a heartwarming gesture, the KSRTC has come up with a novel way of reinforcing confidence in its employees by roping in those, who have recovered from Covid-19, to counsel their colleagues.    The KSRTC officials have been trying to keep their staff motivated as the total number of employees infected with the virus touched 250. Officials noted that 137 of them have already been discharged and the very news of their recovery comes as positive to others. “We have 113 employees in isolation. The depot mangers/divisional controllers and divisional labour welfare officers keep in touch with employees in Covid Care Centres (CCC) as well as their families on a daily basis,” a senior official in KSRTC said. The KSRTC drivers and conductors have been working even during the lockdown period to ferry labourers to their natives. Those who got discharged will not be disturbed for some days, even after their quarantine ends . “We want them to feel comfortable. When they return to work, they will lead a team in each division. They will share their experiences to bring awareness among employees and instil confidence among them in fighting Covid-19,” the official said. The KSRTC, with a fleet of 8,500 buses, is not running even a quarter of the regular services due to the low ridership. “We are calling employees on need basis and to keep the operations at optimum level to meet the demand,” officials said. On Wednesday, V Basavaraju, divisional controller, Chikkaballapur, visited the CCC at Morarji Desai residential school hostel at Mastenahalli in Chintamani taluk to greet the 12 discharged employees. The KSRTC had arranged a bus to ferry the discharged employees to their respective hometowns as the CCC was 12 km from the Chintamani depot. “That’s a gesture we have shown to all our employees getting discharged from CCC,” the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-ksrtc-to-rope-in-recovered-employees-to-boost-morale-of-work-force-864807.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||50 more contract coronavirus in Mandya, one succumbs||The district reported 50 cases on Thursday and the total positive cases has increased to 1,010. The rise in cases is attributed to the people coming from other districts and most of their source of contact is not known. Others are primary contacts of the infected persons. A 60-year-old man died on Thursday. With this, the total deaths has increased to 12. He was suffering from breathing problems, diabetes and blood pressure. Out of 50 cases, 13 are from Mandya taluk, 10 from Srirangapatna, seven from Malavalli, 11 from Maddur, two from Nagamangala, six from Pandavapura, and one from KR Pet taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/50-more-contract-coronavirus-in-mandya-one-succumbs-864811.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Villagers refuse to allow final rites, body taken back to Bengaluru||The residents of Hanchipura in Nanjangud taluk did not allow to perform the final rites of an 81-year-old man and sent back his body to Bengaluru, on Wednesday night. Bengaluru-based Shilpa Jatti owns a farm between Hosavidu and Hanchipura villages in the taluk. Her father Jagadish died and the family brought the body in an ambulance to the farm to perform final rites on Wednesday. But, the villagers, who suspected it to be a Covid-19 death, stopped the family from performing the finals rites. Despite intervention of the local police, the villagers did not allow the family to conduct the cremation. With no other option, the family members shifted the body back to Bengaluru. Panic gripped for a while, as there were heated arguments between the family members and the villagers. The villagers attacked a few vehicles and also assaulted Police Head Constable Manohar. Hulahalli Police filed a case against 15 members and took six persons into custody. Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth and DySP Prabhakar Rao Shinde visited the village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/villagers-refuse-to-allow-final-rites-body-taken-back-to-bengaluru-864814.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Swab collection centre set up at KR Assembly constituency||“We aim to bring down Covid-19 death rate to zero in Krishnaraja Assembly constituency in a week,” said MLA S A Ramadas. The MLA was speaking after inaugurating a throat swab collection centre to test for Covid-19 at Makkala Koota in Krishnamurthypuram, here. He said that the centre was opened as a few people who hesitate to visit hospitals. The test reports will be sent to the doorsteps of the citizens, he said. The death rate of Covid-19 has increased in the city and the victims can recover if the infection is detected at an early stage. Ramadas said there are 115 containment zones in KR segment and another round of sanitisation work will be taken up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/swab-collection-centre-set-up-at-kr-assembly-constituency-864816.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Purchase disinfectant equipment for gram panchayat, suggests MLA||Srirangapatna MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah opined that the district administration should monitor the employees from Srirangapatna, working at J K Tyres factory in Mysuru, where several employees have tested positive for Covid-19. Speaking at the meeting, here, on Thursday, he said, more than 50 workers of J K Tyres have tested positive for Covid-19, which has created anxiety. Several from Srirangapatna assembly constituency also work at the factory, and all have been quarantined. They should be monitored to ensure that the virus does not spread. All villages in the taluk should be disinfected and each gram panchayat should purchase disinfectant equipment, as the coronavirus is expected to peak in the coming months, he said. Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer Ganganna said, steps should be taken that the villages are disinfected on Sundays and Thursdays so that it is possible to stop the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/purchase-disinfectant-equipment-for-gram-panchayat-suggests-mla-864819.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 suspect ends life; tests negative posthumously||A 55-year-old man, who feared that he had contracted coronavirus, ended his life by hanging, even before the results had come, on Wednesday night, at the designated Covid-19 hospital in Mandya. However, the results of his swab samples that came on Thursday were negative. The person, of Kandegala village, Malavalli taluk, was suffering from renal ailments and was under treatment. As he had high fever, he was admitted to a separate ward and his throat swab sample was collected. Fearing that he had contracted Covid-19, the man hanged himself to the window grill, in the bathroom, on Wednesay midnight. The incident came to light, when the other patients found him hanging in the toilet. District Health Officer H P Manchegowda said, as he showed the symptoms of covid, we had admitted him to a separate ward. Upset over this, he took the extreme step. However, the results that have come on Thursday confirmed that he was negative. The last rites were performed as per the protocol, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-suspect-ends-life-tests-negative-posthumously-864820.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||DPS secures cent percent results||Students of Delhi Public School, Mysuru, have achieved cent per cent results in CBSE Class 10 Board results, with more than 50% of the students securing distinction marks. Jessica, 97%, Safa, 95.2%, Aditi, 94.8%, S Manasi, 93.4%, Alisha, 93.4%, and Srujan, 90.4%, are the toppers of the school. Many students of DPS have achieved centum in Social Science and Foundation of IT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dps-secures-cent-percent-results-864822.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Here, cattle shed is used for conducting post-mortem||It has become inevitable for the doctors to conduct postmortems at the cattle shed, as the mortuary of the healthcare centre in Javagal hobli, Hassan district, is in a dilapidated condition. There are around 80 villages in the Javagal hobli, and the primary healthcare centre is the only hospital here. Earlier, the post-mortems were conducted at the mortuary on Thimmanahalli Road. Now, the building has been abandoned due to lack of facilities, since several years. It is in a very pathetic state covered with bushes. Now, the doctors conduct post-mortem in the cattle shed, with a screen as a partition. An employee of the hospital explained that those who can afford, get the post-mortem done at the hospitals in Arsikere and Hassan. But, the procedure and transportation of the body to the village, costs around Rs 15,000. Hence, the poor get the postmortem of their kin, who die in accidents and other issues here. Dr Kishore Kumar explained helplessness over the issue, saying it has been brought to the notice of the elected representatives several times. But, no step has been taken, he said. The villagers claim that a mortuary be constructed near the hospital, as there is enough space on the premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/here-cattle-shed-is-used-for-conducting-post-mortem-864823.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Students of Jnanodaya PU College excel||The students of Jnanodaya PU College, Saraswathipuram in the city, have excelled in PU exams, with 93% results. While 39 students have passed with distinction marks, 89 have secured first class marks and 19 have got second class marks. The students, who have secured above 95% are: M B Udaya Ravi (97.3%), K S Deepa Lakshmi (96.7%), Rachana D Kashyap (96.5%), R Rakshitha (96.5%), Aryan Nidhi Shivam (95.8%), S Pavananandana (95.7%) and M N Abhishek (95.5%)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/students-of-jnanodaya-pu-college-excel-864824.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Teachers visit houses, educate children, parents on Covid-19||As schools are yet to reopen due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a few teachers of the taluk are visiting the houses of their students and conducting classes for them. Teachers of Nitturu and Kempaiahanadoddi villages have been making door-to-door visits, to educate the children, as well as their parents on coronavirus and how to stay safe from the pandemic. There are 47 students in Kempaiahanadoddi school, from 1st to 7th standard. Teachers Sundrappa, P Pavithra and T Veena of Kempaiahanadoddi, and Nagaraju and Pavithra of Nitturu school have volunteered to visit the houses to ensure that the children keep in touch with the lessons. At the same time, they explain about precautions to be taken during the Covid-19 crisis. They visit the villages and explain to the people, gathering near hotels and other places, on how to protect themselves from coronavirus. Later, they gather around seven to eight students and conduct classes, after ensuring that they wear masks and use sanitisers. Sundrappa said, “Initially, we used to go to the school and sit idle. As we understood that the delay in resuming, the school would make the children forget the lessons, we decided to visit their houses and conduct classes, by maintaining social distance.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/teachers-visit-houses-educate-children-parents-on-covid-19-864825.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government speaks new language for college electives of few takers||Students getting admitted to government degree colleges may have to study certain languages on their own if the student strength is not more than five.   As per the circular issued by the Department of Collegiate Education, if the number of students enrolled in Language subjects is not more than five, the department will not provide faculty and such students have to do self-study and face the exams.  This is the instruction given to principals of government degree colleges during the ongoing admissions for undergraduate courses for the 2020-21 academic year.   A senior official from the department said, "We have issued these instructions as it has become a big problem every year. The number of students choosing some languages in degree courses is very less, sometimes it is just one or two students. Hiring or providing a faculty for one or two students is a burden on the department."  "We have instructed students during the admission itself that they have to self-study for such subjects, if the enrolment fails to cross five candidates," the official said. The department even directed principals of colleges not to admit less that 15 students for any existing degree course, including BA, BSc, BBM and BCA. The circular reads: "As per the government order for the existing courses in first year BA, BSc, BBM and BCA combinations, there should not be less than 15 admissions. In case it is less than 15, then no new section or combination should be opened. Instead, students should be accommodated in the available course combinations." Optional Kannada However, following decreasing demand for course combinations that includes Optional Kannada, the department has fixed the minimum number of students to 5. In case the number of students is less than 5, such a course combination will not be entertained. "If the number of admissions is less, it is difficult to distribute workload for faculties. The colleges cannot show workload to faculties, if the number of students is less than 5 in languages, and less than 15 in elective subjects in final year courses," the official said. In case any college allows less than 15 students to choose elective subjects for final year, the principals of the respective colleges will be held responsible, states the circular. According to the circular, some of the course combinations including Journalism and Criminology are losing their charm. Following single digit admissions during the 2019-20 academic year, the department has fixed minimum admissions as 15 for course combinations which includes subjects like Journalism, Criminology, Home Science, Women's Studies, Geology, Music, Electronics and Statistics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-speaks-new-language-for-college-electives-of-few-takers-864828.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Injured male tiger draws attention||A male tiger with deep injuries on its face has been spotted at Kakanakote Wildlife Safari under the Nagarahole National Park limits in the taluk. The photo of the tiger was captured by a wildlife photographer a few days ago. It might have injured during a territorial fight, said Siddaraju, Antharasanthe range forest officer. According to the officials, the tiger is being monitored and its movements are observed via camera trapping. The personnel are ensuring that the injury gets healed. It has been discussed with veterinarians, who have opined that there was no need for any external treatment and it will heal by itself. Deputy Conservator of Forest Mahesh Kumar said that such fights between wild animals are common. The wild animals get cured by themselves. Only if the injury is serious and needs extra care, we take suitable measures for treatment. The tigers having a territorial fight with another tiger, leopard or bear is common. The injuries of the said tiger has healed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/injured-male-tiger-draws-attention-864829.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Invoke KPID Act in Raghavendra Co-operative Bank: Karnataka HC||The High Court has directed the government to invoke the provisions of the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act (KPID) in the Sri Guru Raghavendra Co-operative Bank Ltd case. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka observed that the government did not invoke the provisions in spite of the recommendation by the Registrar of Societies. "Unfortunately, the state has not invoked the provisions of the KPID Act. There was a proposal submitted by the registrar of societies on June 30, 2020 in this regard. In fact, it is not necessary for the state to wait for the recommendation of the registrar of co-operative societies. If the state is satisfied, it must act immediately and the action on attachment will have to be taken immediately. We direct the state to take immediate action on this behalf,’’ the bench said. Meanwhile, the government informed that between June 30 and July 21, amounts have been returned to 1,849 investors. With this, amounts of 14,950 investors have been returned so far. The state also submitted that as part of the recovery of the outstanding loan amount, a sum of Rs 2.9 crore has been recovered in cash and a sum of Rs 3.62 crore in the form of post-dated cheques received between June 30 and July 21. The court directed the administrator of the bank to act in accordance with law if any of the post-dated cheques are dishonoured. The division bench also directed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Criminal Investigation Department (CID) to submit an investigation report by the next date of hearing. The CID and other departments concerned have been directed to furnish all documents to the ED officials. In an Interlocutory Application filed, the bench directed the state to ensure that the auditing, especially the forensic auditing, is taken up expeditiously and reports are furnished at the earliest. The bench said a clear picture of the financial condition of the bank will only emerge once the audit is completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/invoke-kpid-act-in-raghavendra-co-operative-bank-karnataka-hc-864830.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi man collapses, dies after Covid-19 positive news||A 55-year-old autorickshaw driver collapsed and died at his house on Thursday after a health worker called him to inform that he's contracted Covid-19. The deceased has been identified as Ashok Pujari, a resident of Bhavani Nagar in the city. As fate would have it, the post-mortem nasopharyngeal swab returned negative for the Covid-19. Pujari and his family members subjected themselves to the Covid tests on July 8 after his son-in-law tested positive for the virus. Fearing infection, man ends life Fearing infection, a man, aged 55, from Kandegala village in Malavalli taluk, Mandya district, ended his life by hanging himself from the window grill of the designated Covid hospital in Mandya late on Wednesday night, reports DHNS from Mandya. Hours later, his throat swab sample returned negative for the virus. He was undergoing treatment for kidney problem at the district hospital. After he developed high fever, his throat swab sample was collected and sent for testing. Fearing that he'd contracted the Covid-19, he took the extreme step. Though his specimen returned negative, the last rites were performed as per the protocol, DHO H P Manchegowda told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-man-collapses-dies-after-covid-19-positive-news-864832.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Glitch hampers biometric authentication for PDS||A technical glitch in the biometric authentication for the public distribution system (PDS), popularly called fair price shops, forced people to wait in a long queue for hours in Belthangady on Tuesday. The villagers of Laila were asked to submit their thumb impression at the Vyavasayothpanna Marata Sahakara Sangha at Belthangady. However, due to the glitch, they had to wait in a queue for hours. By the time they gave their thumb impression, the lockdown relaxation time had ended. Owing to a problem at the Kuvettu ration shop, the ration cardholders were asked to give their thumb impression at Guruvayanakere. As a large number of people had gathered without maintaining social distance, anxiety prevailed in the area for some time. Taluk food inspector Vishwa K said there was a server problem across the state. The lockdown had further aggravated the problem, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/glitch-hampers-biometric-authentication-for-pds-864847.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Builder engages sleeper bus to bring workers from West Bengal||A sleeper bus engaged by Marian Projects Private Limited (MPPL) to bring back 35 migrant labourers from Malda district in West Bengal, is likely to reach Mangaluru on July 28. The bus, which left Mangaluru on July 18 will be covering a whopping 5,100 km, and the expenses incurred in bringing back the labourers is likely to exceed Rs two lakh, informs MPPL managing director Naveen Cardoza. During the lockdown, the migrant labourers had returned to their villages in Malda district which is located north of Kolkota and close to Bangladesh border. Recently Naveen had five expert masons flown from Kolkota to Bengaluru. All their Air fares and travel expenditure were borne by Naveen, who is also chairman of CREDAI, Mangaluru. Due to acute shortage of labourers, Naveen was planning to book air tickets for 35 labourers. “As the distance between Kolkota Airport and Malda district was more than 370 km, I decided to engage a sleeper bus,” he said and added that the distance between Mangaluru and Malda district was about 2,550 km. Naveen said in order to keep his promise to buyers and promoters, he was doing everything possible to resume work, on his building projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/builder-engages-sleeper-bus-to-bring-workers-from-west-bengal-864848.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Udupi reports 160 new coronavirus positive cases||160 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in Udupi district on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,846. As many as 994 Coronavirus patients are being treated in different hospitals. So far, 1,841 patients had been discharged from the hospital after complete recovery, and 12 patients had died from Covid-19 in the district. The 160 Covid-19 patients include 14 children. 653 throat swab samples are pending for results, 622 samples were sent for testing on Thursday. On July 23, 135 samples were tested negative. So far, a total of 22,871 swab samples out of the 26,370 have tested negative for the Coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-reports-160-new-coronavirus-positive-cases-864850.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Adopting Upadhyaya's research methodologies best homage to him'||Adopting research methodology of multi-linguist U P Upadhyaya, found in many of his books, could be the best form of homage to him, emphasised Prof Varadesh Hiregange serving as director of Gandhian Centre for Philosophical Arts and Sciences. Prof Varadesh was addressing gathering at a condolence meeting organised here recently by the Rashtrakavi Govinda Pai Samshodhana Kendra and Regional Resources Centre (RRC) for Folk Performing Arts of MAHE, Manipal at RRC. Prof Varadesh, tracing Upadhyaya’s contributions to Govinda Pai Research Centre and Tulu Lexicon, said Dr Upadhyaya was a scholar par excellence in Tulu folk literature and culture. His research methodology is a model for other writers. Writer Padekallu Vishnu Bhat traced various stages of the publication of the Tulu Lexicon in six volumes authored by Upadhyaya as chief editor. Multi-lingual N T Bhat highlighted that Tulu Lexicon under the leadership of Upadhyaya was unique as it was based purely on field study of Tulu language. His contributions to the welfare of the society in the form of teaching the Siddhi Samadhi Yoga to the common folk shows his holistic dedication and selfless love for all the causes, whether academic or social. Former president of Karnataka Yakshagana Academy Prof M L Samaga remembered Upadhyaya’s love for all cultural programmes organised in and around Udupi. His simplicity and zest for life, even in his old age is worth emulating. The staff members of Rashtrakavi Govinda Pai Research Centre and Regional Resources Centre for Folk Performing Arts also participated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/adopting-upadhyayas-research-methodologies-best-homage-to-him-864853.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah alleges corruption charge against Karnataka government over cost of ventilators, PPE kits||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah released documents Thursday to support his claims of corruption in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment and supplies, refuting the BJP government’s defence that no irregularities have occurred during the pandemic. His documents suggest that Karnataka procured equipment at prices way higher than the market rates. Earlier this week, Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan and Health Minister B Sriramulu had strongly denied Siddaramaiah’s corruption charges. They said the Health Department spent Rs 290 crore and the Medical Education Department Rs 33 crore for procurement, with Sriramulu offering to resign if the charges were proved. “According to me, based on the information and documents I have, the total expenditure of the government is Rs 4,167 crore. Of this, I’m saying at least Rs 2,000 crore has been pocketed by ministers and officials,” Siddaramaiah told a news conference. Apparently, Karnataka procured ventilators by paying Rs 5.60 lakh, Rs 12.32 lakh and Rs 18.20 lakh per unit. “The Centre procured 50,000 ventilators at Rs 4 lakh per unit. Tamil Nadu procured 100 ventilators at Rs 4.78 lakh a piece. Why did Karnataka buy ventilators at such exorbitant rates,” Siddaramaiah asked, flashing statistics he said he received from Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar. “Doesn’t this stink of corruption?” The government procured Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits at Rs 2,117 whereas their market price was just Rs 330, Siddaramaiah said. “From one Maharashtra company, they purchased 3.5 lakh PPE kits. Of this, 1.25 lakh were withdrawn due to poor quality. For the rest, they’ve paid Rs 2,117,” he said, adding that the director of the Ballari Institute of Medical Sciences procured PPE kits at Rs 1,200. “Also, for all the Make In India talk, the CM himself approved importing 3 lakh PPE kits from China at a cost of Rs 94.2 crore, some of which were unfit for use,” he said.” Karnataka overpaid for masks as well, according to the former chief minister. “We have information that they’ve procured 10 lakh masks. One N-95 mask will cost about Rs 100 in the market. But they’ve bought them for Rs 126-150,” he said. Likewise, thermal scanners costing Rs 1,500-2,000 in the market were procured for Rs 5,945; sanitizer that costs Rs 80-100 for 500 ml was bought for Rs 250 by the health department and Rs 600 by the social welfare department. “The government has taken 300 oxymetres at Rs 13.10 crore. They’ve paid Rs 4.36 lakh for one. But Kerala paid Rs 2.86 lakh. When I enquired, the secretary told me that demand was more and supply was less, so they had to purchase whatever was available. How is it that Kerala got it at that rate?” Siddaramaiah asked. Apparently, the health department alone has shown expenditure that is 217% more than the funds that were released. “The outlay for the department is Rs 10,032 crore of which Rs 1,527 crore have been released. The expenditure up to April is Rs 1,554 crore and May is Rs 1,768 crore, totalling to Rs 3,322 crore,” the Congress leader said. “I strongly demand, on behalf of the people of Karnataka, a judicial inquiry by a sitting High Court judge,” Siddaramaiah said. “The Congress will continue to cooperate with the government in saving people’s lives. We will not cooperate with corruption and looting of money,” he said. Siddaramaiah also lashed out at Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa for “lying” during his address to the state. “While denying irregularities, he said any information required will be provided within 24 hours. I’ve written 20 letters over the last month for which I haven’t received any response,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-alleges-corruption-charge-against-karnataka-government-over-cost-of-ventilators-ppe-kits-864635.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Adagur Vishwanath is finally a happy man||Always angry, discontent and sarcastic, Adagur H Vishwanath is finally a happy man. The septuagenarian former minister and former MP, who has won six elections and lost seven of them, has become a people’s representative, without being elected by the people, for the first time. On Wednesday (July 22), he was nominated as a member of the Karnataka Legislative Council, the Upper House, along with four others. Vishwanath is believed to have played a major role in pulling down the JD(S)-Congress coalition government on July 22, 2019. Coincidentally, on its first anniversary, Vishwanath was nominated. As he is also a literary person, who has penned a few books, he found a place in the Upper House as a writer. 4 decades in Congress His political journey, which started as a youth leader under then chief minister D Devaraja Urs, has been interesting, as he abandoned Congress, which he served for over four decades, in 2017. On July 4, 2017, he joined the JD(S) and became its state president on August 5, 2018. Then he resigned from the president’s post on June 4, 2019, and then as MLA on July 6, 2019. Then, he joined the BJP on November 14, 2019, and sought re-election as BJP candidate on December 5, 2019. Vishwanath, a prominent Kuruba leader, was elected as KR Nagar MLA for the first time in 1978. Among ten Assembly polls that he contested, he won four. He won in 1978, 1989, and 1999 from KR Nagar constituency, while he lost in 1983, 1985, 1994, 2004, and 2008. Later, he shifted to Mysuru-Kodagu Lok Sabha constituency, which he won in 2009 and lost in 2014. In 2018, he won from Hunsur, but was defeated in 2019. Disqualification When Vishwanath resigned as Hunsur MLA on July 6, 2019, along with 14 other MLAs, then Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar disqualified all of them, on July 28, 2019. The MLAs appealed against their disqualification before the Supreme Court, which upheld their disqualification on November 13, 2019. But, the court allowed them to contest the bypolls on December 5, 2019. Vishwanath was Minister for Kannada and Culture in 1989 and Education Minister in 1999. He was a vehement critic of former prime minister H D Deve Gowda and his sons H D Revanna and H D Kumaraswamy till he was in Congress. He started criticising Siddaramaiah, since he hinted at abandoning Congress. He left the Congress, citing disrespect by Siddaramaiah. Sa Ra Mahesh, who had defeated Vishwanath twice — in 2008 and 2013 — engineered his entry into JD(S). After Kumaraswamy became chief minister and Mahesh shot to prominence, Vishwanath had differences with Mahesh. Their public spat continued till recently. New equations in BJP Despite his defeat in the by-election to Hunsur Assembly constituency, Vishwanath has been nominated as MLC. Now, he is hopeful of becoming minister and made in-charge of Mysuru district. Thus, various factions, party leaders and workers in the BJP are exploring new combinations and equations. However, there are no immediate effects, as present in-charge minister S T Somasekhar is very close to Vishwanath. Former minister S A Ramadass, who was expecting a ministerial berth, as Mysuru region is largely unrepresented in the Cabinet, is his usual, just concentrating on his constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/adagur-vishwanath-is-finally-a-happy-man-864813.html
23-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Government has failed to contain Covid-19 pandemic: Congress||The government and the district administration have completely failed in containing coronavirus crisis, alleged District Congress Committee (DCC) President Harish Kumar on Thursday. After participating in a protest near Covid-designated Wenlock hospital, Kumar said as many as eight people were entrusted with the management of Covid 19 crisis. A lack of coordination among these officials has exposed the government’s failure, he claimed. Poor people who come to the Wenlock hospital are sent back on the pretext of lack of beds. They cannot avail treatment at private hospitals as they cannot pay hefty bills. The deputy commissioner has disregarded our suggestions submitted as an opposition party, he said. “Though this is not the time to stage protests, the opposition has the responsibility of highlighting the government’s failures. After Bengaluru, Dakshina Kannada stands second in the high infection rates. There is no denying that the Congress has helped the poor more than the government,” he said. Meanwhile, MLA U T Khader said the district administration should clear doubts of the efficacy of tests in the minds of people. The district administration also should upload details of the number of beds available for Covid patients at medical colleges, he said and regretted that dignified funerals were not conducted for those who die of Covid-19. Earlier, Congress leaders staging a protest near the Wenlock hospital said the district administration has failed to contain the high infection rate. The administration has not taken any action against private hospitals that denied treatment to poor patients. Such wrong decisions resulted in the death of more than 60 patients, MLA U T Khader alleged. The leaders also urged the district administration to make public the expenses incurred in treating the Covid-19 positive patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/government-has-failed-to-contain-covid-19-pandemic-congress-864852.html
23-07-2020||Main Article||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s false binary||Ashok Gehlot, the embattled Chief Minister of Rajasthan, speaking of his young, urbane and handsome Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, whom he dismissed for rebellion, said, “speaking good English, giving good bytes and being handsome isn’t everything. What is inside your heart for the country, your ideology, policies, and commitment, everything is considered." By that did he mean, that he, Gehlot, was himself not handsome, articulate or media savvy and that it’s not a handicap in Indian politics if you have other attributes? Did he mean he is against boarding school education, that he is not enamoured of foreign degrees from Ivy League universities (remember Modi’s jibe against P Chidambaram – “I’m not Harvard (educated). I’m hardworking”)? Or that he can’t be fooled by glib English because he himself lacks it? Was it just a sneering off-the-cuff remark because he felt insulted by Pilot, whom he considers a shallow upstart? Or was he trying to convey that the young, foreign-educated and suave, who enter politics cannot lay claim to people’s mandate by those attributes alone and they are divorced from the harsh realities of India? Maybe he meant all of those. Gehlot may not be wrong, but the presumptuous ‘young brigade’, even if incapable of winning or weaning away the required number of legislators to form a government on their own and make the old guard irrelevant, are eminently capable of toppling a government and wrecking the party that nurtured them. Jyotiraditya Scindia demonstrated that in Madhya Pradesh. Not smart and astute enough to manoeuvre themselves to the throne by winning over enough legislators, but reckless enough to precipitate a crisis that may capsize the boat. Even if it means swimming ashore to the enemy’s den. While there is much to be said for both sides – the urbane and debonair versus the rustic and homespun politician, one excelling in English with convent education, and the other with command over the native language, they are not virtues in themselves and are not enough to win over the inscrutable Indian voter. There are other attributes and accomplishments -- tangible and intangible -- that maketh a man.  This ‘desi’ versus ‘phoren’ goes back to the days of our freedom struggle. Mahatma Gandhi returned from London a refined and suited barrister. When he returned to India from South Africa after 20 years of struggle there against racial injustice and plunged head-long into the freedom struggle, he flung his attire and metamorphosed into a native Indian. Not even one in elegant Indian clothing but a traditional dhoti worn in a style that made him indistinguishable from the masses and which prompted Churchill’s description of him as a ‘half-naked fakir’. And many sophisticated foreign-educated Indians who joined him in the freedom struggle abandoned their European-style clothes and Western habits -- Sardar Patel, Abbas Tyabji, Jawaharlal Nehru, to name a few. Nehru, the preeminent among them, even in his Indian clothing stood out among them for his elegance, elan and dapper looks. He was erudite, known for his oratory in English, smoked, drank wine, and women found him charming -- attributes anathema to ‘desi’ politicians. But he and all of the others in the freedom struggle were of towering stature. They commanded huge following among the masses during the freedom movement and enjoyed the trust and mandate of the people after Independence, winning them over not just by their language, looks or civilised manners but by their ideals, work, integrity and character. Indira Gandhi -- demure, elegant, charming, graceful, sophisticated when she wanted to be, yet ‘iron lady’ when she had to be – educated and groomed by her father, in European schools and at Tagore’s Shantiniketan, who spoke fluent French and English, was yet steeped in Indian culture and the arts and crafts. And she outsmarted and ruthlessly ousted the rustic ‘old guard’ who made the mistake of taking her to be a “goongi Gudiya” that they could control. Does she not give the lie to Gehlot’s binary view of ‘young, English-speaking and handsome’ vs ‘desi, ideological and committed’ in politics? Indira was to the manor born but had her finger on the pulse of the people and the masses worshipped her. Gehlot cannot dismiss offhand the ‘young, English-speaking and handsome’; even worse to use his rustic tongue to call Pilot “nikamma aur nakara” (idle and worthless), having come to power at least partly due to the younger man’s hard work. The ‘old guard’ versus the ‘young’, the villager versus the city slick, the ill-bred juxtaposed against the well-bred has continued into recent times. We have had the hilarious, inimitable Lalu Yadav with his irresistible rustic charm, Mayawati, the Yadavs -- father and son (one old-school, the other smart and educated), the Paswans, Nitish Kumar and Sharad Yadav, and our own starkly contrasting politicians in Karnataka – Deve Gowda, the late Ramakrishna Hegde, and SM Krishna. They all ruled the roost for a while, rose high and fell hard. Here are some hard truths. The Indian people have voted in both the old and the young, the educated and the uneducated, the rural and rustic and the urban and urbane, the handsome and the ugly, and the clown and the criminal to power. And they have also seen through the young and the old, and the urbane crook and the village hoodlum, and ruthlessly booted out all of them.  Better that Gehlot and Pilot see their own follies and kiss and make up. Otherwise, the throne will be out of reach for both of them, like in the Panchatantra fable where the dog barks at its own reflection and loses the bone to the wolf! The buck, in the end, of course, stops with Rahul Gandhi, or may be Sonia Gandhi, and the ominous hands of the coterie behind her, not to discount Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra. No one has a clue, and that’s the bane of Congress today. But this is the time for all of them to stick together and not fall prey to the lurking lions outside the Congress menagerie, who may make a good meal of them all.  (The writer is a farmer, soldier and aviation pioneer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/rajasthan-chief-minister-ashok-gehlot-s-false-binary-864428.html
23-07-2020||National||Flood forces pregnant Bihar woman to reach hospital in 'Jugaru' boat||Ruksana Praveen was accompanied by her mother and other villagers who steered the boat, dubbed as ‘Jugaru Nav’ by the locals, in chest-deep water. Circle Officer of the block Ajit Kumar said that the relative of the woman did not wait for the arrival of the boat that was arranged by the district administration.  Praveen’s mother, Kanija Khatoon, said, “As the flood water has reached our house, it was difficult to take my daughter to the hospital. As her health was deteriorating, we managed to build a makeshift boat to help her reach the hospital.” Due to heavy rains, several districts of Bihar are waterlogged. The India Meteorological Department predicted heavy rainfall in certain areas of Bihar on July 21-22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flood-forces-pregnant-bihar-woman-to-reach-hospital-in-jugaru-boat-864422.html
23-07-2020||National||ICMR sits on national sero-surveillance report even after Delhi reports high exposure of its population to Covid-19||For nearly two months the Indian Council of Medical Research has not disclosed the detailed results of a national-level survey that would showcase the extent of the people’s exposure to novel coronavirus-2019 in India. Following the release of a similar survey carried out by the Delhi government, health specialists and medical researchers asked the ICMR once again to come out in the open with the results of the first national-level serological survey. None, however, is willing to be quoted. The Delhi survey found 23% of the population was exposed to the virus. Considering Delhi has a population of nearly 20 million, it means the virus was present in 4.5 million Delhites. Actual case detection according to the Govt figures is just over 125,000. The results also demonstrate how the existing testing strategy has probably missed millions of patients in the national capital who got infected by the novel coronavirus 2019 and cured in the natural course of time. Even after considering the fact that blood sample-based antibody surveys always give higher numbers than any virus detection methods, the gap is too huge. Last month in a press conference ICMR director-general Dr Balram Bhargava said only 0.73% population in the districts surveyed had evidence of past exposure to SARS-CoV-2. This claim, however, was not accepted by medical researchers and doctors who noted many signs of community transmission across the country. There is a suspicion that big cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai were left out from that calculation. ICMR scientists in April were one of the first to pick up the evidence of community transmission from an early surveillance exercise carried out on 5,911 patients from 51 districts having SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) and ILI (influenza-like illness) between February 15 and April 2. The researchers found 104 Covid-19 positive cases. Out of those 104 cases, there were 40 positive individuals from 36 districts with no travel and contact history - a sure shot signature of community transmission. The names of the districts were not disclosed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-sits-on-national-sero-surveillance-report-even-after-delhi-reports-high-exposure-of-its-population-to-covid-19-864444.html
23-07-2020||National||All 11 ex-cops guilty of killing Bharatpur royal scion and his two colleagues given life term||All 11 former policemen from Rajasthan, convicted for killing Raja Man Singh of the erstwhile Bharatpur royal family and his two colleagues over 35 years ago in Deeg area of the state, were awarded life sentence by a court here on Wednesday. The convicts, who were sentenced to life term by Mathura District Judge Sadhna Rani Thakur, include former Deeg Dy SP Kan Singh, 82, and local police station in-charge, sub-inspector Virendra Singh, 78, who had led a police team in killing the Bharatpur royal scion and his two colleagues Sumer Singh and Hari Singh on February 21, 1985. The other policemen sentenced for the crime are ex-ASI Ravi Shekhar and former constables Sukh Ram, Jeevan Ram, Jag Mohan, Bhanwar Singh, Hari Singh, Chhatar Singh, Sher Singh, Daya Ram and Ravi Shekhar, all above 70 years of age. The encounter had taken place in Deeg grain market a day after Raja Man Singh, then contesting the state Vidhan Sabha election as an independent candidate, had allegedly banged his jeep into former Rajasthan's chief minister Shiv Charan Mathur’s helicopter. According to the prosecution, he was also accused of damaging some publicity material and a stage set up for Mathur to address an election rally in favour of the Congress candidate Brajendra Singh, a retired IAS officer, the prosecution had told the court. “Besides undergoing life imprisonment, all the eleven convicts will have to furnish a fine of Rs 10,000 each failing which they will have to undergo additional imprisonment of two months each,” District & Session Judge Thakur announced in a jam-packed courtroom. Besides being held guilty of murder, all 11 former policemen were also convicted for “committing riots armed with deadly weapons” and being part of the unlawful assembly committing an offence with common objective under sections 148 and 149 of the IPC respectively. For these two offences, all 11 convicts were sentenced to two years and six months respectively in jail and were imposed fines of Rs 2,000 each. All sentences would run concurrently, the court said. The court also ordered payment of Rs 30,000 to the next of kin of each of the deceased and Rs 2,000 to the four injured persons, Vijai Singh, Chandan Singh, Nawab Singh and Babu Lal, in the encounter. Out of 18 persons sent up for trial by the CBI, three policemen, Sita Ram, Neki Ram and Kuldeep, had died during its pendency and the case was abated against them. The three ex-policemen who were acquitted of charges of shielding their colleagues by creating false records are former inspector Kan Singh Shirvi of Bharatpur Crime Branch and head constables Hari Kishan and Govind Prasad. One former policeman, Mahendra Singh, was discharged in the case. Based on the allegations that Raja Man Singh had banged his Jonga jeep into the then Rajasthan CM’s helicopter in Deeg and also damaged an election rally stage, two FIRs had been lodged against him and his associates at Deeg police station, said CBI in a statement in New Delhi on late Wednesday evening. Accordingly, a police team, led by Dy SP Bhati proceeded to arrest them on February 21, 1985 and intercepted the Bharatapur scion and his associates at Deeg gain market, but Bhati, instead of arresting them, opened fire at them “without any reason and also ordered his men to fire at them”, said CBI spokesperson R K Gaur. "In this encounter, Raja Man Singh, Thakur Hari Singh and Thakur Sumer Singh were killed," he said. Days after the killings of the royal family chief and his two colleagues, the case was transferred by the then central government to the CBI on February 27, 1985. The CBI took over the case on March 1, 1985 and filed a charge sheet in the case on July 18, 1985, within five months of taking over it and completing the probe. It indicted a total of 18 policemen for their alleged roles in killings and shielding fellow cops by creating false evidence. The CBI had filed the charge sheet in the court of Jaipur’s special judicial magistrate, but in January 1988, a court of Additional Sessions Judge was created there for the early disposal of the case. The trial was later shifted from a Jaipur special court to Mathura in Uttar Pradesh by the Supreme Court in November 1989 on the plea of complainant Vijay Singh, a son-in-law of the slain chief of the erstwhile riyasat. The trial in the case eventually began in Mathura in January 1990 and the court framed charges in the case on April 30, 1990, against 16 persons, discharging one of the accused while a second one had already died by then. Two more accused also died in October, 2011 and December, 2006 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-11-ex-cops-guilty-of-killing-bharatpur-royal-scion-and-his-two-colleagues-given-life-term-864452.html
23-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 23||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 12 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 12,74,826 as of July 23 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 30,413 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged:  7,82,606 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-23-864455.html
23-07-2020||National||Adar Poonawalla says Serum Institute's Covid-19 vaccine will be available for less than Rs 1,000||It is important to ensure that the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine (Covishield in India) reaches the most vulnerable and remotest corner of the country and this can be achieved by strengthening the healthcare infrastructure, revisiting the healthcare policies, fast tracking regulatory approvals while complying with necessary trials and tests, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla, said. In an interview with Anupama Ramakrishnan, Adar Poonawalla sheds light on the rest of the phases of the clinical trials, the affordability of the vaccine and the Serum Institute’s plans for their own vaccines. How much of hope have the early results of the Oxford vaccine trials brought to you and when do you think the vaccine will be available in India? The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is one of the only vaccines which has yielded positive results in the ongoing trials and has been cleared for the final phase. The vaccine is branded as Covishield. We are hopeful that it will be a well-treated and immunogenic vaccine, efficacious for mass use.  Once we get necessary regulatory approvals, we will start manufacturing in large volumes.  Based on the success of the trials we are expecting to launch it by the end of this year. I believe by the first quarter of the next year it will start reaching the masses. How many doses will the Serum Institute produce?   As per our deal with AstraZeneca, we will be making one billion doses over the next one year for India and other low-and-middle-income countries (GAVI countries). Following the success of the trials and licensure trials, we will manufacture about 60-70 million doses per month (which might stretch to 100 million doses later). With this, we are looking to manufacture around 300-400 million doses by the end of this year. Could you tell us what the cost of the Covishield vaccine would be? It is too early to comment on the pricing, however initially we would like to keep it under Rs 1000. How affordable will the vaccine be for the poor? We are certain that it will be affordable and hopefully will be procured and distributed by governments without charge. What are the logistical challenges in front of you? Our biggest challenge has been the timeline. Initially, due to lockdowns across various countries, there were a few logistical hindrances. However, all our facilities are equipped with state-of-the-art technology and equipment to meet the vaccine demand, domestically and globally. It is important to ensure that the vaccine reaches the most vulnerable and remotest corner of the country. We can achieve that by strengthening our healthcare infrastructure, revisiting our healthcare policies, fast tracking regulatory approvals while complying with necessary trials and tests. We must focus towards collaborative models of operation buoyed by research and development, and innovation to mass produce the vaccine and amplify its accessibility. How do you look at the rest of the phases of the clinical trials? What are the risks involved? We will begin with the Phase 3 clinical trials in India around August 2020. The Phase-I trials have been conducted in almost 1000 patients, but in other countries it is usually done on 40-60 patients. For the Phase-III trials, we plan to have around 4000-5000 people from India. There are several trial sites across both Mumbai and Pune, since these cities have several hotspots, which will help us understand the efficacy of the vaccine. The biggest risk involved would be the vaccine not clearing the trials, however, we are optimistic that it will yield positive results. As per the Lancet study results, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate is found to be safe and immunogenic. We have also worked with the Oxford team earlier on a malaria vaccine; they were also the first ones to develop a vaccine for the Ebola virus. A vaccine usually takes 12- 18 months to be in the marker; the very fact that we have a potential vaccine candidate in such a short period of time, is a big game changer for the entire healthcare fraternity. Are you also working on your own vaccine? Yes, we are working on two of our own vaccines. We seek to release them by the end of 2021. We are also conducting Phase-III trials of the recombinant BCG vaccine shots to improve the innate ability to fight the virus and reduce the severity of COVID-19 in India. This is an extremely safe vaccine since it is given to new-born babies and we have been selling this in more than 100 countries worldwide for many decades. Based on our trials, we will be certain on the efficacy and viability of the vaccine, post which we will initiate the mass production of the vaccine. In addition, the Codagenix vaccine candidate is in pre-trial phase and we are expecting it to progress soon. It may enter human trials towards the end of the year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adar-poonawalla-says-serum-institutes-covid-19-vaccine-will-be-available-for-less-than-rs-1000-864486.html
23-07-2020||National||Signs of farm 'revolution' in India as Covid-19 prompts change||For more than two decades, Indian farmer Ravindra Kajal cultivated rice the way his forefathers had - every June he flooded his fields with water before hiring an army of farmhands to plant paddy seedlings. But a scarcity of workers this year because of the coronavirus forced Kajal to change. He irrigated the field just enough to moisten the soil and leased a drilling machine to directly sow seeds on his nine-acre (3.6-hectare) plot. "Since I was more than comfortable with the tried-and-tested way of growing rice, I opted for the new method with some trepidation," said Kajal, 46, looking over his field, green with rice saplings, in the Raipur Jattan village in Haryana state. "But I've already saved around Rs 7,500 per acre because I hardly spent on water and workers this year," he said. India is the world's biggest exporter of rice and the world's second-biggest producer after China. Across the country's grain bowl states of Haryana and neighbouring Punjab, thousands of farmers like Kajal have been forced by the coronavirus to mechanise planting. They are still wary of the technology and overturning the time-honoured use of manual labour. But Kahan Singh Pannu, Punjab's agriculture secretary, is convinced a historic change is underway that could dramatically increase India's rice output, which in turn could impact world markets. "It is no less than a revolution in Indian agriculture," he told Reuters. Government officials say the so-called direct seeding of rice (DSR) method could increase yields by about one-third and slash costs on workers and water. The DSR machines allow farmers to grow more than 30 saplings per square metre against the usual 15 to 18 seedlings, said Naresh Gulati, a state government farm official in Punjab. Punjab is the home of the 1960s Green Revolution that led to a spike in crop yields. This year, farmers there have used seed drilling machines to sow rice on more than half a million hectares, a big increase compared with less than 50,000 hectares in 2019, growers and government officials said. Pannu expects DSR use to jump again next year. "More and more farmers are using the DSR technology which seems to be so promising that the entire 2.7 million hectares of Punjab's rice area could come under it next year, which will be a watershed for India's rice production," he said. Avinash Kishore, a research fellow at the Washington-based International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), said if this year's crop was good, DSR would be the way forward. "The scale of this year's shift to the DSR is a momentous change in rice cultivation in India," he said. Sudhanshu Singh, a senior agronomist at the International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines, said the shift to DSR was "one of the rare positive fallouts from Covid-19." No migrant labour None of the world's major rice exporting nations - India, Vietnam and Thailand - makes significant use of seeding machines. They have come into play in a big way in India this year because hundreds of thousands of migrant labourers from Bihar and Jharkhand states in the east did not arrive in the northern grain belt for the 2020 planting season due to the coronavirus lockdown. That pushed up the price of local workers and made it more economical for farmers to lease rice planting machines rather than pay for hired help, said Jaskaran Singh Mahal, a director at the Punjab Agricultural University. Farm wages have gone up by Rs 1,500 an acre to about Rs 4,500 this year, and growers need around half a dozen workers to transplant rice paddy on a one-acre plot. In comparison, farmers can hire planting machines for Rs 5,000 to 6,000 per acre, which can cover 25 to 30 acres in a day, rice growers said. "Other than helping us save on major overheads such as water and labour, DSR is swift, unlike the old method which was tedious and time-consuming," said Devinder Singh Gill, a farmer in Punjab's Moga district, well known for its aromatic basmati rice. The conventional method requires farmers to sow seeds in nurseries and then wait for 20 to 30 days before manually transplanting the seedlings into plantation fields that are ankle-deep in water. Seeding machines allow farmers to bypass the nursery stage and plant straight into fields. Water conservation is another key attribute of DSR, which is crucial in a mostly dry, monsoon dependent country like India. Under the conventional method, 3,000 to 5,000 litres of water is used in India to produce one kg of rice - the most water-thirsty crop - and DSR allows growers to cut water use by at least 50 percent to 60 percent, farmers and government officials said. The main challenge for farmers using direct seeding machines is managing weeds, which require the spraying of herbicides through the season. Still, even factoring in the extra costs of these applications, the overall cost of cultivation is substantially lower under DSR, said Kajal, the farmer in Haryana. Another drawback will be that if the method is adopted across the farm belt, there will be huge unemployment in the eastern states next year. But farmers say they will wait to see the harvest in October before deciding whether to stick with the technology next year. "The new technology leads to a lot of saving on account of water and labour, but the real test lies in productivity and farmers will not be fully convinced unless they see some rise in their yields," said Ashok Singh, a rice farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/signs-of-farm-revolution-in-india-as-covid-19-prompts-change-864491.html
23-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 12-lakh mark||With the highest-ever single-day spike of 45,720 cases, India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 12-lakh mark on Thursday, while the death toll mounted to 29,861 with a record 1,129 fatalities in a day, according to the Union Health Ministry data.   The country crossed the 12-lakh mark just three days after it crossed the 11-lakh milestone. The coronavirus caseload in the country surged to 12,38,635, while 7,82,606 people have recovered so far in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.   There are 4,26,167 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country. Thus 63.18 per cent people have recovered so far. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. Of the 1,129 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 518 are from Tamil Nadu, 280 from Maharashtra, 65 from Andhra Pradesh, 55 from Karnataka, 39 from West Bengal, 34 from Uttar Pradesh, 29 from Delhi, 28 from Gujarat, 14 from Madhya Pradesh and 10 from Jammu and Kashmir. Telangana and Jharkhand have reported nine fatalities each followed by Haryana with eight deaths, Assam, Punjab and Rajasthan six each, Odisha five, Goa and Uttarakhand two each while Kerala, Puducherry, Tripura and Chandigarh have registered a fatality each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-12-lakh-mark-864530.html
23-07-2020||National||Varavara Rao seeking bail under garb of pandemic, old age: NIA||His health condition was stable and he did not require treatment in a multispeciality hospital, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said in its affidavit on July 16, the day the 81-year-old poet and activist tested positive for coronavirus. Rao's application of bail on health grounds thus, was a mere "ruse" and he was "trying to take undue benefit under the garb of the current situation on account of the global pandemic and his old age," said the NIA, which is probing the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case. The NIA also said in its affidavit that otherwise, Rao won't be eligible for bail only on merits of the case. "The prison authorities have responded timely and provided necessary medical aid to the appellant accused Rao. The applicant accused was admitted to J J Hospital for the complaint of giddiness on May 28 and after medical treatment, he was discharged on June 1 as he was found asymptomatic and haemodynamically stable," it said. Rao's medical record and the report submitted by J J Hospital's superintendent did not suggest he was sufferfing from any such ailment which necessitated that he immediately obtain treatment in a multi-speciality hospital, the probe agency further said in its affidavit. On July 20, the Bombay High Court heard Rao's bail plea briefly. His lawyer Sudeep Pasbola told the court that Rao was "almost on his deathbed" and even the NIA could not dispute the fact that his health was very critical. "His condition is very serious. He hit his head against the hospital bed while he was at the J J hospital and sustained severe injuries. Besides Covid-19, he suffers from several ailments, he is hallucinating and is delirious," Pasbola said. "His days are numbered and if he is to die, at least let him die in the presence of his family members," the lawyer said while seeking that Rao be granted bail. However, NIA's counsel Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the court on July 20 that the state was "taking good care" of Rao and he had been admitted to one of the "best super speciality hospitals in the city". The NIA is supposed to inform the court on Thursday if Rao's family can be permitted to see him. Last month, the NIA filed an almost similar affidavit opposing the bail application of Rao's co-accused Sudha Bharadwaj, in the case. It said the bail application "pleading with regard to the medical condition of the petitioner is merely a ruse to obtain an order of interim relief which is not available to her otherwise on merits of the case". Rao and nine other activists have been arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, which was initially probed by the Pune Police and later transferred to the NIA in January this year. The case related to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial. The police have also claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/varavara-rao-seeking-bail-under-garb-of-pandemic-old-age-nia-864554.html
23-07-2020||National||Voice of dissent in a democracy cannot be shut down: SC to Rajasthan Speaker||“Voice of dissent in a democracy cannot be shut down”, the Supreme Court said on Thursday as it questioned Rajasthan Assembly Speaker CP Joshi on the reasons for initiating disqualification proceedings against 19 dissident Congress MLAs, including sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. The top court’s observation came when senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Joshi, listed the reasons for starting disqualification proceedings and said that these MLAs did not attend party meetings and conspired to destabilise their own government. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said: “This is not a simple matter and these MLAs are elected representatives”. “Voice of dissent in democracy cannot be shut down”, the bench observed. “We are trying to find out whether this process (disqualification) was permissible or not." Responding to a query of the bench, Sibal said, “These MLAs had gone to Haryana, stayed at a hotel and gave TV bites that they want floor test." He said the issue as to whether the disqualification process is permissible or not cannot be taken note of by the court at this stage. “Our grievance is purely constitutional and there cannot be any order till decision is taken by the speaker." Sibal said that at the most the Speaker can be asked to decide disqualification within a time frame but the process can't be interfered with and no writ can lie to challenge proceedings before Speaker prior to the decision on disqualification or suspension of MLAs. During the hearing, the bench asked Sibal whether a disqualification notice can be issued to MLAs for not attending the meetings and can it be taken as stand against the party. The bench’s observation came when Sibal said that there was a notice issued by the Chief Whip of the party to all MLAs to attend the meetings. At the outset, Joshi told the top court that the state high court has no jurisdiction to restrain him from conducting disqualification proceedings till July 24 against 19 dissident Congress MLAs, including sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Sibal referred to a famous top court verdict rendered in the 1992 Kihoto Hollohan case, in which it was held that courts can't intervene in disqualification proceedings undertaken by the Speaker under Tenth Schedule to the Constitution. He said courts could only intervene when the Speaker takes a decision to suspend or disqualify a member of the House. Sibal's response came when the bench asked him whether courts could not intervene at all if the Speaker suspended or disqualified a lawmaker. The hearing on the plea is underway. Joshi has challenged the Rajasthan High Court's July 21 order, which said the verdict on the petition filed by the 19 MLAs, challenging the disqualification notices, will be pronounced on July 24 and asked him to defer the disqualification proceedings till then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/voice-of-dissent-in-a-democracy-cannot-be-shut-down-sc-to-rajasthan-speaker-864585.html
23-07-2020||National||Vice president, PM Narendra Modi pay tributes to Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Azad on their birth anniversary||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to two icons of India's independence movement, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Chandrashekhar Azad, on their birth anniversary, saying people should resolve to strive hard to realise their dreams for the country. While Tilak was born in 1856, Azad was born in 1906. "Tributes to the two brave sons of Mother India, Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Chandrashekhar Azad on their birth anniversary," the prime minster tweeted. In a series of tweets, the vice president said, "Today, let us pay our tributes to these bravehearts and resolve to strive hard to realise their dreams for this great country." There should be a greater focus in school books on the tales of sacrifice, patriotism and valour of iconic national leaders and freedom fighters to inspire the younger generation, Naidu said. He added that instead of merely covering commemorative occasions, the media must regularly highlight their stories. "Though Chandrashekhar Azad left his earthly abode too soon, at the age of 25 years, he was one of the most inspirational youth leaders of the freedom movement. He was also a mentor, philosopher and guide to a number of young freedom fighters, most notably Bhagat Singh," Naidu said. Referring to Tilak, the vice president said he endeavoured to awaken the political consciousness of people through two weekly newspapers that he owned and edited, "Kesari", published in Marathi and "The Mahratta", published in English. "He vehemently criticised the British rule through these publications," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-pm-narendra-modi-pay-tributes-to-bal-gangadhar-tilak-azad-on-their-birth-anniversary-864600.html
23-07-2020||National||Invite all Babri mosque demolition accused to Ram temple 'bhumi pujan': Hindutva outfit chief||All 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case should be invited to the "bhumi pujan" ceremony for the construction of the Ram temple here and honoured, a Hindutva outfit leader has said. Hindu Dharma Sena president Santosh Dubey is one of the main accused in the case. Dubey also insisted that the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust must also invite all the four Shankaracharyas to the ceremony planned on August 5. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also likely to attend the event. "The office bearers of Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra must ensure that along with all 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, the families of the kar sevaks who gave their lives in the Ram Temple movement must also be invited to the 'bhumi pujan' ceremony and must be honoured there," Dubey told PTI. The top court verdict in favour of the Ram temple at the site would not have been possible had the Babri mosque not been demolished, he said. "If the Trust does not invite the kar sevaks, it will a display of ego and arrogance. Without inviting the kar sevaks who have been accused in Babri mosque demolition and the families of the slain kar sevaks, the 'bhumi pujan' will remain incomplete," Dubey added. A special CBI court in Lucknow is recording the statements of the 32 Babri demolition accused under section 313 of the CrPC, which enables them to plead their innocence if they so want. The court is conducting day-to-day hearings to complete the trial by August 31 as directed by the Supreme Court. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple had stood on the same site. Former deputy prime minister L K Advani and BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi were leading the Ram temple movement at that time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/invite-all-babri-mosque-demolition-accused-to-ram-temple-bhumi-pujan-hindutva-outfit-chief-864611.html
23-07-2020||National||Here's what flew off store shelves and what didn't during lockdown||The months of April and May witnessed a change in product purchases, as the country was under a two-month lockdown to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus.  While some people were busy baking fresh loaves of banana bread and whipping up Dalgona coffee, the core constitutes of these Instagram trends - bread, cheese, coffee powder and jams - were bought in large quantities.  Undoubtedly, sanitisers and germ-fighting soaps topped the grocery lists but another product that also found a place in shopping carts were household insecticides - large quantities of it. According to some shop owners, customers bought only important items, resisting their impulsive purchasing habits. The company executives in the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector said that there were certain unusual trends in demand in certain product categories. India's largest FMCG company, Hindustan Unilever (HUL), reported an increase of Kissan jams purchases, in addition to sauces and ketchup in the April-June quarter. The germ resitant handwashes and sanitisers by Lifebuoy also saw a surge in sales. The locust attack, coronavirus germs and measures to ward off mosquito infections led to an increased purchased of Godrej Consumer Products Ltd's household insecticides. Nestle products - instant noodles and coffee - were a big hit for many during the lockdown. Maggi noodles surged 25 percent on charts, and coffee has been doing well in addition to milk and nutrition products, company executives said. Britannia’s Managing Director Varun Berry said during earnings call that bread and rusk grew "very aggressively even faster than biscuits." Suggesting that the growth in sales of bread was on account of it replacing meals for those who were at home, Berry said: “…I think home consumption for bread is almost 100 percent, home consumption for rusk will be slightly higher than what it is for biscuits”. “Jams, ketchup they are growing at a very robust pace and it is natural – people are cocooned at their homes. These categories with kids all locked up in homes, there will be demand for these products. It is very natural that there will be a big burst in demand for these products,” HUL’s chairman and managing director, Sanjiv Mehta, told analysts during a post-earnings conference call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-what-flew-off-store-shelves-and-what-didnt-during-lockdown-864630.html
23-07-2020||National||Identified 20 sectors where India can become global supplier: Piyush Goyal||The government has so far identified 20 sectors where India can meet domestic demand as well as become a global supplier, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. He said industry body Ficci and other associations are working with the government in this regard. "We have identified first 12 sectors and now eight more, so we have 20 sectors in which Ficci and other associations are very much part of our engagement, where we have identified sectors where India can not only meet own domestic needs but also become globally competitive and become global leader supplying to the world," he said in a Ficci webinar. These sectors include food processing, organic farming, agrochemicals, electronics, industrial machinery, furniture, leather, auto parts and textiles, among others. He also highlighted that despite having skilled carpenters and artisans, India continues to import furniture. "Can we not prepare India to become the factory of the world for furniture, can we not build to scale at competitive prices so that the world looks at India, to source from India," he added. Further talking about yoga, the minister said yoga holds huge potential for industry and young entrepreneurs as the world is excited about it. "But did India really grab the opportunity that the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) opened up for India. Did we set up 100,000 yoga centres all over the world, did any entrepreneur amongst you or startups thought in terms of the possibilities that yoga offers by planning to train maybe 100,000 or 500,000 yoga teachers who would find an opportunity across the globe," Goyal noted. He said one has to take a person in the yoga room for four sessions only and for the fifth session, the person will come "running and then for the rest of his life, he would want to be a yoga participant, that is the power of yoga". Cure is not only about medicine or about visiting hospital or a doctor for treatment, the huge possibilities of yoga as a preventive medication are known to many but have not been captured as an opportunity. "I do not know whether all of us have failed the nation and the people of India, where despite the Prime Minister with his vision of opening up door, opening up opportunities, for all of us, (we) have not seized the moment," the minister asked. "I do not think all is lost, I still think that if some innovative youngsters plan to take it to the rest of the world, India can become a powerhouse providing this technology and it's a scientific technology. Every aspect of yoga, every 'aasan' teaches you something new," Goyal said. Disruption need not always be technological as it not only comes out of computer screens, he said adding "disruption can come out of a variety of ways. It is for us to see whether we are willing to engage, whether we are willing to offer to the rest of the world India's traditional strengths".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/identified-20-sectors-where-india-can-become-global-supplier-piyush-goyal-864639.html
23-07-2020||National||Delhi-based Dr Dangs selected as central lab for Covaxin human clinical trials||A Delhi-based private laboratory has claimed that it has been selected as the central lab for human clinical trials of Covaxin, India's indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The vaccine is being developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology. Dr Dangs Lab said on Wednesday that it has partnered with Bharat Biotech for conducting the trials. "We are extremely privileged to announce that Dr Dangs Lab, New Delhi has been provided the opportunity to serve the nation by being selected as the central lab for the Human Clinical trials of Covaxin; India's indigenous Covid-19 vaccine being developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV)," it said in a statement. This is a "randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled multi-centric clinical trial in India", it added. "Dr. Dangs Lab is currently processing all samples for screening and safety for the various phases of this clinical trial, whereas all the efficacy studies will be performed in NIV (Pune)," the statement said. The lab has already started receiving samples from 50 to 100 subjects per day from various trial sites for safety testing and will be increasing operations as per assigned timelines to cover 12 sites across the length and breadth of the country over this month, it added. "Stringent quality norms driven by good clinical laboratory practise (GCLP) guidelines are being followed as mandated by regulatory authorities. The lab has renowned experts in each field who are working tirelessly and collectively to provide quality and timely results to fulfil the imminent need of an effective and safe Covidvaccine," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-based-dr-dangs-selected-as-central-lab-for-covaxin-human-clinical-trials-864640.html
23-07-2020||National||Youth loses job due to Covid-19, poses as Amit Shah's secretary to get one||He lost his job during the Covid-19 pandemic and was desperately in need of one. Nothing was forthcoming and the 25-year-old youth from Rajasthan devised a circuitous route only to land in a police net. Sandeep Chaudhary, who holds a Bachelor of Arts (BA) and Bachelor of Education (BEd), was arrested by Delhi Police's Crime Branch accusing him of posing as the private secretary of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and asking Ministers in Haryana and Rajasthan to give a job to him. Chaudhary, who hails from Mundawar in Rajasthan's Alwar, was working in Hero Honda in Dharuhera but had lost his job during the pandemic, a senior police official said on Thursday. Police action following the Ministry of Home Affairs filing a complaint with Delhi Police claiming that one person posing as private secretary to the Home Minister was calling the Haryana Labour Minister Anup Dhanak and Rajasthan Law Minister Tikaram Julie for giving a job to a person. During questioning, the official claimed, Chaudhary told police that he thought of getting a job in a factory in Rajasthan or in Haryana's industrial areas. For this, he allegedly procured a SIM of MTNL in the name of his girlfriend. A technical surveillance and investigation led the police to Chaudhary. Police said the investigators have recovered a mobile phone and the SIM card he used for calling the ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-loses-job-due-to-covid-19-poses-as-amit-shahs-secretary-to-get-one-864641.html
23-07-2020||National||Amazon joins hands with Acko to offer auto insurance in India||Amazon Pay on Thursday said it has tied up with Acko General Insurance Ltd to offer two- and four-wheeler insurance policies in India. Amazon Pay, which is the payments unit of Amazon India, will help customers purchase insurance effortlessly, and Amazon Prime members will get extra benefits including additional discounts, a statement said. Customers can buy auto insurance from Amazon Pay page, Amazon app or mobile website and they can get a quote for their car or bike's insurance by providing basic details, it said. In this quick paperless insurance plan, customers can get hassle-free claims with zero paperwork, one-hour pick-up, and three-day assured claim servicing and one-year repair warranty in select cities. Policyholers will also have an option for instant cash settlements for low-value claims, making it beneficial for customers. Additionally, customers can select from a list of add-ons like zero-depreciation and engine protection and they will be able to pay for the insurance using Amazon Pay balance, UPI, or cards, the statement said. "Our vision is to make Amazon Pay the most trusted, convenient and rewarding way to pay for our customers. Delighted by this experience, there has been a growing demand for more services. In line with this need, we are excited to launch an auto insurance product that is affordable, convenient, and provides a seamless claims experience," Amazon Pay India Director and Head of Financial Services Vikas Bansal said. Varun Dua, CEO of Acko General Insurance, said the company aims to deliver a superior consumer experience right from purchase to claims by making it more affordable, accessible and seamless through the partnership. Acko, which has raised funding from Amazon, Accel, SAIF and Binny Bansal, has catered to over 55 million unique customers over the last 24 months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amazon-joins-hands-with-acko-to-offer-auto-insurance-in-india-864644.html
23-07-2020||National||HC grants bail to ex-Fortis Healthcare Promoter Shivinder Singh in money laundering case||The Delhi High Court Thursday granted bail to former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh in a money laundering case related to alleged misappropriation of funds at Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL). Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani, who pronounced the order through video conferencing, granted the relief to Shivinder in the furnishing of a personal bond of Rs one crore and two sureties by family members of Rs 25 lakh each. The judge also directed the investigating officer of the ED to request the Bureau of Immigration to open LOC in Shivinder's name to prevent any unannounced exit from the country. The high court imposed various other bail conditions on him, including that he shall not tamper with the evidence or influence witnesses, directly or indirectly. He was arrested in the money laundering case last year. The high court had reserved its order on the bail plea on July 16 after hearing arguments from the counsel for Shivinder and Enforcement Directorate (ED). ED had opposed the bail plea saying that in the present case, money was diverted through a complex web of transactions and finding the trail was not easy. RFL is a group firm of REL - Religare Enterprises Ltd, which was earlier promoted by Malvinder Singh and his brother Shivinder Singh. The EOW registered an FIR in March last year after it received a complaint from RFL's Manpreet Suri against Shivinder, Godhwani and others, alleging that loans were taken by them while managing the firm but the money was invested in other companies. ED lodged a money laundering case based on this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-bail-to-ex-fortis-healthcare-promoter-shivinder-singh-in-money-laundering-case-864647.html
23-07-2020||National||Conducting varsity exams in MCQs format not feasible, say academicians||The concerns by academicians come against the backdrop of the Delhi High Court asking the University Grants Commission (UGC) to clarify if final year examinations of the universities be conducted based on MCQs, open choices, assignments and presentations, instead of long-form exams. The UGC officials, however, maintained that over 6,000 universities in the country have already conducted exams for final year students or are planning to conduct them. Earlier this month, the UGC in its revised guidelines directed the higher education institutions that final year examinations be conducted in September 2020, instead of July 2020, as per its guidelines announced in April. Punjab, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Delhi have announced reservations against the plan, citing the Covid-19 situation. Rajesh Jha, a political science professor and executive council member of DU, said, "Our students are not prepared for a new format of exams. They have been taught to analyse things and will be caught unprepared for any new format. All of a sudden you cannot impose a system. You need to test it before implementing it. Coronavirus time cannot be used for experimentation." Pankaj Garg, a professor at Rajdhani College, said, "The format of exams decide how students are taught. For MCQs and even for open book exams, the students have to be taught in a certain way but in Delhi University, students have not been taught in a way that they can take exams in such a format". "Plus problems are multiplying-- coronavirus cases are on the rise and students in Assam and Bihar are also facing issues due to floods. Internet connectivity is already an issue and the flood situation has complicated the connectivity situation, so even if the MCQ format exams happen they will happen in an online format which will not be feasible for students," he said. Saikat Ghosh, an English professor at the Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College and Academic Council member, said, "The way the subjects and the syllabus have been designed, we teach those subjects even at the undergraduate level in a fair amount of detail and we encourage students to show analytical skills. Analytical skills cannot be tested through the MCQ format, which favours information." "It is not feasible for the way in which students have been taught or even the content of the syllabus. In literature, the MCQ format, it's not going to work. The alternative to open book exam is not MCQ," Ghosh said. The Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) has called a meeting on Thursday to discuss the issue. "There is a DUTA meeting scheduled later in the day on the issue. Even if MCQs will happen, they will happen online and we are against the conduct of online examinations," said a DUTA member requesting anonymity. According to a senior UGC official, "The guidelines have not stated that the exams have to be conducted right away, the exams have to be concluded by September end. States can devise a calendar whenever it is feasible to conduct exams in this timeline. Also, the exams can be conducted either online, offline or in blended mode. Totally doing away with exams is not a feasible situation." Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16, when the Centre announced a nationwide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. The lockdown was announced on March 24 and it came into effect the next day. While the government has eased several restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conducting-varsity-exams-in-mcqs-format-not-feasible-say-academicians-864648.html
23-07-2020||National||Riva Ganguly Das appointed Secretary (East) in External Affairs Ministry||India's High Commissioner to Bangladesh Riva Ganguly Das has been appointed as the Secretary (East) in the Ministry of External Affairs, according to a Personnel Ministry order on Thursday. Das is an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of 1986 batch. She will succeed Vijay Thakur Singh, who superannuates on September 30||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/riva-ganguly-das-appointed-secretary-east-in-external-affairs-ministry-864662.html
23-07-2020||National||West Bengal Police acting like workers of ruling party: Guv||Expressing concern over the alleged deterioration of law and order in West Bengal, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday said the state police were not functioning in accordance with the rules, and urged Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to find the time and interact with him on the matter. Taking to Twitter, the governor said opposition MPs and MLAs were being targeted by the police, which "acts as workers of the ruling party". "As the governor of the state, I am extremely worried to see this alarming decline in the law and order situation in the state," he said in a video message. Dhankar, who has been at loggerheads with the Trinamool Congress government on several issues since he took charge as the governor of West Bengal a year ago, said, "Public representatives and opposition party leaders are virtually being hunted out of public space by the state police. This is undemocratic." Dhankhar also claimed that members of parliament and assembly were being ill-treated by the police. "I have requested the honourable Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to spare time and interact with me... We cannot afford to have police that does not act in accordance with law but acts in a partisan manner like a political worker of the ruling party," he added. Earlier this month, a BJP MLA was found hanging from the ceiling of a veranda outside a shuttered shop near his home in North Dinajpur district, following which the saffron party claimed that he was murdered. The post-mortem report, however, stated that the "legislator died due to hanging and no injury mark was found on his body".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-police-acting-like-workers-of-ruling-party-guv-864665.html
23-07-2020||National||SC dismisses PIL on directing Centre to provide copy of FIR within 24 hours||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to consider a PIL seeking a direction to the Centre to issue orders to provide copy of FIRs through electronic and physical means to the accused within 24 hours of filing, in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah rejected the plea by Kolkata-based social activist, Avishek Goenka saying there were already enough directions for it. Goenka, for his part, contended the top court's direction issued in Youth Bar Association Versus Union of India (2016) for making a copy of FIR available to the accused required reconsideration in view of the current situation. Under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, the central government can issue mandatory directions to state government on providing a copy of the FIR along with a copy of the complaint, to accused persons in a time-bound manner, he said. In 2016, the Supreme Court had directed providing of a copy of the FIR to the accused within 24 hours. The application in this regard can be made before the concerned police station or the magisterial court. "With the closure of courts of jurisdictional magistrate due to pandemic, the accused persons are left in lurch and are at mercy of the police for the copy of FIR along with a copy of the complaint. Non availability of a copy of FIR along with a copy of the complaint, effectively curbs the fundamental rights of such persons," Goenka pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-pil-on-directing-centre-to-provide-copy-of-fir-within-24-hours-864666.html
23-07-2020||National||Government issues order for permanent commission of women officers in Army||The Defence Ministry on Thursday issued the formal sanction letter for grant of permanent commission to women officers in the Indian Army, culminating years of a legal battle by women in olive uniform who entered the force through the short service commission route. The women officers will be now granted permanent commissions in eight combat support branches like Army Air Defence, Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, Army Service Corps, Army Ordnance Corps, and Intelligence Corps. In two other select branches – Judge and Advocate General and Army Educational Corps – they were getting the permanent commission since 2008. “The Defence Ministry issued the formal Government Sanction Letter for grant of Permanent Commission to women officers in the Indian Army, paving the way for empowering them to shoulder larger roles in the organisation. The order specifies grant of PC to short service commissioned women officers in all ten streams of the Indian Army,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The combat arms - Armoured Corps, Infantry, Mechanised Infantry, and Artillery – will continue to remain out of bounds for women. Between 1992 (when the Army opened its gate to female officers) and 2008 when women got an equal opportunity in JAG and AEC branches, entry of women was allowed only through the short service commission, initially for five years and later for 14 years. The wheels of change started rolling first following a 2010 ruling from Delhi High Court and finally a February 2020 verdict from the Supreme Court in which the top court tore into the argument put up by the government to deny women officers a place under the Sun. The SC dismissed the government’s submission on “women are physiological weaker” and have important roles in family lives as “sex stereotypes” and observed that 70 years after the birth of an independent state, there was still a “need for change in attitudes and mindsets”. “Reliance on the inherent physiological differences between men and women rests in a deeply entrenched stereotypical and constitutionally flawed notion that women are the ‘weaker’ sex and may not undertake tasks that are ‘too arduous’ for them. Such arguments don’t constitute a constitutionally valid basis for denying equal opportunity to women officers,” said the judgment authored by a two-member bench chaired by Justice D Y Chandrachud. The SC ruling was on an appeal filed by the government on the Delhi High Court verdict. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court granted one more month’s time to the central government to implement its February order. “The Army Headquarters had set in motion a series of preparatory actions for the conduct of the Permanent Commission Selection Board for affected women officers. The selection board will be scheduled as soon as all affected SSC women officers exercise their option and complete requisite documentation,” said the Defence Ministry statement. As of February, there are 6,892 women officers in the Indian Army. The force recruited 949 women in 2017 and 819 women in 2018. The recruitment number dipped to 364 in 2019. Till February, 101 women were recruited in the Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-issues-order-for-permanent-commission-of-women-officers-in-army-864668.html
23-07-2020||National||UK charity plans virtual festival to raise funds for rural India||A UK-based charity will host its first-ever virtual fundraiser to raise money for India’s rural communities in response to an annual art festival being cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. Action Village India (AVI) said the Madras Café Unlocked event, which runs from Friday till Sunday, will feature an all-digital range of content including exhibitions, talks and yoga sessions. At the digital Food for Thought stage, the charity will launch its ‘Madras Café Cookbook’ packed with recipes. “Action Village India (AVI) is a small, UK-based charity which partners with Indian organisations which work alongside women, men and children in some of the remotest parts of rural India so that they can access their rights and improve their livelihoods and resilience, without being held back by their gender, caste or religious beliefs,” the charity said. It supports initiatives focused on land and water rights, maternal and child health, girls’ education, women’s economic empowerment and disability rights and the support is founded on the principles of partnership and solidarity. For over 25 years, Madras Café has been a regular presence at the world-renowned WOMAD festival held in south-west England, which annually celebrates the world's many forms of music, arts and dance.  But with the 2020 instalment cancelled amid the strict social distancing rules, Madras Café said it has decided to take things digital with a fundraising event and opportunity to raise awareness about AVI’s support to Indian partner organisations and solidarity with rural communities across India. It will include a number of virtual stages including Madras Boombox, Food for Thought, Partnerships and Solidarity, Jaijagat Exhibition, a Poetree, Peoples’ Stage and Madras Café Family. The Madras Boombox Stage will have live music contributions from artists from the Darbar Arts Culture Heritage Trust – Sarathy Korwar, Ansuman Biswas and Rolf Killius, curator of the tribal Indian music collection for the British Library. The exhibition section also has a number of events from the end of July to September, besides a range of conversations with Indian partners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-charity-plans-virtual-festival-to-raise-funds-for-rural-india-864669.html
23-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Admission criteria for NIT, CFTI relaxed; minimum 75% marks in Class 12 not required||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre on Thursday announced relaxation in norms for admissions into National Institutes of Technology (NIT) and centrally funded technical institutions (CFTI). Now, students will be considered for admissions into NITs and CFTIs based solely on their performance in the Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced, irrespective of the marks they obtain in the Class 12 examination. Earlier, a student desirous of seeking admission to NIT or CFTI was required to secure minimum 75 per cent marks in the Class 12 examination, in addition to clearing of JEE-Advanced. The relaxation in admission norms will be valid for the current year. “Due to the prevailing circumstances, the Central Seat Allocation Board (CSAB) has decided to relax the eligibility criterion for admissions to the National Institutes of Technology and other Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs),” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said. For admissions in NITs and other CFTIs, apart from qualifying Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main, the eligibility usually is to secure a minimum of 75 per cent marks in XII board exams or rank among the top 20 percentile in the institutes’ qualifying examinations, he added. Last week, the HRD ministry had also relaxed the eligibility criteria for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) this year by not considering Class XII board performance. Due to the partial cancellation of class XII exams by several education boards, the Joint Admission Board (JAB) had decided to relax the eligibility criterion for JEE (Advanced) 2020 qualified candidates this time. Qualified candidates who have passed class XII examinations will now be eligible for admissions irrespective of marks obtained in the board exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-admission-criteria-for-nit-cfti-relaxed-minimum-75-marks-in-class-12-not-required-864682.html
23-07-2020||National||Trade unions to observe August 9 as 'Save India Day'||Coinciding with 'Quit India Day', ten central trade unions will observe August 9 as 'Save India Day' by organising protests, including 'jail bharo' (filling jails) and demonstrations, across the country in protest against the Narendra Modi government's "anti-worker" policies and "failure" in handling the Covid-19 pandemic. The trade unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC -- also have urged workers to organise programmes on August 18 in solidarity with coal workers who are going on a strike the same day. The decisions were taken at a meeting of the joint platform of trade unions held on July 8 and July 18. In a joint statement, the organisations said that only a small percentage is finding their place back in jobs and that also on reduced wages and refusal to pay lockdown period salary, even as some industrial units are being opened up after the lockdown. They said jobless people are more than 14 crore and if daily wagers as well as contract and casual workers are added, the figure will rise to over 24 crore who are out of livelihood at present. The MSMEs themselves are reporting that 30% to 35% units may not be in position to start their activities, they said. "All workers are not being taken back...Such denial of employment, and pressing for wage-reduction have to be unitedly combated...This is grossly violative of the existing statutes," they said. It also cited the recent decision of Air India to give notice to 20,000 employees to go on leave without pay for six months, including the provision of compulsory (forced) leave without pay, which may get extended to five years.   On August 9, trade unions have asked workers to organise "satyagraha/jail bharo'' or any other form of militant agitations in all workplaces, industrial centres, district headquarters and rural areas. The unions will raise the issue of privatisation of Public Sector Units, including in defence and railways, unemployment, "Steps in favour of corporates of Indian and foreign brands to usurp natural resources and business of the country while mouthing the slogan of Atma-Nirbhar Bharat are being pushed through shamelessly," they said. They said workers in defence sector unions and federations are likely to go on strike in mid-September as a strike ballot has been approved by more than 99% workers. Scheme workers unions/federations (Anganwadi, ASHA, mid-day meal etc) have jointly decided to go in for a two days strike on August 7-8, which will converge with 'Save India Day' agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trade-unions-to-observe-august-9-as-save-india-day-864686.html
23-07-2020||National||29,557 patients recuperate from Covid-19 in 24 hours, highest single-day recovery so far||As many as 29,557 Covid-19 patients have recuperated in the past 24 hours, the highest recorded in a day so far, taking the recovery rate to 63.18 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. According to data updated at 8 am, total recoveries have surged to 7,82,606 and exceeded the active cases of Covid-19 by 3,56,439 as on date. The number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has also crossed the 15-million mark as the number of cases surged to 12,38,635 on Thursday. A total of 1,50,75,369 samples have been tested up to July 22 with 3,50,823 samples being tested on Wednesday, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) officials said. "One million tests were done in three days till Wednesday. The testing capacity has been increased to around 4 lakh per day," scientist and media coordinator at ICMR Lokesh Sharma said.  "While the total number of recovered cases has jumped to 7,82,606, there has been appreciable growth in the recovery rate, which stands at 63.18 per cent," the ministry said. This accomplishment can be attributed to the central government-led Covid-19 management strategies, it said. Sustained efforts by the Centre, states and union territories (UTs) are resulting in more effective containment, aggressive testing, and prompt and efficient clinical treatment strategies. These are guided by the teams of domain experts in the Ministry of Health such as the Joint Monitoring Group (JMG) and ably complemented by the technical experts at AIIMS-New Delhi, centres of excellence in various states and UTs, ICMR and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The Union Government continues to coordinate with the efforts of the states and UTs by sending central teams of experts to areas witnessing an increase in caseload and hand-holding of Covid hospitals in states through the teleconsultation programme led by AIIMS, New Delhi, the ministry said. "These combined efforts have resulted in Case Fatality Rate being managed at low levels. It is 2.41 per cent, as on date, and steadily declining," it said. This has also helped in reducing the actual caseload of Covid-19 cases which remains confined to 4,26,167 active patients only. With the highest-ever single-day spike of 45,720 cases, India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 12-lakh mark on Thursday, while the death toll mounted to 29,861 with a record 1,129 fatalities reported in 24 hours, according to the updated data at 8 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/29557-patients-recuperate-from-covid-19-in-24-hours-highest-single-day-recovery-so-far-864694.html
23-07-2020||National||4 cops who assaulted man during lockdown identified: Maha govt||The Maharashtra government on Thursday informed the Bombay High Court that it has identified four policemen who allegedly assaulted a 22-year-old man in suburban Vile Parle while enforcing the coronavirus-induced lockdown in March this year. A report prepared by assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Bandra, was submitted to the high court. The report said CCTV footage shows the victim was assaulted by four police constables on the night of March 29. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai was hearing a petition filed by an advocate, Firdause Irani, raising concerns over alleged police excesses, including assault faced by him and his family, during the lockdown. Irani pointed out two separate cases in the city, where two men died allegedly due to excessive use of force by police personnel while imposing the lockdown. One case pertains to the death of 22-year-old Raju Devendra, whose family alleged that on March 29 night, when they were going to their relative's place, a police team chased them and caught Devendra. The policemen reportedly informed the relatives that they were taking Devendra to Juhu police station. However, the next morning, the police informed the family that Devendra was found lying at a nearby chowk and was declared dead when taken to hospital, Irani said in his petition. The police initially claimed Devendra died after he was lynched by a mob who suspected him of committing a robbery. After perusing the report, the court on Thursday noted that four police constables have been identified, who allegedly assaulted the deceased (Devendra) while on night duty on March 29, and it is proposed to conduct departmental proceedings against them. Government pleader Purnima Kantharia told the court that as per CCTV footage of the place where the incident took place, no member of the general public was part of the mob assaulting the deceased. On the contrary, four policemen are seen to have used fibre lathis in a bid to discipline the deceased, Kantharia told the court. She said further investigation is required to ascertain if the deceased succumbed to injuries inflicted by the assault. The bench then directed the ACP to conduct further investigation and submit a status report by August 6. "Also, the decision taken on the proposal to initiate departmental proceedings against the four policemen may also be disclosed, the court said. The second case pertains to a labourer, Sagir Jamal Khan, who was allegedly assaulted by police on April 18 in South Mumbai, as per Irani's petition. Khan returned home in the evening and told his roommate that he was assaulted by police. Later, Khan collapsed in his house and was declared dead at a hospital, he said in the petition. The police claimed Khan died due to enlargement of the heart and there was no external or internal injury on the body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-cops-who-assaulted-man-during-lockdown-identified-maha-govt-864705.html
23-07-2020||National||Fertilizer supply, production comfortable, says Sadananda Gowda||With demand for fertilizer increased due to widespread monsoon, production and movement of fertilizers remain comfortable across the country despite Covid-19 pandemic, said Union Chemicals and Fertilizer Minister D V Sadananda Gowda. "Production and movement of fertilizers remain comfortable across the country. 2019-20 (saw) record high urea production of 244.55 lakh tonne as compared to 240 lakh tonne during 2018-19", Gowda said. There would be no scarcity of fertilizers this year also, he said. Urea production rose to record 244.55 lakh tonne in 2019-20 while sales increased 5 per cent to 336.97 lakh tonne, according to government data. "While sales and consumption of urea reached 336.97 (lakh metric tonne) LMT as compared to 320.20 LMT of the previous year i.e. 2018-19," Gowda said. During April-June 2020, total fertilizers production touched 101.15 lakh tonne, which is 2.79% higher than the corresponding period of last year. Urea output was at 60.38 lakh tonne, which is 8.40% higher than June quarter 2019. "Sales and consumption of different fertilizers substantially increased during 2019-20 as compared to 2018-19," he said. Urea sales increased 5.29 % at 336.97 lakh tonne while demand of diammonium phosphate (DAP) increased by 15.67% to 101.04 lakh tonne in 2019-20. Sales of muriate of potash (MOP) were up 3.45 % at 27.91 lakh tonne while that of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and sulphur (NPKS) fertiliser rose 9.95 % to 105.18 lakh tonne, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fertilizer-supply-production-comfortable-says-sadananda-gowda-864709.html
23-07-2020||National||ED summons Rajasthan businessman Sharma in Yes Bank money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Rajasthan-based businessman Raman Kant Sharma in connection with its money laundering probe in the Yes Bank case, officials said on Thursday. Sharma is already being investigated by the central probe agency on charges of an alleged violation of forex laws related to the remittance of over Rs 96 crore from Mauritius and the agency has similarly summoned him under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) for questioning. The ED is also probing his alleged business links with Vaibhav Gehlot, the son of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, in the FEMA case.  He is alleged to have been a business partner of Vaibhav Gehlot in a car rental company in the past. In the Yes Bank money laundering case, officials said the businessman has been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case in Mumbai on July 27. The officials said the bank had given a Rs 168-crore loan to Triton Hotels and Resorts in which Sharma is a shareholder and a promoter. The ED wants to record his statement under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the Yes Bank case and understand how the hotel group was extended the bank loan, they said. The ED arrested Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor in this case in March along with the Wadhawan brothers, Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, of DHFL. The ED accused Kapoor, his family members and others of laundering proceeds of crime worth Rs 4,300 crore by receiving alleged kickbacks in lieu of extending big loans through their bank that later turned into non-performing assets (NPA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-summons-rajasthan-businessman-sharma-in-yes-bank-money-laundering-case-864712.html
23-07-2020||National||Action against 2 police officers as migrant worker dies by suicide in Bengal||A 21-year-old migrant worker died by suicide in West Bengal's Birbhum district after he was accused by his neighbour of theft and subsequently detained by police, who allegedly also beat him up in the custody, his family said. The officer-in-charge of the Lokpur police station, Ramesh Mondal, was relieved from duty while another officer, Saroj Ghosh, was suspended in connection with the incident, said Superintendent of Police Shyam Singh. "A departmental investigation has been started against the two," he said on Thursday. Souvik Garai was found hanging at his home in Ruposhpur village on Tuesday morning, triggering tension in the area with his family alleging that he killed himself after being beaten up by police who picked him up after their neighbour, a sweet shop owner, accused him of theft. "My son was working in Gujarat as a labourer and came back home due to the lockdown around a month ago. He also stayed in quarantine," Souvik's father Narugopal said. He claimed that three days before the incident, his neighbour Shivaran Gorai had accused Souvik of stealing money from his shop and some other items from his house and also lodged a police complaint. "Souvik is innocent. But the police picked him up on Sunday and thrashed him. After his release on Monday, Shivaran and his relative Sajal again came to the house and beat up Souvik," the father said. He said that following this his son killed himself as he was ashamed and embarrassed about the whole incident. Police sources said that Narugopal has lodged a complaint against Shivaran, Sajal and another relative Kajal over Souvik's death, and a case has been registered based on it. As Souvik's body was found, protests broke out in the area over the role of the police. Police said they have arrested Shivaran and Kajal in connection with the death while Sajal is on the run. They were produced at the Dubrajpur court on Wednesday and Judicial Magistrate Vivek Tamang sent them to 14 days in jail, said Rajendra Prasad Dey, the public prosecutor in the case. An investigation has also been started by Additional Superintendent of Police (Bolpur) Shivprasad Patra on the role of the officers of the Lokpur police station. According to police sources, the two officers of Lokpur police station could not provide any specific reason as to why Shouvik was taken into custody without initiating any case against him even after receiving a complaint of theft from the sweet shop owner. The allegation of Souvik being beaten up in custody is also being probed, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-against-2-police-officers-as-migrant-worker-dies-by-suicide-in-bengal-864713.html
23-07-2020||National||Haryana to enact law to reserve 50% seats for women in Panchayats: Dy CM||The BJP-JJP government in Haryana will bring in a bill in the next Vidhan Sabha session for reserving 50 per cent seats for women in Panchayati Raj Institutions, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said here on Thursday. Chautala, who is also the minister for Industries, Rural Development and Panchayats, said the state government has been taking adequate steps for ensuring maximum participation of women in PRIs and the society. “To give 50 per cent reservation to women in Panchayats, we will bring in a Bill in the next Vidhan Sabha session,” Chautala told a news conference here during which he also dwelt upon various steps of the state government for making Haryana a preferred industrial destination. The JJP leader said a “scooty” (two-wheeler) will be given to 100 women who have done outstanding work in villages. The beneficiaries will include 30 women sarpanches, 10 Zila Parishad members, 20 Block Samitis’ members besides 40 other women associated with PRIs. He also said the government will soon amend the relevant law to provide for opening up of non-cultivable tracts of land of over 500 acres under any Gram Panchayat for industrial development. This will not only help villages generate revenue but the industries too would flourish and generate employment. Asked about the state government's decision to temporarily stop the registration of land transfer deeds in the state, he said the government had come across some “loopholes” in the registration process which needed to be set right. The new registration process being developed by the government would remove those loopholes, besides simplifying the entire process for the benefit of the common people, he said. He said the revenue department officials are conducting “re-verification of loopholes”. “When the registration process is simpler, it will benefit common people and that is why we are digitizing the entire process. Within 24 hours, they will get all details over their e-mail,” he said. He also said in the registration process “stamping of over Rs 100 will be in e-mode”. Chautala said at a recent state Cabinet meeting, a proposal had been cleared for bringing an ordinance to reserve 75 per cent of private-sector jobs in Haryana for local candidates. The government had also given nod to amend the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and the Factories Act, 1948 to provide for some relief to industries and factories amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the state’s new industrial policy, the 'Haryana Enterprises Promotion Policy-2020”, would be announced next month. Promising a congenial industrial climate to investors, Chautala said the state intends to be at the top by next year in 'Ease of Doing Business' rankings, moving a ladder ahead from its present second spot. He said the present BJP-JJP dispensation has been taking several steps to ensure a congenial atmosphere for investors to invest in Haryana. With the government promoting the establishment of industrial clusters in all 22 districts, he said, “We will have industrial clusters according to the strength of a particular area in a particular industry.” Replying to a question, he said the government has enough land bank and added around 17,000 acres are available. Asked if companies like Maruti Suzuki were looking for an expansion in the state, Chautala said the government has been discussing with them what more it can offer them in this regard. The government can look into any land requirement by companies, close to their existing facilities in Gurgaon district, for their expansion, he added. He said Haryana can emerge as an IT hub like what Greater Noida has become for mobile phones. Touching upon another issue, he said the expansion of road network in eight districts of the state has been approved and 83 roads will be built at a cost of Rs 383.58 crore by December. These districts are Charkhi Dadri, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mewat, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar, he said. He also said it has been targeted that more than 200 tonnes of plastic waste will be collected by Panchayat Department and given to the PWD for use in road construction under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana. On the bypoll for Baroda assembly in Sonipat, dates for which are yet to be announced, Chautala said the JJP and its ally BJP will jointly fight the election and the decision about the candidate will be taken at an appropriate time. Chautala also hit out at the Congress for allegedly trying to mislead farmers on three farm sector ordinances promulgated by the Centre recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-to-enact-law-to-reserve-50-seats-for-women-in-panchayats-dy-cm-864726.html
23-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: PM Modi busy building own image, alleges Rahul Gandhi||In today’s episode, The Supreme Court allows Rajasthan High Court to pronounce judgement on July 24 on a plea by CM Sachin Pilot against a disqualification notice, Flipkart Group announces launch of Flipkart Wholesale,  Rahul Gandhi alleges that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is busy building his own image and Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah releases documents to support his claims of corruption in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment and supplies.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-modi-busy-building-own-image-alleges-rahul-gandhi-864739.html
23-07-2020||National||India accuses Pakistan of flouting ICJ judgment in Kulbhushan Jadhav case||India on Thursday accused Pakistan of violating the judgment of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the case involving Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, who has been on the death row in the neighbouring country since April 2017.   New Delhi alleged that Islamabad violated the ICJ judgment as it blocked all avenues for the Government of India to help Jadhav move the High Court in the neighbouring country to seek a review of his conviction and the sentence awarded to him by a military court in Pakistan.    “Pakistan has completely failed to provide the remedy as directed by the ICJ and India reserves its position in the matter, including its rights to avail of further remedies,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said on Thursday. He, however, did not elaborate on the legal options New Delhi was considering to help Jadhav. Eminent lawyer Harish Salve, who had represented the Government of India during the hearing at the ICJ on the case, however, had said a few weeks back that New Delhi might have to go back to the international court as Pakistan Government had showed no sign of implementing the July 2019 judgment. New Delhi alleged on Thursday that Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government not only failed to provide the High Commission of India in Islamabad “unimpeded” consular access to Jadhav, but also declined to hand over the copies of the documents related with the case to a Pakistani lawyer whom Indian government had sought to appoint to seek review of conviction and sentencing of Jadhav in the High Court in the neighbouring country’s capital. “The whole exercise of not providing any documents related to the case even after repeated requests, not providing an unimpeded consular access and some reported unilateral action of approaching the High Court on part of Pakistan again exposes the farcical nature of Pakistan’s approach,” Srivastava said on Thursday. “Pakistan is not only in violation of the judgment of ICJ, but also of its own Ordinance” Jadhav has been in the custody of Pakistan Army at least since March 2016. He was accused and convicted of being involved in espionage and sabotage in Pakistan on behalf of an external intelligence agency of India. A military tribunal awarded him death sentence in April 2017. New Delhi moved the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which on July 17, 2019, concluded that Islamabad had violated the Article 36 of the Vienna Convention of Consular Relations 1963, and the death sentence awarded to Jadhav would remain suspended till the review of the conviction. Pakistan on May 20 last promulgated an ordinance called the “International Court of Justice Review and Reconsideration Ordinance 2020”, which mandated that a petition for review and reconsideration of conviction by military tribunal could be made to Islamabad High Court through an application within 60 days from the day it was brought into force. The petition could be filed by Jadav, himself, a legally authorised representative of him or a consular officer of the High Commission of India in Islamabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-accuses-pakistan-of-flouting-icj-judgment-in-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-864740.html
23-07-2020||National||Over 7.88 lakh Indians have returned under Vande Bharat mission: MEA||Over 7.88 lakh Indians have returned from abroad after the government launched the "Vande Bharat" evacuation mission on May 7 in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. Under the Phase 4 of the Vande Bharat mission, a total of 1,197 flights have been scheduled so far, including 945 international flights and 252 feeder flights, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing. "These flights are operated by the Air India group, IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir. They cover 29 countries. They will be reaching 34 airports in India," he said. Of these, 694 flights have reached India as on July 22, repatriating nearly one lakh people so far, he said. Phase 4 is expected to continue until August 2, by which time around 80,000 more people are expected to return, Srivastava said. "As on 22nd July, 7,88,217 Indian nationals have returned. 1,03,976 Indians have returned from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh by land borders," he said. Noting that the Ministry of Civil Aviation had announced establishment of bilateral bubbles with some countries, the MEA spokesperson said that between July 22 and August 31, Air India will be operating 30 flights a week to the US (New York, Chicago, Washington, New Jersey and San Francisco), four flights a week to Germany (Frankfurt) and three flights a week to France (Paris). The ministry continues to be in touch with missions on specific demands for repatriation from students completing their courses abroad, workers and other stranded Indians with compelling reasons, he said. As regards to repatriation from Kyrgyzstan, Srivastava said India is scheduling additional flights. "In fact, a number of such flights are scheduled and we are hopeful that with these additional flights we will be able to repatriate more and more of our students from there," he said. Twenty-five flights have been arranged from Bishkek to 13 destinations in India from July 3 to 30, the MEA Spokesperson said. "When the current phase of Vande Bharat culminates, we would have 88 flights which would have brought back nearly 13,600 Indian nationals and this includes students," Srivastava said. There was a restriction on chartered flights due to the Covid-19 situation in Kyrgyzstan, but as a result of the intervention of the Indian ambassador, India could obtain an exemption for such flights of operate, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-788-lakh-indians-have-returned-under-vande-bharat-mission-mea-864747.html
23-07-2020||National||2.4 million children affected by recent floods in India: UNICEF||An estimated 2.4 million children have been affected by the recent floods in India, the UNICEF said on Thursday, calling for immediate support, more resources and innovative programmes to address the challenges faced. In a statement, UNICEF said though flooding at this period of the year is common, this widespread scale of floods during mid-July is unusual. "In India, over 6 million people across Bihar, Assam, Odisha, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have been affected by the floods, including an estimated 2.4 million children," it said. UNICEF said it is working with the government and partners to respond quickly and effectively. It said it is also supporting the Assam government to implement the Covid-19 adapted relief camp management guidelines and child-friendly spaces in select districts, in addition to its focused support for maternal and child health service continuity and Covid-19 response in many states, the statement said. Weeks of torrential monsoon rains, widespread flooding and deadly landslides in Bangladesh, India and Nepal have affected millions of children and families, UNICEF said. "Even for a region that is all-too-familiar with the devastating impact of extreme weather, the recent heavy monsoon rains, rising floods and continued landslides are creating a perfect storm for children and families affected," said Jean Gough, UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia. "The Covid-19 pandemic and containment and prevention measures add an additional complication to the mix, as Covid-19 cases are accelerating in some of the affected areas," she added. Gough said the fall-out from the Covid-19 pandemic is being compounded by climate change and extreme weather events and are arguably the biggest issues affecting children in South Asia right now. Immediate support, more resources and innovative programmes are urgently needed to address the challenges that these threats represent to the region's children, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/24-million-children-affected-by-recent-floods-in-india-unicef-864759.html
23-07-2020||National||UP: Worker sets arm on fire outside NTPC in Gr Noida, alleges not paid for 6 months||A 32-year-old contractual worker at the state-run NTPC in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida on Thursday set his arm on fire, alleging he was not paid his salary due for six months, including the lockdown period, police said. Officials from the HR department of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) here alerted the police around 12 pm about the worker setting his hand on fire after pouring some oil on it outside the gate number 2 of its campus, officials said. The worker, who was hired by a third party contractor, has been identified as Rajesh. He hails from Solana village in adjoining Hapur district, they said. "There was a dispute regarding six months' payment of the worker because of which he said he took the step. He was immediately rushed to a hospital and given treatment after which he got discharged. He is fine now," Jarcha police station officer Anil Kumar said. Rajesh claimed that his salary for the last six months was due. He earned Rs 10,000 a month but has been "cheated" by the contractors and the NTPC, according to a written complaint he gave to police. "I was not paid during the lockdown (imposed due to the Covid-19 outbreak in March) period, which has put my family in difficulty due to financial crisis," he stated.   The police said they are probing the matter and would verify the worker's claims, while the NTPC has also initiated an internal inquiry into the episode. However, the NTPC could not be contacted immediately for its comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-worker-sets-arm-on-fire-outside-ntpc-in-gr-noida-alleges-not-paid-for-6-months-864763.html
23-07-2020||National||Election Commission defers 8 bypolls due to Covid-19, floods||The Election Commission has decided against holding bypolls in seven assembly constituencies in five states and a parliamentary constituency in Bihar in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, heavy rainfall and flood, although the deadline from the respective vacancies to be filled up ranged from July 30 to September 7. The EC will on Friday take a call on holding other bye-elections across the country – in 48 other assembly constituencies and one more parliamentary constituency. The EC issued a certificate on Thursday, expressing its “considered view” that the bye-elections due to be held up to September 7 might be deferred “in public interest”. It noted that the bye-elections should be held when the situation would become conducive and necessary logistics and protocols would be put in place.   The commission’s move to defer eight bye-elections in six states came even as several opposition parties like the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) cited the Covid-19 pandemic to question the rationale of holding the assembly elections in Bihar in October. The Section 151 (A) of the Representation of the People’s Act requires the EC to hold the bypolls in seven assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Assam and Valmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency in Bihar between July 30 to September 7. A provision in that particular section of the law, however, empowers the poll-panel to certify in consultation with the Central Government that it is difficult to hold the bye-elections within the stipulated period. The EC’s Senior Principal Secretary Sumit Mukherjee issued the certificate, stating that the Covid-19 pandemic situation had “not improved in several parts of the country” and conducting elections now would “pose a grave risk to the health and safety of the citizens”. The poll-panel noted that several states also had heavy rainfall resulting in floods and local administration in the respective districts were engaged in responding to the situation. The twin constraints of the Covid-19 and the floods would impact significantly electoral activity, including logistics, training of personnel and preparation of the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail devices (VVPATs), it stated. The EC, however, clarified that its “certificate” issued on Thursday was limited to the eight bye-elections in seven states. It will take a call on other bypolls during its meeting on Friday. The 48 assembly constituencies where bye-elections need to be held in the coming months include the 24 in Madhya Pradesh. The vacancies were created in the Madhya Pradesh State Assembly after the MLAs loyal to Jyotiraditya Scindia resigned to switch from the Congress to the Bharatiya Janata Party, leading to a regime change in Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-defers-8-bypolls-due-to-covid-19-floods-864769.html
23-07-2020||National||Buddha statue vandalised: India asks Pakistan to protect cultural heritage of minorities||India has expressed its concerns to Pakistan over a Buddha statue being smashed into pieces with a sledgehammer in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province and asked Islamabad to ensure the protection of the cultural heritage of minorities. A rare life-sized statue of Buddha was smashed into pieces with a sledgehammer by construction workers in Mardan district of the Pakistani province. The statue belonged to the Gandhara civilisation and was nearly 1,700 years old, a senior Pakistani official had said. Four persons were arrested on Saturday for vandalising the statue that was discovered during excavation at an agriculture farm. The suspects had followed the orders of a local Maulvi (prayer leader). Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said it was an incident of July 18 in Mardan district where during the excavation of one of the houses, a Gandhara-style Buddha statue was found. "What we understand is four Pakistani citizens at the behest of a religious cleric, who told them that their faith will be renounced if they don't dismantle that statue, broke that statue with a sledgehammer," he said. This has been widely condemned, including by the monks in Gaya city, Srivastava said. There is also widespread concern expressed by a cross-section of people in our country, he said. "We have expressed our concerns to Pakistan. We have conveyed our expectation that they would ensure the safety, security and well-being of the minority community there, as well as protect their cultural heritage," he said. Director of Archeology and Museums in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Abdus Samad Khan had said on Sunday that the pieces of the destroyed statue have been recovered to assess its archaeological value. The director said that the statue belonged to the Gandhara civilisation and was approximately 1,700 years old.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/buddha-statue-vandalised-india-asks-pakistan-to-protect-cultural-heritage-of-minorities-864772.html
23-07-2020||National||14-yr-old Covid-19 positive girl sexually assaulted by another patient at care centre; 2 held: Police||A 14-year-old girl, who was undergoing treatment at the Sardar Patel Covid-19 Care Centre in south Delhi's Chhatarpur, was allegedly sexually assaulted by another coronavirus patient in the washroom, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on the night of July 15, when the girl had gone to the washroom, they said. The 19-year-old man, who allegedly sexually assaulted her, was arrested along with one of his associates, the police said, adding that both have been sent to judicial custody. The 10,000-bed Covidcare centre at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas, which was inaugurated earlier this month by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, has been set up in Chhatarpur for treating mild and asymptomatic coronavirus patients. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is the nodal agency operating the centre, which also serves as a treatment centre for those who are asymptomatic but cannot afford home isolation. The girl and the accused, who lived in a slum cluster here, were admitted at the centre along with their relatives, the police said. The girl narrated her ordeal to one of her relatives, who is also undergoing treatment at the centre. The matter was then reported to an ITBP official, who informed the police, an official at the centre said. According to the police, in her complaint, the girl alleged that she was sexually assaulted by the man. She also accused the man's associate of capturing the act of sexual assault on a mobile phone. The police said the associate, also aged 19 years, did not sexually assault the girl. Based on her complaint, a case was registered against the two men under section 376 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant provisions of the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, a senior police officer said. "The two have been arrested and sent to judicial custody. We are investigating the matter further," he added. After the incident, the victim was shifted to another Covid-19 care centre and the two accused, who are currently under judicial custody, were also sent to another centre, where they are being treated, the officer said. The mobile phones of the accused have been seized, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-yr-old-covid-19-positive-girl-sexually-assaulted-by-another-patient-at-care-centre-2-held-police-864775.html
23-07-2020||National||SC terms 14 vacancies in NGT as appalling, gives 10 days to notify vacant posts||The Supreme Court on Thursday called fourteen existing vacancies in the National Green Tribunal as appalling, which can't be countenanced, given the important work performed by the panel. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar told the Union government to notify within 10 days vacancies of seven judicial members and seven technical members and other anticipated vacancies in six months in the green panel in one go. "The Tribunal is presently functioning with the strength of only seven judges (one chairman, three judicial members and three technical members) despite the mandate of the Act to ensure that the minimum number of members shall not be less than 10," the bench noted.  "This is an appalling situation concerning the premier institution such as National Green Tribunal, which is required to deal with environmental issues. That cannot be countenanced," the bench added, hearing a petition by the NGT Bar Association (Western Zone). Though Union government assured that notification for filling up nine vacancies is being issued by the end of July, 2020, the bench said this, in our opinion, is not enough. The court further directed until the proposed selection process culminated with appointment order of the concerned candidates against the existing vacancies, the members presently in office as on this date but are likely to retire shortly, would continue to hold office in terms of this order and discharge their functions accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-terms-14-vacancies-in-ngt-as-appalling-gives-10-days-to-notify-vacant-posts-864777.html
23-07-2020||National||No need to run more special trains: Indian Railways||Since vacant berths are available on existing trains, there is no need to run more trains, said Railway Board chairman V K Yadav on Thursday. "Most trains running without waiting lists. Right now no need to run more trains. Even on the ones running with waiting lists, one can get a confirmed ticket after a few days," he told reporters in a virtual media conference. The railways is monitoring the situation. Officials are in touch with states, he said. The Chairman also said that the railways had to cancel six trains out of the 230 trains after state governments' demands. "We have cancelled two special trains and four timetabled special trains on the demand of the state governments in view of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) situation," he said. Indian Railways has started to run 15 pairs of special AC trains from May 12 and 100 pairs of special timetabled trains from June 1. The national transporter had suspended passenger train services from March 25 due to the nationwide lockdown to fight Covid-19. Yadav also said the railways has met all the existing demand of states for Shramik Special trains to ferry stranded migrant workers home, with the last service being operated on July 9. A  total of 4,615 Shramik Special trains have been run since May 1, taking over 63 lakh people home during the coronavirus lockdown. “The last Shramik Special train ran on July 9 and with that we presume that we have met the demand of the states regarding these trains. However, if there is more such demand, we will run these services again,¨ he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-need-to-run-more-special-trains-indian-railways-864779.html
23-07-2020||National||Prez rejects states' ordinances to suspend majority of labour laws, says trade union BMS||RSS-affiliate Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) on Thursday said President Ram Nath Kovind has rejected ordinances proposed by Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to suspend the majority of labour laws. Labour is a concurrent subject and states can change or make new laws as per their requirements but those need to ratified by the President of India. During the coronavirus-induced lockdowns, the three states had proposed suspension of labour laws and had sent proposals to the central government for approval. "Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh had brought proposals in the form of an ordinance to suspend the majority of labour laws in their states. The President of India has rejected those proposals. We commend this decision of the central government," BMS Zonal Secretary Pawan Kumar told PTI. The labour ministry, however, did not confirm it. Meanwhile, the BMS celebrated its 66th foundation day on Thursday. Kumar also said that the BMS would go ahead with its "Sarkaar Jagaao Saptah" (Government Awakening Week) from July 24 to July 30. During this one week, the union would press the government for ensuring wages and jobs to workers during the lockdown, a national register for migrant workers, withdrawal of orders by states to increase working hours from 8 hours a day to 12 hours and to immediately stop the privatisation in railways and defence. Kumar also said that as many as 17 states had diluted labour laws to increase the working hours on the pretext that they want to make up for production loss during the lockdown. However, recently, the union labour ministry top brass told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour that states cannot make changes such as an increase in working hours, in the existing legal framework. The states' proposals to dilute labour laws during the lockdown faced flak from trade unions in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prez-rejects-states-ordinances-to-suspend-majority-of-labour-laws-says-trade-union-bms-864785.html
23-07-2020||National||India asks China to withdraw troops from LAC 'at the earliest'||India on Thursday asked China to “sincerely” complete the process of withdrawal of its soldiers both from the face-off points along the disputed boundary between the two nations as well as from the “depth” areas on its side “at the earliest”. New Delhi asked Beijing to make it sure that Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) “sincerely” works with the Indian Army “for complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas at the earliest as agreed to by the Special Representatives” of the two governments on July 5. With the Indian Army now suspecting a deliberate attempt by the Chinese PLA to slow down the process of withdrawal of troops from the face-off scenes in eastern Ladakh, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi reminded Beijing that the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas was the basis of India-China bilateral relationship. New Delhi is worried as the Indian Army noticed that the Chinese PLA had not yet withdrawn troops from the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake as well as several other face-off scenes along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations. The PLA also did not thin out deployment of nearly 40,000-45,000 troops in the “depth” areas on China’s side of the LAC. Anurag Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson in New Delhi, stated that the “conduct” of the Chinese PLA this year, including “the deployment of large body of troops and changes in behaviour, accompanied by unjustified and untenable claims,” had been “in complete disregard of all the mutual agreements”.  “We have also made it clear that India is fully committed to observing and respecting the LAC (with China) and that we will not accept any unilateral attempts to change the status quo along the LAC,” Srivastava told journalists on Thursday. The “disengagement” process started after the Senior Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had agreed upon it after three rounds of meetings on June 6, 22 and 30. A two-hour-long phone-call between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi – the Special Representatives of India and China for boundary negotiations and strategic consultations – on July 5 added momentum to the process. The senior military commanders of the two sides had another round of talks on July 14, when they had also discussed “further steps to ensure complete disengagement”. “The two sides have agreed during the conversation of the Special Representatives to work towards complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity,” said the MEA spokesperson. He also said that the senior diplomats of the two sides would hold another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) soon.  The latest stand-off, which started on May 5, took New Delhi’s relations with Beijing to a new low, particularly after the violent clash between the Indian and Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the violent face-off. New Delhi is worried about the continuing stand-off on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake), where the Chinese PLA deployed soldiers and built structures at the “Finger 4” area, thus denying access to Indian Army to areas up to its earlier patrolling limit – the “Finger 8”. Sources said that although the PLA had apparently thinned out some of its troops and vehicles from “Finger 4”, the numbers were not significant.       China also showed no sign of withdrawing the large number of troops it deployed over the past few weeks in the rear areas on its side of its disputed boundary with India – flouting the 1993 bilateral agreement, which required each side to “keep its military forces in the areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to a minimum level”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-china-to-withdraw-troops-from-lac-at-the-earliest-864795.html
23-07-2020||National||Railways to have contactless ticketing; tickets to be QR code-enabled, scanned on handheld devices||Indian Railways has started introducing contactless ticketing system with QR code-enabled tickets, which will be scanned on handheld devices and mobile phones at the stations and on the trains. “We have introduced a QR code system, which will be given on tickets. If one buys online, the code will be provided on the ticket. Even on window tickets, where one gets a physical ticket, a text message will be sent to the passenger’s mobile phone, which will have a link, and the QR code will be displayed when the link is touched", Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told reporters here. A pilot project of contactless ticket-checking with an airport-like check-in for all passengers entering the station has been introduced at Prayagraj Junction of North Central Railway. "The TTE at the stations or on the trains, either with their hand-held equipment or through their mobile phones which will have a QR application, will be able to scan the code and immediately capture the details of the passengers. In this system, the ticket examiner needs not touch the ticket in hand and it will be completely contactless,” he said. Though 80 % of railway travellers book ticket online, the national transporter is not planning to go completely paperless as of now, but will encourage the public to use online tickets, he said. Once a  passenger enters the station premises, the QR code of his ticket is scanned through a mobile application and this gets updated in the software’s database. The time of scanning the QR code also gets updated in the application. The station will have check-in counters on the line of the airport to minimise the exposure of the checking staff to the passengers. The QR code is scanned and the thermal screening of passengers initiated at these counters, the official said. Even onboard ticket-checking staff also gets information on passengers simultaneously including a coach-wise display with the number of berths, unbooked berths and the number of the boarding passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-have-contactless-ticketing-tickets-to-be-qr-code-enabled-scanned-on-handheld-devices-864810.html
23-07-2020||National||India has fantastic 'vaccine capability'; will be crucial in Covid-19 fight: UK envoy||India has a fantastic "vaccine capability" and it would play a crucial role in the partnerships the UK is building on Covid-19 vaccine development and manufacturing, the new British High Commissioner said on Thursday. British High Commissioner Philip Barton also said India is "really important" to the UK in meeting the Covid-19 challenges and getting through the pandemic. "Clearly India has a fantastic vaccine capability, in particular the Serum Institute. We have entered into a number of agreements and most notable one is with AstraZeneca," he said during a virtual media briefing. Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, has partnered with biopharmaceutical company AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine developed by the University of Oxford. Noting that the initial results of the Oxford University's early-stage human trials for a Covid-19 vaccine were encouraging, Barton, however, said, "We need to be cautious. We don't know if it is going to work. Oxford is well placed, but it is not there yet." "The latest reports of the results of the Oxford University vaccine candidate are encouraging and, of course, as you all know, it will be manufactured here in India by the Serum Institute. "I think that really illustrates our partnership in the health sector -- for the benefit of both our countries, but also more broadly for the world in general as we try to cope with and get beyond the pandemic," Barton said. He said putting health cooperation at the heart of the Indo-UK partnership was his top priority. "We're all in this (fight against the pandemic) together. It is partnerships and working together that is going to get us through it. And India is really important to the UK in that regard," Barton said. It was crucial in giving permissions for the export of paracetamol when supplies were running very low in the UK and also in allowing supplies of PPEs, he said. "It is going to be crucial in the future in the partnership we are building on things like vaccines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in the global vaccines summit in June that we hosted and made a financial commitment alongside many other countries to the vaccine alliance which we hope will provide a vaccine that will be made available globally to everyone and see us through this crisis," the British envoy said. He said the Indo-UK health partnership goes beyond that and has a wider research element to it. "The UK is now India's second-biggest research partner. We will be putting in 400 million pounds into research partnership next year," Barton said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-fantastic-vaccine-capability-will-be-crucial-in-covid-19-fight-uk-envoy-864833.html
23-07-2020||National||Intense rainfall activity over north, northeast India from July 26 to 29: IMD||North and northeast parts of the country will witness intense rainfall activity from July 26 to 29 due to a monsoon trough, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. The monsoon trough is likely to shift close to foothills of Himalayas July 26 onwards. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during July 26-28 and over Punjab and Haryana during July 27 – 29," the weather department said. The intensity and distribution of rainfall is very likely to increase over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh with widespread rainfall activity along with isolated heavy to extremely heavy rainfall during July 26-29. "Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely to occur over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the same period," the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intense-rainfall-activity-over-north-northeast-india-from-july-26-to-29-imd-864834.html
23-07-2020||National||UP: 120 inmates at Jhansi prison test Covid-19 positive||As many as 120 inmates of district jail here have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Thursday. The Jhansi district administration on Wednesday said that according to a report, 134 people have tested positive for Covid-19 of which 120 are inmates of the district jail. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district is 881 and as many as 671 patients have been discharged so far after recovering from the disease, they said. A total of 53 Covid-19 patients have died in the district so far while the number of Covid-19 cases in the district stands at 1,605, they said. District Magistrate of Jhansi Andra Vamsi told PTI, "The case fatality rate is 3.3 per cent (of the total Covid-19 cases), while recovery rate is around 42 per cent (of the total Covid-19 cases).” “The CFR (case fatality rate) will be streamlined in the next one week. Only 22 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment in the ICU, while rest are asymptomatic."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-120-inmates-at-jhansi-prison-test-covid-19-positive-864837.html
23-07-2020||National||Liquor shops outside cantonment zones during weekend curfews to remain open: Officials||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday decided to keep open the liquor vends outside Covid-19 containment zones during weekend shutdowns in the state. The order to keep liquor shops open during the weekend curfews has been sent to all divisional commissioners, district magistrates and superintendents of police. Additional Chief Secretary of Excise Department, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, in a government order issued here on Thursday, said, "All the liquor shops in the state, which are located outside the containment zones, have been exempted from the lockdown, which is imposed in the state every week from Friday 10.00 pm to Monday 5.00 am." As per the order, shops selling country-made liquor, foreign liquor, beer and 'bhaang' and model shops can remain open daily from 10 am to 9pm. However, if any person wants to open shops beyond or for less duration than this time limit, a permission has to be obtained from the relevant district magistrates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/liquor-shops-outside-cantonment-zones-during-weekend-curfews-to-remain-open-officials-864838.html
23-07-2020||National||Kurukshetra tea-seller becomes Rs 50 crore loan defaulter||A tea seller in Kurukshetra got the shock of his life when he was informed that he has a bank loan worth Rs 50 crore, which he claims he never took, as reported by ANI  Rajkumar, a road-side tea-seller who had been struggling to make ends meet due to the pandemic, recently decided to apply for a loan.  However, not only was his loan rejected, he was told that he already has a loan of Rs 50 crore, which he did not pay off. “I had applied for a loan as my financial situation is dire due to Covid-19. Bank rejected it saying I already have debt of Rs 50 crore, I don't know how it is possible,” said Rajkumar.  When he approached the bank with his documents, including his Aadhar, he was told he was already a defaulter of a loan worth Rs 50 crore.  “I cannot understand who was given this loan in my name and when?” Rajkumar said. Rajkumar had thought of starting another small business to increase his earnings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kurukshetra-tea-seller-becomes-rs-50-crore-loan-defaulter-864839.html
23-07-2020||National||India may hit one million active Covid-19 cases by August 15, suggest Indian researchers||India is likely to witness one million active Covid-19 cases by August 15 when the tricolour will be unfurled at the Red Fort. Two sets of mathematical modelling studies by Indian researchers hint at 10 lakh active cases by the Independence Day as the pandemic has begun to spread far and wide in the areas that reported low numbers so far. “If the present trend holds, we will breach 1 million active cases around August 15,” Sitabhra Sinha, a senior researcher at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai told DH. Sinha’s forecast is based on a mathematical model that he was running for months to look at the Covid-19 trends all over the country. The latest run is for the July 11-20 period. Going by the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai India currently has 4.26 lakh active cases. As per Sinha’s model, the national R value at the moment stands at 1.19 – a drop from the R value of 1.9 in April.  Reproduction number or R is the number of persons, one infected person can spread the infection. An R value of 1.9 means that 10 infected persons will on average cause 19 new infections whereas an R value of 1.19 means 10 infected persons can cause 12 new cases. “If containment measures stay at current levels then we are likely to reach close to 100,000 active cases by August 15,” said Dibyendu Nandi, a physicist at the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Kolkata who leads a team of researchers operating a Covid-19 disease tracking model. While a lower R value is good news from a national perspective, state-wise estimation of the trends reveals a different story altogether. It shows the outbreak is increasing steeply in Bihar (R: 1.62) and the three southern states Kerala (1.44), Karnataka (1.41) and Andhra Pradesh (1.51). The disease curve is moving north in West Bengal (1.38) and Uttar Pradesh (1.28) too. Delhi is the only state with a sub-exponential growth rate (0.85) but there are doubts on the Delhi data due to widespread use of the rapid antigen test that has poor accuracy. Among the big cities, Bengaluru is the worst with R value of 1.4 followed by Kolkata (1.3). For Mumbai and Chennai, the value is close to 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-hit-one-million-active-covid-19-cases-by-august-15-suggest-indian-researchers-864842.html
23-07-2020||National||Centre extends tenure of Krishna Tribunal by one year||The Centre on Thursday extended the tenure of Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal for a period of one year to resolve water sharing dispute between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The extension of tennure for year from August 1, 2020 says Gazette notification issued by the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti. This extension of time of tribunal to resolve Krisha river water sharing disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh out of erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh under Sec 89 of Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act 2014. The Centre set up  theTribunal in 2004 to share Krishna water among Maharashtra, Karnataka and the then Andhra Pradesh. The tribunal has submitted its report in December 2010. Subsequently the Ministry of Water Resoureces (present Jalshakthi) dissolved the Tribunal also. However, after separate states was created by dividing wrestwhile united Andhra Pradesh, the Centre decided to revive the Tribunal to share Krishna water share between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh as per the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-tenure-of-krishna-tribunal-by-one-year-864843.html
23-07-2020||National Politics||Congress lashes out at Narendra Modi government for targeting Ashok Gehlot's brother||Congress on Wednesday lashed out at the Modi government after the Enforcement Directorate carried out raids on the premises of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s brother in Rajasthan. Congress alleged that the Centre was trying out all tricks at its disposal by ordering raids by Income Tax authorities, CBI and ED on persons close to Gehlot as part of plans to topple his government in Rajasthan. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said that when the BJP’s plans to topple the Gehlot government did not succeed, the Modi government unleashed central investigative agencies on party sympathisers. Surjewala said the Income Tax officials had carried out raids on three business groups and individuals associated with the Congress. “Those raids targeted Rajiv Arora of Amrapali Jewels, who is also the Vice President of Rajasthan Congress, Dharmendra Rathore and Ratan Kant Sharma who owns the Fairmont hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur,” he said. Congress MLAs have been staying at Fairmont Hotel since July 12, when Sachin Pilot and his supporters refused to recognise the leadership of Gehlot and kept away from party meetings. Congress has since stripped Pilot of the posts of the Deputy Chief Minister and Rajasthan Congress President, while two of his supporters have been suspended from the party. “On July 20 and July 21, the CBI questioned MLA Krishna Poonia who brought laurels to the country in the Olympics. Why when BJP is conspiring to topple the government, CBI quizzed Poonia? Yesterday chief minister’s OSD Devaram Saini was also quizzed,” Surjewala said. On Wednesday, Enforcement Directorate officials carried out searches on premises of Agrasen Gehlot as part of countrywide raids in connection with a money-laundering case linked to a fertiliser scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-lashes-out-at-narendra-modi-government-for-targeting-ashok-gehlots-brother-864442.html
23-07-2020||National Politics||UP CM interested in hiding conditions of health facilities than improving them: Priyanka||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attacked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the state of health facilities in Uttar Pradesh where Covid-19 patients are being treated, alleging that he is more interested in hiding their conditions than improving them. "In the Covid-era, health facilities should be up and running. But, Mahoba's women's hospital is in this condition. You have seen the bad state of hospitals in Bareilly and Gorakhpur," she said in a tweet in Hindi, tagging a video showing the hospital in Mahoba waterlogged. "In Lucknow, the CM, who makes statements about health facilities, is interested in hiding these conditions, not improving them," Priyanka Gandhi said. Earlier this week, Priyanka Gandhi had tagged a video of rain water pouring down from the ceiling of a coronavirus ward of a hospital in Bareilly. She had also put out a video of the Covid-19 ward in Gorakhpur's medical college last week that showed the facility was full of drainage water. A total of 34 people died of Covid-19 and 2,300 tested positive for the infection in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, raising the death toll due to the disease to 1,263 and total cases to 55,588.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-cm-interested-in-hiding-conditions-of-health-facilities-than-improving-them-priyanka-864573.html
23-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan High Court gets go ahead to deliver judgement on plea by Pilot and other MLAs over disqualification||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that democracy would be shut down if people, including  MLAs elected on a party ticket, couldn't raise a voice of dissent. Refusing any relief to Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C P Joshi, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said the MLAs are elected by the people and they should be allowed to express dissent. The court allowed the Rajasthan High Court to pronounce its judgement as per schedule on July 24 on a plea by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 other rebel Congress MLAs against the disqualification notice. The court refused to pass any interim order on a plea by Speaker Joshi against the High Court's direction of July 21. The High Court had then asked the Speaker not to pass any order on the disqualification notice issued to Pilot and his supporting legislators until the final judgement was pronounced on July 24. Pilot and other MLAs were issued notice by the Speaker on July 14 after they failed to attend meeting of the Congress Legislature party. They were apparently aggrieved with leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. They then moved the HC against the disqualification notice. As the Speaker questioned HC's interference into the disqualification proceedings, the top court's bench said the matter required detailed hearing as it raised serious questions on the voice of dissent in a democracy. Joshi, led by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, contended the HC can't interdict in disqualification proceedings which was an exclusive domain of the Legislature, as held by the Constitution bench in Kihoto Hollohan (1992) followed consistently till as recently as in the Keisham Meghachandra Singh case (2020). Appearing for Pilot and other MLAs, senior advocate Harish Salve said the Speaker himself had deferred the proceedings twice. The issue of jurisdiction and maintainability of Pilot and other MLAs' writ petition has been argued before the HC. Having appeared and argued before the HC, the Speaker can't now ask the High Court not to decide the matter, Salve submitted. On this, Sibal asked for the High Court proceedings be stayed since the issue of jurisdiction was raised . He submitted that the Speaker would not take any decision till the matter is pending here. The court, however, declined the request. "Let the HC pronounce the judgement on Friday. The HC's judgement would be subject to the final outcome of the proceedings here," the bench said, posting the Speaker's petition for further hearing on Monday, July 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-high-court-gets-go-ahead-to-deliver-judgement-on-plea-by-pilot-and-other-mlas-over-disqualification-864582.html
23-07-2020||National Politics||Need global vision to take on China, but PM focussed on his image: Rahul Gandhi||Keeping up attack on the Modi government, Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said India needed to adopt a global vision to deal with China, but claimed Prime Minister Narendra Modi is 100 per cent focused on building his own image. “Prime Minister is 100% focused on building his own image. India's captured institutions are all busy doing this task. One man's image is not a substitute for a national vision,” the former Congress President said in his third video blog on the Chinese transgressions in Ladakh.  In the video, Rahul advised the Prime Minister that psychologically India will have to deal with the Chinese from a position of strength. “If you deal with them from a position of  strength you can work with them, you can get what you need and it can be actually done. But if they sense weakness, then you had it,” he said. Rahul said India cannot take on China without an international vision, which should be laid down by the Prime Minister. “His (the prime minister’s) responsibility is to give the vision and it's not there and I can tell you it's not there and that is why China is in there today,” said the Lok Sabha member from Wayanad. Rahul said India could either become a major world player or turn irrelevant, depending on the path it chooses. “And that is why I am aggravated. Because I can see that a huge opportunity is being lost. Why? Because we are not thinking in the long term, we are not thinking big and we are disturbing our internal balance, we are fighting among ourselves,” he said. The short videos are part of Rahul’s attempts to demystify complex issues for his followers and present himself as the challenger to Modi afresh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/need-global-vision-to-take-on-china-but-pm-focussed-on-his-image-rahul-gandhi-864593.html
23-07-2020||National Politics||Sense of despair among Congress workers over treatment meted out to Pilot, Scindia: Kuldeep Bishnoi||Haryana Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi on Thursday said there is a sense of despair among party workers over the treatment meted out to young leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot, and also urged the leadership to promote mass leaders in every state in the war against the BJP. Taking on the old guard, he asked the Congress leadership to give other responsibilities to those who have been occupying high positions for 35 years and have never contested elections. Bishnoi, who is son of former Haryana chief minister Bhajan Lal, triggered speculation when he posted a picture of himself with Scindia and Pilot on Twitter. "Many congratulations @JM_Scindia. A well deserved one," he said along with the picture, on a day when Scindia took oath as Rajya Sabha member of the BJP. He also congratulated former Congress leader Priyanka Chaturvedi, who also took oath as a Shiv Sena member of Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. "Sincere congratulations @priyankac19 on your hard-earned success. Best wishes for a bright future." While Scindia has quit the party, Pilot has raised a banner of revolt against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in Rajasthan and is on the verge of quitting, even though he has claimed that he is not joining the BJP. "Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot are very good friends and their leaving the party is hurting the Congress a lot. The treatment meted out to them by the party, there is a sense of despair among the party workers. I am a Congressman by birth and will never quit it," Bishnoi said in a video posted on Twitter. He asked the BJP not to spread rumours about him as he was still the same person. "I want to tell the high command to bring mass leaders forward as they are the people who can give a fight to the BJP. Those people who have been occupying high posts for 30-35 years, who never fought elections, they should be given other responsibilities as we are headed towards a big war," he said, while taking a swipe at the old guard within the Congress. His remarks brought to the fore the rift between the old and the young within the Congress. Bishnoi has been disgruntled for some time now. He earlier formed his own Haryana Janhit Party and was a part of the NDA, but later quit them and is now in the Congress. He has been a two-time MP from Hisar and Bhiwani and is currently an MLA representing Adampur constituency in Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sense-of-despair-among-congress-workers-over-treatment-meted-out-to-pilot-scindia-kuldeep-bishnoi-864646.html
23-07-2020||National Politics||Scindia in Parliamentary Standing Committee on HRD panel, ex-CJI Gogoi in External Affairs panel||Newly-elected BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia will be a member of Parliamentary Standing Committee on HRD while former Chief Justice of India and nominated member Justice Ranjan Gogoi has been nominated to the panel on External Affairs. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu announced the nomination of 65 MPs, including newly-elected members, to the committees. Ramdas Athawale, being a Union Minister, is not nominated to any panel while among the new MPs, CPI(M)'s Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya and Trinamool Congress' Arpita Ghosh also do not find his name in the list. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, who is yet to take oath, has been nominated to Railways panel while Sharad Pawar will be in Defence committee and Mallikarjun Kharge will be in Commerce panel along with new Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi. BJP MPs from Karnataka Ashok Gasti and Iranna Kadadi have been nominated to Social Justice and Empowerment, and Rural Development panels respectively. Trinamool Congress' Dinesh Trivedi will be in Home while Congress General Secretary KC Venugopal will be in Transport, Tourism and Culture Standing Committee. Another Congress General Secretary Shaktisingh Gohil will be in the Information and Technology panel. Former Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was re-elected, has been nominated to the Agriculture panel while former Lok Sabha Deputy Speaker M Thambi Durai, who has been elected to the Upper House, will be a member of the HRD panel. JMM patriarch Shibu Soren will be a member of the Coal and Steel committee. CPI(M) MP Elamaram Kareem has been nominated to the Finance panel. He is already a member of the Labour panel. Naidu also appointed senior Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe as the Chairman of the Committee on HRD due to the expiry of the membership of Dr Satyanarayan Jatiya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/scindia-in-parliamentary-standing-committee-on-hrd-panel-ex-cji-gogoi-in-external-affairs-panel-864780.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Shot for lodging harassment complaint, UP journo dies at hospital||The UP journalist, who was shot at and critically wounded allegedly for lodging a complaint of harassment of his niece by some unidentified people in Ghaziabad town, near Delhi, succumbed to his injuries at the hospital on Wednesday. According to the doctors, the scribe, Vikram Joshi had been shot in the head from close range and died on Wednesday morning. The killing of the journo triggered widespread outrage and the opposition parties launched a scathing attack on the BJP government in the state over what they alleged worsening law and order situation. ''Jungle raj prevails in the state...no one safe here,'' BSP supremo Mayawati said in a tweet demanding that the culprits be brought to the book at the earliest. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said that BJP had promised 'Ram Raj' but the people got 'goonda raj'. The family members of Joshi said that the local police, despite several complaints, did not take any action against the youths, who had been harassing the scribe's niece for the past one year. Nine people have been arrested in this connection. A sub-inspector of the local police outpost was also suspended for laxity. Joshi was intercepted by the assailants while he was on his way home on his motorbike with his two minor daughters late on Monday night near Mata Colony and was shot at after being thrashed.  A video, which went viral on the social networking sites, showed the scribe's daughter crying and seeking help of the passers by to take their injured father to the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shot-for-lodging-harassment-complaint-up-journo-dies-at-hospital-864450.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Mother bravely fights against minor daughter's attempted kidnapping; incident caught on camera||A mother of a four-year-old girl thwarted a kidnapping attempt on her daughter as she fought two motorcycle-borne men sent by her brother-in-law to abduct the children to extort money from her father in east Delhi. The whole incident, which took place on Tuesday, was captured on CCTV cameras. Police said the 27-year-old uncle of the girl, who planned the kidnapping of the minor girl to extort money from her parents, was arrested along with his associate in east Delhi's Krishna Nagar area on Wednesday.  Upender, a resident of Krishna Nagar, had planned to abduct his niece in order to extort around Rs 30 to 35 lakh from his brother. However, his plan failed and he was arrested on Wednesday from Krishan Nagar, a senior police officer said. The mother of the four-year-old girl fought with the two motorcycle-borne men, sent by Upender, and saved her daughter from being kidnapped. The video of the incident went viral on social media. In the video, the woman is seen pulling her daughter from the clutches of the abductors. She pushes the motorcycle rider and the two-wheeler falls on the ground, following which the pillion rider starts running. Later, the rider speeds away the two-wheeler. One of the neighbours of the victim starts running after the accused persons. Another neighbour parks his scooter in the middle of the road to block their way and nab them. However, both the accused manage to escape the spot. Police received information regarding an attempt of the kidnapping of a four-year-old girl at Shakarpur area on Tuesday. After reaching the spot, they found the accused persons had left a motorcycle and a bag containing one country-made pistol with four live cartridges, police said. The accused came to the house of the victim around 4 pm and asked for water. When the mother of the girl went inside to bring the water, they tried to abduct the minor. However, the woman saw it and successfully managed to free her daughter, police said. The accused were doing a recee of the area since the last one week. One of the CCTV footages captured their presence in the area two days ago, police said. During the investigation, police found that the motorcycle had a fake number plate. Later, the owner of the motorcycle was identified as Dheeraj (24), a resident of New Govindpura, through its chassis and engine numbers, they said. "Police reached at New Govindpura and found that Dheeraj had vacated the rented house five-years-ago. Later, he was arrested from the Jagatpuri area," Deputy Commissioner of Police (east) Jasmeet Singh said. During interrogation, Dheeraj said Upender, the uncle of the victim, was the main conspirator. Upender knew Dheeraj and hatched a conspiracy with him to kidnap the daughter of his brother and promised to give him Rs 1 lakh. On his information, Upender was arrested on Wednesday from the Krishna Nagar area, Singh said. Police said that Upender is married and has a daughter. Dheeraj also has a daughter. Upender said he was in debt and planned to extort money from his brother who owns a garment store in Gandhi Nagar, police said, adding that they are trying to nab the absconding accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mother-bravely-fights-against-minor-daughters-attempted-kidnapping-incident-caught-on-camera-864454.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Jaipur court directs probe into allegations against Gajendra Shekhawat in cooperative society scam||A city court has directed that Rajasthan police should probe a complaint alleging the involvement of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in a credit society scam. The development comes amid allegations by the Congress that the minister is involved in a bid to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. The Special Operations Group (SOG) has already sent a notice to the minister in connection with a probe into audio clips which purportedly indicate efforts to lure MLAs away from the Congress. On Tuesday, additional district judge Pawan Kumar directed the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court to send the complaint against the BJP leader to the SOG. Shekhawat has been named in the complaint along with his wife and others in the Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society scam in which thousands of investors allegedly lost about Rs 900 crores. The Jaipur unit of the SOG has probing into the scam since last year. An FIR was registered on August 23, 2019. Shekhawat was not mentioned in the charge sheet filed by the SOG in connection with case. Later, a magistrate’s court also rejected an application to include him in the charge sheet. The applicants them approached the additional district judge’s court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaipur-court-directs-probe-into-allegations-against-gajendra-shekhawat-in-cooperative-society-scam-864517.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Conservation, preservation key to Lonar lake's development: HC||The development of the Lonar lake, which recently turned pink, also includes conservation and preservation of the water body, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court has said, emphasising the need to "appreciate its biology, geology and aesthetic value". A division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor made the observation on Wednesday while hearing a petition filed by one Kirti Nipankar, raising concerns over the change in colour of the lake's water. The oval-shaped Lonar lake, formed after a meteorite hit the earth some 50,000 years ago, is a popular tourist hub in Maharashtra's Buldhana district. The colour of the lake water recently turned pink, which has not only surprised locals, but also nature enthusiasts and scientists. Advocate C S Kaptan, who is a member of the court-appointed committee set up to look into the issue, told the court that the state government has till date sanctioned around Rs 91 crore to the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation for the development of the Lonar lake and the area surrounding it. Kaptan argued that though these funds are available, their proper utilisation is not taking place. The court then noted that the concept of development of the Lonar crater lake would include the core issue of preservation and conservation of the lake, and said if the lake is preserved and conserved for posterity, only then its development will have a meaning. "But, if the development of Lonar Crater lake and its surroundings takes place without any care for the conservation of the lake, a time will come when development would be like a home without children in it, like a ghost structure without any life force in it, and there would remain nothing more to build, develop and enjoy as the Crater lake, the very heartbeat of the development, would have gone away, it said. Development, as we understand in the matter, is only in the context of conservation of the lake and appreciation of the beauty of the Crater lake, its biology, geology and aesthetic value, the court added. The bench noted that various agencies like the state public works department (PWD), forest department, Buldhana Municipal Council, Archaeological Survey of India, and the National Highway Authority of India are involved in the issue. "All these authorities must sit together and sort out various issues which are interlinked and interconnected with each of these departments so that what comes out of such effort would only ensure the benefit of the Lonar Crater lake, the court said. It accepted the suggestion made by Kaptan and the petitioner's lawyer Anand Parchure to appoint a nodal officer who would act as an umbrella authority for all these agencies. "Accordingly, we appoint the Collector of Buldhana to be the nodal authority for overseeing, supervising, undertaking and ensuring the completion of all works related to the preservation, conservation and development of the Lonar Crater lake, the court directed. The bench said all proposals related to the lake shall be forwarded to the nodal authority. The court in its order noted that as per reports submitted by the Geological Survey of India and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), the change in the lake water colour has occurred on account of natural reasons and the factors responsible for it are dunaliella algae and halo bacteria. "These organisms release a substance called carotenoid under stress conditions. This substance is pink in colour, which turns the water pink. The reports indicate that pollution was not the cause for this phenomenon, it said. The court also directed Buldhana collector to take effective steps to stop open defecation in the vicinity of the lake. "The state forest department and PWD, in the meanwhile, would erect fencing at crucial points so as to physically prevent people from using the area for defecation. We also direct the Superintendent of Police, Buldhana, to deploy police personnel in the morning and evening to deter the practice of open defecation, the court ordered. The bench has posted the petition for further hearing on August 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/conservation-preservation-key-to-lonar-lakes-development-hc-864566.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Babri demolition case: Murli Manohar Joshi deposes before court via video link||A special CBI court on Thursday recorded the statement of BJP veteran Murli Manohar Joshi in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case.         The statement of the 86-year-old leader was recorded in the court of Special Judge S K Yadav through video conference.         Former deputy prime minister LK Advani (92) is likely to record his statement on Friday through video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-demolition-case-murli-manohar-joshi-deposes-before-court-via-video-link-864575.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Six-day strict lockdown begins in Kashmir||No movement of people, except medical emergencies and essential services, was being allowed across Kashmir with most of the roads barricaded by the police in Srinagar city. Shops, fuel stations and other business establishments were shut and public transport was off the roads across the valley, reports said. However, agriculture, horticulture and construction activities have been allowed in accordance with disaster management guidelines while the movement of goods carriers, LPG and oil tankers also continued unhindered. The Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc in Kashmir in July as the deadly virus has claimed 180 lives in the Union Territory in the last three weeks. Interestingly, since Unlock 2, Covid positive cases have shown a huge spurt. While the first case was reported in Kashmir on March 9, the first 1000 patients took 67 days to accumulate till May 15. In the next 16 days till May 31, the total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir rose to 2446. In June, 5051 positive cases were reported while till 22 July, 8214 people have been affected by the virus. Medical experts in Kashmir believe that the actual number of Covid-19 deaths in the valley is higher than what is reported as many deaths go unreported because people deliberately don't go for testing. Many doctors and civil society members had urged the government to re-impose the lockdown to prevent the mass spread of the virus. Leading medicos have already stated that the deadly virus was already in the community and it was time to take precautions that include wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-day-strict-lockdown-begins-in-kashmir-864592.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Need of hour to jointly bear Covid-19 burden: Himachal Pradesh CM on bus fare hike||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday hit out at the opposition Congress for criticising the Himachal Pradesh government over the recent hike in bus fares and for allowing tourists to the hill state during the Covid-19 pandemic. Thakur said it is the need of the hour to jointly bear the burden of handling Covid-19 and several other states, including Punjab, have also hiked the bus fare. The chief minister was addressing BJP workers of the Doon assembly segment in the Shimla parliamentary constituency online from his official residence here. He is in self-quarantine since Wednesday afternoon after a deputy secretary in his office tested positive for coronavirus. Though Thakur, his wife Dr Sadhana Thakur and their two daughters tested negative around 9 pm on Wednesday, they will remain quarantined for a week and tested again, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. The opposition Congress, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and the RSS-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) had on Tuesday demanded an immediate rollback of the 25 percent hike in bus fares in Himachal Pradesh.  On Monday, the state government decided to increase the bus fare by 25 percent. It also decided to hike minimum bus fare for the first three kilometres from Rs five to Rs seven in view of the fund crunch due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On criticism by the opposition for allowing tourists in the state during the pandemic, he said most of the states, including Uttarakhand, Goa and Kerala, had allowed tourists after banning them due to the coronavirus lockdown in March. The state government has allowed their entry with strict preconditions, he added. The chief minister said that not a single tourist has been found Covid-19 positive.  He alerted people that Covid-19 cases might increase in the rainy season.  Thakur said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed fear of a spike in cases in rains during a video conference with him about three-four days ago.   The chief minister, however, said there is no need to panic as the state government is fully prepared to tackle the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/need-of-hour-to-jointly-bear-covid-19-burden-himachal-pradesh-cm-on-bus-fare-hike-864599.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Woman injured in Pakistani firing in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara||A woman has been injured in a ceasefire violation by the Pakistani side along the Line of Control (LoC) in Tangdhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district, the Army said on Thursday. She was rushed to a hospital and her condition was stated to be stable, an Army official said. "Pakistan army targeted civilian villages in forward areas along the LoC last night. It resulted in bullet injury to a woman of Hajitra village of Tangdhar sector (in Kupwara district)," he said. The Army gave a befitting response to the Pakistani aggression, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-injured-in-pakistani-firing-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kupwara-864603.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||On first anniversary of Article 370 abrogation, BJP to hold celebrations in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir unit of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) will hold mega celebrations from August 5 for 15 days to mark the first anniversary of abrogation of Article 370. “A 15-day long program has been chalked out to celebrate one year of August 5 decision,” BJP General Secretary Ashok Koul said. He said as far as the restoration of peace in the J&K is concerned, the situation is quite clear. “Kashmir is peaceful today and credit goes to last year’s historic decision. On the development front, Covid-19 played a spoilsport. The way development should have taken place it hasn’t,” the BJP leader said. He said security forces too have been able to kill a record number of militants this year and protests at the encounter sites have vanished. “Today, we see no clashes at the encounter sites as youth have realised the futility of protests,” Koul said. BJP's Jammu and Kashmir spokesman Altaf Thakur said that the party has decided to celebrate the J&K’s complete integration with the Union of India. “Central ministers will address virtual rallies. They will also visit various districts of J&K and meet Refugees, Safai Karam Charis,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/on-first-anniversary-of-article-370-abrogation-bjp-to-hold-celebrations-in-jk-864604.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh minister tests coronavirus positive||Madhya Pradesh Co-operatives Minister Arvind Singh Bhadoriya on Thursday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. In a video message, Bhadoriya said he did not experience any symptoms of the viral infection. "I just had sore throat. I went for the test. My report came at 12:30 am. I rushed to the hospital and got admitted," he said, and asked those who came in contact with him to get themselves tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-minister-tests-coronavirus-positive-864605.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 50% excess rainfall in July||With spells of heavy downpour lashing the national capital this week, the city has already recorded 50 per cent more rainfall than normal in July, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Rainfall recorded in the city in July till Saturday was just 47.9 mm, 56 per cent less than the normal for the period. According to the IMD data, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded 225 mm rainfall in July so far, which is 50 per cent more than the normal of 149.8 mm.  The Lodhi Road weather station has gauged 246 mm rainfall which is 64 per cent more than the normal of 149.8 mm.   The Palam weather station has recorded 37 per cent surplus precipitation -- 224 mm against the normal of 164.1 mm. However, since Jun 1, when the monsoon season begins, the city has recorded 29 per cent less rainfall than normal.  Delhi received this season's first spell of heavy rains on Sunday which submerged low-lying areas in waist-deep water. Safdarjung, Ridge and Lodhi Road weather stations recorded 74.8 mm, 86 mm and 81.2 mm rainfall, respectively.  At least four people have died in rain-related incidents. Heavy rains drenched the city again on Wednesday, inundating many areas and affecting traffic movement.  The monsoon reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than the usual date of arrival. Despite that, rains remained subdued in the city in the absence of a strong supportive weather system such as moisture-laden easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal.  Earlier, the IMD had predicted normal rainfall in the national capital during the season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-50-excess-rainfall-in-july-864615.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh journalist dies after being shot over old rivalry||A 35-year-old journalist working for a Gwalior-based daily died after a group of persons allegedly shot him and attacked him with sticks over an old rivalry in Madhya Pradesh's Niwari district, police said on Thursday. The incident took place near Putri Khera village in Sendri police station limits on Wednesday evening. The victim, Sunil Tiwari, and his brother were heading towards the village on a motorcycle when seven persons, including three identified as Awdhesh Tiwari, Narendra Tiwari and Anil Tiwari, intercepted the duo, sub-divisional officer of police Balram Singh Parihar said. The accused allegedly attacked the victim with sticks and shot him, he said. The journalist's brother somehow managed to escape from the spot to reach the village to get help, while the attackers fled leaving the victim grievously injured, he said. Sunil Tiwari's family members rushed him to Jhansi Medical College in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh where he succumbed to his injuries, the official said. The victim had an old rivalry with the accused over dominance in the village, which may have led to the attack, he said. A murder case has been registered against seven accused, all of whom are currently absconding, the official said, adding that efforts were on to nab them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-journalist-dies-after-being-shot-over-old-rivalry-864637.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Robbers return to ask ATM card pin, held after gunfight with Noida cops||Two motorcycle-borne men who were fleeing after robbing the mobile phone and wallet of a man were held here following a gunfight with the police, officials said on Thursday. The incident took place Wednesday night on a road near Garhi Chaukhandi village under Phase-3 police station limits, Central Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Harish Chander said. "The accused were fleeing after robbing the mobile phone and wallet of a man, who was out for dinner, at gunpoint. There was some cash, driver’s license, Aadhaar card and an ATM card in the wallet of the victim. After going to some distance, the robbers returned to the victim to ask for the pin code of his ATM card and then fled again," he said. The matter was immediately reported to the local police station and relayed on the police network and the duo was intercepted at a security check in the area, the officer said. “When asked to stop for checking, they opened fire on the police team and sped away. They were chased by the policemen and the duo got injured in retaliatory firing after which they were held and taken to a nearby hospital for treatment,” DCP Chander said. Those held have been identified as Gaurav Singh and Sadanand, both locals around 25 years of age and the items robbed by them, including the wallet with Rs 3,200 and the ATM card, have been recovered, the police said. Two country-made pistols were also seized from their possession and their motorcycle has been impounded, while further proceedings are being carried out at the Phase 3 police station, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/robbers-return-to-ask-atm-card-pin-held-after-gunfight-with-noida-cops-864645.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Woman gang-raped by two men in Uttar Pradesh||A 32-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped in a village under Fatanpur police station area here, police said on Thursday. The victim lodged a complaint in which it is alleged that she had contacted Sangam Lal alias Lala and Dinesh for renting a house. Both of them had called her to a secluded place to talk about the rent where they allegedly raped her on Wednesday, Raniganj Deputy Superintendent of Police Atul Anjan said. An FIR has been registered and both men have been arrested, the DSP  added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-gang-raped-by-two-men-in-uttar-pradesh-864661.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: BJP MLA demands encounter of cops having nexus with criminals||An Uttar Pradesh BJP lawmaker triggered a controversy after he asked the state police to prepare a 'top ten' list of cops having nexus with criminals and dealt with them in the same way as it dealt with dreaded criminals (read encounter). BJP legislator Rajesh Kumar Mishra, in a letter to the DIG police, Bareilly range Rajesh Pandey, said that the cops were equally responsible for encouraging crimes by hobnobbing with criminals. He said that the cops had been found to be involved in corruption, illegal mining, smuggling, patronising gambling activities, selling illicit liquor and flesh trade.  ''You should prepare a list of ten policemen, who are found to be hand in glove with the criminals, at the police station level....have the list published in the newspapers,'' Mishra said in his letter. ''The state police have gunned down many criminals in encounters...the police personnel having nexus with criminals should also be dealt with in the same way,'' the lawmaker said. The letter triggered a controversy as it virtually put the cops and criminals in the same league and lent credence to the opposition leaders' allegation that the state police was hand in glove with the criminals. The letter comes close on the heels of the killing of eight cops by gangster Vikas Dubey and his goons at Bikaru village in Kanpur district. It was suspected that a senior cop had tipped Dubey about the police raid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bjp-mla-demands-encounter-of-cops-having-nexus-with-criminals-864698.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Three Jamaat women, who stayed at Jharkhand quarantine centre, found pregnant||In a bizarre turn of events, three women belonging to Tablighi Jamaat, who had stayed at a quarantine centre in Jharkhand, have been found to be pregnant. These women, all foreigners, were part of the group arrested in Ranchi on the charges of violation of lockdown guidelines and visa rules. "An FIR was registered against 17 foreigners in Ranchi's Hind Pidhi police station in March for violating lockdown guidelines and visa rules. These people, including few couples, were put up in a quarantine centre at Khel Gaon. Eventually, they were shifted to Birsa Munda Jail in Ranchi on May 20," a source in the Hemant Soren Government informed DH over phone on Thursday. The Jharkhand High Court, however, granted these apprehended persons conditional bail earlier this week. Before they were released on July 21, the HC reiterated that till disposal of the case, they cannot leave India and will have to stay here and appear before the court as and when required. "When they came out of jail, it was found that the three women were three months pregnant," the source said and added the Soren Government has constituted a probe panel to investigate the matter. "An officer in the rank of Additional Collector will investigate how physical distance was not maintained by the inmates at quarantine centre and who was the in-charge of the Centre when these people were lodged there," the source, refusing to be identified, averred. All the 17 apprehended persons, including nine males and four couples, had travelled from New Delhi to Ranchi in March-end after attending the Tablighi event in the national capital. One of the Malaysian woman was the first to be found Covid-19 positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-jamaat-women-who-stayed-at-jharkhand-quarantine-centre-found-pregnant-864706.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Recovered Delhi cop tests positive again, raises question if coronavirus can reinfect||The case of a Delhi policeman having a relapse of the novel coronavirus has baffled experts and the doctors treating him and has raised the question whether a recovered patient can contract the infection again. The policeman, 50, had tested positive for the virus in May and was treated at the Indraprastha Apollo hospitals between May 15 and 22. Thereafter, he had tested negative and resumed duty. However, on July 10, he again felt unwell with a fever and dry cough and got himself tested on July 13. The report came positive through the rapid antigen test as well as the RT-PCR test, said Dr Rajesh Chawla, Senior Consultant, Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Apollo Hospitals. The policeman, who has no other underlying ailment, complained of chest pain on July 16 and was admitted to the hospital, the senior doctor said, adding that he is stable and his vitals are being monitored. "The first time he was tested for coronavirus, he had no symptoms. There was a camp in the hospital and since his friend got tested, he also got tested and came positive,” he told PTI. The second time the policeman was tested for antibodies too, but it was found that he did not have antibodies, he said. What could be the reasons for the relapse of infection? "If it was within a month,” said Dr Chawla, “I would have said that it was a dead virus that was giving a positive result. But that is not the case.” “The other thing could be that it was a false positive when he was tested the first time, although it is very rare in RT-PCR test but still it can occur. The third, of course, is reinfection because he did not have antibodies. I have not seen any other such patient," he said. Dr Mugdha Tapdiya, Senior Consultant, Internal Medicine, Fortis Hospital, Vasant Kunj, concurred with Dr Chawla. It is possible that a right level of antibodies was not developed against the virus which meant that when the patient was exposed again, he got reinfected, she said. She also did not rule out the possibility that the first result was a false positive. Earlier this week, a similar case had surfaced in the national capital after a nurse employed at a civic-run dedicated COVID-19 hospital had tested positive again after recovering. However, the municipal authorities had claimed there was nothing to worry as it is ostensibly the “dead virus” left in her body from the previous infection. The officials had said that her IgG antibody level is “very high, which also corroborates this explanation". Explaining the recurrence of the infection, Krishnan Harshan, a virologist with the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, said these could be "sporadic cases". "There are two aspects to it. If the virus is found again in recovered patients, there is either some problem with the test or there is some issue with the immunity of the people who have been re-infected," he told PTI. The immunity against the virus also stays in the body for sometime, he said, adding that unlike the HIV, which is a latent virus and integrates with the genome of the host, the coronavirus doesn't show anything like that. Dr Tapdiya it has been a matter of study all over the world. "There have been a few places like Korea, China where there was recurrence or relapse of infection. Actually there are two sets of patients where it has been seen -- first the disease was mild, and in the second episode, it became severe. In the second set of patients, the disease was moderate or severe in the first instance and then in the second instance also, it was severe. "But at no point in both the cases it was proven that in the first case when the patient was asymptomatic it was a false positive and when he came positive the second time, it was a true positive," she said. The senior doctor also said that recovered patients lower their guard and they become a little bold thinking they won't contract the infection again after catching it once. "It has also been seen that people who have had a milder infection or are asymptomatic, do not have enough immunity, which is also a theory proposed. "It is very important that for every mild and asymptomatic test beyond the 14th day, we should get an antibody test done for testing their immunity. At no point, they should lower the guard," Tapdiya added. “As of now, you are at an equal risk of contracting the infection again.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovered-delhi-cop-tests-positive-again-raises-question-if-coronavirus-can-reinfect-864708.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||BJP accuses AAP governmnet of favouring Bangladeshis, Rohingyas in ration card distribution; AAP says nonsense||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir on Thursday said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is doing in Delhi what Mamata Banerjee did in West Bengal, and alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) favoured Bangladeshis and Rohingyas while issuing ration cards for vote-bank politics. The East Delhi MP also questioned the 'seriousness' of the AAP government in tackling the problems of the city, alleging that officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) were absent from a meeting of the Committee on Urban Development that discussed the issue of waterlogging in the national capital. Senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh termed Gambhir's remarks "nonsense" and also alleged he was lying over the PWD absence in the parliamentary standing committee meeting. At a joint press conference, Gambhir and Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Bidhuri alleged that the Delhi government's Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana is just a name change of the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. Gambhir alleged that in the past six years "not a single deserving" person was issued a ration card and added that migrant workers left the city during pandemic as they did not get ration. "When ration cards are to be issued to illegal migrants Bangladeshi and Rohingyas, the AAP is ahead of everyone because they want to do vote bank politics. What Mamata Banerjee is doing in Bengal, Kejriwal is doing in Delhi," he alleged. Raising the issue of waterlogging, the cricketer-turned-politician said the Delhi Chief Minister should be serious about issues plaguing the city. “I am just coming from a Urban Development committee meeting where the waterlogging in Delhi was discussed. The PWD was not there, this is how serious Kejriwal and his agency are," he charged. Singh, replying to Gautam on Twitter, said he was lying as PWD was not called for the meeting. "Gautam Gambhir ji issuing any statement about parliamentary standing committee meeting beyond it is contempt, only the chairman has power to do so. Still I did not expect you to lie. The truth is the PWD was not invited. Should it have reached there on its own?" he tweeted in Hindi. The BJP leaders said the party will launch an agitation if people are not issued ration cards in Delhi. "The Delhi government should immediately start providing ration cards to the 10 lakh poor people in the capital. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal himself had said on April 6 this year said that 10 lakh non-ration cardholders of Delhi would be given free ration," Bidhuri said. The Delhi government had earlier said that it will provide free ration to people including over 17 lakh cardholders till November. The government has also been providing free ration to nearly 30 lakh people not having ration cards during the pandemic, it had said. The Chief Minister announced Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna earlier this week, for doorstep delivery of ration to card-holders. The scheme will come into effect in next 6-7 months, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-accuses-aap-governmnet-of-favouring-bangladeshis-rohingyas-in-ration-card-distribution-aap-says-nonsense-864756.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Akali MLA, his son test positive for Covid-19||Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday, a health official said. His samples were taken on Tuesday after the Batala legislator complained of fever and fatigue, an official said. Lodhinangal was admitted to a private hospital in Amritsar. His son Mandeep Singh has also contracted the infection, the official said. Lodhinangal was among 12 persons who were infected with coronavirus, said Gurdaspur Civil Surgeon Kishan Chand. Earlier, state cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and two Congress legislators -- Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal and Dharambir Agnihotri -- had also contracted the infection. Punjab has been seeing a spike in the number of coronavirus cases. The tally stood at 11,739 with 277 deaths as on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akali-mla-his-son-test-positive-for-covid-19-864757.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||BJP takes one more step towards freedom from dependency on Jyotiraditya Scindia supporters||One more Congress MLA fell into the BJP net on Thursday as the ruling party’s poaching spree continues in pursuit of the goal to ensure the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government’s survival minus Jyotiraditya Scindia supporters. Narayan Patel, the MLA from Mandhta in Khandwa district, is the third opposition lawmaker to defect to the BJP in last 12 days. Earlier this month, Congress MLAs from Bada Malahara (Bundelkhand) Pradumn Singh Lodhi and Nepanagar (Nimar region) Sumitra Devi Kasdekar quit membership of the assembly to join the BJP. With the latest resignation, 27 assembly seats have fallen vacant. Of these, 22 vacancies were caused due to en masse resignations of Scindia supporters in March which culminated into fall of the 15-month-old Kamal Nath government. Two seats were already vacant owing to the death of a Congress and a BJP MLA. The Congress number has reduced to 89 in the 230-strong state assembly whereas BJP has 107 MLAs. The ruling party needs only nine more seats to attain a majority.    Hours after the pro-tem speaker Rameshwar Sharma accepted his resignation, the turncoat MLA Narayan Patel took membership of the BJP at the party headquarters in front of the Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Many more Congress MLAs are said to be in touch with the BJP and could resign soon. The BJP is reportedly aiming to engineer defection of at least 10 Congress MLAs who are not aligned to Scindia. The goal is to ensure the survival of the government post the coming by-elections in the event of the 19 Scindia supporters losing in their seats. It is the BJP’s plan-B which the party has chalked out following internal assessment that most of the Scindia supporters might be defeated in the by-elections. BJP grassroots workers were said to be already annoyed over the prospect of having to support defectors in the by-elections. Then Jyotiraditya Scindia’s success in getting 11 of his supporters inducted in the Shivraj Singh cabinet at the expense of the party old guards further fuelled the BJP workers’ fury against the turncoat politician who is now Rajya Sabha member.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-takes-one-more-step-towards-freedom-from-dependency-on-jyotiraditya-scindia-supporters-864762.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Babri demolition trial: Murli Manohar Joshi claims innocence||Former union minister and senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi on Thursday claimed that he was not involved in the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Deposing in the special CBI court here through video conferencing, Joshi claimed that he had been ''implicated in the matter owing to political reasons''. Joshi, who was asked around a thousand questions, said that he was 'innocent' and that he was in no way involved in the demolition of the structure. The court told him that he could submit evidence, if any, in support of his claim of innocence. The special CBI court has been conducting daily hearing of the matter on the direction of the Supreme Court. Senior BJP leader L.K.Advani, who was also an accused in the matter, would be deposing in the case on Friday through video conferencing. Several senior BJP leaders, including Advani, Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh, are accused in the matter.   The cases, which pertained to the demolition of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992 by thousands of 'karsevaks', were being heard on a daily basis by a special CBI judge here. Soon after the demolition of the disputed structure two FIRs were registered at Ram Janmabhoomi police station in Ayodhya against unidentified 'karsevaks', Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and BJP leaders. Forty seven other FIRs were also registered later. The CBI, which was handed over the investigation of the cases, filed a single charge-sheet in all the cases against 40 accused persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-demolition-trial-murli-manohar-joshi-claims-innocence-864764.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt is providing plasma for free, people don't need to buy it: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the government is providing plasma for free and people do not need to buy or sell it. Kejriwal inspected a redevelopment project at Chandni Chowk on Thursday. He spoke about the adequate availability of plasma on the sidelines of his visit, according to a statement. "We are giving free plasma to people. We have more than 500 plasma samples as stock in ILBS Hospital. What is the need of selling and buying plasma if the government is providing plasma for free? People do not need to buy plasma because all plasma blood groups are available there," he said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said strict action will be taken if it is found that monetary transaction was done during the process of plasma donation for any COVID-19 patient. A first-of-its-kind 'plasma bank' in the country was recently set up at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Science (ILBS) in south Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-is-providing-plasma-for-free-people-dont-need-to-buy-it-arvind-kejriwal-864766.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Congress government caused chaos, instability in state: Rajasthan BJP chief||Amid the political crisis in Rajasthan, the BJP's state unit president Satish Poonia alleged that the Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government has caused "chaos and instability" in the state. "They (Congress) commit sins... they put blame on the BJP. The BJP has become an institution for them to blame and mislead people," Poonia said. Gehlot has written to Prime Minister Modi, alleging attempts to topple his government and named Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. He has accused Shekhawat, other BJP leaders and some "overambitious leaders" of his own party of being involved in the alleged attempt to bring down his government. Taking a dig at the Congress, Poonia said, "The party whose leaders are either out on bail or in jail, are talking about democracy." "But I think the people too have now understood that the chaos, instability in this state began under the rule of Chief Minister Gehlot and that of the Congress," the Rajasthan BJP chief alleged. The state sunk into a political crisis when Sachin Pilot rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and was later sacked as the deputy chief minister and the president of the state unit of the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-government-caused-chaos-instability-in-state-rajasthan-bjp-chief-864773.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||718 more Covid-19 positive cases reported in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir reported 718 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the union territory's tally to 16429. The UT also reported nine Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24-hours taking the toll to 285. The number of active cases stood at 7438 with 8709 recoveries and 285 deaths. The recovery rate has considerably declined in the past 10-days due to the growing number of cases. According to the daily Media Bulletin of the 701 new cases - 601 in Kashmir and 117 in Jammu – were reported on Thursday. Fresh cases were reported from all the 20 districts of the UT. Among the districts in Kashmir, 158 cases were reported from Srinagar. With these new cases, the number of active cases in Srinagar reached 2268. Currently, a health official said, these patients are admitted in various hospitals in the city. Although J&K Government has recently reduced the admission time of Coid-19 patients by four days, by modifying the discharge policy, the hospitals meant for coronavirus cases are full to capacity, he said.  On July 20, J&K had reported 751 positive cases and today’s tally is the second highest since the outbreak of the pandemic in the UT in March. While the first case was reported in Kashmir on March 9, the first 1000 patients took 67 days to accumulate till May 15. In the next 16 days till May 31, the total number of positive cases in J&K rose to 2446. In June 5051 positive cases were reported while till 23 July, 8932 people have been affected by the Covid-19. Hospitals in Srinagar are facing the maximum load of patients as many cases are being referred here from other districts of the Valley. The healthcare infrastructure in the Valley is struggling to cope with a surge in new cases. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country which is over 1300 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is 911. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Kashmir also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. Meanwhile, nine more Covid-19 deaths were reported from across J&K on Thursday taking the UT’s tally to 285. While 265 deaths have been reported from Kashmir Valley, 20 died in Jammu region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/718-more-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-jammu-and-kashmir-864774.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh by-elections deferred due to Covid-19||By-elections for 27 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh have been indefinitely deferred in view of the spread of Covid-19. State office of the Election Commission of India on Thursday sent a proposal to this effect to the Union Law Ministry. The proposal suggested that the by-elections, which are scheduled to be held before September 10, are not possible due to the spread of the pandemic in Madhya Pradesh. The state, which has recorded over 25,000 Covid-19 cases and 800 deaths, will be under 10-day lockdown that is being re-imposed from Friday after seven weeks of unlocking. The Gwalior- Chambal region, where 17 out of 27 by elections are due, has witnessed an alarming spike in coronavirus cases in July. The patients in the region include a cabinet minister and a Congress MLA.   A total 22 Congress MLAs resigned on March 10, leading to the fall of the Kamal Nath government. Two seats were already vacant and three more fell vacant owing to resignations of Congress MLAs in the last two weeks. Under the constitutional obligation to fill the vacant seats within six months, bypolls were to be conducted before September 10. Only two days ago, chief election commissioner Sunil Arora had said election programme for the bypolls in Madhya Pradesh could be announced soon.  However, the state office of the election commission after reviewing all aspects of feasibility of holding elections in the corona situation decided to defer the by elections. Congress has objected to deferment of the by elections. State Congress media chief and former minister Jitu Pawari alleged that the elections have been deferred at the behest of the Modi government to prevent the Congress from recapturing power in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-by-elections-deferred-due-to-covid-19-864821.html
23-07-2020||North and Central||Landslide in coal mine in Chhattisgarh, one worker trapped||A worker was trapped under the debris following a landslide at a coal mine in Chhattisgarh's Korba district on Thursday morning, the police said. The incident took place at Kusmunda open-cast coal mine of South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL) when workers were pumping out rainwater from the mining area, said a police official. Due to continuous rainfall, a portion of earth broke loose and crashed on the mine, he said. Suresh Mahant (25), a contractual labourer, got trapped under the debris. Rescue operation was still underway but the chances of his survival were slim, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landslide-in-coal-mine-in-chhattisgarh-one-worker-trapped-864840.html
23-07-2020||Opinion||A long view of China’s Iran deal||For the last few days, one of the most discussed developments has been a reported game-changing deal between Iran and China, dubbed the Sino-Iranian Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. The deal, if it is confirmed, will help Iran in gaining an overall infrastructure rehaul thanks to Chinese investments to the tune of $400 billion, while Beijing will have guaranteed fuel supply from the oil-producing nation for the coming 25 years.  The impact of the proposal can be gauged from the proposed amount of investments and the likelihood of it eventually becoming a part of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The opening sentence of the document on the deal, as reported in the New York Times, states: “Two ancient Asian cultures, two partners in the sectors of trade, economy, politics, culture and security with a similar outlook and many mutual bilateral and multilateral interests will consider one another strategic partners”. Advantages aplenty for both sides One of the most obvious takeaways from the deal is that it will help Iran boost its domestic infrastructure and economy which has been severely struggling due to economic sanctions imposed by the United States. It provides Iran with an alternative boost of investment which will help it overcome the problems because of the sanctions. It will also help Beijing in gaining a space for its infrastructure industry. With the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic the Chinese economy has seen a slowdown and this deal can  help it in gaining a new market. Iran itself has been reeling under the effects of Covid-19 and would look forward to an economic impetus. While the history of the BRI is well known, the global response to it has changed in the seven years since its launch. Chinese investments have proved to be not-so-benign and a number of countries have had a relook at what such a form of commitment may mean. In a number of countries BRI has also become a major political issue. Iran would have obviously followed up on these developments. But it needs these investments to overcome the challenges of the trade embargo but also to add new cards to its strategic game. By participating in this deal, Iran would also push Europe, and particularly Germany, the maker of Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) or the Iran nuclear deal, back to the discussion table. Small powers always thrive if they have more options to choose from. Iran would also hope that Chinese banks would be able to bypass sanctions because of their deep engagement with the US economy. Geopolitical implications For China, the plans of developing the Jask port in Iran would be a significant achievement. Jask would possibly play the role in the Persian Gulf that the Djibouti base is supposed to play on the Gulf of Aden. The two ports may also operate as a support system for one another. Without doubt, Jask will also play a role for monitoring and technical espionage for the PLA Navy. Moreover, this would also allow China to achieve a better balance between Saudi Arabia and Iran. China has hosted the Saudi king as well as the crown prince in the last four years. China has used its economic clout over the last several years to achieve Saudi silence about the human rights violations against Muslim minority Uighurs in Xinjiang. It would hope that Iran does the same amongst the Shia-majority countries. By no means would this be the first or a major Chinese investment in Iran. Chinese President Xi Jinping had visited Iran in 2016 in the post-JCPOA era. And deals worth $35 billion have been in place since then. China has been a buyer of Iranian oil and has invested in infrastructure projects in Iran for over a decade. However, it all went south after Trump announced US withdrawal from the JCPOA and fresh sanctions in 2018. The US-China relationship has been deteriorating for the last few years. The ongoing US-China trade war coupled with the Covid-19 outbreak and the election year rhetoric in the US has pushed the relationship to its limits. China is also aware that actions such as Britain’s changed posture on Huawei, is not without a possible American role. It appears as if China has also given up its search for global status in the post Covid-19-era and the days of China's peaceful rise are truly over. Its behaviour in the South China Sea, on the Indian border and with countries like Australia shows that it is undertaking unilateral actions to showcase its capacity and intent and elsewhere its behaviour vis-à-vis Taiwan, Japan, Malaysia and Vietnam show that it is gearing up for a hard fight. The Iran deal is part of the same strategy to become a proactive player. Does India get affected? A lot of discussion on the developments about the Chabahar-Zahedan rail link have focussed on its implications for India. Quite a few commentators have concluded that  India has lost the project to China. However that is unlikely to be the case. The Chabahar-Zahedan link would eventually extend to Zaranj in Afghanistan. The Chabahar-Zaranj project is a key link for India’s land based connectivity with Afghanistan. India’s infrastructure projects in Afghanistan have been developed on the assumption of activating the rapid connectivity for landlocked Afghanistan via the Chabahar project. India has been invested in the initiative for close to 15 years now and more actively in the last decade after its numerous initiatives for India-Pakistan-Afghanistan received cold treatment from Islamabad/Rawalpindi. Keeping this channel open would be even more crucial as the recent Badakhshan attack was reportedly the first Taliban, IS, Al Qaeda joint offensive. Such a possibility was always on the horizon and that complicates the Afghan security environment even further. This route is also significant for the International North South Transport Corridor with Iran at the heart of the connectivity network. This project, an outcome of the Ashgabat Agreement, brings East Europe and Central Asia closer to the Indian Ocean. This can be a significant element for India’s connectivity aspirations and once again Chabahar holds the key. Lastly, the news of Chinese role in Iranian projects would have been received a lot differently in the Indian media had Galwan not happened. Right now, India-China relations are at their lowest point in many years and the developments of June 15-16 have reset the many assumptions about India-China relations. This is reflecting in the way this news about Iran has been interpreted in Indian writings. Previously, India and China have held bilateral consultations on Afghanistan. India and China as large energy import dependent countries will also play a crucial and possibly cooperative role for stability in the Gulf and in West Asia in the years to come. Seen from this context, it opens up a lot of possibilities and this development may appear less challenging in the longer run.   (Dr Avinash Godbole and Dr Gunjan Singh teach at the O P Jindal Global University. They specialise in China Studies) The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-long-view-of-china-s-iran-deal-864535.html
23-07-2020||Panorama||Questions that GSTN left unanswered, and Gita could not answer||Courtesy Covid-19, there were no major celebrations or announcement by the government on the completion of three years of GST. Instead, the GST Network issued a 40-page statistical report on an assortment of areas under GST. Being only a statistical report and not a ‘notification’ issued under GST laws, it can be read and understood without shedding any sweat.   Statistical Report The report states that the total number of active taxpayers as of June 2020 was 1.23 crore -- an increase since April 2018 of around 14%. April 2018 was the first month when GST revenues crossed the magical Rs 1 lakh crore mark -- a figure that had held more or less before the pandemic struck. Somebody in GSTN should enquire as to why despite that 14% rise in the number of active taxpayers, GST revenues remained flat. It is also clear that the concept of ‘casual taxable person’ has not found favour with the taxpayers -- total registrations from across the country were only 45. Interestingly, there were also a grand total of three non-resident taxpayers. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka lead the list of active taxpayers. To add a bit of fizz to the data, GSTN should compare this with the list of active taxpayers in the pre-GST regime. It could be argued that the data is not comparable since the threshold limits were different in the two regimes. Yet, we should remember that these are statistics -- any number can be interpreted in any manner. As the author Ron Delegge II put it, 99% of all statistics only tell 49% of the story. Data, data The CBIC should be pleased that the graph of the total number of returns filed looks like the path to climbing a mountain – rising, with some troughs. If not for the setback of the last few months, the cumulative number of returns could well have touched 50 crore. Not all registered taxpayers have filed their monthly GSTR 3B returns -- on average, around 75-80% do so on time. The statistics on the contribution from different types of businesses reveals a startling fact -- 80.18% of taxpayers are proprietors and not listed or limited companies. Partnership firms contribute around 10.78% of the taxpayer population. However, maximum GST revenues come from public limited companies (35.29%), private limited companies (27.51%) and proprietors (13.35%). The above statistic should be a cause of grave concern to CBIC -- the pandemic is going to impact the proprietors/partnership firms the most and  this will add to the woes of the government on GST revenues since it will get lesser revenue from 90% of the taxpayer population who contribute around 24% to total GST revenues. If there is any area where GST has delivered, after the usual hiccup, it is in the system of e-way bills. On February 29, a record 25.19 lakh e-way bills were generated. More than 70 crore e-way bills have been generated till now. It is also interesting to note that more than 99% of transport happens by road and not by air or ship. Only 27.58% of the total active taxpayers have registered on the e-way bill portal -- this could be an indicator that the services sector is dominating GST revenues. Missing in the report GSTN could have won laurels if they had reported as a statistic the total compensation that was payable to the state governments and what was actually paid. Putting this number down on a piece of paper may also enable the government to think of ways of funding the gap. On refunds, they could have reported the improvement in the turnaround time to issue the refund orders (there has actually been an improvement). At one point in time, the reason for a small drop in revenues could be attributed to many normal taxpayers opting for the composition scheme -- these details could also have been given in the statistical report. Ever since the system of check-posts were removed (they have been replaced by mobile squads who are strategically placed near toll gates where all approaching vehicles slow down),  quite a few vehicles have been intercepted and questions asked on the transport documents, including the e-way bill. This could have also been a statistic – the total number of vehicles intercepted and total tax and penalty collected. Another piece of useful information would have been the total contribution to GST revenues from the manufacturing and services sectors. Also, which were the most frequently used HSN codes and which the least? Any information can be turned into a statistic. GSTN could keep these points in mind for the next edition. The statistical report also included non-statistical information in the form of outreach initiatives by the CBIC – training and other programmes conducted and the like. To prove that they are technologically advanced, they announced the launch of GST Interactive Technical Assistant (which can be smartly condensed to GITA), a chatbot. The chatbot works on Artificial Intelligence and is loaded with pre-drafted responses to taxpayers’ queries on common topics, such as payment, e-way bill, registration, refunds and returns, etc. Chatbots, in general, suffer from the drawback of not being able to answer too many questions. Gita suffers from even more drawbacks because the GST law that we have today raises more questions than answers. Probably the only advantage that Gita has over any GST consultant is that ‘she’ will not tire and give in to the eccentricities of the law so easily as many consultants and taxpayers do. Gita answers only what she has been programmed to answer. So, she cannot answer questions such as “When will GSTAT be established?” or “Do you feel GST law has been successful in India?” Maybe, like Alexa, Gita would say, “Sorry, I don’t know that one” to such questions. This could be yet another statistic -- how many questions could Gita not answer so far? (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/questions-that-gstn-left-unanswered-and-gita-could-not-answer-864429.html
23-07-2020||Panorama||Can we learn to fight tuberculosis from coronavirus?||Indians have not been untouched by the epidemics and pandemics the world has seen over the past 30 years. India is better placed today to tackle and counter pandemics such as Covid-19. We had our share of failures and learning over decades while managing pandemics like cholera, plague, influenza, polio, SARS, Japanese Encephalitis, Chikungunya, H1N1 and Nipah.  In all these decades, more than 30 new infectious agents or pathogens have been detected worldwide. Around 60% of these were found to have zoonotic origin. Covid-19 has resulted in an unimaginable situation with lockdowns and movement restrictions being imposed in many countries. Apart from this threat at hand, there are many other infectious diseases that continue to claim lives in India, such as malaria and tuberculosis, which have a high mortality rate associated with them. As per WHO, in 2018 India accounted for 27% of TB population across the world. A majority amongst this number is the adult population but a significant portion of children also suffer from pulmonary TB. Tuberculosis is a multi-faceted challenge. The current government has set a deadline of 2025 to eradicate TB from India. Far-fetched but this deadline has led to multiple innovations that can help us overcome challenges associated with TB. Not only is the country home to the largest TB population and associated deaths, but also faces significant challenges panning from developing an accurate base of TB patients, keeping the affected population on the medication regime, affordability, as well as accessibility.  A targeted approach to identify the population affected from TB remains the biggest hurdle. The aspect demands to methodically identify individuals who are at risk for new infection as well as individuals at increased risk for reactivation due to associated high-risk conditions. The Indian population is not proactively surfacing for a check-up due to resources, stigma, consequential treatment cost et al which needs a comprehensive approach altogether. Identifying this missing TB population through a well-framed testing infrastructure is half battle won! The steps taken to overcome initial stigma and inertia in case of Covid-19 through large mass communication channels can be replicated to apply for TB. The public health ecosystem has taken into account infrastructural, economical and socio-political approaches developed by the world’s leading forces assigned to overcome the challenge. One model that India can use from Covid-19 pandemic is to tackle the eminent problem of deploying a fine TB testing mechanism and infrastructure to progress and address TB testing roadblocks in India. Despite hurdles, key pieces of the necessary data infrastructure for mass TB surveillance and management can be extracted from Covid-19 model and utilised for collecting data at scale, albeit with gaps, through labs, public and local health agencies. Once this is deployed, the other giant problem is better and effective drugs that can help people living with MDR and XDR TB. In all these years, USFDA has approved only three drugs that can help in managing TB well including Bedaquiline, Linezolid and now Pretomanid which is yet to be launched in the country. Genomics has emerged as a next-gen diagnostics arena which is boosting drug and vaccine development basis a relatively new-found scientific basis. In TB specifically, the country saw two big advances last year that could augment the way drugs are developed for the Indian population. One was SPIT-SEQ that sequences the entire genomic make-up of the Mycobacterium Tuberculosis (Mtb) which provides intelligence as to which drug will work on the bacteria and the second is Genexpert machine that establishes in a couple of hours whether the patient has resistance to a select list of drugs. When SPIT SEQ was originally launched in Aug-2019, it was a research use only (RUO) test with validation studies underway. As a result of successful validation results, the study was published in the International Journal of Tuberculosis and hence the test is now available to be used in a clinical set-up. The Covid-19 environment saw multiple schools of thoughts-- one spoke of advantages of BCG vaccine, the other of using anti-malaria drug or even anti-arthritis drug. It will be smart to leverage the scaled-up learnings from this outbreak to manage other public health issues the country needs to defeat. (The writer is the CEO, MedGenome Labs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/can-we-learn-to-fight-tuberculosis-from-coronavirus-864432.html
23-07-2020||Panorama||Being cruel to be kind||This day, last year, we lived in a different world. And nobody gave it a second thought.   We lived in times when we were en masse very smug about our progress in the fields of science, medicine and technology. People who could afford invested in interstellar properties or oil wells, the less fortunate lot invested on what they thought was valuable while the unfortunate eked out a living and went on dole. None of us had any qualms about polluting our earth in every possible manner, ripping it off its abundant resources till it became scant or endangering lives of other species till they are rendered extinct. It was most important for us to be winners, never mind the definition of success. We did not hesitate to enter the mindless rat race to gain the winners post in areas like materialism, terrorism, bureaucracy, nepotism among other things. Exhibitionism had/has become the order of the day. Virtual reality gained the most prominent place in our lives. Never mind if we have not eaten the food that has been photographed or had never visited the place which forms our virtual background. Even our age, looks, relationship status, friends are subjected to filters to lend them a fairy tale aura.  Mother Nature was and has been patiently watching us hoping that we might realize our lapses and correct ourselves. We remained incorrigible. She nudged us gently with a few natural calamities. We refused to take the hint. We merrily wronged her. Eventually, she decided to shake us out of our complacence. Just like a mother bird pushes her young ones off the nest in order to help them fly and fend for themselves, we have been riddled by an invisible yet potent microbe that has been let loose amidst us.  Gradually people are realizing the futility of superficiality. Cleanliness, self-reliance, mutual respect and intrinsic goodness are slowly but surely making a resurgence.  The best of experts are applying their minds to find a vaccine to make life safe for everybody on earth irrespective of borders. All these changes are pointers to the fact that Mother Nature is being cruel to us in order to be kind to us so that we work together to make the world a better place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/being-cruel-to-be-kind-864433.html
23-07-2020||Right in the Middle||How I came to love hockey||One part of the house where Muniswamy Rajgopal, a hockey stalwart of repute lived, was a trove of trophies and medals of all shapes and sizes, and the sheer number of awards and plaques displayed on a shelf made us wonder whether it was a souvenir store. Curious kids like us who had befriended his son, R Sridhar, would steal a glance at the memorabilia while keeping our distance. Rajgopal, a diminutive individual in his 50s with salt and pepper strands of hair, rarely spoke to us, though his son and nephews were our playmates. The walls of the home also had photo frames depicting him as a hockey player, but we never saw the bigger picture. The open space in front of the house, paved with granite, was our hunting ground, and it was here that we put the stick to the ball in a two-a-side game and honed our hockey skills. The few times that Rajgopal decided to lock horns with us, it would turn out to be a terribly one-sided contest. His dribbling skills were par excellence as he weaved mesmerising patterns around us. It was at an exhibition game between two veteran sides at the Bengaluru East Ground in Fraser Town that we got a real taste of his mind-boggling artistry. He effortlessly sneaked past the defence, dodged the rival goalkeeper and banged in the winner, sending the crowd into raptures. The hard yards that we put in during those formative years would prove productive in later years. My brother and Sridhar went on to don the state colours in the Junior Nationals Hockey in later years. Murali, Sridhar's oldest cousin, and I enjoyed a long stint with the game in our organisations, BEML and SBI respectively. Hockey gave us a sense of identity, enabled us to go places and bump into people from all walks of life. It also implanted in us a spirit of sportsmanship and discipline. But who was Muniswamy Rajgopal? He was none other than Karnataka's first Olympic gold medal winner (1952 Helsinki Games). Renowned for his prodigious stickwork, he earned the sobriquet of the 'Artful Dodger'. He made his mark under the iconic Dhyan Chand when an unpartitioned Indian team toured East Africa in 1945. He was also instrumental in the Bengaluru based Hindustan Aircraft (now H AL) emerging triumphant in the 1951 Beighton Cup--deemed to be the oldest hockey tournament in the world--in Kolkata. He passed on in 2004, but his name would remain etched in the annals of Karnataka's glorious sports history!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/how-i-came-to-love-hockey-864449.html
23-07-2020||Second Edit||China pressures Bhutan, eye on Doklam||China is piling up pressure on Bhutan over its territorial dispute with that country. In early June, Beijing had raised claims over the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary in eastern Bhutan, an area that has never figured in the territorial dispute and in the 24 rounds of negotiations between the two countries since the early 1980s. On Tuesday, China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) not only reiterated claims over Sakteng but it also revived a territorial swap plan it had offered Bhutan in 1996. The message it has sent to Thimphu is pretty apparent: Accept the territorial exchange offer and settle the border dispute with China or face mounting Chinese demands on Bhutanese territory. Under the 1996 proposal, China offered to recognise Bhutan’s sovereignty over 495 sq km of territory in the Jakurlung and Pasamlung Valleys in north-central Bhutan in return for Thimphu ceding control over 269 sq km, including the Doklam Plateau, in western Bhutan. Bhutan did not accept that deal but continued engaging in talks with China, even as Beijing has continued to put pressure on Bhutan, whether through building roads into Bhutanese territory or sending Tibetan herders there. The PLA troop-building near Doklam in 2017 and its steady and systematic advance into Bhutanese territory in the western sector in the years since is aimed at gaining control over the strategic Doklam Plateau. It is to get Bhutan to cede control over Doklam that China has now revived the package offer. Beijing’s recent assertion of claim over Sakteng is yet another manoeuvre to pressure Bhutan to hand over Doklam to China. Ensuring that Bhutan continues to exercise sovereignty over the Doklam Plateau is vital for India’s national security. India must reassure Bhutan of its full support for its territorial sovereignty. For decades, India and Bhutan have remained sensitive to each other’s priorities; Thimphu to India’s security concerns and New Delhi to Bhutan’s growing aspirations as a young democracy. That sensitive engagement must continue. A section of Bhutanese, especially the youth, believe that their government should settle the border with China even if it is on the latter’s terms. This would be a disastrous course. Bhutan is a small state and cannot afford to lose territory. A border settlement on Chinese terms will only make Beijing hungry for more Bhutanese territory. By raising claim over Sakteng, Beijing has clearly indicated that its appetite for territory will keep growing. The Bhutanese government must move cautiously. Beijing will take advantage of any weakening on the part of Bhutan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/china-pressures-bhutan-eye-on-doklam-864424.html
23-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu adds 444 'unaccounted' deaths to Covid-19 toll||As many as 444 deaths in Tamil Nadu from March 1 to mid-July, which were not unaccounted for earlier, were on Wednesday added to Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 toll, pushing the death toll from the novel coronavirus to 3,144. The move comes following completion of reconciliation of deaths by the Health Department and the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), which maintains the city’s death registry. Wednesday also saw the state reporting its biggest single-day spike with swab samples of 5,849 persons returning positive. The state’s tally stood at 1,86,492 patients, including 1,31,583 discharges and 3,144 deaths. The number of active cases were 51,765. While Chennai recorded 1,171 cases, its neighbouring districts of Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur, and Chengalpattu and other major cities like Coimbatore, Madurai, and districts like Thoothukudi, Ranipet, Tiruchirapalli, and Virudhunagar reported massive spike in numbers. The reconciliation process was initiated after media reports, NGOs and Opposition parties flagged “huge gap” in numbers mentioned in the daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the Health Department and the “deaths due to Coronavirus infection” registered by the GCC at its crematoriums. The parties had also accused the government of “under-reporting” Covid-19 deaths, but the AIADMK dispensation dismissed the allegations and said a committee will go into the issue. “We have added 444 deaths which were earlier unaccounted for to our official Covid-19 death toll. This has been added following conclusion of the process by a committee headed by a senior official. The deaths that have been added now occurred between March 1 and mid-July,” Health Secretary Dr. J. Radhakrishnan said. Radhakrishnan told DH that the reconciliation committee has now been made permanent and will meet every week to reconcile the figures, if any. “The committee will meet every week now to ensure there is no gap or any issues. The doctors and officials will sit every week and reconcile the figures if needed. This is to ensure that there is no discrepancy,” he said. The 444 deaths that have been added on Wednesday occurred within the limits of GCC after the committee looked at 538 “unaccounted” deaths that were said to be due to Covid-19. Radhakrishnan said all the death of Covid-19 positive patients are declared as Covid-19 death irrespective of underlying or antecedent cause of death as per ICMR guidelines. “The committee has recommended that an additional 444 deaths would also fall under the category of Covid-19 death, as per the ICMR guidelines, though such cases were medically considered died due to co-morbidity or other terminal illness,” the bulletin said. Officials said the discrepancy could be a result of “miscommunication” between various government agencies and hospitals. Experts and doctors had expressed surprise at the “discrepancy”, wondering how there could be such a huge gap. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to conduct pool testing of Covid-19 samples in areas with a positivity rate of two to five per cent as part of its efforts in detecting early the infections caused by coronavirus. In an advisory issued by Dr T S Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, to nodal officers of government and private laboratories in the state, said pool testing can be carried out in areas which has less positivity rate. Pool testing will now be conducted in 21 of the 37 districts, whose positivity rate of coronavirus infections is between 2 to 5 per cent, officials said. Pool testing, under which samples of up to five individuals are tested together, has already been approved by the ICMR. Dr Selvavinayagam said pool testing will not increase the testing capacity but will help in early detection of Covid-19 cases in the community, besides ensuring cost-effectiveness and improving the turn-around time (TAT) of the samples tested. Officials said according to the method, the samples will be tested together and if the pool tests negative, all samples will be considered negative. In case of positive, they will be isolated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-adds-444-unaccounted-deaths-to-covid-19-toll-864437.html
23-07-2020||South||With 30 CCTVs for 1,000 people, Hyderabad in top-20 list of most surveilled cities in the world||For every 1,000 people in Hyderabad, there are nearly 30 CCTVs, making it the metro with the heaviest public surveillance coverage in the country and ensuring a spot in the top-20 list of such cities across the globe. Bengaluru pales in comparison to other metros in the country with just 0.11 CCTVs for 1,000 people while Lucknow has 2.94 cameras, Pune 1.71, Kolkata 0.93, Ahmedabad 0.78, Mumbai 0.48 and Jaipur 0.26 for the same set of population. Only London, besides Hyderabad at 16th, manages to grab a space in the top-20, that too at third, while the remaining 18 spots are occupied by cities in China, as it earns the title of the most surveilled country in the world. If one expands the list to the top-50,  according to an analysis by UK-based technology research group 'Comparitech', Chinese cities occupy 34 spots while India has two cities -- Chennai at 21st position with 25.52 surveillance cameras for 1,000 people and Delhi at 33rd spot with 14.18 such surveillance systems. Taiyuan in China has the highest concentration of CCTV cameras at 119.57 cameras per 1,000 people followed by Wuxi (population three lakh) with 92.14 cameras. However, Beijing has the highest number of 11.50 lakh CCTVs installed but the proportion of such equipment to 1,000 people is lower at 56.20. The Chinese capital is positioned fifth in the list. A comparison showed that Moscow has 15.39 CCTVs for the same number of people while Berlin has 4.9, Paris 2.49 and New York 3.8. For the study, Comparitech focussed on the world's 150 most heavily-populated cities, primarily collecting data on CCTVs used by government entities such as law enforcement. It, however, omitted 26 cities and towns like Kerala's Thrissur and Malappuram, UP's Kanpur, Jeddah and Kuwait City where it could not find enough data. "Depending on whom you ask, the increased prevalence and capabilities of CCTV surveillance could make society safer and more efficient, could trample on our rights to privacy and freedom of movement, or both. No matter which side you argue, the fact is that live video surveillance is ramping up worldwide," the report said. Globally, it said quoting IHS Markit's latest report, there are already 770 million cameras in use with 54% (around 415.8 million) of these being in China. If this percentage remains the same as camera levels grow to one billion in the next year, China’s CCTV camera count could rise to as much as 540 million. While many vouch for CCTVs as a mode for crime prevention, the report suggested that a higher number of cameras just barely correlates with a lower crime index. "Broadly speaking, more cameras doesn’t necessarily reduce crime rates," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-30-cctvs-for-1000-people-hyderabad-in-top-20-list-of-most-surveilled-cities-in-the-world-864504.html
23-07-2020||South||Lockdown lessons: Students don teachers' role for classmates in Telangana||At a time when there are no clear-cut guidelines on conducting online classes in Telangana, students of the state social and tribal welfare residential educational institutions have turned teachers for their classmates. He said though the idea is meant for students of TSWREIS and TTWREIS, children of other schools are also participating in the VLC. "The VLCs are being operated from homes, panchayat offices, churches, schools, religious places and other makeshift learning centres in villages. Students with good communication and teaching skills take up the role of teachers and impart learning to their younger schoolmates and peers in his or her village," Praveen Kumar told PTI. "All the students are asked to use hand sanitizer, wear face masks and maintain a physical distance of minimum six feet among themselves," the official was quick to add. Under each VLC, 5-10 students will be taken while pupils from classes six to Degree level with good communication and teaching skills who have competency in a particular subject are entrusted with teaching responsibilities, he said. The timetable will be prepared in such a way that there will be 2-3 hours of teaching schedule per day. Teachers will regularly guide and mentor 'student teachers' in pedagogical methods to be followed considering different categories of the pupil and their learning abilities. "As of now, as many as 8,000 VLCs under TSWREIS with 40,000 students and about 2000 VLCs for TTWREIS with 16,000 students have been formed. The target is to form 50,000 VLCs for both the societies," an official involved in the initiative said. Teachers of both the societies will periodically monitor the activities of the assigned VLCs besides providing video-based learning material to the centres, Praveen Kumar said. The VLC concept will also help ensure that students are engaged in academic activities who otherwise will be compelled to take up labour activities in some villages and tribal areas, according to social activists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-lessons-students-don-teachers-role-for-classmates-in-telangana-864546.html
23-07-2020||South||Three more die of Covid-19 in Puducherry, 123 new cases take||Puducherry on Thursday reported three Covid-19 deaths, pushing the toll to 34 while 123 new cases were detected in the union territory. Among the three fatalities were a 59-year old man, a 50-year old man and a 48-year old male patient. While the 48-year old man from neighbouring Vanrapet village was brought dead to the Government GH, the two others succumbed to the virus at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital (a Covid hospital), a spokesman of the Department of Health and Family Welfare said in a release. The addition of 123 fresh cases took the overall tally in the union territory to 2,421 which includes 987 active cases and 1,400 recoveries. Of the new cases reported in the last 24 hours, Puducherry has 119, followed by Karaikal (3) and Yanam (1). The 123 fresh infections were identified at the end of testing of 558 samples. The Union Territory now had a positivity rate of 22 per cent with identification of 123 cases at end of testing of 558 samples. The fatality rate stood at 1.4 per cent, the spokesman said. The Department has tested 33,096 samples so far and found 30,260 of the samples to be negative. Results of examination of the remaining samples were awaited, he added. As many as 31 were discharged during the last 24 hours which included 17 from hospitals in Puducherry while four were from hospitals in Karaikal. Ten patients were discharged from the GH in Yanam (an enclave in Andhra Pradesh).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-more-die-of-covid-19-in-puducherry-123-new-cases-take-864583.html
23-07-2020||South||84 personnel deployed in Tamil Nadu Raj Bhavan test positive for Covid-19||As many as 84 staff, including security personnel, at the Raj Bhavan in Tamil Nadu have tested positive for coronavirus and have been quarantined. However, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and senior officials of the Raj Bhavan have not come in contact with any of those tested positive. In a statement, the Raj Bhavan said swab samples of a total of 147 staff, including security and fire service personnel, were collected after a few men at the Governor’s mansion displayed symptoms associated with the novel coronavirus.   Out of the 147, 84 staff have been found to be positive for coronavirus. “All these persons were further investigated and now have been quarantined by the health department,” the statement said. It added that since all the staff, who tested positive, belong to the outer side of Raj Bhavan like the main gate and not in the main building, none of them came into contact with the governor or senior officials. "As a precautionary measure, the whole area of Raj Bhavan including offices have been disinfected and sanitised by Corporation health authorities. Raj Bhavan is closely monitoring the situation,” the statement said. At least 17 legislators, including four ministers, have tested positive for coronavirus in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/84-personnel-deployed-in-tamil-nadu-raj-bhavan-test-positive-for-covid-19-864616.html
23-07-2020||South||Siddaramaiah demands judicial probe into alleged irregularities in Covid-19 management||Alleging large-scale corruption in Covid-19 management in Karnataka to the tune of at least Rs 2,000 crore, former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday demanded a judicial inquiry by a sitting High Court judge. The government, however, dismissed the charges saying no irregularities have taken place. "The total money spent on Covid-19 management is Rs 4,167 crore whereas state Health Minister B Sriramulu says only Rs 324 crore has been spent. Equipment and materials were purchased double or triple the existing cost. "At least Rs 2,000 crore has been pocketed by the ministers and officials," Siddaramaiah. who is the leader of opposition in the state assembly, told reporters. He demanded a judicial inquiry by a sitting judge of the high court. Releasing some documents to the media to substantiate his allegations, the former chief minister claimed that the health department spent Rs 700 crore---"some of the amount has been spent and some are in the pipeline." The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (city corporation) and the urban local bodies spent Rs 200 crore, district administration spent Rs 742 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund, labour department spent Rs 1,000 crore and medical education department Rs 815 crore, Siddaramaiah claimed. At least Rs 500 crore was spent by the social welfare department, food and civil supplies department, education department, home department and woman and child welfare department, he added. Siddaramiaah said the health department was given a budgetary allocation of Rs 10,032 crore, which was revised and made Rs 9,689 crore. "So far Rs 1,527 crore has been released but Rs 1,554 crore was spent in April and Rs 1768 crore in May. The total money spent in two months was 3,322 crore whereas the money released was Rs 1,527 crore. So the spending is double the money released," Siddaramaiah claimed. Speaking about ventilators, Siddaramaiah said the Centre purchased 50,000 ventilators from the PM Care funds for Rs four lakh each, Tamil Nadu government purchased 100 transport ventilators for Rs 4.78 lakh each. The Karnataka government, on the other hand, purchased the first batch of ventilators on March 22 for Rs 5.6 lakh, then the second batch was purchased at a cost of Rs 12.32 lakh the same day. The third batch was purchased on March 24 for Rs 18.2 lakh. "This is the reply given to me by Jawaid Akhtar, who is the additional chief secretary in the health department," Siddaramaiah said. He said Dr Sarvabhouma Bagali, a former BJP MLA and a medical doctor, has lodged a complaint to the Lokayukta. In his letter, he has stated that the 15 ventilators supplied by a firm to the government were useless and second hand. These ventilators do not possess any standard certificates, Siddaramaiah said. About the procurement of Personal Protection Kits, Siddaramaiah said the state purchased 9.65 lakh kits of which three lakh were purchased from a Chinese firm. Import of three lakh PPE kits from China, approved by honourable chief minister and in the Task Force meeting on March 23, 2020, and April 4, 2020," Siddaramaiah said. Claiming that the PPEs were available in the market for Rs 330 each, Siddaramaiah said 3.5 lakh PPEs were purchased from a Maharashtra based firm for Rs 2,117 each. There were many complaints against the PPE kits (by the Maharashtra company). Even doctors had protested against the poor quality PPE kits, he alleged. The government later returned 1.25 lakh kits to the company,the veteran congress leader said. He alleged irregularities in the purchase of masks, sanitisers, oximeters and thermal scanners. "The government purchased 10,000 scanners for Rs 5,945 for each thermal scanner whereas in the market it is available for a maximum of Rs 2,000," Siddaramaiah said. Refuting the charges, Health Minister B Sriramulu said, "I said it before and I am saying it now -- no irregularities have taken place."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/siddaramaiah-demands-judicial-probe-into-alleged-irregularities-in-covid-19-management-864658.html
23-07-2020||South||Free breakfast scheme will retain Rajiv Gandhi's name: Puducherry CM, V Narayanasamy||Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Thursday clarified that the free bread and milk breakfast scheme benefiting school children would continue to bear the name of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Stating this in the Assembly, he said there was a printing mistake in the copy of his address he delivered on July 20 during the territorial budget that the scheme had been renamed as Kalaignar Karunanidhi scheme. He said the government has now introduced a new nutritious food scheme for the children which has been named after Karunanidhi while the breakfast scheme would retain the name of Rajiv Gandhi. "The printing mistake is being rectified," he said. Narayanasamy appealed to the three DMK legislators, absent during the proceedings today, to return to the House. The three - R Siva, Geetha Anandhan and K Venkatesan - obliged. The members have been absent for the last two days in protest against alleged silence the Ministers were maintaining even as the opposition AIADMK has been criticising the Congress government here for renaming the breakfast scheme after Karunanidhi and not Rajiv Gandhi. Narayanasamy further said members in the Assembly should not make critical remarks against any leader in the House. Protesting against this, AIADMK leader Anbalagan said none of the party legislators had made any comments on the DMK. He said they were only seeking clarification on the name of the food scheme. The four AIADMK members walked out of the House in protest against the Chief Minister's allegation that the party has criticised the DMK while questioning the need for renaming the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/free-breakfast-scheme-will-retain-rajiv-gandhis-name-puducherry-cm-v-narayanasamy-864659.html
23-07-2020||South||Increasing infection among health workers poses challenge to Kerala's Covid-19 fight||Posing a serious challenge to Kerala's fight against Covid-19, around 300 health workers so far got Covid-19 infection. Among the 267 health workers infected till July 20, 47 were doctors and 63 nurses. On Wednesday alone 24 health workers were infected in the state. Of the total health workers infected, only around 41 percent were involved in direct treatment of Covid-19 patients at hospitals. About 20 percent were infected indirectly from Covid-19 patients and the remaining got the infection during field level activities. Covid-19 infection among doctors and health workers was affecting the functioning of many hospitals. Around five doctors and a dozen other health workers of Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital, which is the main Covid-19 care facility in the state capital, were infected with Covid-19. As a result, many doctors and nurses had to remain in quarantine. Some public health centres and a whole department of some major hospitals had to be shut for days after health workers were tested Covid-19 positive.  Even as Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified that compared to many other parts of the country Kerala could offer a better safety to health workers, they point out that it was high time that the government make adequate precautions to curb the spread of infection among health workers. A good number of doctors and nurses were infected while taking care of non-Covid-19 patients and their attenders. This happened mainly due to lack of proper Covid-19 screening of those turning up for non-Covid-19 treatment as well as patients concealing chances of Covid-19 infection. Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association state president Dr. Joseph Chacko said that since the spread of Covid-19 among health workers would derail Kerala's fight against the pandemic, the government should take immediate measures like screening of non-Covid-19 patients turning up at hospitals and strictly restricting attenders. Covid antigen test facility should be made available at all hospitals and patients should be strictly advised to reveal any chances of Covid-19 infection. Meanwhile, the state was already facing acute shortage of doctors to man the 740 Covid-19 first line treatment centres being opened as the Covid-19 case in Kerala was escalating alarmingly. Already house surgeons and PG doctors were put to service at the government health centres to meet the requirement. Though notifications were issued for recruitment of doctors for Covid-19 care, it was learnt that there was not much response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/increasing-infection-among-health-workers-poses-challenge-to-keralas-covid-19-fight-864714.html
23-07-2020||South||NIA taking Kerala CM Vijayan's former principal secretary's statement in gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency on Thursday took statement of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar in connection with the probe into the gold smuggling case. The NIA was also learnt to have sent a letter to Kerala chief secretary seeking CCTV footages of the government secretariat. Meanwhile, the customs that earlier took Sivasankar's statement was learnt to have found that Sivasankar had no involvement with the gold smuggling. He was also found to have  ignored request from the accused for help in releasing the diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate, from which 30 kilogrm gold was later seized. Customs sources said that it was found that one of the key accused in the gold smuggling case and former executive secretary of the UAE consulate, Swapna Suresh, had sent a message to Sivasankar seeking help for releasing the baggage that was held by the customs for examining. However, Sivasankar even did not respond to it. The NIA was learnt to have quizzed Sivasankar mainly to get details about the gold smuggling racket as it was found that he was having close relationship with Swapna and the first accused Sarith P S, who was also a former employee of the UAE consulate. His quizzing was continuing till late in the evening. The NIA suspect that the fund raised through smuggling was used for anti-national purposes, though prima faice it seemed to be smuggling with profit motive. Sivasankar was suspended from service last week after a preliminary inquiry by a panel headed by the Chief Secretary found that he flouted service rules owing to his nexus with the gold smuggling case accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-taking-kerala-cm-vijayans-former-principal-secretarys-statement-in-gold-smuggling-case-864749.html
23-07-2020||South||Will new found love for Lord Murugan and targeting DMK help BJP?||“Vetrivel, Veeravel”, a slogan raised by devotees of Lord Murugan, now occupies prime space in the social media timelines of BJP leaders in Tamil Nadu. Lord Murugan, who is believed to have lived in his six abodes across the state, seems to be the new poster boy of the BJP, which is desperate to make inroads into the Southern State. With less than a year to go for the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, the BJP that hardly has any base in the state is attempting to project itself as a major player and trying to take advantage of a controversy surrounding Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a song in praise of Lord Murugan. A YouTube channel known as Karuppar Kootam released a video in which the anchor makes disparaging and controversial remarks against the devotional song, evoking condemnation from across the board. The anchor and his colleagues were arrested, and police are pursuing the case. Add to BJP’s new-found love for Lord Murugan, its “ideological battle” with Dravidian legend E V R Periyar, who propagated the anti-god theory, that has now become shriller, a new target in C N Annadurai and portrayal of the DMK as “anti-Hindu.” Incidentally, BJP’s alliance partner AIADMK is named after Annadurai. Tamil superstar and aspiring politician Rajinikanth, who is perceived to be close to the BJP, also condemned the video on Wednesday and chanted “Kandhanukku Arogara” (Hail Lord Murugan) on Twitter, making a political statement even as he dithers on his much-awaited political plunge. Flaunting their Hindu identity, BJP leaders are going all out to milk the controversy over the devotional song by giving open calls to Hindus asking to unite to defeat forces that are inimical to the faith, which is first-of-a-kind in the state. The party is also facing criticism that it was “appropriating” Tamils gods like Murugan to further its political interests. The BJP has also taken the fight to the DMK’s doorsteps asking it to “clarify” its stand on the controversy surrounding Kandha Sashti Kavasam. No wonder the BJP is targeting DMK, which is at the forefront of vociferously opposing the policies of the Narendra Modi government, especially the measures that “weaken the federal structure” of the country. As the BJP’s campaign projecting DMK as “anti-Hindu” gets sharper, the Dravidian party has also gone on the defensive mode by taking pains to explain that it was certainly not “anti-Hindu”. And this is not the first time that the BJP has forced the M K Stalin-led DMK to clarify its stand on Hindus. In the thick of the Lok Sabha poll campaign in 2019, Stalin had to clarify that the party was not “anti-Hindu” after the saffron party attempted to polarise voters in parts of the state.  This was unimaginable in the DMK that was helmed by Karunanidhi. The late party patriarch, who came under all-round attack for his taunt whether Lord Ram was an engineer to have built the Ram Setu, had never come out to clarify on such issues. Political analysts believe that the BJP “appropriating” Lord Murugan is a “well thought out” strategy ahead of the assembly polls and that the saffron party was trying to polarise the votes. They believe overt courting of the majority community by a political party in Tamil Nadu could be counter-productive as the state never voted on religious lines and the BJP is also not popular among the people. “Religion does not matter in Tamil Nadu. If it had mattered, the Dravidian movement would have never flourished. Right from the beginning, people have distinguished between anti-god theory and spirituality and I can say that Tamils have a deeper sense of spiritual belief than anyone in the country. But they do not vote on the basis of religion alone,” P Ramajayam, Assistant Professor, Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli, told DH. Even before the controversy over the devotional song died down, there was an attack on a statue of Periyar in Coimbatore, which the BJP appeared to welcome with a glee, with its leader H Raja, known for his penchant for controversies, even going one step ahead to brand the Dravidian icon as an “unadulterated British stooge.” But the BJP’s strategy of boxing Periyar just into an “anti-God activist” is unlikely to work, political analysts say, as the long-bearded and bespectacled man is known more for advocating path-breaking reforms that his political proteges Annadurai, M Karunanidhi and M G Ramachandran implemented during their tenures. Periyar has been BJP’s punching bag for a long time now but every time his statue is attacked, there is a renewed interest in his works, which his supporters say is relevant till date. BJP, though ruling at the Centre, is still a marginal player in the political scheme of things in Tamil Nadu and had won seats only when in an alliance with the Dravidian parties, except for 2014, when it won the lone Kanyakumari seat, riding high on the Narendra Modi wave, and with help from the rainbow coalition that it cobbled up. BJP’s criticism of DMK and Periyar would only be sharp and harsh in the coming weeks and months, but whether the strategy would work in a state that has voted largely on personalities than anything else is anyone’s guess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-new-found-love-for-lord-murugan-and-targeting-dmk-help-bjp-864761.html
23-07-2020||South||AP records 7,998 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally now 72,711||A staggering 7,998 fresh Covid-19 cases were added in a day in Andhra Pradesh, pushing the states overall tally to 72,711 on Thursday. Also, 61 new casualties were reported, taking the death toll to 884, according to the latest bulletin. In the last 24 hours, 5,428 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals after they got cured, the bulletin said. Till date, 37,555 patients had recovered and been discharged from hospitals while the state now had 34,272 active cases, it added. East Godavari district is now the major coronavirus hotbed in AP as the contagion has been spreading at a rapid pace over the past week in particular. It registered a record 1,391 cases in a day and crossed the 10,000-mark in the aggregate tally. East Godavari also saw 14 Covid-19 deaths, the single largest number in a district in a day so far. Guntur district recorded 1,184 and Anantapuramu 1,016 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin. Guntur and Kurnool districts reported seven Covid-19 deaths each, Krishna and Srikakulam six each, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram five each during this period. The state claimed to have conducted a record 58,052 sample tests in 24 hours, including 25,618 rapid antigen tests, resulting in 7,998 positives. Overall, 14,93,879 tests were completed in the state so far at the rate of 27,975 per million population even as the infection positivity rate climbed further up to 4.87 per cent. The recovery rate, however, showed an improvement to 51.65 per cent after 11,922 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last two days. The mortality rate remained at 1.22 per cent, according to government statistics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-records-7998-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-now-72711-864767.html
23-07-2020||South||Over 1,000 coronavirus cases for second day in Kerala, five deaths||Kerala recorded over 1,000 fresh coronavirus cases for the second consecutive day on Thursday with 1078. Five more persons died of coronavirus, taking the total coronavirus related deaths to 50. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a decision on imposing a total lockdown again would be taken only after detailed discussions. Of the 1,078 fresh coronavirus cases, 798 got infected through the local spread. Meanwhile, 432 persons recovered from coronavirus. The total active cases in the district reached 9,458. Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest number of fresh cases on Thursday also 222 taking the total active case in the district to 2,583. Vijayan said that the coming weeks would be very crucial in containing coronavirus spread and each and everyone should take care by going out only for unavoidable needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-1000-coronavirus-cases-for-second-day-in-kerala-five-deaths-864770.html
23-07-2020||South||Health, police and municipal machinery in search of 180 'missing' Covid-19 positive people in Tirupati||People undergoing Covid-19 tests in Tirupati but providing incorrect contact information are posing a challenge for the authorities in tracing those who tested positive among them. This in turn is hindering the containment measures in the popular temple town where new Covid-19 cases are adding every-day in alarming numbers.    The health, municipal and police officials in Tirupati are presently in search of at least 180 such people who have tested positive in the tests conducted on them. The number of such “untraceable” positive persons is about 40 in the rest of the Chittoor district, where Tirupati is located. “We have filed a police complaint to trace these “missing” people,” collector Dr. Bharat Gupta says. Chittoor, adjoining Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, has 5939 cases as of Thursday morning, about one-third of them from Tirupati. While pilgrims in limited numbers and the required TTD staff are being allowed onto the Tirumala hill, the abode of Lord Venkateswara; Tirupati town is declared a containment zone and is under lockdown till 5 August.    “Hundreds of samples are collected everyday making it impossible for the medical teams to diligently verify the mobile numbers, Aadhaar, address etc., information being provided. These erroneous instances would be just about five percent but such irresponsibility of a few puts themselves and others at risk,” the collector says. Dr Gupta told DH that they are devising a way out, by adopting a mobile OTP verification method, in line with the ICMR prescribed guidelines for Covid-19 tests. “While some individuals give wrong mobile numbers intentionally fearing social stigma, in other cases, it is under confusion and tension while undergoing the tests. These reasons vary but not even one positive person should remain untraceable in order to contain the spread. So, we have asked the Tirupati municipal and police officials to trace the 180 odd positive people missing in Tirupati,” Dr P Penchalaiah, Chittoor district medical and health officer, told DH.   Such people undertaking tests would be a futile exercise since they would not know the results if they give wrong mobile numbers, the DMHO laments. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has added 7998 new cases on Thursday morning – its highest single-day spike till now. The state has registered 72711 cases till now, 34272 of them active and 884 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/health-police-and-municipal-machinery-in-search-of-180-missing-covid-19-positive-people-in-tirupati-864776.html
23-07-2020||South||Software company Zoho to build community hospital near Chennai||Software developer Zoho is building a 250-bed community hospital in Kattankulathur on the outskirts of this metropolis which is expected to be completed by the end of 2021. The hospital, which will have a built-up area of 2.6 lakh square feet and an area to bed ratio of 1,000 square feet with self-contained facilities, will function as a centre from where complex healthcare will be provided in rural and non-urban areas using Haptic and similar technologies. Being built at a cost of Rs 70 crore, the hospital, which will reflect a synergy between analogue clinical skills and digital tools, is expected to be completed in 12 to 16 months. "Rapidly improving technology and network capabilities could change hospitals into healthcare back-offices. While the hospitals would continue to serve complex healthcare needs on-site, they would also reach with nimble arms, a home, or an office, be it in a rural or urban area, to handle healthcare issues at source,” Dr Balachander Govindarajan, Medical Director, Zoho, said. Zoho CEO Sridhar Vembu said smaller towns and rural areas do not have ample healthcare facilities that are common today in urban centres, while the quality and cost are also restrictive. “With this initiative, we intend to reduce the rural/urban divide. We will train paramedics in technology and clinical skills so that they can provide healthcare outside urban areas as well. We at Zoho are determined to use all the tools at hand to make impactful healthcare, a pan-societal reality over time,” he said. Though predominantly an allopathic facility, AYUSH treatment features would also be integral in this holistic wellness project, the company said, adding that it is also an investor in vTitan and MedicalMine Inc. Both vTitan and MedicalMine are helping in establishing the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/software-company-zoho-to-build-community-hospital-near-chennai-864786.html
23-07-2020||South||Biggest single-day spike of over 5,000 Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||Karnataka on Thursday recorded a biggest single-day surge of over 5,000 cases and 97 related fatalities, taking the total number of people who tested positive for the virus to 80,863, the health department said. The day also saw a record 2,071 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 5,030 fresh cases reported, a whopping 2,207 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of July 23 evening, cumulatively 80,863 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 1,616 deaths and 29,310 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 49,931 active cases, 49,291 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 640 are in ICU. Out of the 97 deaths reported on Thursday 48 are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru 8, Dakshina Kannada 7 and others. Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounts for 2,207, followed by Raichur 258, Kalaburagi 229, Dakshina Kannada 218, and others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 39,200 infections, followed by Dakshina Kannada 4,209 and Kalaburagi 3,370.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/biggest-single-day-spike-of-over-5000-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-864794.html
23-07-2020||South||Balapur’s 21 Kg laddu will not be auctioned off this year||Hyderabad’s Balapur Ganesh Utsav Samithi’s annual tradition of auctioning the 21-kg laddu, meant to bring prosperity and luck, will be discontinued this year. The tradition had been going on for 25 years.  On the morning of the 11th day of the puja, the auction for the laddu begins. A 20-km procession to Hussainsagar follows the puja.  This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, several traditions have been discontinued by the samithi. A 6-feet ganesh idol instead of a 21-feet idol would be set up this year.  The puja would not be open for devotees. Infact, only committee members would be allowed to visit the Ganesh pandal on the day the idol is installed.  Whether a procession would go from Balapur to Hussainsagar would be decided based on the guidelines of the state government.  “We have not heard from the state government on guidelines for this year’s Ganesh Utsav. There is no word from the Bhagyanagar Utsav Samithi, too. We have decided to go ahead with a 6-feet tall idol and restrict devotees from visiting the pandal,” he added.  In 2018, the laddu was auctioned off for Rs 16.6 lakhs.  The Ganesh utsav would commence on August 22nd and idols would be immersed on September 1st.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/balapur-s-21-kg-laddu-will-not-be-auctioned-off-this-year-864808.html
23-07-2020||South||Youth gives life to eight through organ donation||Ten years ago two teenagers at Kollam district in Kerala were in the news after they averted a train mishap by alerting the loco pilot about a crack in the track. On Tuesday one among them gave a fresh lease of life to eight others through organ donation. Anujith, a 27-year-old native of Kottarakkara in Kollam district, was declared brain-dead the other day. He was under treatment at a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram following a road accident on July 14. As per his wish, his wife and other family members decided to donate his organs. His heart, kidneys, corneas, small intestine and hands were donated to eight patients. The heart was air-lifted for transplantation on a patient in Kochi on Tuesday. Kerala witnessed a similar organ donation of a brain-dead person in Kochi recently. The transplants were carried out through the state government’s Kerala Network for Organ Sharing. Health department sources said that Anujith was one of the two students who alerted a loco pilot about a crack in the rail track in 2010. On spotting the crack, they ran about 500 metres along the track and waved their red college bags to alert the loco pilot of an approaching train about the danger ahead. The loco pilot managed to stop the train and a mishap was averted. Anujith, who was working as a driver, recently started a job as a salesman at a supermarket following lockdown. He was quite active in voluntary services. He hailed from a financially weak family. He left behind his father, a farmer, his wife who works in a jewellery shop, his mother, a three-year-old son and a sister. Health minister K K Shailaja, who made arrangement for swift transplant procedures, hailed the family of the donor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youth-gives-life-to-eight-through-organ-donation-864827.html
23-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Row over putting off Kerala Assembly session||A one day session of Kerala Assembly scheduled to be held on July 27 for passing the finance bill is being dropped in view the Covid spike in Kerala. The Opposition Congress had given notice for a no-confidence motion against the government as well as a notice seeking removal of speaker P Sreeramakrishnan in connection with the gold smuggling row. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that many MLAs were aged above 65 and many were coming from Covid hotspots. Hence it would be risky to hold the Assembly session by maintaining the safety protocols. However, Opposition Congress alleged that the session was being put off in view of the notice for no-confidence motion and notice against the Speaker. The no-confidence motion notice was given in view of alleged nexus of Chief Minister's office with the gold smuggling racket. Notice seeking removal of speaker was giving citing his links with gold smuggling accused former UAE consulate employee Swapna Suresh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-row-over-putting-off-kerala-assembly-session-864831.html
23-07-2020||South||Covid-19 in community transmission stage in Telangana?||As the Covid-19 cases tally in Telangana crossed the 50,000 mark on Thursday, a top health official indicated the virus as showing signs of community transmission in the state. Telangana has at present 50,826 cases out of which only 11,052 are active cases, according to the latest Covid-19 bulletin. “This virus went into the community. Where and how it is, we cannot see. This is an invisible virus. People, government, health machinery … Everyone is fighting it. Rains are on and we are in a period of seasonal diseases like flu. We fervently appeal to all to show utmost caution for next 4-5 weeks, which is going to be a critical phase for the state,” Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health and family welfare told reporters on Thursday. While asking people to make wearing masks, keeping a safe distance from others and hand washing part of their lives, the official appealed to those showing Covid-19 symptoms like cold, cough, and fever to immediately visit health centres to seek medical advice and take tests.     DH attempted to speak to Dr Rao to know if his statement on the virus’s community stage was based on any study and if the ICMR was informed of the same. The official declined calls.   However, Dr Ramesh Reddy, director of medical education, who accompanied Dr Rao in the presser, told DH that this statement was misunderstood. “What he actually meant was that the virus is in the community like there would be some Covid-19 cases in a building. Community transmission is a rampant spread of cases in an area, a situation which is not anywhere in Telangana yet. Such spread is only confined to small pockets of families in different areas,” Dr Reddy explained. The state reported 1567 new cases on Thursday. The highest single day spike was 1924 cases reported on July 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-in-community-transmission-stage-in-telangana-864845.html
23-07-2020||State||Belagavi hospital violence: 3 detained, manhunt on for others accused||APMC police detained three persons accused of damaging the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital with stones and setting an ambulance on fire on Wednesday night alleging medical negligence after their relative who was admitted for Covid-19 died during treatment. A manhunt has been launched for others who are absconding. A 55-year-old male had been admitted to the hospital for treatment on July 19, for treatment of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and was positive for Covid-19 according to the report received on Wednesday. He died on Wednesday night while being shifted to Intensive Care Unit for treatment of respiratory problems. Relatives of the patient entered into an argument with the hospital staff alleging medical negligence. After coming out of the building they pelted stones on the facility and vehicles parked outside. They also set the ambulance parked outside on fire. A police personnel and five other hospital staff suffered injuries in the melee. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Two persons were detained in the spot and another later. The matter is under investigation and the police have launched a manhunt to nab the others accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/belagavi-hospital-violence-3-detained-manhunt-on-for-others-accused-864555.html
23-07-2020||State||BIMS employees stage protest demanding security||Doctors and paramedics from Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital staged protest before the administrative block on Thursday demanding safety and security for them after relatives of a patient who passed away during treatment on Wednesday night attacking them. Doctors, nurses and other staff contended that they have been treating the patients affected with Covid-19 risking their lives. Some of the patients succumbed during treatment while a large number of them have recovered and been discharged. "Relatives of patients attacking us is unacceptable," they said. Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath visited the protest site and assured all safety and security precautions would be taken for doctors and nurses. He said, City Police have been asked to depute personnel in more numbers at the hospital. Police vehicle will also remain posted for any untoward incident.Police have also assured that those responsible for the violence will be arrested. We will ensure safety of staff and no such incidents recur, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bims-employees-stage-protest-demanding-security-864609.html
23-07-2020||State||Mining companies, banks adopt animals at Hosapete zoo||The animal adoption scheme at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Zoological Park, under the Bilikal Reserve Forest, has found many takers. Three banks and many mining companies adopted as many as eight animals, including two tigers and a lion, at the animal adoption programme held at the zoological park on Wednesday. The Sandur-based mining company Veerbhadrappa Sangappa & Company adopted a tiger named Vayuputra for a period of three years. P Balasubba Setty & Son of Hosapete adopted a tigress named Chamundi while the Bengaluru-based mining company Kumaraswamy Mineral Export Pvt Ltd has adopted a lion named Kesari. All the companies paid Rs 1 lakh each to the zoo for upkeep of three big cats. The Vijaya Bank (Hosapete branch) adopted a fox and a nilgai while Dena Bank picked a jackal and a nilgai for adoption, paying Rs 30,000 each. The HDFC Bank adopted a hyena for a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mining-companies-banks-adopt-animals-at-hosapete-zoo-864809.html
23-07-2020||State||Congress names chairmen of KPCC departments, cells||Former minister Priyank Kharge was on Thursday appointed as the chairman of the Information Technology and Data Cell of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). Former Parliamentarian B L Shankar and V R Sudarshan were appointed Chairman and Co-Chairman of the Media and Communication Department of the KPCC. Senior leaders V S Ugrappa and Ponnanna were appointed Chairmen of the Legal Reforms Department and Legal, Human Rights and RTI Department respectively. Former Minister K J George will be incharge of Congress Party assets and properties across the state, while Ramalinga Reddy will be incharge of party’s assets and properties in Bengaluru city. The appointments were approved by Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-names-chairmen-of-kpcc-departments-cells-864835.html
23-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddi pride Shantaram is now an MLC||On Wednesday, Shantaram Siddi received a flurry of calls, which forced him to stop in his tracks and attend to them instead of returning home. “There is no proper connectivity at home. So I am trying to attend all the calls and then go home,” he told DH from Hitlalli in Yellapura taluk. And it will be a while before the phone stops ringing for the 55-year-old, who on Wednesday was nominated to the Legislative Council by Governor Vajubhai R Vala, becoming the first from the Siddi tribe, who trace their origins to Africa, to have that recognition.   Siddi will bring to the Upper House three decades of work done in tribal welfare through the NGO Vanavasi Kalyana Ashram. Now that he is in the council, the top priority for him is to create sustainable livelihoods for the indigenous communities.  From awareness to the proper implementation of Forest Rights Act, Shantaram talks eloquently about the concerns that need to be addressed to empower indigenous communities. A keen learner from his childhood, he topped the class in 7th standard in Hitlalli school, and that changed his life. “My teachers identified my hunger for knowledge and admitted me to a school in Ankola, away from my home in Hitlalli,” he said. Shantaram went on to study at the Arts and Science College, Karwar, becoming the first graduate (BA Economics) from his tribe.  “When I graduated, I had simple dreams of settling in life after earning a government job,” he said and recalled his initial interactions with social workers Prakash Kamath and Nirmala Gaonkar, who changed his views towards life. During his college days, Shantaram was with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). His association continues even today. He started working with the Siddi community in 1988 and now works across Karnataka with all tribal communities. People who know him say that in the process, he has inspired people to learn and progress while retaining their identity. And people even started fondly calling him Anna, or brother. “Our culture is our pride. But that shouldn’t be a hurdle in achieving a better life. My goal is to enable indigenous communities to strike a connection with the mainstream society while keeping our identity,” he said. But Shantaram said he is not in favour of “moving tribal people away from forests”. “They should be provided with whatever facilities possible there itself, including the land that is rightfully theirs. If youngsters wish to move out, let them be,” he said. Shantaram was also active in conservation movements and served as a member of the Paschima Ghatta Karyapade. On the way forward, he said: “I am naive when it comes to politics, but my years in social work will definitely come to use.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddi-pride-shantaram-is-now-an-mlc-864423.html
23-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 4,764 new coronavirus cases||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 4,764 fresh cases, with 10 districts for the first time registering more than 100 cases on a single day, a sign that the virus is tightening its grip in other parts of the state, even though Bengaluru remained the hardest-hit district. On Wednesday, 48,140 samples were tested in the state. For the first time, more antigen tests (24,319) were done than RT-PCR tests (23,256).  The state capital again topped the list with 2,050 cases, but, worryingly, districts such as Udupi and Belagavi reported more than 200 cases. Similarly, Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Mysuru, Bengaluru Rural, Raichur, Ballari and Chikkaballapura also reported more than 100 cases in a single day. As cases spiked suddenly, officials from the government attributed the rise in numbers to increased testing. Omprakash Patil, Director of Health and Family Welfare, told DH that the rise in numbers was due to more tests and inter-district movement of people. "Increased testing and inter-district movement of people are the only two factors that trigger the cases. If we miss out tracing even a single case, the region may have the potential to become a cluster. We expected this surge in June itself. But we have peaked much before other states," Omprakash explained. Rising cases have also prompted the health department to limit patient information it used to provide earlier in the daily media bulletin. From around 200 pages, the bulletin is now down to just 10 pages, with information on patient age, ID, contact history/travel history, and whether he is admitted to a private hospital or a government hospital withheld. On the bright side, with 1,780 discharges on Wednesday, total recoveries reached 27,239 in the state. Now, active cases in the state are at 47,069, while there are 75,833 total cases. With 55 new fatalities, the death toll currently stands at 1,519. With 15 new casualties, the death toll in Bengaluru reached 735. Among the 55 deaths, seven were brought dead and four died in their homes. At least 10 fatalities had no comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-4764-new-coronavirus-cases-864427.html
23-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New industrial policy sets Rs 5 lakh cr investment target; 70% jobs to go to Kannadigas||The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday approved the state’s new industrial policy that aims to generate Rs 5 lakh crore investment over the next five years and create 20 lakh jobs by offering a slew of incentives and concessions.  All new investment projects, as per the policy, shall create direct employment opportunities "with a minimum employment of 70% to Kannadigas on an overall basis and 100% in case of Group D employees. Special Investment Regions (SIR) were also announced with Dharwad SIR being the first encompassing Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Belagavi districts. "Probably for the first time in India, we have decided to offer investment promotion subsidy to Medium, Mega and Large Enterprises ranging from 1.75% - 2.5% on turnover in each year for a period of 5-10 years," Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said. The subsidy will be in the form of a grant and will be based on the turnover recorded by the company. The subsidy will be limited to 35-60% of the Value of Fixed Assets (VFA) of an enterprise. MSMEs, too, will be eligible for an investment promotion subsidy of 10% of their annual turnover for a period of five years and limited to 20-30% of VFA. Shettar said that SIRs will be notified as areas with more than 100 sqkm and deemed industrial townships. While the first will be at Dharwad, another will be notified for Shivamogga, covering Shivamogga, Davanagere, Chitradurga and Chikmagalur districts. The policy will allow development of Private Industrial Parks in the state, he said, noting that such parks were functional in Tamil Nadu district.  Apart from amending labour laws to facilitate industries, restrictions on the purchase of agricultural land is lifted by amending Land Reforms Act. “This will facilitate industrialists to purchase land and start industries," he said.  The Karnataka Industries Facilitation Act is also amended to ensure 'ease of business', and will allow investors to start work on their projects as soon as district level committees clear them, he said. The policy has identified automobiles and auto components, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, engineering and machine tools, knowledge-based industries, renewable energy, electric vehicles, and aerospace and defence as Focus sectors. Industry 4.0, research and development, intellectual property rights and others, will be Thrust Areas of the policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-industrial-policy-sets-rs-5-lakh-cr-investment-target-70-jobs-to-go-to-kannadigas-864634.html
23-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kalaburagi, Raichur see massive surge in coronavirus infections||Two virus-hit districts in Kalyana Karnataka - Kalaburagi and Raichur - recorded the highest single-day spike in coronavirus positive cases on Thursday. While Raichur reported a whopping 258 fresh Covid-19 cases, Kalaburagi saw its single-day record with 229 cases.  At 3,370, the Kalaburagi district is third in the state in terms of the number of cases. The district, which reported India’s first Covid-19 fatality in March, has seen 49 patients succumb to the virus, so far. The district, however, has witnessed a good recovery rate. As many as 1,895 patients have walked out of the hospital, post-recovery till date.   The Thursday’s cases have taken Raichur district’s case tally to 1,396. Of which, 660 are active. Two deaths on Thursday have taken the death toll in the district to 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kalaburagi-raichur-see-massive-surge-in-coronavirus-infections-864800.html
23-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Revise disaster management plan to include Covid-19, Karnataka HC tells state||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the government to appoint a sub-committee to prepare a revised state disaster management plan and include Covid-19 mitigation measures in the same.  A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M Nagaprasanna passed the interim order in PILs filed seeking implementation of the Disaster Management Act (DM Act). Arguing on the Interlocutory Application (IA) filed by him, the petitioner party-in-person Mallikarjuna Alegowda submitted that the state plan, as required by Section 23 (5) of the DM Act, ought to have been reviewed before the commencement of the year 2020-21. The State Executive Committee has failed to perform its duties, he contended. The court observed that because the government failed in implementing the provisions of DM Act, even district plans are not in existence. The bench pointed out that apart from State and District plans, every department of the government is required to prepare a separate disaster management plan. “If we look at the constitution of the State Executive Committee and District Disaster Management Authority, most of the members thereof are the functionaries of the state who have to be on the forefront in the battle against Covid-19. And, therefore it is obvious that every one of them is facing a constraint of time. However, the State Executive Committee is not helpless. The powers under section 21 can be exercised for appointing sub-committees. The state executive committee shall consider appointing a sub-committee for discharging its function under Section 23 (5) of DM Act for reviewing and updating the existing state plan. This sub-committee can go into the question of providing and laying down long-term measures for dealing with situations created by the spread of Covid-19,’’ the bench ordered.   The bench asked the government to report compliance on the appointment of the sub-committee within three weeks, after which it will consider a time-bound review and updation of the state plan. Subsequently, the direction can be issued to every district to come out with district plan and also a plan by each government department, the bench said and posted the matter for further hearing to August 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/revise-disaster-management-plan-to-include-covid-19-karnataka-hc-tells-state-864803.html
23-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Death toll increases to 93, 116 fresh coronavirus cases reported in Mysuru||Mysuru district recorded eight deaths, including a 25-year-old woman, and 145 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. With this, the total number of death has increased to 93 and the total cases to 2,169, with 1,345 active cases. Out of eight deaths, seven were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and the officials are tracing the contact of another. On Thursday, 38 patients recovered and were discharged. With this, a total of 731 persons have been discharged.   Out of 116 fresh cases, 42 are contacts of infected patients, 45 Influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 13 cases are with a travel history and two pregnant women.   The Health department authorities have observed 18,383 persons till date. While 15,925 completed quarantine period, 1,131 are under quarantine. The authorities have tested a total of 34,784 samples. The district administration has identified new 84 containment zones on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/death-toll-increases-to-93-116-fresh-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-mysuru-864815.html
23-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hassan reports 112 new coronavirus positive cases, two deaths||Covid-19 positive cases crossed the 100-mark on Thursday, creating panic among the people of the district. In all, 112 positive cases were reported, which is the highest single-day spike so far. With this, the total positive cases increased to 1,239. Two deaths were also reported. A 60-year-old man from Arkalgud taluk, suffering from lung ailment, and a 58-year-old man from Hassan taluk, suffering from diabetes and breathing problems, succumbed to the infection. A 36-year-old man, who has returned from a foreign country, and a 26-year-old woman from Hyderabad have tested positive. Most of the positive cases are returnees from Bengaluru, Tumakuru, and other districts and also primary contacts of infected persons. The contacts of several cases are under tracing. In all, 653 patients have been discharged, there are 549 active cases. While 27 are in ICU, 37 deaths have been reported so far. Out of 112 cases, 15 are from Arsikere, nine from Channarayapatna, 48 from Hassan taluk, eight from Holenarasipura, 14 from Sakleshpur, six from Arkalgud and 12 from Belur taluk. As a Hassan City Municipal Council employee has tested positive, the office has been sealed-down for sanitisation. The samples of his primary contacts have been sent for tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hassan-reports-112-new-coronavirus-positive-cases-two-deaths-864817.html
23-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||In Covid-19 times, vector-borne diseases see a decline in Mysuru||There has been a steep decline in dengue and chikungunya cases in the district, thanks to the lockdown enforced to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the Health department authorities, the lockdown has resulted positively in terms of containing dengue and chikungunya cases. The spread of the vector-borne disease have declined as the movement of people was less during the lockdown. The diseases spread through the bite of female mosquito (Aedes aegypti). The mosquito becomes infected when it takes the blood of a person infected with the virus. After about one week, the mosquito can transmit the virus while biting a healthy person. As people stayed indoors and there was hardly few travelers from other cities, the cases declined, according to the authorities.   In many cases, people travelling from other cities carry the infection and it spreads locally by mosquitos. This time, there is 50% decline in the diseases in the district. The cases of dengue and chikungunya witnessed a steep decline as the movement of people was low due to the outbreak of Covid-19. While the district reported 16 cases of dengue, 14 chikungunya cases were reported since January, according to the authorities. The number of dengue cases in the district had soared to 843 in 2017 and declined to 49 in 2018. However, there were 122 cases and 74 chikungunya cases in 2019. Normally, the district records 20 dengue cases on an average in June and almost double in July. But this time, the district recorded only a few cases. Apart from lockdown, continuous efforts of the department has resulted in the decline, officials said.   The Health Department has been conducting regular drives and health assistants are directed to conduct a door-to-door survey, in order to achieve success in reducing the cases of vector-borne diseases since 2017. Before Covid-19, health assistants used to visit the houses and take up necessary measures like cleaning tanks. But, due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the assistants are asked only to inspect the surroundings. “Due to Covid-19, the personnel are asked to visit the houses, but, they are not allowed to go inside due to the fear of Covid-19. All these years, professionals used to inspect the full house, including bathroom, toilets,” said an officer. Except for awareness rallies, all other activities such as surveys, door-to-door campaigns are in progress to contain the diseases, a doctor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-covid-19-times-vector-borne-diseases-see-a-decline-in-mysuru-864818.html
23-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dakshina Kannada reports 218 fresh coronavirus positive cases; death toll reaches 99||With another seven deaths being reported on Thursday, Dakshina Kannada district’s total Covid-19 death toll now stands at 99. 218 patients tested positive for Coronavirus and the district’s number of infections increased to 4,214. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that a 36-year-old man from Davangere, suffering from acute liver injury, acute kidney injury, among others, was admitted to a private hospital on July 16 and died on July 22. His throat swab tested positive for Covid-19. A 69-year-old man from Bhatkal with cancer, cardiac ailment, renal failure was admitted to a private hospital on July 7 and failed to respond to the treatment and died on July 22. He too was confirmed with Covid-19 infection. A 52-year-old man from Palakkadu in Kerala with diabetes was admitted to Covid Wenlock hospital on July 17 and died on July 22. A 83-year-old man from Mangaluru suffering from blood pressure, pneumonia was admitted to a private hospital on July 13 and died on July 22. He too was tested positive for Covid-19. A 73-year-old man from Mangaluru suffering from heart diseases, chronic kidney disease among others, was admitted to a private hospital on July 21 and died on July 22. His throat swab too tested positive for Covid-19. A 58-year-old woman from Mangaluru, suffering from blood pressure, diabetes mellitus among others, was admitted to a private hospital on July 11 and died on July 22. Her throat swab too tested positive for Covid-19. A 52-year-old man from Bantwak suffering from heart diseases, among others, was admitted to a private hospital on July 21 and died on July 22. His throat swab too tested positive for Covid-19. 162 fresh cases The district recorded 218 fresh cases, including six police personnel from Moodbidri police station, and one constable from Puttur town police station on Thursday. The deputy commissioner said, of the fresh cases, 110 persons suffering with symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI), 16 with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory infection (SARI) had been tested positive for Covid-19. Further, 36 persons who tested positive are the primary contacts of the already infected persons. The contact tracing of 57 persons infected are underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dakshina-kannada-reports-218-fresh-coronavirus-positive-cases-death-toll-reaches-99-864849.html
23-07-2020||West||Maharashtra records over 10,000 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday||In what reflects the big spike of Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra's total positive cases exceeded 10,000 on Wednesday.  In the last 24 hours, a record 10,576 cases were recorded, taking the total to 3,37,607. Also, 280 deaths were recorded, taking the total to 12,556. This is the second highest toll recorded in a day's time. A total of 5,552 patients discharged on Wednesday;  taking the total to 1,87,769 Covid-19 patients discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 55.62 per cent. Case fatality rate in the state stands at 3.72 per cent. Out of 16,87,213 laboratory samples, 3,37,607 have been tested positive (20%) for Covid-19 until till date. Currently, 8,58,121 people are in home quarantine and 44,975 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-over-10000-covid-19-cases-on-wednesday-864441.html
23-07-2020||West||Hotspots Mumbai, Pune to help test vaccine efficacy: SII ||The high prevalence of Covid-19 infections in Mumbai and Pune will help test the efficacy of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, its local manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) has said. By end of August, between 4,000 to 5,000 people in Pune and Mumbai will be injected with the vaccine as part of trials that are scheduled to last over two months, SII said. Oxford University has reported satisfactory progress from the vaccines test results and is conducting bigger field tests in the UK. In India, it has chosen SII as manufacturing partner, which has to conduct field trials before getting the final nod to ensure they are safe and effective for Indians. While Pine district has over 59,000 confirmed cases as of Wednesday, Mumbai has 1.03 lakh such cases. Both the cities account for almost half the positive cases in Maharashtra and over a 10th of the cases in India. There are a number of trial sites across both Mumbai and Punethat we have shortlisted, as these cities have many hotspots, which will help us understand the efficacy of the vaccine, the companys chief executive Adar Poonawalla told PTI in an email interview. He said the company aims to commence the crucial phase-3 of the trials of the vaccine christened as Covishield in India by August after getting the necessary permissions from the Drug Controller General of India. "The Indian regulatory authorities have aided us in fast-tracking approvals keeping in mind the requisite guidelines of safety and efficacy, Poonawalla said. We do not want to rush and would focus only on delivering a viable and effective product for the masses, he said. His father and company chairman Cyrus Poonawalla had on Tuesday said SII is aiming to sell the vaccine for under Rs 1,000 per dose in India. Adar Poonawalla said the company aims to manufacture300 million to400 million doses by the year-end, following the success of initial and licensure trials. He said as part of the agreement with AstraZeneca, SII can manufacture 1 billion doses for India and nearly 70 low and middle income countries. There are no challenges in the manufacturing of the vaccine doses and the company will be starting by making 60-70 million doses per day, he said. He had earlier explained that the Covid-19 vaccine project is a $200 million bet, wherein it is investing in production even as the vaccine goes through the trials process, so as to ensure that it can introduce a large volume of the vaccines in the market as soon as the license is received. However, if this candidate fails, the company will lose the money. "Our facility is well-equipped with state-of-the-art technology to manufacture the Covid-19 vaccine. We plan to start production post regulatory approvals, Poonawala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hotspots-mumbai-pune-to-help-test-vaccine-efficacy-sii-864541.html
23-07-2020||West||MSCW launches digital campaign against cyber-bullying||The Maharashtra State Commission for Women has launched a digital programme to educate and train young girls and women on how to counter cyber-bullying and social media predators. It has also launched a campaign to encourage women to report cases of domestic abuse, which have seen a rise during the lockdown in the country, the commission's member secretary Aastha Luthra said. To tackle cyberbullies and social media predators, a programme has been launched on Tuesday under which more than 50 webinars will be held across the state to educate and train young girls and women and certify them as "cyber sakhis", Luthra said in a statement. On an average, the Maharashtra State Commission for Women (MSCW) receives approximately 800 complaints a month, she said, adding that the number has reduced since the state started easing the lockdown restrictions. Women reach out to the commission through e-mails, letters, phone calls and also via Tejasvini app where most of the complaints are regarding domestic abuse, while some are also about social and financial problems. The evaluation is done on the basis of severity of the case, where the commission ascertains if police intervention is required or counselling could be used as a medium to resolve the issue, Luthra said. To raise awareness about domestic abuse, the MSCW on Monday launched '#UnMuteTheAbuse' campaign on social media, she said. The objective of the campaign is to get people to accept that domestic abuse is a long-standing problem that has seen an increase during the lockdown, the official said. The idea is to encourage people to raise their voice against any kind of domestic abuse, she said. Since the campaign was launched, 425 complaints of domestic violence have been received from across the state, with maximum 116 reported from Mumbai. There was also 50 e- mail complaints where the region or district was not mentioned, she said. "Often, neighbours and relatives are afraid to alert the authorities considering that any argument within the family is personal business. But, this needs to change and people need to overcome the hesitation and make it a usual practice to raise voice against any violence," she said. Luthra assured that the commission "will provide compassionate and comprehensive services" to those affected by domestic violence. She said the lockdown brought to light several cases of physical and mental abuse where women were forced to stay at home with their oppressors. "With this initiative, we aim to encourage people not only to raise their voice against domestic abuse, but also spread the message and help us in helping the victims get justice and a better life," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mscw-launches-digital-campaign-against-cyber-bullying-864557.html
23-07-2020||West||Rumours being spread on Chopra deaths, families misguided to tamper with evidence: West Bengal Police||Rumours are being spread about the "unnatural" death of a girl and a boy in Chopra area of North Dinajpur district of West Bengal to "misguide" their families and "conceal and tamper" with evidence, police said. Referring to the postmortem reports of the deceased, police said they died due to poisoning and did not have any external or internal injuries. "Some persons are still trying to spread rumours in the incident of unfortunate death of two young persons in Chopra PS area of Islampur PD. As per the Post Mortem reports of both the boy and the girl, they died due to poisoning and none of them had any external or internal injuries. "Family members being misguided by some persons with vested interest tried to conceal and tamper with the evidence. These persons then hatched up a conspiracy to create L&O problem and for that purpose, they spread a story which they knew to be completely false," the West Bengal Police said in a tweet on Wednesday night. The state police also appealed to people not to pay heed to these rumours. "People are requested not to get carried away by rumours. WBP is committed to maintaining peace. Please inform police in case of any incident or any valuable information," the police said. Alleging rape and murder of the girl, a mob had gone on a rampage in the district on July 19, setting fire to several police vehicles and government buses on the National Highway 31 in the Chopra area near Siliguri. The girl, who had gone out of her house at Sonapur village on July 19 morning to relieve herself, was found dead a few hours later. The villagers alleged that she was raped before being murdered. The next morning, the dead body of the boy, accused by the girl's family of raping and murdering her, was found in a pond in the same Chopra area. The father and two brothers of the girl have been arrested after the boy's family had lodged a complaint alleging that he was murdered by the girl's family. The police are investigating whether the two deaths are linked in any way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rumours-being-spread-on-chopra-deaths-families-misguided-to-tamper-with-evidence-west-bengal-police-864589.html
23-07-2020||West||Maharashtra permits online classes for pre-primary and standards I, II||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has permitted online classes for pre-primary students and for standards I and II with a daily 30-minute session five days a week. Last month, the pre-primary students and standards I and II were left out in the government's decision for starting online classes from June 15. But now, in its latest order issued on Wednesday, the government has asked schools to conduct online sessions for all classes from pre-primary till standard XII. Accordingly, the pre-primary classes will be conducted daily from Monday to Friday for 30 minutes in which the teachers will interact and guide parents of the students. For standards I and II, there will be two sessions of total of 30 minutes. The first 15-minute session will be for interaction and training of parents and the second session will be of activity-based learning for students. For standards III to VIII, there will be two sessions of 45 minutes each every day. For standards IX to XII, there will be up to four sessions of 45 minutes each every day, state School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said. The state government had last month said the duration of online classes for standards III to V would be one hour and for standards VI and above it would be two hours. After the outbreak of Covid-19, the state government decided it was not possible to open schools, but had authorised district collectors, municipal commissioners and school managements to take a decision considering the prevailing situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-permits-online-classes-for-pre-primary-and-standards-i-ii-864614.html
23-07-2020||West||Aurangabad suffers loss of Rs 1,000 crore loss in tourism sector amid pandemic||In terms of inbound tourists, Aurangabad is the second most popular, next only to the historic town of Agra, known for its majestic Taj Mahal. Aurangabad is famous worldwide for the twin UNESCO World Heritage Sites of Ajanta and Ellora, of importance to Hindu, Buddhist and Jain histories. Besides, Bibi-a-Maqbara, which resembles Taj Mahal, and is popularly known as Dakkhani Taj, is also located here. As far as the Covid-19 situation is concerned, Aurangabad has crossed 10,000 positive cases and 400-plus deaths. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, tourism is the worst sufferer,” Mangesh Kapote of Travel Agents Association of Aurangabad, told DH over the phone. According to him, tourism may start once flights between Mumbai and Aurangabad commence. “As far as travel by road, one has to get e-passes to cross district borders and it is given only for emergency purposes,” he said. Recently the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) opened several of its monuments including Ajanta and Ellora but there are hardly any tourists. “How will tourists reach…flights have not resumed and coming to Aurangabad by road for tourism purposes is not possible, and trains have limited services,” said a tourist guide. Kapote said that if one looks at Aurangabad and neighbouring districts of Ahmednagar, Jalgaon and Buldhana, the losses to the tourism sector, hotels and transport would be over Rs 1,000 crore. “Aurangabad district’s attractions like Ajanta, Ellora and Bibi ka Maqbara, Ahmednagar district’s Shirdi and Shingnapur, the Lonar Lake of Buldhana and Jalgaon district’s Gandhi Research Foundation and Swinging Towers of Farkande makes the region a unique destination,” says Bhujang Bobade, the curator of Gandhi Research Foundation. Aurangabad and its neighbourhood is part of the heritage circuit and pilgrimage circuit besides general tourists. “The Ajanta and Ellora caves are visited by foreign tourists including those from China, Thailand and South-East Asian countries,” said Kiran Bhoir, the founder of KMC Holidays & Offshore Pvt Ltd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-suffers-loss-of-rs-1000-crore-loss-in-tourism-sector-amid-pandemic-864617.html
23-07-2020||West||Maharashtra allows oral exam for failed students of Classes 9 & 11||The Maharashtra government has decided to give a second chance to students who have failed in the exams of Classes 9 and 11 and directed schools to conduct their oral examination on August 7. A government resolution (GR) issued on Monday said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a re-examination will not be possible for these students. It said the oral examination should be held by calling the students to the school or through video conference. Those who clear the oral examination should be admitted to Classes 10 and 12 for the academic year 2020-21, the GR said. In 2018, a re-examination was held for Class 9 students. But now during the pandemic, the re-exam cannot be held, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-allows-oral-exam-for-failed-students-of-classes-9-11-864621.html
23-07-2020||West||Private schools stop online classes after govt's 'no fee' order in Gujarat||Private schools in Gujarat have suspended online classes for an indefinite period from Thursday, after a state government order said they should not collect fees from students until the schools reopen. In a notification issued last week, the Gujarat government-directed self-financed schools in the state not to collect tuition fees from students as long as they remain shut in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. It also asked these schools not to hike fees for the academic year 2020-21. Unhappy with the move, a union of representing nearly 15,000 self-financed schools in Gujarat decided to put on hold online classes, an alternative arrangement started earlier this month for students. Majority of these schools informed the parents through SMS on Wednesday night that there will not be any online classes for their wards from Thursday. Self-financed School Management Association's spokesperson Dipak Rajyaguru on Thursday said almost all the self-financed schools in the state refrained from imparting online education. "If the government believes online education is not real education, then there is no meaning of imparting such unreal education to our students. Online education will remain suspended until the government withdraws that notification," Rajyaguru said in a statement. He said the association will also approach the high court against state government's decision. Jatin Bharad, a prominent educationist and member of the association, said there is no alternative to online education in the present scenario. "Self-financed schools need to pay salaries to the teachers and other staff. No state in India has taken such decision that fees cannot be collected despite conducting online classes. If we adhere to the state notification, it will be impossible for us to pay salaries and run the school. Thus, we have decided to suspend the online classes," said Bharad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/private-schools-stop-online-classes-after-govts-no-fee-order-in-gujarat-864626.html
23-07-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Ajit Pawar pays tribute to Tilak on his birth anniversary||Leaders cutting across party lines, including Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar, paid tributes to freedom fighter Bal Gangadhar Tilak on his birth anniversary on Thursday. Tilak was born on July 23, 1856 at Chikhali village in Ratnagiri district. He died in August 1920 in Mumbai. "Tributes to Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak who had bugled 'swarajya (self-rule) is my birthright and I shall have it'," the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) tweeted. Thackeray praised Tilak for taking on the British regime with his intelligence and intense journalism, and noted that the freedom fighter was jailed for it many a times. "We can see the dream of a prosperous and strong nation because of his sacrifice and dedication. Tributes to his thoughts and memories," the chief minister wrote. Taking to Twitter, state Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said, "Tributes to Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak who had roared 'swarajya is my birth right and I shall have it'. Let's resolve to convert the 'swarajya' he talked about into 'surajya' (good rule), as we pay respects to him." State PWD Minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan hailed Tilak for firmly raising the demand for self-rule through his speeches and writings. Water Resources Minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil also tweeted saying, "Humble tributes to Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak who was described as the 'Father of Indian Unrest', was a great freedom fighter, litterateur, journalist." State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil also paid tributes to Tilak, describing him as a "great social reformer, philosopher and writer." Patil said Tilak was the first leader who demanded "complete freedom" from the British rule. Maharashtra ministers Balasaheb Thorat, Anil Deshmukh, Nawab Malik and Hasan Mushrif and NCP MP Supriya Sule were among the other leaders who paid homage to Tilak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-ajit-pawar-pays-tribute-to-tilak-on-his-birth-anniversary-864651.html
23-07-2020||West||Sachin Pilot, 18 MLAs move plea before Rajasthan HC to include Union government in list of respondents||Sacked Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs, who challenged notices for disqualification issued by the Rajasthan assembly speaker in the high court, moved an application before the court on Thursday to include the Union government in the list of respondents. The application was moved on the ground that Tenth Schedule's constitutional validity was under challenge and therefore, the Union of India was a necessary party now. An identical application was also filed in the Supreme Court where the Rajasthan assembly speaker filed a special leave petition (SLP). On Friday, the dissident Congress MLAs led by Pilot challenged their disqualification notices through a writ petition which was taken up by a bench of Rajasthan High Court, comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta, and arguments were held. The hearing continued on Monday and the arguments concluded on Tuesday. The court will give an appropriate order in the writ petition on Friday. The notices to MLAs were served after the party complained to the speaker that the legislators had defied a whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party meetings on Monday and Tuesday last week. The Pilot camp, however, argued that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session. In its complaint to the Legislative Assembly Speaker, the Congress had sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they 'voluntarily' give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the president of the state unit of the party after he rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-pilot-18-mlas-move-plea-before-rajasthan-hc-to-include-union-government-in-list-of-respondents-864655.html
23-07-2020||West||Supreme Court refuses Rajasthan Speaker's plea; did his move backfire?||The move by Rajasthan Speaker C P Joshi to approach the Supreme Court has apparently backfired with the top court not only refusing his plea but putting everything subject to outcome of his petition before it, keeping the disqualification proceedings initiated against Sachin Pilot and other rebel Congress MLAs in limbo. With this, even if Rajasthan High Court on Friday decided against Pilot and his group, the Speaker would find it difficult to take any further action against them, since the matter is pending before the top court. The Speaker who raised questions of jurisdiction of the High Court before the top court has participated in the proceedings over there. This factor was put before the top court, which did not prefer to stay the High Court's July 21 order for not taking any action against dissidents, till its judgement on July 24. Though the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) of the Constitution entrusted the Speaker with absolute freedom to decide on such matters, the Constitutional courts have found his action in the past, subject to judicial review, if the procedure adopted by him was arbitrary, biased, mala fide and unfair. The apex court, while agreeing to examine the Speaker's contention, has also broadened the scope of matter by asking if the elected representatives can't ventilate their dissent in a democracy. On Friday, if the High Court finds nothing wrong in disqualification notice, Pilot and his group are sure to rush to the Supreme Court. If the Speaker's action is quashed, he would also approach the court, which would require longish hearing. Until the final decision by the Supreme Court, Rajasthan's political drama is likely to continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/supreme-court-refuses-rajasthan-speakers-plea-did-his-move-backfire-864745.html
23-07-2020||West||No meals for MLAs, limit on lawmakers’ entourages for assembly session: Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar||Preparing for the one-day monsoon session of the state legislative assembly amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Thursday said that the legislative department had taken several steps including curtailing the practice of serving meals to lawmakers and curtailing MLA entourages to the assembly complex. Patnekar also said that visitors had also been banned from attending the one-day assembly session scheduled for July 27, in a bid to limit the number of people in the assembly complex. “We have decided to limit the number of visitors to the assembly for the one-day session. One person per MLA, two per Minister and four persons will be allowed to enter the assembly premises with the CM,” Patnekar told reporters on Thursday, after meeting of the state Legislature department. The Speaker will also be allowed an entourage of four personnel. “No visitors will be allowed. We have also tried to reduce the expenditure at the same time. Therefore there will be no food served to the MLAs. Some snacks will be served though,” Patnekar said. A formal SOP issued by the Legislature Department which was issued later on Thursday also said that “social distancing (norms) were to be strictly followed by all at entry points and throughout their stay at the assembly complex on the day of the session”.“Any breach in the above terms should be brought to the notice of the security personnel present which will result in immediate expulsion from the assembly complex,” the SOPs also state. The monsoon session of the state legislative assembly has been curtailed to a one-day affair, following a unanimous decision taken during all-party meeting of legislators last week. One ruling BJP MLA has already been hospitalised after he tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-meals-for-mlas-limit-on-lawmakers-entourages-for-assembly-session-goa-speaker-rajesh-patnekar-864753.html
23-07-2020||West||Gujarat government says it doesn't have power to direct private firm to fix Tocilizumab injection price||The Gujarat government on Thursday said that it doesn't have the power to fix a price or issue any direction to the manufacturer of injectable drug Tocilizumab being used by doctors in the state to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients. Tocilizumab, an expensive drug, is in high demand in the state and recently a racket was busted manufacturing and selling spurious ones to needy people.   The government said this in an affidavit filed in the high court in response to a petition seeking a proper mechanism to ensure its supply. The affidavit states that the drug is being imported from Switzerland and for which license is required which is issued by Drugs Controller General of India, DCGI, CDSCO, New Delhi that has the powers regarding imports and fixation of price. "The state government has no power in fixing maximum retail price or any reasonable price thereof or issuing any directions to the concerned manufacturers in that regard or in any other matter pertaining to imports thereof," the affidavit stated. It said that only one firm Roche, based in Switzerland, manufactures the drug and is being imported and distributed by Cipla Ltd, Mumbai. The injection is available in 80 mg, 200 mg and 400 mg strength with maximum retail price of Rs8,112, Rs20,274 and Rs40,545 respectively, whereas, the state has procured them at Rs6,174, Rs15,435 and Rs30,870 respectively. The affidavit mentions that since March 30 to present, the government placed orders for 4,597 injections from Cipla, out of which, 2320 have been delivered to Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Ltd, a government of Gujarat body. At present, the government has a stock of 77 injections stored at GMSCL. In addition to this, Cipla has also assured that it will supply 100 to 150 such injections within a week. The government has said that Tocilizumab is "not anti-viral injection but it is recommended to be administered under certain specific circumstances and that too under specific expert recommendation and strict medical supervision and more particularly, during the course of occurrence of Cytokine Storm, which represents elevated inflammatory markers and the same can't be administered in each and every case of covid19 patient." It said that it is not a medicine specially prescribed for covid19, inasmuch, as it is an immunosuppressive drug meant for treating Rheumatoid Arthritis and Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis, a severe form of arthritis in children. The government claimed that stock of anti-viral medicine like "Remdesivir '' injection and "Favipiravir" tablets are available for treating Covid-19 patients. Meanwhile, five persons were booked for allegedly manufacturing and distributing Tocilizumab injections in Surat and Ahmedabad. Two of the accused have been arrested while three including the mastermind are absconding. The accused were running the racket through a fake pharma company. They started this in view of high demand for the injection after Surat started turning into a new hotspot for the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-says-it-doesnt-have-power-to-direct-private-firm-to-fix-tocilizumab-injection-price-864792.html
