24-07-2020||Comment||What’s the idea, CBSE?||The decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to drop key chapters such as on democratic rights, federalism, secularism and citizenship to reduce the syllabus for classes 9 to 12 for the 2020-21 academic year is an arbitrary and hasty move.   While the rationale behind axing certain chapters has not been explained, the decision, prima facie, appears to be ideologically driven, giving significance to political considerations rather than academics. The cuts seem to be aimed at the essence of democracy. On July 7, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced that the move to reduce the syllabus was made to help students cope with their studies amid the Covid-19 crisis. According to the updated curriculum (social sciences), the chapters deleted from the Class 10 syllabus are those dealing with democracy and diversity, gender, religion and caste, popular struggles and movements and challenges to democracy. For Class 11, the deleted portions include the chapters on federalism, citizenship, nationalism, secularism and growth of local governments in India. Class 12 students will not be required to study the chapters on India’s relations with its neighbours -- Pakistan, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal, the changing nature of India’s economic development, social movements in India and demonetisation, among others. Likewise, various important chapters have been slashed in other subjects, including science, in the process of rationalising 190 topics for classes 9 to 12. Not surprisingly, the move drew sharp reactions from various sections, including the Opposition parties, academics and parents, with some challenging the decision. “On the face of it, it appears that there is some ideological element in the choice of what is deleted. How do you optimise learning during this time? You are trying to reduce the investment in education, you are compromising on the learning of students,” Surajit Majumdar, a Professor at the School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University,  told the news agency PTI. This is not the way to approach the issue of how to respond to the pandemic, he said, adding that reduction in syllabus does not have to be because of the pandemic but for optimisation of learning.   “Chapters such as ‘popular struggles’ and ‘movements and challenges to democracy’ have their own importance in making the child understand past struggles. The child’s knowledge of these topics must be holistically evaluated. What is being done is not healthy and will have a harmful long-term effect,” Professor Satvinderpal Kaur of the Department of Education, Punjab University, was quoted as saying by Hindustan Times. The Opposition parties were quick to react. Congress said the removal of chapters on federalism, secularism, nationalism and citizenship, which are the pillars of Indian democracy, is a crude joke on our democracy and said it was highly condemnable. Party spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said it is unconstitutional and wondered if it is part of a “bigger conspiracy”, saying he would challenge the action in court in his individual capacity. CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury termed the CBSE move as “atrocious” and unacceptable. “Using the pandemic, the Modi government is deleting sections dealing with India’s diversity, plurality, democracy, etc., that uphold our constitutional values,” he tweeted. He alleged that it is being done to advance the “RSS vision of an exclusivist, theocratic, intolerant, fascistic nation. This is nothing but the destruction of our Constitution.” West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also objected to the CBSE’s decision to drop topics such as citizenship, federalism and partition, appealing to the HRD Ministry not to curtail important lessons at any cost. Several teachers have expressed concern that the reduction in science syllabus will not only affect the students’ understanding of key concepts but also impact them when they attempt entrance exams such as the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for engineering colleges and National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) for medical colleges. Instead of removing important topics, they could have been retained as core concepts in the syllabus, if in a shorter form. There is a connection between school education and higher education, and deletion of topics denies students their right to make future choices by limiting their exposure to and knowledge of concepts at an early stage. The Indian Society of Evolutionary Biologists (ISEB) expressed concerns over the scrapping of key topics such as reproduction in organisms, anatomy of plants and animals, pollution, climate change and its mitigation. “A direct consequence of our long-standing neglect of ecology and evolution in our biology curricula and research programmes is the relative paucity of epidemiologists in India. This renders the removal of most of evolution and ecology, including systematics and diversity of life, from the syllabi of classes X to XII as dangerously tragic,” the ISEB said in a statement. A Bengaluru educator and writer, Juliana Lazarus, has launched an online petition urging the CBSE and the HRD Ministry to reverse the decision. Twitter users were quick to vent their response. “In Dictator Modi’s New India, students are not needed to read ‘democracy and diversity, popular struggles, and movements and challenges to democracy,” said one. “Chapters on democracy and diversity dropped to ‘lessen the burden’ on students. Next up: Dropping democracy to ‘lessen the burden’ on citizens”, said another. Following the uproar, the CBSE sought to allay fears, saying it is only a one-time measure to reduce the stress of students and that the topics being mentioned “as dropped are either being covered by the rationalised syllabus or in the Alternative Academic Calendar of NCERT.” At this point, there is a lot of uncertainty and no one knows when this pandemic will be brought under control or when normalcy will be restored. A one-time measure could well continue year after year. The government not only needs to explain the rationale as to why certain topics have been chosen to be dropped from the syllabus but seek appropriate feedback from all stakeholders. Given the significance of the topics dropped and the ramifications of the move, in the interest of students and education and for the future of the largest democracy in the world, it is imperative that the government reconsiders its decision. (The writer is a senior journalist and author/editor of three books on Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/what-s-the-idea-cbse-864993.html
24-07-2020||First Edit||Vaccine hope, but challenges ahead||A bright spot amidst all the groom and dark news surrounding the spread of Covid-19 and its impact on the world is the reported advance in the efforts made to produce a vaccine against the disease. Results of clinical trials of two candidate vaccines, being developed at Oxford University in Britain and in a lab in Wuhan in China are promising, and they have till now been found safe and able to produce immune responses. Third stage trials on larger numbers of people have started and if the present promise is sustained, the vaccines may be ready before the end of the year. There are hopes, and even claims, that they may be ready as early as September. Much progress in vaccine research has been reported from the US also. There are in fact over 225 potential candidates which are in different stages of development in the world, and about 25 of them are in the human trial stage. Work on an Indian vaccine is also progressing, and hopefully at least one of the candidates will pass all the trials.  These reports give hope and confidence when the virus has infected over 15 million people in the world, taken over 600,000 lives and is spreading relentlessly. Millions of people are at risk in India. But, while the news about the vaccine is cause for cheer, it should be tempered by caution and realism. In vaccine development, there is many a slip between the test and the vial, and when the normal development period of many years has been compressed into a few months, doubts and uncertainties may linger even after the vaccine is ready. There are other challenges also. It will not be possible to produce billions of doses of vaccine in a short period. There are limits to manufacturing capacity, however much it is boosted, and logistical problems may arise. The vaccine will have to be made available to the vulnerable sections of the population first. There may also arise issues related to price and affordability. Some experts have said that some countries, even among the more populous ones, may go without a single dose of the vaccine for many months. There should therefore be no complacency or a false sense of security. The Covid-19 protocol comprising social distancing, wearing of masks and washing of hands, remains the best defence against the virus. Patience is the best and most needed virtue in dealing with the pandemic. Vaccine research is very much like looking for the elixir of life, and everything about it may for the time being be left to scientists, manufacturers and governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/vaccine-hope-but-challenges-ahead-864992.html
24-07-2020||First Edit||Police reforms needed urgently||Last week’s verdict by a Mathura court convicting and sentencing 11 policemen, including a DSP, for killing Raja Man Singh of the Bharatpur royal house in Rajasthan in 1985 shows the country’s criminal justice system as the proverbial glass, half full and half empty. The conviction might show that even policemen, who usually get away with their crimes, cannot always escape punishment. If that is the positive message from the verdict the downside is that it has taken 35 years for justice to be delivered. Even that might not have happened if the royal’s daughter, who is a former MP and minister, had not doggedly pursued the case. Man Singh, who was an independent candidate in an election, was shot dead by the police on the street after he had damaged an election rostrum of the Congress party the previous day. The then chief minister, SC Mathur, had to resign the next day. That also raises the question whether any chief minister would have to resign today after a fake encounter.  Encounter killings are more common now but only some of them, like the killing of four alleged rapist-murderers in Hyderabad last year or that of UP gangster Vikas Dubey recently attract attention. There are frequent reports of encounters from all parts of the country. Custodial killings also take place regularly. In June, two persons were killed in a police station near Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu. There is increasing official and public support for encounter killings and there is open defence and advocacy of instant justice. The long-held dictum that no-one should be punished without the due process of law is no longer accepted in practice, and the system is short-circuited to enforce a wrong and false idea of justice.  So, a rare case of delivery of justice, happening 35 years after the commission of the crime, may be taken as an exception proving the rule. It underlines the need for a correction of the flawed system. The correction has to start from the police, which is on the frontline of the system of justice. India’s policing system needs comprehensive reforms to turn it into an efficient, democratic and modern law enforcement force which respects the rights of citizens. The nexus with politics and criminals, which has grown over the decades, has weakened the police. Police reforms have been discussed for years, many reports have been submitted and proposals made, but no real and genuine reforms have been implemented. All parts of the justice system need an overhaul, but the main challenge lies with the police. That is why a case of victory of justice, though delayed, is also a reminder of its failure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/police-reforms-needed-urgently-865295.html
24-07-2020||In Perspective||Us or them? Urban wildlife in the age of Coronavirus||The novel coronavirus has affected life in ways we cannot as yet fully understand. The pandemic’s rapid acceleration caused governments to halt most individual, social, economic and industrial activity, allowing, as an unintended effect, animals and nature to, as many believe, ‘heal’. Birds and frogs could be heard, instead of the din of traffic. Mammals were found exploring distant neighbourhoods with no fear of being chased away or being run over by a car. Numerous images and videos were enthusiastically shared on social media and news channels. It is nice to see them as a collective beacon of hope, not just for the animals, but for the moral fabric of our society. However, beneath this celebration of mother nature rebounding is a growing suspicion of the untamed animals living around us, in our cities. Ever since the unverified news of bats being the primary origin of Covid-19, several opinions on what must be done to protect people from these ‘carriers of killer viruses’ have emerged. While some folk are concerned, given the connection between such viruses and the flying mammals, others suspect far more sinister motives, and an “it’s either us or them” logic of survival. While it is most likely that the Coronavirus is zoonotic (of natural animal origin), our understanding of how critical the human-animal connection is for our larger well-being is low. Them Every city in the world is home to urban wildlife, much of which we don’t really notice. Birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and insects, which by definition cannot be domesticated, but live and thrive on their own in the various urban spaces cities offer -- parks, trees, odd spaces in buildings, drains, lakes and fringe forests. These species have adapted to concrete, steel and glass, and to the various activities typical of human habitation. And yes, while they include the black kite, the sunbird, the squirrel and the rat snake, they also include several species of bat. Most of us city folk, even those with an intellect of note and a green heart, do not consider this a symbiotic relationship -- after all, what does a venomous cobra, noisy parakeet or aggressive monkey really do for us? We built our towns on untamed land, invading and almost always destroying the habitats of other species. But they find ways of growing their stock, ultimately changing the circumstances of their survival to suit the conditions we provide. Us During the lockdown, in Bengaluru, there was a dramatic increase in cases of cruelty against animals. This went beyond the period when dogs and cats were abandoned for being possible carriers of the deadly virus. People called helplines frantically, urging municipal authorities to cut down trees in their neighbourhood so that the bats would disappear. Some even demanded fumigation -- pumping noxious fumes into the air to drive away, maim or kill anything that moved. The very air that they and their children breathed. Curiously, amongst these callers were self-proclaimed animal lovers, simply because they kept and fed dogs or cats. If anything, this tells us about the total lack of understanding of the value of urban wildlife. In the last, revealing sequence of Contagion, the acclaimed movie on a pandemic, we are shown a pig consuming a bat dropping. The pig then finds its way into the kitchen of a five-star hotel, and the killer virus is unleashed. While this instance is fictitious, it is wholly plausible. Animals can harbour contagious diseases, just as your spouse or best buddy can. Studies show that viruses potentially jump hosts when the animal is stressed, handled, or consumed as food. This is as true of any animal as it is of a cold-stricken 10-year-old boy who sneezes into his sister’s face. The more we destroy their habitats, harm them, or try to keep them as pets, the higher the chances of a disease crossing over. Wild animals are meant to be just that -- wild, going about their lives with no human interference. Of course, the question remains: Why do we need them in our cities? And why bats? If you happen to live around some of the big parks and lakes in Bengaluru, you’ll probably see a cloud of flying fox bats in the sky at dusk, all heading back home. Along with other species, urban bats are responsible for a good percentage of the natural greenery in our city. They pollinate trees, transport seeds, add important nutrients to our soil, and contribute to a bigger picture that we seldom notice -- including our water security, air quality and local weather. This is largely true of all the bird and mammal species that gain nutrition from flowers, fruits and various parts of shrubs and trees. There’s more. Urban wildlife is the invisible hygiene and pest-controller of most cities like Bengaluru. Rats, the real bad guys of epidemics, are prey for predatory birds and snakes. A barn owl’s yearly dinner count is 300 rats. Cobra venom neutralises infectious viruses in the rats they consume. Crows, kites and other scavengers help with our garbage problem, cleaning up rotting food and meat around our street bins. Animals also play an important part in the year-round sustenance of our lakes, which are key to the wellbeing of the city. Control of green cover, disease and garbage. These are just some of what urban wildlife does for us, with immense skill and focus. Best of all, they don’t charge for the service! The rules of conservation that work in the wilderness are completely upturned in the urban landscape. While there’s much to be learned, here’s what we citizens can do: Let these wild animals be. Protect their habitats. Get our local governments to include them in plans. Truth is, a healthy, balanced urban wildlife population makes a city healthier for us all. And isn’t that what we need now? (The writer is Trustee, PfA Wildlife Rescue & Conservation Centre)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/us-or-them-urban-wildlife-in-the-age-of-coronavirus-864994.html
24-07-2020||In Perspective||The fairness of fairness creams||Companies in the fairness cream business have clearly seen the writing on the wall. It started with a decision by Johnson & Johnson to end the marketing of these creams. Not to be left behind, Hindustan Unilever followed suit. Of course, the latter has not forsworn the manufacture of Fair & Lovely, they have decided to just change its name.    The worldwide revulsion caused by l’affaire George Floyd has led to the welcome ‘Black Lives Matter’ movement to fight a perverse dispensation that allows State forces to target people of colour. Activists took this fight further by identifying three reasons why fairness creams should be banned: The first is the obvious point that fairness creams smack of racial prejudice; the second is the discrimination argument; and the third is the notion of ‘colourism’. It is estimated that last year, nearly 6,300 tonnes of skin lighteners were sold worldwide. Fairness creams enjoy such a large market because of the general notion in India and many other Asian and African countries that fair is beautiful. Note that this relates to fairness and not a white or Caucasian complexion. This preference is seen mostly at the time of marriage and is reflected in the matrimonial advertisements in India seeking fair-skinned partners.  Most people equate this preference with racism and hence ask for a ban on fairness creams. How logical is this? To ask for a fair spouse is not to denigrate all darker people but only to express a preference for what one believes constitutes beauty. Many matrimonial advertisements call for educated spouses or those having lucrative jobs. Should that be seen as discrimination against uneducated potential spouses or against those in low-paying jobs? The test for racism must rest on firmer grounds. Racism involves a distinct bias against a particular skin colour on the basis that a person of that colour is inherently inferior. If you are selecting candidates for a high academic position and you overlook a dark person who boasts a better academic record than her fair-skinned competitor, you are being racist. If the police come down heavily on a dark person for some perceived misdemeanour but overlooks the same in a fair person, that is racism. The allegation against the Minneapolis police is that George Floyd would have been treated quite differently if he had been white. Viewed in this background, do fairness creams fail the racism test?  Most users of these creams would look on them as an aid to beauty in the same way that foundation cream or lipstick would be viewed.  Others would insist that it is their right to choose whatever enhances their looks.    Do fairness creams result in discrimination? Here, too, it is difficult to prove the case. Discrimination would imply that someone gets preference over a more deserving candidate solely on the basis of some external consideration unrelated to the specified requirements. Thus, if the best candidate in a job interview is overlooked because she belongs to a lower caste, that is discrimination. The same thing would apply if the reason for the selection were based on colour or indeed on any extraneous consideration. But in a personal decision like choosing a marriage partner, how can we deny anyone the right to their own preferences? What exactly does ‘colourism’ imply? If it means a system in which skin colour is placed in a hierarchy, with fair skin at the apex and tones of darker skin shades following in a descending order, then obviously it is indefensible. But here again, it does not appear that fairness creams encourage such ideas. All that they do is to recognise that the Indian concept of beauty involves fair skin. FMCGs then cater to that belief by producing fairness creams. It is true that they do not try to alter that belief, but in all fairness (no pun intended) that is not their job. The only surefire method by which the popularity of fairness creams could be eliminated is if the concept of beauty itself were to change and Indians became convinced that fairness is not a necessary attribute of beauty. Fairness creams would then lose their USP. In fact, a movement called ‘Dark is Beautiful’ has already been started and if it is able to alter perceptions of beauty, the battle would be won. We would then not have to ban the production of these products because the demand for them would have disappeared. The feeling against fairness creams has apparently got even the government to consider a ban on their advertisement. This is unlikely to reduce the demand for them. It will only lead to ignorance among users of the different brands on offer and, if the experience with the ban of advertisement of alcohol is any guide, result in a rush of surrogate advertising.  The real objection to such creams is the fact that they have no effect on skin colour and, therefore, buying them is a waste of money. Should this lead to a ban on their advertisement? I remember some years ago, the launch of a product that was guaranteed to cause huge growth spurts in children. The advertisement campaign for this product portrayed three giraffes, each taller than the one ahead of it, showing quite dramatically the growth potential induced by the product. The catchy slogan was ‘Goodness Growcious’. Doctors doubted if the product would accelerate growth, but anxious parents lapped it up in the hope that little Ashok would grow inches taller after taking it. Should we have banned its advertisement? In the ultimate analysis, using fairness cream is a personal decision with no racial or discriminatory overtones. An indignant user in Hong Kong took to Twitter to express a simple sentiment: Her body, her choice. Since in India, fairness creams for men are also marketed, we could perhaps say, their bodies, their choice. (The writer is a retired IAS officer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-fairness-of-fairness-creams-865297.html
24-07-2020||Kalaburagi||Motorist escapes from being washed away ||A motorist escaped in filmy style from being washed away while crossing a rivulet near Hadalagi in Aland taluk of the district on Friday. The man who washed away for some distance due to the water gush, rescued himself by catching hold of a branch of a tree. A motorbike and over 30 empty pots were washed away in the water. Due to incessant rains, several rivulets in Aland taluk were overflowing. Tur crop has been damaged in the rains. Connectivity to some villages has snapped as rivulets in Madana Hipparaga, Ningadalli, Hebali, Padasavali, Jeerahalli, Mataki and Theertha are overflowing. Kalaburagi city also received drizzling for a while in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/motorist-escapes-from-being-washed-away-865160.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka government tweaks three laws, approves labour ordinance||Karnataka’s industrial sector is likely to witness a large-scale shake-up after the state Cabinet on Thursday approved sweeping changes to three important labour laws through an ordinance, in a move that will infuriate labour unions.  The Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Ordinance — which the government said will help ease of doing business amid the pandemic — will amend some provisions under the Industrial Disputes Act, the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act and the Factories Act. According to Law Minister JC Madhuswamy, the worker threshold will increase from 100 to 300 under Section 25(K) of the Industrial Disputes Act. This means that only those establishments that employ 300 or more persons will have to seek the government’s permission for closure, retrenchment or layoff.  Similarly, worker thresholds under the Contract Labour and Factories Acts will be increased. While any contractor with 20 employees or more attracted the regulations under the Contract Labour Act, a contractor with 50 or more employees will attract the regulations going forward. Madhuswamy said that the Industries Act will also be amended to increase the worker threshold from 10 to 20 in units which use power and from 20 to 40 in factories that do not use power. “Overtime work of any quarter is also increased from 75 to 125 hours under section 65(3)(iv) of the Factories Act,” he said. According to government sources, the amendments were based on the recommendations made by the Ministry of Labour and Employment in May, and ‘prior instruction’ was issued by the President of India through a letter by the Ministry of Home Affairs on July 11. Similar amendments have been made in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Odisha and other states. The ordinance comes after much dilly-dallying and amidst protests from the labour unions. On June 11, the government withdrew a May 22 notification extending work hours after the High Court observed that it may have to quash the notification unless the government clarified what was the ‘Public Emergency’ involved to enhance the working hours. Labour activist Meenakshi Sundar said, “The amendments are detrimental to the interests of labourers as the industries can now lay off or fire people without consulting the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-tweaks-three-laws-approves-labour-ordinance-864859.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu reports 13 fresh Covid-19 cases; tally goes up to 311||Thirteen new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kodagu district on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said. The infected are - a 50-year-old man and a 25-year-old woman, who were the primary contacts of an infected person from Haisodluru in Virajpet taluk; a 49-year-old man and a 21-year-old man from Postal quarters in Madikeri; two men, aged 23 years and 20 years, who were the primary contacts of an infected person from Jodbatti in Virajpet; a 41-year-old man from M G Nagar in Ponnampet, Virajpet; a 32-year-old woman health worker from Sudarshan Extension, near Munishwar Temple, Madikeri; a 44-year-old man, who is a Forest department personnel and a resident of Man’s compound in Madikeri; a 69-year-old man from Aburkatte in Somwarpet, with a travel history of Bengaluru;  a 31-year-old man from Banashankari Road in Hebbale, Kushalnagar, with a travel history of Bengaluru; a 75-year-old woman and a 23-year-old woman from Ayyappa Swamy Temple Road in Virajpet. Following the aforementioned cases, M G Nagar, Ponnampet, Sudarshan Extension, Madikeri, Postal quarters in Madikeri, surroundings of Raghavendra temple, Man’s Compound in Madikeri, Aburkatte in Somwarpet and Banashankari Temple in Hebbale in Kushalnagar have been declared containment zones. The following containment zones have denotified - Madikeri Bavali, Cherambane, Bolluru, surroundings of More store in Gonikoppa, Hebbale Main Road, Kaikadu Parane, Kirandadu Parane, Kottalu Sampaje, Kotturu, Kudurepaya and Majanuru in Somwarpet taluk, Marapala, Titimati, Nanjarayapattana, Belli Colony, Nanjarayapattana Paisari and Peraje in Madikeri, Health quarters in Sampaje, Sannapilikotu in Madikeri, Talacauvery, Tamara Kakkabbe and Tannimani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-reports-13-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-goes-up-to-311-864860.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Water, soil from Kodagu sent to Ayodhya||Soil from Kodagu and water from River Cauvery were sent to Ayodhya, on Thursday. The soil and water from the district will be used while performing ground breaking for Sri Ram Mandir on August 5. Workers of Bajrang Dal, Vishwa Hindu Parishat and Hindu Jagarana Vedike collected the soil and water from River Cauvery at Talacauvery Kshetra.  Meanwhile, special pooja was offered at Talacauvery, praying for the timely completion of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Talacauvery Kshetra Chief Priest Narayana Acharya said that justice had been made in Ayodhya issue, which had efforts of many people behind the same. Speaking on the occasion, MLC Sunil Subramani said that the dream of constructing the Ram Mandir was getting realised. He recalled that he had visited Ayodhya in 1992. Leader Chakkera Manu said that the long cherished dream of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya was being fulfilled. Vishwa Hindu Parishat leader Chi Na Somesh, Bajrang Dal District Convener Chethan, VHP Madikeri taluk President Suresh Muttappa and VHP district Secretary Pudiyokkada Ramesh were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/water-soil-from-kodagu-sent-to-ayodhya-864863.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||DC Annies Kanmani Joy reviews facilities at Covid Care Centres||Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy has directed the officials to provide necessary treatment and other facilities to the patients at the Covid Care Centres in Morarji Desai Residential School and Ekalavya Residential School in Arji, Virajpet. Visiting the Covid Care Centres on Thursday, she directed the officials concerned to repair the rooms at the Ekalavya Residential School and provide clean drinking water to the patients. “Cleanliness and hygiene should be maintained at the Covid Care Centres. Care should be taken the provision of good food for the patients. Necessary facilities should also be provided to the doctors and nurses deputed at the care centres,” the officer further directed. Virajpet Tahsildar M M Nandish said five Covid-19 infected were admitted to the Morarji Desai CCC eight days ago and all of them have been discharged after recovery. “Four other Covid-19 positive persons from South Kodagu were admitted to the Covid Care Centre at the Morarji Desai Residential School on Thursday. At the Morarji Desai Residential School, 80 people can be accommodated and there is space for 40 people at the Ekalavya school. Both the centres are equipped with all necessary facilities, including doctors”, Nandish said. ITDP Officer Shivakumar, district Health Officer and taluk level officers were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-annies-kanmani-joy-reviews-facilities-at-covid-care-centres-864867.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||I feel like winning a war: Covid-19 survivor||“I didn’t panic even after realising that I was infected with Covid-19. It indeed feels like winning a war,” said Tirumalesh from Bhagamandala, who recovered from Covid-19 recently. Sharing his experiences, he said that on June 30, the day after his return from Bengaluru, he underwent medical test, along with his family members, at the designated Covid-19 hospital. Tirumalesh was working in a private company in Bengaluru.  The lab report which arrived on July 9 confirmed that Tirumalesh tested positive for Covid and other family members tested negative. But he was asymptomatic. His family members cheered him up. His wife, daughter and sister-in-law were home quarantined. Tirumalesh got admitted to the hospital on June 10 and stayed there for two days. His medical check-up was carried out at the time of admission. Later, he was shifted to the Covid Care Centre in Navodaya School. After three days, he was discharged and he returned to his home. Tirumalesh said that he had been carrying out agricultural activities on his farm while following the directions issued by the medical personnel. He is totally fine now. “There is no need to fear about novel coronavirus. The government is providing all necessary medication and other facilities such as ambulance, for Covid patients. All have to follow the precautionary measures such as maintaining social distance and wearing masks,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/i-feel-like-winning-a-war-covid-19-survivor-864871.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown in 7 wards of Shivamogga withdrawn: K S Eshwarappa||In a major development, the Shivamogga district administration has withdrawn lockdown enforced in seven wards of the city corporation after residents opposed it.  Defending the move, the minister said the lockdown has been withdrawn across the state. So people opposed restrictions enforced in some areas of the city. "We are confident that they would follow guidelines of the government without fail".  He said that only houses where people test Covid-19 cases would be sealed down and not the entire area in the coming days. Police are given complete power to take action against those who violate the guidelines of the government.  It may be mentioned here that the district recorded 123 cases on July 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-in-7-wards-of-shivamogga-withdrawn-k-s-eshwarappa-864929.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Job fraud! Aspirants cheated using fake UPCL websites||Fraudsters and miscreants have created fake websites in the name of Udupi Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) and are engaged in cheating the people in the name of employment. In a complaint submitted to Udupi Cyber Crime, Economic Offences & Narcotics (CEN) police station, UPCL Association General Manager K Shashidar alleged that four fake websites have been created in the name of UPCL and have claimed that 1,800 engineers posts are vacant in UPCL. The fake websites have also been demanding Rs 500 fee for the registration of the job aspirants. The fake websites are - www.udupipowerproject.com, www.upclindia.com, www.udupiproject.com, www.udupiproject.in. Further helpline numbers +918046800985, +911149409800, +911149409807  too have been given in these fake websites. In a complaint, he said that the fake websites have been created to tarnish the image of the UPCL. Udupi CEN station has registered a case under Section 66(c), 66(d) of IT Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/job-fraud-aspirants-cheated-using-fake-upcl-websites-864940.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Congress has resorted to dirty politics, alleges Suresh Angadi||Angadi told reporters here on Friday that Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar instead of joining hands with the government have resorted to making allegations of corruption. Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar have to introspect that Congress has been the mother of corruption and they do not have the moral right to talk about it. It's mean politics during the time of pandemic and Congress leaders should give it away and join hands to resolve grievances of people, Angadi stated. He further said that all should keep their political affiliations aside and give attention to the health of the people. Acts of Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar do not suit them, he added. The Congress does not have any scope to speak against the BJP. At the centre, Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government and in the state, Yediyurappa-led government have been working towards bringing the pandemic under control, while Congress leaders have resorted to cheap politics, he alleged. He said, those who set ambulance on fire at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital after the death of a patient were anti-nationals and the act appears to be premeditated. Police should unearth the deeper conspiracy of the sudden surfacing of the mob that rained stones on the hospital and set the ambulance on fire. "The staff of the hospital need not fear. Law will take its own course," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-has-resorted-to-dirty-politics-alleges-suresh-angadi-865018.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Karnataka private school principals seek guidelines for institutions, parents||Members of Mysore Sahodaya School Conference, lead by president Krishna Bangera, met Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar in Bengaluru recently and presented a memorandum, to this effect. K G Mathew, principal of Excel Public School, said, “The lockdown of educational institutions due to Covid-19, has brought unprecedented hardships to employees of private educational institutions. Many managements are unable to pay salaries to both teaching and non-teaching staff, citing non-receipt of annual fees from parents. The lives of thousands of employees revolve around these institutions, since many years. With no source of income and with no alternative occupation, their future has become uncertain.” “While teachers are busy, engaging students in online classes, parents, in many cases, do not seem to be in a mood to pay the fees, neither in full nor in part, as there is no clarity on reopening of schools,” he pointed out. Mathew said, “Representatives of Mysore Sahodaya School Conference, an association of schools affiliated to CBSE of Mysuru and neighbouring districts, requested the intervention of Education Minister Suresh Kumar, in addressing the problems faced by employees of private unaided educational institutions." "The delegation requested the minister to direct the parents, who are capable of paying the school fees, to do so, like in many other states. We also referred to the recent orders of various High Courts, favouring collection of fees by schools to meet their operational expenses, including payment of salaries to staff," he said. “We requested the minister to safeguard the employment and financial stability of staff of these institutions. There is a need to set up a ‘relief and grievance cell’ in every district, to address the concerns of the employees of this unorganised sector,” he said. Earlier, Sahodaya representatives met Mysuru district in-charge Minister S T Somasekhar, MP Pratap Simha and Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and submitted separate memorandum in this connection. The delegation included William Pushparaj and Rajeshwar Iyer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-karnataka-private-school-principals-seek-guidelines-for-institutions-parents-865264.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya: Covid-19 victims have no place to rest in peace||Conducting the last rites of Covid-19 victims has become a difficult task for the district administration, as people living near the burial grounds, are opposing the procedure, out of fear. With no particular place identified for the purpose, it has become a nightmare for the team performing the rites as per the protocol. Sometimes, they are forced to do it secretly, fearing the wrath of the public. The last rites of a woman, a Covid-19 victim, was conducted secretly, with the help of mobile phone torchlights, at a burial ground in the city recently. Even though the government has assured deep burial of Covid-19 victims, not causing any problem, it is being opposed by the public. Besides, local political leaders, who should convince the public are joining hands with them, not allowing the team to perform its duty. Recently, a team had to complete the procedure in a hurry, before the public got information about it, at Yathagadahalli burial grounds in the city. However, more than 500 people, who gathered on the spot, took the tahsildar and the team to task and even warned them with dire consequences. The body of a Covid-19 victim, which was taken to Sugar Town burial grounds, was not allowed to bury. Later, the body was taken to the victim’s s native in Pandavapura and the procedure completed. Similar incidents were reported at the burial grounds in Santhemaala, Guthalu, Shankara Nagar, Kallahalli and Halahalli. The team members said, “Though they volunteered to give a dignified burial to the victim, locals threaten them, and sometimes even resort to attack, right in front of the officials.” The body of a woman was laid to rest secretly, after driving the ambulance to the burial ground after 8 pm, switching off the lights. Later, with the help of the torchlight and the headlight of a motorbike of the woman’s relative, the procedure was completed. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said, “Places for burial have been identified in the taluks and the team has been directed to conduct the last rites of the deceased in their respective taluks.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-covid-19-victims-have-no-place-to-rest-in-peace-865265.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Office furniture see huge demand as WFH likely to stay in Mysuru||With many adapting to the Work From Home (WFH) culture, due to the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is great demand for office furniture, both online and offline. WFH system has almost become the order of the day and is likely to continue till the end of the year. Thus, computer tables and chairs are out of stock in furniture showrooms in Mysuru. The WFH system has been introduced from March, when Covid-19 positive cases started rising. The fear of the pandemic was so high, that the government implemented a 21-day lockdown, further lockdowns followed. The government too advocated WFH for employees of various departments, to keep the administrative machinery functioning. Similarly, hundreds of Information Technology (IT) companies followed it, announcing WFH for its employees, as a safety measure. Thousands of employees work in shifts in the IT sector. As workplaces were said to be conducive for the spread of virus, they brought in the WFH system, for its employees. As the situation turned worse now, with Covid-19 claiming hundreds of lives, and the state reporting thousands of positive cases every day, multi-national companies are likely to function in the same mode, till the end of the year. They have been sending mails to its employees, offering allowances for setting up home offices. Furniture Palace, a showroom in Mysuru, claimed that they sold a number of tables and chair sets, in the month of May-June. "Most of those working in Bengaluru have returned to Mysuru. They purchase multiple numbers, for their groups, and submit a bill to the office. Thus, they get a good discount. Computer tables are out of stock now. A few even chose ergonomic chairs that ranges from Rs 5,000 to Rs 20,000. Tables, both computer and laptop, are out of stock. We have placed new orders. There is a delay in shipping, as the situation is similar across the country," said a sales representative N Vishnu. Namratha, an employee of a popular multi-national company, said, "I used to work from my sofa, dining table and also on bed, in the beginning of lockdown, thinking it is temporary. Now, I have purchased a chair and a table, as we have to work late night shifts. We cannot compromise on comfort. Our company is giving us allowance to purchase furniture and install UPS, so that it does not affect productivity. Online also furniture is in demand and the portals seek around 20 days time to deliver the goods."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-office-furniture-see-huge-demand-as-wfh-likely-to-stay-in-mysuru-865267.html
24-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP, Congress face off again over alleged Covid-19 corruption||The BJP and the Congress traded charges again on Thursday in connection with the allegations of corruption in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment and supplies.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa fielded no less than five ministers, the Pancha Pandavas, as they called themselves, to issue a point-by-point rebuttal of the corruption charges levelled by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who has been doggedly pursuing the matter. On Thursday, Siddaramaiah released documents comprising statistics to support his claims. His documents suggest that Karnataka procured equipment at prices way higher than the market rates during the pandemic.  'Congress shaming itself' Reacting to the claims, the BJP government said the Congress had “publicly shamed” itself by making baseless allegations during the pandemic.  Siddaramaiah said the total expenditure of the government was Rs 4,167 crore of which at least Rs 2,000 crore was “pocketed” by ministers and officials. “The Centre procured 50,000 ventilators at Rs 4 lakh per unit. Tamil Nadu procured 100 ventilators at Rs 4.78 lakh apiece. Why did Karnataka buy ventilators at rates varying between Rs 5.60 lakh and Rs 18.20 lakh per unit?” Siddaramaiah said, quoting data he claimed to have received from Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar. “Doesn’t this stink of corruption?” he asked. He further charged that the government procured Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits at Rs 2,117 whereas their market price was just Rs 330.  “I strongly demand, on behalf of the people of Karnataka, a judicial inquiry by a sitting High Court judge,” Siddaramaiah said. “Congress will continue to cooperate with the government in saving people’s lives. We won’t cooperate with the looting of money.” BJP counter-attack The BJP fielded Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar in its riposte to the allegations. “The overall expenditure of the government is Rs 2,118 crore, with Rs 1,611 crore going for Covid relief measures and Rs 506 crore for purchase of medical equipment,” Bommai said, refuting Siddaramaiah’s basic premise.  Apparently, in January 2019 when the Congress-JD(S) coalition was in power, 46 ventilators were procured at a cost of Rs 21.73 lakh per unit. “There was no health crisis then. Yet, they bought them at that price. But even amid this crisis, we bought ventilators at a lower price,” Ashoka said.  Sudhakar refuted the claim that his department had spent Rs 815 crore. “Someone who has presented over a dozen budgets should know the difference between a proposal and actual spend. There are proposals worth Rs 815 crore to upgrade hospital infrastructure, but till date we have spent only Rs 33 crore,” he said. “(Siddaramaiah) should be patting our back because we procured ventilators from a top firm such as Draeger at such a reasonable cost.”  According to Narayan, Tamil Nadu paid Rs 4.76 lakh for a ventilator that was to be used in an ambulance. “They don’t even know what they’re talking about.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-congress-face-off-again-over-alleged-covid-19-corruption-864856.html
24-07-2020||Main Article||The collected silences of MMS: The spider weaves its web widely||After the post-war guilt when a distinguished German professor converted to Catholicism, he had second thoughts about the tapes he had made for broadcasting on German radio that he felt might add to the prevailing religious overtones in the public discourses and he wanted  some changes made in the script. There were 27 mentions of the word ‘God’ in the script which he wanted to amend to ‘that higher being whom we revere’, which, he felt, was consistent with his pre-conversion beliefs. Editing the German script was not easy grammatically because there were five datives, seven genitives and one vocative in that phrase, adding to the irritation of the professor. For Murke, the editor at the radio station, this was a challenge as well as a moment of amusement. The tape had to be cut and spliced to take out the offending word and accommodate the extra words. He sliced the cut portions and pasted them into a tape that was 30 minutes long. Thirty minutes of silence. Heinrich Boll’s story, ‘Murke’s Collected Silences’ is an account of the 30 minutes of silence that the German radio official had taped and used to play in the evenings after a hard day’s work. When PV Narasimha Rao was suddenly called upon to take over as prime minister and he was deciding on the cabinet formation, he was in a dilemma over whom to allot the crucial portfolio of Finance. Waiting in the hall were prospective candidates -- P Chidambaram, Pranab Mukherjee and Yashwant Sinha. The previous evening, Rao had consulted former President R Venkataraman about a suitable man who would help the economy recover from the balance of payments mess. Venkataraman, who had handled Finance, mentioned Manmohan Singh, who had been RBI Governor and a rank outsider to politics. He had also worked in the IMF and knew the set-up there. Singh was also non-controversial and unflappable. When Rao announced the name of Manmohan Singh, there was hushed silence in the hall, the three prospective candidates were duly shocked. Pranab remembered seeing Singh wait outside his office with files when he was Finance Minister. Chidambaram was also sulking. The opening of the economy under the quiet Dr Manmohan Singh is now history. From a basket case, the country’s leap into an economic power has been remarkable. Singh carried out his reforms, fully confident that Rao would back him to the hilt. “If the reforms click, I will take all the credit for it; but if they fail, then you would be blamed for it,” Rao had joked with him. From a Licence Raj regime, India was launched into a modern economic power centre. Investments began to pour in, the IT sector opened up and the soft power of the country began to be noticed and respected. Manufacturing picked up and the innovative and creative skills of the people were getting noticed everywhere. All these, Manmohan Singh carried out without any fanfare or beating of the chest. In fact, he rarely opened his mouth, and the one break he made was to quote Mirza Ghalib in his first budget speech. Rao, too, was a practitioner of the mysterious art of silence and it was said he could be silent in 12 languages. Singh clarified that the economic reforms he had initiated were not meant to “give a fillip to the mindless and heartless consumerism” we see in affluent societies. He said that “we must combine efficiency with austerity,” which he exemplified in his life. Austerity did not mean “a negation of life, or a dry creed that casts a baleful eye on joy and laughter.” He invoked Gandhi to say that the challenge “of our times is to ensure that wealth creation is not only tempered by equity and justice, but is harnessed to the goal of removing poverty, ignorance and disease.” This vision came to fruition when, in 2001, a Goldman Sachs team identified India as one of the BRIC countries likely to be the main source of global growth in future. During a crisis US President George HW Bush was facing on the Troubled Asset Relief Programme (TARP), a major initiative to face the 2008 financial crisis, he invited Manmohan Singh and a few members of the Indian delegation that was visiting the US to a working lunch at the White House. At the lunch, Bush paid Singh a touching compliment, “Mr Prime Minister, I cannot think of anyone else I would rather meet at a time of crisis like this. You have a very calming effect on people.” That was why when the Opposition went overboard to attack him during UPA II, Singh rarely lost his cool and took it all in his stride. Equally, when Rahul Gandhi publicly tore up a document his government had drafted for adoption by Parliament, Singh did not react, though there was wide speculation that he would resign at this humiliation. The Apostle Peter wrote, in the Philokalia, that when you feel uncertainty and doubt whether God cares for you, think of the spider. It has no possessions, makes no journeys, does not engage in litigation, does not become angry, and amasses no savings. Its life is marked by complete gentleness, self-restraint and extreme stillness. It does not meddle in the affairs of others, but minds its own business, calmly and quietly it gets on with its own work. “The spider is far more silent than Pythagoras, whom the ancient Greeks admired more than any other philosopher because of the control he exercised over his tongue.” Although Pythagoras did not talk to everyone, he did speak occasionally, in secret, with his closest friends...“The spider achieves more than Pythagoras, it never utters a single word...Nevertheless, the Lord extends His providence even to the spider, sending him food every day, and causes tiny insects to fall into its web.” In practicing this silence, like the German broadcaster with his 30 minutes of silence on tape, Singh retained his equanimity and composure. Which other political leader can claim to have achieved that?    (The writer is a senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-collected-silences-of-mms-the-spider-weaves-its-web-widely-865296.html
24-07-2020||Mysuru||4 policemen test positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru; police station sealed||The policemen who tested positive for coronavirus including a woman constable, assistant sub-inspectors, and head constable. All the police staff attached to Mandi Police station are quarantined as they closely worked with the infected.  According to the sources, the constable had worked with the Health Department professionals and two others were part of Garuda patrolling vehicle. The Health Department officials are tracing the contacts of the infected and the police station is being sanitised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/4-policemen-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mysuru-police-station-sealed-865016.html
24-07-2020||Mysuru||Entry restricted in some temples in Mysuru on Saturdays, says Mysuru DC||The entry of devotees is restricted to the temples on July 25, August 1, 8 and 15. All sevas, jatras and utsavas have been cancelled. But, the daily pujas and religious rituals will be performed in the presence of the priests and staff, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/entry-restricted-in-some-temples-in-mysuru-on-saturdays-says-mysuru-dc-865034.html
24-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 24||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 12.87 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 13,34,991 as of July 24 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 31,355 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 8,17,209 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-24-864881.html
24-07-2020||National||MoS Arjun Ram Meghwal launches papad to help fight Covid-19, gets trolled||In the video launching 'Bhabhi ji Papad', Meghwal makes claims about the health benefits of consuming the papad. "It will be very helpful in fighting coronavirus," he is heard saying. Watch: MoS Arjun Ram Meghwal launches Bhabhi ji papad, says it will help people fight Corona Virus. “It will be very helpful in fighting Corona Virus,” he says. He further adds that the papad has been manufactured under the PM Modi's initiative, Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. "Under the Atmanirbhar Bharat, a manufacturer has produced papad with the name 'Bhabhiji papad and it will help fighting coronavirus. My best wishes to them and I hope they will succeed." This comes at a time when countries across the globe are in a race to find Covid-19 vaccine. Even as many nations have imposed lockdowns to curb the spread of coronavirus, the virus has infected more than 1.5 crore people and claimed over 6 lakh lives.  Meanwhile, India saw a record single-day spike of 49,310 Covid-19 cases taking the country's virus tally to 12,87,945 on Friday, while the recoveries surged to 8,17,208, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The death toll mounted to 30,601 with 740 new fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 4,40,135 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country. After the video went viral on the internet, Arjun Ram Meghwal was brutally trolled. The Opposition jumped the opportunity to take a dig at the BJP and its leadership. "BJP leaders like this-selling papad as COVID cure is the reason why Congress brought in Right to Education in India," wrote Youth Congress. Here are a few reactions to his video on Twitter:   Ambedkar in the frame behind must have died again watching this great display of scientific temper that was added to the constitution as a fundamental duty. This reminds of the film:-||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mos-arjun-ram-meghwal-launches-papad-to-help-fight-covid-19-gets-trolled-864958.html
24-07-2020||National||Domestic violence complaints peaked in red zones during lockdown: Study||For the study, researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles and professors of Public Policy at UCLA, Saravana Ravindran and Manisha Shah, used the district-month level complaints received by the National Commission for Women (NCW) across India over the period January-May between 2018-2020 along with state-week level data from Google Community Mobility Reports and Googe Trends data. Categorising the complaints into four primary types: domestic violence, cybercrime, harassment, rape and sexual assault complaints, the study maps them on to districts in the red, orange and green zones and cross-checks the findings with Google Mobility and Search trends. The red, orange and green zone classification is based on the number of Covid-19 cases and the doubling rate. A total of 392 domestic violence complaints were registered with the NCW in May 2020 as compared to 266 cases in May 2019. The number of cybercrime complaints also went up, from 49 complaints in May 2019 to 73 in May 2020. However, rape and sexual assault complaints saw a 66 percent decrease from 163 in May last year to 54 cases in May 2020. Through the compiled data, the researchers found a 0.47 SD (131%) increase in domestic violence complaints in May 2020 in districts with stricter lockdown measures (red zones) compared to those that had more relaxed lockdown norms (green zone districts). According to the report, red zone districts also experienced a 0.70 SD (184%) increase in cybercrime complaints relative to green zone districts in May 2020. However, rape and sexual assault complaints fell significantly by 0.39 SD in red zones in May 2020 and sexual harassment by 0.35 SD in April 2020 in red zone districts relative to green zone districtsThe study believes this could likely be attributed to decreased mobility in public spaces, public transport, and workplaces. The report noted that lockdowns increase women’s day-to-day exposure to potential perpetrators of violence. "The silver lining is the temporary decrease in rape and sexual harassment, highlighting the heterogeneity of impacts of one policy on various outcomes related to violence against women" it added. India imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25, 2020. Later, the initial lockdown was announced on April 14 for a 21-day period and was extended to May 3, 2020. On May 4, 2020, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued an order that divided all districts into red zones, orange zones, and green zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-violence-complaints-peaked-in-red-zones-during-lockdown-study-864965.html
24-07-2020||National||West Bengal duo braves the virus to help Covid-19 patients||They are not doctors or health workers nor are they cops. Two employees of a state-aided college in the Basirhat area of the district are rushing to the aid of Covid-19 patients in the area. Whether it is taking them to hospitals or sending medicines to those who are under home isolation, Subir Sarkar and Surajit Mitra are only a phone call away.  Clad in PPEs the duo not only take Covid-19 patients to hospitals but also coordinate with the local municipality to arrange ambulances. Seeing that performing the last rites of Covid-19 patients are often met with resistance resulting in a law and order situation, the two friends always extend a helping hand for the task. From taking the body to the funeral site to maintaining full precaution to properly perform the last rites. Locals said that Subir and Surajit have emerged as a blessing for them. They add that they have played a key role in raising Covid-19 awareness in the area. However, the duo is modest when speaking about their activities. “If one succumbs to the virus, someone has to take the body to the funeral cites. We are doing just that, maintaining full precaution. We are also ready to help those who are under home quarantine,” said Subir.  Expressing his concern about the rising number of Covid-19 cases in areas Surajit said that the state government should increase the number of designated Covid-19 hospitals in and around the area. Their work has earned lavish praise from doctors too. Superintendent of Basirhat District Hospital Shamol Halder said that he is hopeful that many others will come forward being inspired by the duo raising public awareness about the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-duo-braves-the-virus-to-help-covid-19-patients-865001.html
24-07-2020||National||Babri demolition case: L K Advani deposes via video link, says no hand in conspiracy||Veteran BJP leader L K Advani on Friday recorded his statement before a special CBI court in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case and denied any involvement in the conspiracy to pull down the disputed structure. The statement of the 92-year-old former deputy prime minster was recorded through video conferencing in the court of Special Judge S K Yadav with his counsels Vimal Kumar Srivastava, KK Mishra and Abhishek Ranjan present in the court. CBI lawyers Lalit Singh, P Chakravarti and RK Yadav were also present. Advani denied his involvement in the alleged conspiracy along with 'Kar sevaks' to demolish the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. He pleaded he was completely innocent and was unnecessarily dragged in the case owing to political reasons. He said he would furnish his defence at an appropriate stage of the proceedings. Advani told the special CBI judge that the investigation was conducted under political pressure and the charge sheet was forwarded on the basis of fabricated evidence. The special judge put forth 1,050 questions to Advani and he answered them very cautiously, denying every allegation of conspiracy and arguing there was no occasion to make him stand on trial. As the judge narrated to him the contents of some video clippings, newspaper reports and other evidence relating to the incident in 1992, Advani shrugged them off, saying they were totally false and produced in the court due to political influence and ideological inclination. When the judge referred to evidence regarding his alleged provocative speeches to Kar sevaks, the BJP veteran told him that the evidence was false and the investigators included the video cassettes and newspapers for political malice and under political influence. The judge also referred to a piece of evidence furnished by the CBI witness on the basis of an English newspaper published on October 24, 1990, about his arrest with the headline 'Advani arrested in Samastipur'. The edition carried news relating to call for Bharat Bandh by the leaders of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and other organisations in protest against his arrest. The edition also carried Shiv Sena leader Balasaheb Thackeray's statement that 'Bandh will be peaceful'. Even then, some Kar sevaks succeeded in climbing on the disputed structure and damaged it. Some Kar sevaks lost their lives in police firing on October 10, 1990, during 'Kar seva'. On completion of this description, the judge asked Advani as to what he had to say about this. “Except the fact of the arrest, another deposition is false and the same had been included in the investigation due to political malice and ideological differences giving the facts a colour,” Advani replied. His deposition began at around 11 a.m. as he appeared in the court online from Delhi along with his lawyer Mahipal Ahluwalia. After the recording of his statement was completed, the judge asked his office to send a copy of it to CBI's Delhi office which would get Advani's signature on it and send it back to the court. The CBI had earlier issued a charge sheet to Advani along with others in the case. But the Allahabad High Court had discharged him from the case holding him innocent.   But on a CBI petition, the Supreme Court in 2017 directed him to face trial on the charges of conspiracy. On Thursday, the special court had recorded the statement of BJP veteran Murli Manohar Joshi in the case. Dubbing prosecution witnesses in the Babri mosque demolition case as "liars", 86-year-old Joshi had asserted that he was innocent and implicated in the case by the then Congress government at the Centre. The Babri mosque demolition trial is presently at the stage of recording of statements of 32 accused in the case under Section 313 of CrPC during which they get an opportunity to refute the prosecution evidence against them. The special court has been recording the statement of accused persons since July 4 under these provisions. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992, by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site. Advani and Joshi were among those leading the Ram temple movement at that time. The court is conducting a day-to-day hearing in the case to complete its trial by August 31 as directed by the Supreme Court and has already recorded statements of BJP stalwarts like Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti. Advani's statement was recorded barely days before a grand groundbreaking event planned on August 5 for a Ram temple at Ayodhya. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a galaxy of political leaders, including Advani, have been invited to attend the event. Last year, a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court had ruled that the 2.77 acre land claimed by both Hindus and Muslims would be handed over to a government-run trust for the building of a temple. The court had also announced a five-acre plot at another site in Ayodhya for Muslims. Meanwhile, the Allahabad High Court dismissed a plea for stopping the August 5 "Bhoomi Pujan" ceremony for laying down the foundation stone for building the temple. An official spokesperson said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will go to Ayodhya on Saturday. He, however, did not elaborate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-demolition-case-l-k-advani-deposes-via-video-link-says-no-hand-in-conspiracy-865002.html
24-07-2020||National||India, China set for more talks to de-escalate standoff||Indian and Chinese diplomats were set for more talks on Friday to narrow differences on ways to pull back troops eye-balling each other across a disputed border in the western Himalayas, where 20 Indian soldiers died in a clash over a month ago. There were no shots fired during the June 15 fighting in the Galwan Valley of India's Ladakh region when the Indian soldiers were beaten with rocks and clubs, but it still marked the worst clash in decades between Asia's nuclear-armed giants. Since then the two sides have held several rounds of talks to restore calm, and reduced the numbers of troops in the valley, while still pouring reinforcements into the region. Once they agree how to sequence a pull back from frontline positions, the next step would be for the withdrawal of all the additional forces and military equipment that were deployed in rear areas after the clash. Diplomats from both sides were set to hold talks through a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation & Coordination on India-China Border Affairs, a government source in New Delhi said. The de facto border, called the Line of Actual Control (LAC), was established after a war in 1962, but it remains poorly defined, and there have been sporadic flare ups over the decades, without leading to cross-border firing. India's foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said maintenance of peace on the border was the basis of bi-lateral relations. "Therefore, it is our expectation that the Chinese side will sincerely work with us for complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas at the earliest," Srivastava said. A U.S. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told Reuters in Washington that the United States had seen a build-up of forces on the India-China border, estimating that each side had over 10,000 troops in the border area. "We're still seeing actually troop reinforcements and weapon reinforcements moving towards the border. So by no means are we out of the woods yet," the official added. India has also taken non-military retaliatory action against China after last month's clash. On Thursday, New Delhi said companies from neighbouring countries bidding for government contracts would need to register and obtain security clearance. Citing security concerns, India has outlawed 59 apps of Chinese origin, including ByteDance's TikTok and Alibaba's UC Browser.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-set-for-more-talks-to-de-escalate-standoff-865006.html
24-07-2020||National||Supreme Court adjourns hearing in 2009 contempt case against Prashant Bhushan, Tarun Tejpal||The Supreme Court on Friday adjourned the hearing to August 4 the 2009 contempt case against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal after senior advocates representing them sought time to prepare. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said it would give time to the lawyers representing the alleged contemnors to prepare and adjourned the matter for August 4. Senior advocate Shanti Bhushan, who is an intervener in the case, said he found it very difficult to advance arguments through video conferencing and it would be better if the case was heard after the normal hearing begins. Advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, said this case had been pending for the past 9-10 years and they needed time to prepare for it. The bench said that even constitution bench matters were now being heard through video conferencing. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Tarun Tejpal, said: "If we have waited for nine years, then I don't understand what the urgency is." The apex court had issued a contempt notice to Bhushan and Tejpal in November 2009 for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to a news magazine. Tejpal was the editor of the news magazine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-adjourns-hearing-in-2009-contempt-case-against-prashant-bhushan-tarun-tejpal-865009.html
24-07-2020||National||Scavengers in India risk health to sift coronavirus debris||Mansoor Khan and his wife Latifa Bibi have been collecting scraps of plastic and other items at an enormous landfill site on the outskirts of New Delhi for nearly 20 years. Their $5 daily earnings each keep their three children at school, in search of a better future than their parents' lives amid the stench of rotting garbage. But over the past few months, increasing amounts of biomedical waste have been arriving at the dump - a result, experts say, of the novel coronavirus pandemic and a huge risk for those who work there. Spread over 52 acres and rising more than 60 metres, the site is littered with used, plastic coronavirus test kits, protective gear and cotton stained with blood and pus – among hundreds of tonnes of waste coming daily from across the Indian capital, including small hospitals and nursing homes. Sifting with bare hands, hundreds of scavengers including children expose themselves to a disease that has infected more than 15 million people globally and claimed over 600,000 lives. India has reported almost 1.2 million cases overall, behind only the United States and Brazil.  "WHAT IF WE DIE?" Khan, 44, is aware of the dangers but feels he has little choice. "What if we die? What if we get this disease? But fear will not fill our bellies, that is why we have to do this work," he told Reuters, standing outside his two-room concrete house at the foot of the garbage mountain. Bibi, 38, said she was worried about bringing the infection home to the couple's children, aged 16, 14 and 11. ] "When I return from there, I feel afraid to enter my house because I have children at home. We are really afraid of this disease," she said. Dinesh Raj Bandela, an expert in biomedical waste at the Delhi-based think tank Centre for Science and Environment, said protocols for disposal of biomedical waste were not necessarily being followed during the outbreak, putting those who sift through landfills at risk. Neither the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which runs the dump, nor India's Central Pollution Control Board, immediately replied to requests for comment. According to Bandela, the Indian capital used to produce nearly 600 tonnes of medical waste a day, but that has risen by 100 tonnes since the virus hit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scavengers-in-india-risk-health-to-sift-coronavirus-debris-865011.html
24-07-2020||National||Covid-19 curve flattening in Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, but can't let our guard down: AIIMS Director||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director and National Task Force member on Covid-19, Dr Randeep Guleria, said that the although Covid-19 curve is flattening in Delhi, Mumbai and Ahemdabad, we cannot let our guard down. Dr. Guleria noted that different parts of India will peak at different times.  "Delhi is one such state where flattening of the curve is happening. It is happening in other areas of the country as well. Mumbai, Ahmedabad and certain parts of the South are showing a decline. They seem to have reached a plateau and are showing a downward trend," he told the publication. He also pointed out that there are other areas where cases are increasing. "We have seen this in Bihar, Assam and we need to have aggressive strategies there. But when cases do come down, we need to continue to be aggressive." Dr Guleria also said that in certain parts of India when the number of cases seemed to be decreasing, social distancing rules were flouted. "It led to another spell of the virus."  Speaking on containment strategies, the AIIMS director said, "not only a lockdown but house-to-house surveillance is needed so that you can decrease the number of cases and contain the spread in that area. But identifying cases and isolating them along with a lockdown becomes very important." Dr Guleria pointed out that India's mortality is lower than what has been calculated because a large number of people who were infected, recovered from it without any treatment. What needs to be taken care of, he added, are those people who don't know that they have been exposed to the virus and are spreading it in the community. "The Delhi sero survey showed that 77 percent of the people are prone to infection and therefore we still need to be vigilant." Exploring the reasons for India's low mortality, Dr Guleria said that Indians might have a better immune system because of the BCG vaccine. "The other theory is that possibly that milder forms of coronavirus, that has flu-like syndrome, has been circulating here in Asia and many people have had some exposure to the milder form of coronavirus and this leads to cross-protective immunity. And this gives us an immunity boost," he said. On whether India will see a spike in coronavirus cases during the monsoon, the pulmonogist said that as it is a new virus, it is difficult to ascertain how it will behave. "There is a concern that during monsoons there is humidity, the virus could be surviving for a longer period than hot summers. The 1980 pandemic of influenza led to a second wave in the winter months and caused more mortalities then. We need to be cautious during winter months and not let our guard down."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-curve-flattening-in-delhi-mumbai-ahmedabad-but-cant-let-our-guard-down-aiims-director-865032.html
24-07-2020||National||President flags off relief supplies for flood-affected people of Assam, Bihar and UP||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday flagged off nine trucks of Red Cross relief supplies for the flood-affected people of Assam, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh from Rashtrapati Bhavan here, according to an official statement. The relief material included items such as tarpaulins, tents, saris, dhotis, cotton blankets, kitchen sets, mosquito nets, bed sheets, buckets and two water purification units, it said. These items are meant to safeguard and protect health workers associated with the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) medical services in these states as well as the volunteers of IRCS who are at the forefront of flood relief and rehabilitation efforts, it said. Kovind is the President of the IRCS. These relief supplies for the flood-affected people of Assam, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh shall be carried from Delhi to the states by train and will be received by the state Red Cross branches, the statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan was also present during the event. The supply of these materials is in continuation and in addition to the material already provided by IRCS to be distributed by the state Red Cross branches to the affected people, it said. On the occasion of flagging off, R K Jain, General Secretary, IRCS briefed the president on the initiatives and the work done by IRCS to serve the people affected by floods and Covid-19 in different parts of the country, the statement said. Officials of the President's secretariat and IRCS were also present on the occasion, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-flags-off-relief-supplies-for-flood-affected-people-of-assam-bihar-and-up-865047.html
24-07-2020||National||EC to announce bypolls schedule at 'appropriate time'||The Election Commission on Friday said it will announce the schedule for holding by-elections to assembly and Lok Sabha seats at an "appropriate time". A total of 57 bypolls --56 assembly seats and one Lok Sabha constituency -- are due. But the Commission did not specify whether the decision has been taken for all pending by-elections. The announcement came after the poll panel decided to defer eight bypolls -- seven assembly and one Lok Sabha seat -- citing floods and the Covid-19 pandemic. The six-month deadline to hold these eight bypolls was ending on September 7. The remaining 49 bypolls are due after September. An EC spokesperson tweeted that "a decision to hold by-elections in assembly and parliamentary constituencies was taken by the Commission after a review today (on Friday)." "The schedule etc. shall be announced at an appropriate time," the spokesperson said without specifying whether the decision pertained to all 57 bypolls or the eight deferred due to pandemic and floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-to-announce-bypolls-schedule-at-appropriate-time-865048.html
24-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Muted response to plasma donation call, doctors say unfounded fears keeping people away||The response to a call for donating convalescent plasma for Covid-19 patients in Delhi has been "lukewarm", doctors said on Friday and attributed it to unfounded apprehensions about associated health risks and the tendency to put off a donation for any future need of family members. Just about 320 people have donated plasma in Delhi since the initiative began on July 2, whereas more than 1,00,000 Covid-19 patients have recovered till July 23, according to officials. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the government would provide plasma for free and people do not need to buy or sell it. The chief minister and other senior members of the government have repeatedly appealed to people, who have recovered from Covid-19, to donate plasma to other patients. But the response to the calls has been muted at the first-of-its-kind 'plasma bank', inaugurated by Kejriwal at ILBS here on July 2, and another one opened a week ago at LNJP Hospital, a dedicated coronavirus facility. "At ILBS, while on an opening day, 10 donors had come, mostly the hospital staff who had earlier been infected with Covid-19, now the daily average is about 15, which makes it around 300 donations in total till date, a rather lukewarm response," a senior official of the facility told PTI. This is despite the fact that to-and-fro transportation facilities and food are provided to the donors at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Science (ILBS).  "The main reason behind this low response...is that people are still feeling apprehensive even though there is no risk involved," the official, also a doctor, said. At LNJP Hospital's plasma bank, 30 donors have volunteered till July 23, but 11 were rejected, as they could not fulfil the eligibility guidelines. "So, effectively, we are left with 19 donations which are not a very encouraging number, and some of which have been used already. But it is heartening that young people, mostly in the age group of 20-40, are donating their plasma," Medical Director, LNJP Hospital, Dr Suresh Kumar, told PTI. He said, once two young sisters in their 20s, both of whom had been admitted at LNJP Hospital and recovered from Covid-19, had come to donate plasma, but their haemoglobin level was found below-average limit, so they could not. Both ILBS and LNJP Hospital are under the Delhi government. Asked why such a low response despite the chief minister and his colleagues urging people to donate plasma, Kumar said there seem to be multiple factors. "Though there are no side effects as such, but still many have apprehensions that something will happen if they donate plasma. Secondly, many Covid patients who have recovered, are apparently putting off donation so that they can offer it to their family members, in case they get infected, and the fear of near and dear ones getting infected is very palpable," he said. A staffer at the LNJP plasma bank, on the condition of anonymity, said that mostly LNJP Hospital staff members who had recovered from Covid-19 were coming to donate plasma in earlier days. At present, out of the 430 admitted patients there, 90 are in ICU and four on ventilator, the medical director said. As per the last approval by authorities, the LNJP Hospital was permitted to do plasma therapy on 200 Covid-19 patients. "Only 60 patients have received plasma out of the allotted lot," he said. Kumar and the ILBS official appealed to people to come forward and donate and allayed all apprehensions associated with convalescent plasma (COPLA) donation. For donors, there are some strict criteria and counselling and screening is done for them before the actual donation process begins, so, about two to two-and-a-half hours is the total time per donor. "Also, we do TTI (Transfusion Transmissible Infections) tests. So, the donor should not have HIV, hepatitis B or C, syphilis among other ailments. The donor also should not have any co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension or renal problems," a senior doctor at the ILBS said. Each donor, a person who has recently recovered from Covid-19, develops antibodies, which is transferred to the recipient through plasma. "Each person can donate 250-500 ml of plasma. We give the first dosage of 250 ml to the recipient, and if the needed the second dosage of 250 ml after 24 hours," Kumar said.  People aged 18-60, who has fully recovered from Covid-19 and showed no symptoms for 14 days can go for donation, subject to strict guidelines for eligible donors. And, someone weighing less than 50 kg; women who have ever been pregnant, cancer survivors, and those with kidney, heart, lung or liver diseases are not eligible to donate plasma. Delhi recorded 1041 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.27 lakh, while the death toll from the disease rose to 3,745, authorities said. The active cases tally on Thursday was 14,554, down from 14,954 the previous day. According to a bulletin, 1,09,065 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated till July 23. Kumar said that when he takes around inwards and ICU, "some patients, who are serious, and their relatives, ask us as to when will be they be getting plasma." "People must show large-heartedness and help others," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-muted-response-to-plasma-donation-call-doctors-say-unfounded-fears-keeping-people-away-865063.html
24-07-2020||National||Insolvency law caused rift with government, says ex-RBI governor Urjit Patel||By Rahul Satija Moves to dilute a new bankruptcy law caused disagreements between Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and the central bank, according to former Reserve Bank of India Governor Urjit Patel. The rift centered around a February 2018 circular issued by the RBI, which forced banks to immediately classify borrowers as defaulters when they delayed repayments, barred defaulting company founders from trying to buy back their firms during insolvency auctions, and push them into bankruptcy if a resolution timeline wasn’t met. In a book released Friday, Patel -- who headed the RBI between September 2016 and his unexpected resignation in December 2018 -- said the government seemed to lose enthusiasm for the legislation in the middle of the year he left the central bank. “Instead of buttressing and future-proofing the gains thus far, an atmosphere to go easy on the pedal ensued,” Patel wrote. “Until then, for the most part, the finance minister and I were on the same page, with frequent conversations on enhancing the landmark legislation’s operational efficiency.” The government was probably of the view that the “deterrence effect -- ‘future defaulters beware, you may lose your business’” had been achieved, Patel said. He adds that “there were requests for rolling back the February circular” and “a canard was spread” to discredit the rules, including by incorrectly suggesting that small businesses would suffer disproportionately. Patel’s comments offer a first glimpse into a tussle between the RBI and the government, which led eventually to a U-turn that stunned the Indian business world when the Supreme Court last year struck down the RBI’s February circular. The decision “made the insolvency regime vulnerable, possibly brittle,” Patel wrote, and warned that subsequent changes risk reversing gains from efforts to clean one of the world’s largest bad-loan piles. Patel’s successor Shaktikanta Das in June 2019 eased rules to give lenders 30 days to review a delinquent account and a further 180 days to implement a resolution plan, loosening the previous timeline. It also lifted the deadline to push defaulters into bankruptcy. “Since the time-bound threat of insolvency application is not credible anymore, it is unclear what threat points will compel resolution in 180 days (or, for that matter, even 365 days),” Patel wrote in his book. The average time to resolve a case is about 400 days under the Indian Bankruptcy Code versus more than four years before the law was enacted, according to a government report in March. The risk is that if banks fail to recover bad loans, they will need to find the capital elsewhere. The government has infused 2.6 trillion rupees ($34.7 billion) into state-run banks in the last three financial years, more than double that in the previous nine years. The central bank did not respond to an email seeking comment. “Periodic bailout by government and official entities will likely continue, at least for some banks,” Patel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/insolvency-law-caused-rift-with-government-says-ex-rbi-governor-urjit-patel-865065.html
24-07-2020||National||Delhi: Man held for raping minor niece||A man was arrested for allegedly raping his minor niece in south Delhi's Kotla Mubarakpur area, police said on Friday. The victim is around 15-years-old and works as domestic help, they said. The accused is the maternal uncle of the girl and lives in Pillanji area of Kotla. The victim had come to his house on Thursday night as she was unwell, a senior police officer said. A case under section 376 and POCSO act has been registered and further investigation is underway, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-man-held-for-raping-minor-niece-865069.html
24-07-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat: Court allows 53 foreigners from 3 countries to walk free on payment of fine||Metropolitan Magistrate Archana Beniwal allowed 40 Indonesians, 12 Kyrgyz and One South African to walk free on payment of Rs 5,000 fine each, said advocates Ashima Mandla, Fahim Khan and Ahmed Khan, appearing for them. The Sub-divisional magistrate of Defence Colony, who was the complainant in the case, Assistant Commissioner of Police of Lajpat Nagar and Inspector of Nizamuddin said they have no objection to it. Till date 908 foreigners have been allowed to walk free on payment of varying fines after they accepted mild charges under plea bargain process and 46 foreign nationals have claimed trial before the court.  Under plea bargaining, the accused plead guilty to the offence praying for a lesser punishment. The Criminal Procedure of Code allows for plea bargaining in cases where the maximum punishment is 7-year imprisonment; offences don't affect the socio-economic conditions of the society and the offence is not committed against a woman or a child below 14 years. The foreigners were chargesheeted for attending the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event in the national capital by allegedly violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines, issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country. They were granted bail earlier by the court on a personal bond of Rs 10,000 each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-court-allows-53-foreigners-from-3-countries-to-walk-free-on-payment-of-fine-865081.html
24-07-2020||National||Don't insist on mobile nos., ID proof for Covid-19 testing of mentally-ill homeless: HC to ICMR||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the ICMR to come out with a clarification that mobile number, government-issued identity card, photographs or even a residential proof ought not to be insisted upon for Covid-19 test of mentally ill homeless persons. According to an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) advisory of June 19, every person who was to be tested for Covid-19 has to provide a government-issued identity proof and should have a valid phone number for tracing and tracking the individual and his/her contacts.   A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said that ICMR should issue a clarification by way of a circular or an official order that the identity proof, address proof and mobile number are not required for testing mentally ill homeless persons. The high court said a camp can be organised for testing such persons as is being done across Delhi for others. "Guidelines have to be given by you (ICMR). You put it in black and white for the states'' benefit. You only need to clarify in two-three lines that mobile number, address proof and identity cards are not required for testing mentally ill homeless persons," it said.  "Use your powers for the public at large. Once you do so (issue the clarification), all states will comply," the bench added. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, appearing for ICMR, sought time to take instructions from the government regarding the observations made by the bench. The high court, thereafter, listed the matter for further hearing on August 7. The bench was hearing a PIL moved by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal seeking directions to ICMR and Delhi government to issue guidelines for Covid-19 testing of mentally ill homeless persons in the national capital. The high court on July 9 had asked the ICMR to consider the plight of the mentally ill homeless persons and see whether they can be tested without insisting upon a mobile number, government issue identity card and residential address proof. The bench had said to ICMR that many homeless mentally ill persons are institutionalised or in shelter homes and therefore, traceable, so there was no need for their identity proof or phone numbers to test them for Covid-19. In response to the court''s query, ICMR has filed an affidavit stating that the purpose behind the submission of government identity card and telephone number was to ensure proper tracking and treatment of positive cases and their contacts as ''Test/Track/Treat'' is the best strategy for control of Covid-19 pandemic.  It further said that since health was a state subject, the concerned state health authority may consider adopting a suitable protocol to ensure that the strategy of ''Test/Track/Treat'' is followed and the grievance raised in the PIL is also addressed. ICMR, in its affidavit, has said that it has only advised facilitating contact tracing as well as tracking of the Covid-19 infected patients. "The modalities regarding the contact tracing as well as tracking of the Covid-19 infected patients completely falls under the domain of IDSP. NCDC and state health authorities.  "ICMR is a research organization and the contact tracing, as well as tracking of the Covid-19 infected patients, is not under the domain of ICMR," it has said in its affidavit. Bansal has claimed in his petition that the Delhi government has not taken seriously the lack of guidelines with respect to Covid-19 testing of mentally ill homeless persons. He has said the high court had on June 9 directed it to address the grievances raised by him in another PIL with regard to mentally ill homeless persons in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy. He said that on June 13 he also sent a representation to the Chief Secretary of Delhi government for providing treatment to mentally ill homeless persons in the national capital who have no residence proof.  However, nothing was done by the Delhi government, he had told the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-insist-on-mobile-nos-id-proof-for-covid-19-testing-of-mentally-ill-homeless-hc-to-icmr-865091.html
24-07-2020||National||Covid-19 tally in India climbs to 12,87,945||The death toll mounted to 30,601 with 740 new fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 4,40,135 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country. Thus, around 63.45 percent people have recovered so far.The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. Of the 740 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 298 are from Maharashtra, 97 from Karnataka, 88 are from Tamil Nadu, 61 from Andhra Pradesh, 34 from West Bengal, 28 from Gujarat, 26 each from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, 11 from Rajasthan,10 from Madhya Pradesh and nine each from Jammu and Kashmir and Telangana. Punjab has reported eight fatalities followed by Assam, Odisha and Haryana with six deaths each, Kerala five, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Puducherry three each, while Chhattisgarh, Tripura and Goa have registered a fatality each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tally-in-india-climbs-to-1287945-865092.html
24-07-2020||National||WHO scientist sees regulators cooperating to speed up Covid-19 vaccine approval||Regulators that normally work within their own countries or regions will likely harmonize efforts on potential Covid-19 vaccines to speed up their approvals once they become available, WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Friday. Swaminathan, answering questions on social media platforms, also said testing vaccines for safety and efficacy - usually a years-long process - could be accelerated to just six months in the midst of the pandemic, if data satisfied regulators that they have enough information to issue approvals. Still, she said, safety would be paramount. "Whilst speed is important, it cannot be at the cost of compromising on the safety or the efficacy standards that one is setting for oneself," she said. "It's not the case that the first vaccine is going to be rushed through into injecting millions of people without having established the fact whether it's really protecting you and whether it's safe enough for use in large populations."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-scientist-sees-regulators-cooperating-to-speed-up-covid-19-vaccine-approval-865095.html
24-07-2020||National||Government decides to ban more Chinese-origin apps: Report||Applications like Helo Lite, ShareIt Lite, Bigo Lite and VFY Lite have been removed from the Google Play Store and Apple App Store, officials said. The ministry said that most of these applications were banned as they were ‘prejudicial to sovereignty, integrity and security of the country’. Similar reasons were stated last month when popular applications such as TikTok, ShareIt and others were banned after the skirmish between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley. “The apps were found to be operating despite the ban via these versions. They have been taken down from application stores,” said an IT Ministry official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-decides-to-ban-more-chinese-origin-apps-report-865098.html
24-07-2020||National||Want to volunteer for Covid-19 vaccine trials? Here's what you need to know||As various pharmaceutical companies and governments begin testing Covid-19 vaccines across many countries, one may wonder about who gets to be part of these trials and how to volunteer to be part of them. Here's all you need to know about these trials and how you can be a subject: What is the vaccine being tested? What stage of development/trials is it at right now? Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine COVAXIN is being put through a randomised, double-blind, parallel group, control trial. The BBV152 vaccine from the Hyderabad-based company is being tested at multiple centres for its safety, reactogenicity, tolerability and immunogenicity of an inactivated strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in healthy volunteers. In other words, the vaccine is being tested for any adverse reactions on volunteers and to test whether it is effective in producing an immune response to the novel coronavirus. How does one human clinical trial phase differ from the next? According to a vaccine registration document, the estimated duration of the trial is expected to be one year and three months with a sample size of 1,125 trial subjects. In phase 1 of human trials, the vaccine will be tested on 375 people to see if it evokes any adverse reactions within specific time periods in the volunteers. In phase 2, the vaccine will be tested on 750 volunteers to see if it can produce antibodies for SARS-CoV-2 and the efficacy of the vaccine. Phase 1 can last anywhere between a week and three weeks. Phase 2, however, takes about 194 days. Phase 3 of the trial depends on the results from the second phase. Can people volunteer to become trial subjects for the Covid-19 vaccine? If so, how do they do that? Most testing sites allow for potential trial subjects to volunteer to test COVAXIN. If you are interested in participating in Bharat Biotech’s COVAXIN trials, you can contact the testing sites by phone or email. Where is COVAXIN being tested? The Indian Council of Medical Research has allowed COVAXIN to be trialled at 12 centres across India. These centres are: 1. AIIMS, Patna2. AIIMS, New Delhi3. Gillurkar Multispeciality Hospital, Nagpur4. Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital, Bhubaneswar5. Jeevan Rekha Hospital, Belagavi6. King George Hospital, Visakhapatnam7. Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad8. PGIMS, Rohtak9. Prakhar Hospital, Kanpur10. Rana Hospital and Trauma Centre, Gorakhpur11. Redkar Hospital and Research Centre, Goa12. SRM Hospital and Research Centre, Chennai What is the eligibility criteria to be a trial subject? A test subject needs to be between the ages of 12 and 65, with good general health, no history of Covid-19 and normal vital signs, which would be determined by investigators at various test sites. If you are female with child-bearing potential, then the willingness to use effective contraception or abstinence to avoid pregnancy during the study period is a must from the time of enrolling in the study till four weeks after the last vaccine dose. You would also have to agree to remain in the study area, provide informed consent, allow storage and future use of biological samples for research, and not participate in any other clinical trial during the study period. If you are unsure of your eligibility for the vaccine trials, please contact the trial investigators at your preferred test site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/want-to-volunteer-for-covid-19-vaccine-trials-heres-what-you-need-to-know-865100.html
24-07-2020||National||Private schools not up to the standard; struggle due to Covid-19: Report||The 4.5 lakh privately managed schools across the country serve more than 12 crore students in India — nearly half of the country's total school-going population. Low and middle-class families who seek a better education for their children often get them enrolled in private schools with the hope of quality education. "About 60 per cent of rural private school students in class 5 cannot solve a simple division problem, 35 per cent of rural private school students in class 5 cannot read a class 2 level paragraph,” the report states. In the National Assessment Survey (NAS), the average score for grade 10 students in private schools was below 50 per cent in four out of five subjects. The education report points out that although the literacy rates have remained largely stable, long-term trends show a steady decline in tested arithmetic skills among grade five private school students over the past decade. As per the report, private schools in Kerala, Himachal, Haryana and Punjab performed well, while Assam and Jharkhand scored low among the larger states. "Private school students in less developed villages have the worst outcomes - 53 per cent cannot read a paragraph and 61 per cent cannot subtract," it stated. The report points out that even in private schools, actual learning outcomes require attention. "The learning crisis is the worst for the poorest students. However, even amongst students from the richest 20 per cent households attending private schools, only 56 per cent of children between eight and 11 years old can read a basic grade 2 level paragraph," it adds. School quality The report suggests that 60 per cent of private schools do not extend to board examinations grade and therefore, there is no standardised information on these schools’ learning outcomes available. And therefore, it concludes, private school owners do not have incentives or pressure to improve learning levels amongst students. “This information gap also means that schools are less likely to invest in learning-focused invisible improvements like teacher training and quality, and more likely to spend on things that are observable by parents but may not lead to much improvement in learning – like computer labs, or marketing that proclaims English-medium instruction. "It also becomes difficult for parents to judge the quality of their schooling options. In the absence of reliable school quality information, parents use more visible markers to discern school quality. These markers, which include English-medium instruction, infrastructure, etc, may not be effective in judging actual school learning outcomes," it reads.  Covid-19 impact on private schools Through a preliminary exploratory survey, comprising semi-structured interviews with 90+ stakeholders in the private school sector, the report found that low-fee schools have seen a significant impact on revenue due to school closures, examination postponement, and widespread non-payment of fees for this period. "While the majority of schools are attempting digital transitions through low-tech, WhatsApp-based tools or video classes, only 33 per cent parents can support their students with digital education, and none of the teachers surveyed find current forms of online instruction effective." It also noted that more than 66 per cent of the surveyed private schools have adopted WhatsApp as the model for digital provision of teaching.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-schools-not-up-to-the-standard-struggle-due-to-covid-19-report-865102.html
24-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Driven by poverty, migrant sells 15-day-old baby||Driven by extreme poverty and lack of work during the Covid-19 crisis, a migrant labourer in Assam sold his 15-day-old daughter for Rs 45,000 but police rescued the baby, officials said on Friday. The man and two women have been arrested on the charge of human trafficking. Dipak Brahma, a resident of Dhantola Mandaria, a forest village in Kokrajhar district, had recently returned from Gujarat, where he worked as a labourer. He was jobless and finding it hard to support his family, according to an official of an NGO working against human trafficking. After his return, the family started living at the house of his in-laws in Kochugaon Patakata village in the same district. The family still lived a hand-to-mouth existence, neighbours said. During these tough times, Brahma's wife gave birth to the girl, their second daughter. Their elder daughter is a year old, Nedan Foundation chairman Digambar Narzary said. "Brahma tried to find a job during the pandemic but it was hard to come by. With almost all doors to earn a living closed, Brahma decided to sell the newborn," he added. The man sold his daughter to two women for just Rs 45,000 on July 2 but he kept his wife in the dark, Narzary said. Brahma's wife and villagers lodged a complaint at Kochugaon police station after they came to know about it later. "On receiving the complaint, police swung into action and rescued the baby from the two sisters. We also arrested the man (Brahma)," police said. During interrogation, the two women claimed that they had bought the baby for a childless couple related to them. "We are really thankful to the police for rescuing the baby. But the issue is of a very serious nature. Because of the lockdown, poor people do not have any work. The situation is getting worse for those living in forest villages," Narzary said. Lakhs of labourers returned to their homes in Assam from large cities outside the state after they became jobless during the lockdown. Though the state government had announced that it would create job opportunities for them through various initiatives, including under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, the Covid-19 outbreak has badly hit most economic activities in the state. People are facing the double whammy of the pandemic and floods that have created havoc in the state. A total of 28.32 lakh people in 26 of the state's 33 districts have been affected by the deluge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-driven-by-poverty-migrant-sells-15-day-old-baby-865105.html
24-07-2020||National||Raise daily Covid-19 testing to 1 lakh, conduct door-to-door survey in 7 dists: Yogi to officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Friday asked officials to work out a plan for enhancing the coronavirus testing capacity in the state to one lakh per day. He also directed them to conduct a door-to-door survey in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Kanpur Nagar, Varanasi, Allahabad, Gorakhpur and Ballia districts, according to an official release. In a meeting with senior officials, the chief minister also said testing more will help check the spread of Covid-19 infection. In districts having a population of 30 lakhs or above, 2,000 rapid antigen tests should be conducted daily, while in others at least 1,000 tests, he said. Besides, at least 35,000 tests should be conducted daily across the state using the gold standard RT-PCR method, he said. He asked for effective medical screening by surveillance teams which he said should be done on a mission mode and warned against any laxity. He also asked district administrations to take necessary steps to use private hospitals as Covid-19 facility if required. He also asked them to take the help of NCC cadets and people associated with civil defence for ensuring proper arrangements in coronavirus containment zones. The CM also gave directions on special cleanliness and sanitisation campaigns on Saturday and Sunday. He directed the officials to ensure no communicable disease breaks out in flood-affected areas during the monsoon season, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raise-daily-covid-19-testing-to-1-lakh-conduct-door-to-door-survey-in-7-dists-yogi-to-officials-865109.html
24-07-2020||National||Rajesh Bhushan to succeed Preeti Sudan as Union Health Secretary||Senior IAS officer Rajesh Bhushan will succeed Preeti Sudan as Union Health Secretary this month-end while Anil Kumar Jain will hold additional charge of Mines, a government order said on Friday. Sudan was due to retire on April 30 but was given a three-month extension till July 31, as she was leading the Covid-19 response and the government did not want to disturb the status quo then. Rajesh Bhushan, a 1987 batch Bihar cadre IAS officer, was in April appointed the Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, with the government indicating that he would take over as Health Secretary when Sudan retires. He is the son-in-law of former Uttarakhand CM and ex-Union Minister B C Khanduri. Jain, a 1986 batch IAS officer of Madhya Pradesh cadre, has been given additional charge of Mines till a regular Secretary is appointed. At present, he is Coal Secretary. Mines Secretary Sushil Kumar has been shifted to National Commission for Scheduled Castes under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in the same rank. Kumar, a 1987 batch IAS officer of Tripura cadre, will be replacing Ram Kumar Mishra, who is appointed new Women and Child Development Secretary. Mishra succeeds Ajay Tirkey, a 1987 batch IAS officer of Madhya Pradesh cadre. Tirkey will replace Ruolkhumlien Buhril, who superannuates on July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajesh-bhushan-to-succeed-preeti-sudan-as-union-health-secretary-865110.html
24-07-2020||National||Independence Day: No school children, pruned guest-list and policemen in PPE at Red Fort||At Red Fort when Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurls the tricolour on August 15, there will be no school children in attendance to witness the function, which will be guarded by policemen in Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), as the country is in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. The guest list for the Red Fort ceremony, which starts at 7:30 AM with a guard of honour and 21-gun salute, will also be pruned from the usual around 1,000 guests to 200-250 to ensure that there is no huge crowd for the function. Officials said this will enable them to ensure physical distancing at the venue, which will be heavily guarded. Usually, ministers, prominent political leaders, diplomats and officials attend the event. Hundreds of school children attired in colours of the national flag, a regular feature of the programme where the Prime Minister addresses the nation, will not be taking part in the ceremony. Only NCC cadets will be called for the  function. For the 'At Home' hosted by the President in Rashtrapati Bhavan in the afternoon, officials said, physical distancing norms will be enforced and there too, the guest list will be pruned. One of the highlights this time would be the invitations to Covid-19 warriors and survivors. The process to identify Covid-19 warriors and recovered patients to invite to the ‘At Home’ function has started. Officials said though large crowds will not be allowed for the Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort, there will be no let up in security arrangements. As earlier, snipers will be deployed on high-rises and there will be more police deployment in Old Delhi where Red Fort is located.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-no-school-children-pruned-guest-list-and-policemen-in-ppe-at-red-fort-865118.html
24-07-2020||National||PVR Cinemas ties up with Dettol for hygienic movie viewing experience||FMCG major RB on Friday said its popular brand Dettol has partnered with multiplex chain PVR Cinemas to help create a safe and hygienic movie viewing experience for the latter's customers once cinemas open in accordance with the government guidelines and permission. The partnership programme will enable and develop enhanced cleaning and sanitising protocols for the guests of PVR Cinemas across its 175 properties operating in 70 cities across the country, the company said in a statement. "Our aim is to partner meaningfully together with PVR to provide best in class Dettol germ protection – proven Dettol products to be used in expert vetted protocols so that the consumer is reassured and confident of a safe and hygienic viewing experience," RB Health South Asia Chief Marketing Officer Pankaj Duhan said. Even as the lockdown is progressively eased, the Indian consumers' concern on germs exposure and desire for protective measures remain very high, Duhan added. PVR Cinemas CEO Gautam Dutta said the multiplex chain has spent the last few months "brainstorming amongst ourselves and with the world leaders in our industry to come up with the best and safest practices for our customers to return to the movies". "Having left no stone unturned in ensuring their well-being across all levels, we are pleased to partner with Dettol to guarantee an even cleaner and safer viewing experience. We are positive that the people would enlist the same trust in us as they have in the past decades of our relationship with them," Dutta added. PVR Cinemas will implement stringent hygiene protocols, social distancing and food safety measures, along with minimal human contact across all touchpoints and all employees will be undergoing health screening daily and fortnightly, besides wearing PPE gear, face masks, gloves and face shields for extra protection, the statement said. "Further, the entire premises will undergo an EPA approved complete ULV sanitization process at regular intervals which helps in coating the surface with anti-microbial layers with electrostatic machines for up to thirty days," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pvr-cinemas-ties-up-with-dettol-for-hygienic-movie-viewing-experience-865122.html
24-07-2020||National||Lockdown: No flight operations at Kolkata airport on July 25, 29||Flight operations at the Kolkata airport will remain suspended on July 25 and 29, amid the total lockdown in place across the state on both the days, officials said on Friday. "As of now, it has been decided that there will be no flight operations on July 25 and 29," an official at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International (NSCBI) Airport said. The West Bengal government has decided to impose a biweekly complete lockdown in the state to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. When asked if the rule would be extended to all those days when the total shutdown is enforced, the official said that was a possibility, but an announcement in this regard will be made by the state government. "Most probably, it will be extended to all lockdown days. But the state government will make an announcement. As of now, these two dates have been confirmed. No flights to operate on July 25 and 29," the official added. Last week, the ban on passenger flights to Kolkata from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad was extended till July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-no-flight-operations-at-kolkata-airport-on-july-25-29-865130.html
24-07-2020||National||Govt waives off waterways user charges to promote inland water transport||The Ministry of Shipping has decided to waive off waterways usage charges with immediate effect to promote inland waterways. "The charges are waived initially for three years," Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya said here on Friday. At present only 2% of total cargo traffic moves through waterways. Decision of waiving waterway charges will attract the industries to use the national waterways for their logistical needs. As the mode of transport is eco-friendly and cheaper, it will not only reduce the burden on other transport modes but also promote the ease of doing business, the Minister added. Water usage charge was applicable on use of all the national waterways by vessels. It was a hindrance in administration of traffic movement and collection of traffic data. Presently, Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) levies the waterway usage charges at a rate of Rs 0.02 per gross registered tonnage (GRT) per kilometer for plying of Inland cargo vessels and Rs. 0.05 per gross registered tonnage (GRT) per kilometer for plying of cruise vessels on national waterways, a statement from the Shipping Ministry said. The decision is estimated to increase the inland waterway traffic movement to 110 MMT in 2022-23 from 72 MMT in 2019-20. It will benefit the economic activities and development in the region, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-waives-off-waterways-user-charges-to-promote-inland-water-transport-865136.html
24-07-2020||National||India sees record number of recoveries in 24 hours; Covid-19 death rate drops to 2.38%||For the third day in a row, the number of Covid-19 recoveries in a 24-hour span saw another record high, with 34,602 patients having recuperated pushing the recovery rate to 63.45 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The case fatality rate has further declined to 2.38 per cent, it said. According to data updated at 8 am, the total recoveries have climbed to 8,17,208, while there are 4,40,135 active cases of coronavirus in the country at present, the ministry said as the Covid-19 tally surged to 12.87 lakh. India also saw a record single-day spike of 49,310 cases while the death-toll mounted to 30,601 with 740 new fatalities, the data said. The ministry said as a result of the constantly growing number of recoveries, the recovered patients outnumber the active cases by 3,77,073. "This difference is showing a progressively growing upward trend." Further, a cumulative total of 1,54,28,170 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to July 23. On Thursday, 3,52,801 samples were tested.  "This translates to 11179.83 tests per million (TPM) for India, which has seen a steady increase since the adoption of the 'test, track and treat' strategy," the ministry said. The rise in TPM has been achieved with a steady rise in the number of labs (1290 so far), and efforts by the Centre and state governments and union territory administrations to facilitate wide-spread testing through an array of options, it noted. There are currently 897 labs in the government sector and 393 private labs. As for the country registering an increasing number of recoveries, the ministry said that efforts of states and union territories are bolstered by the central teams of experts sent to high case-load areas and through strategic discussions held by Central government through video conferencing with state and district officials. "With the dedicated efforts of healthcare workers, the recoveries are improving and case fatality is continuously falling, which currently stands at 2.38 per cent," the ministry said. The sustained rise in a number of recoveries is the result of a well-formulated and executed strategy of containment of Covid-19 by the state and union territory governments under the guidance of the Union government. It primarily focuses on early detection through aggressive testing along with house-to-house surveys, contact tracing and surveillance of SARI/ILI cases to actively search for cases in the highly vulnerable categories. This is followed by effective containment plans and efficient clinical management through the ramped up three-tier health infrastructure and well-executed standard of care protocol. These have successfully aided ineffective treatment in the hospitals and through home isolation which in turn has ensured that the hospitals remain unburdened for critical patients, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-record-number-of-recoveries-in-24-hours-covid-19-death-rate-drops-to-238-865138.html
24-07-2020||National||Civic bodies seek funds from Delhi government; blame AAP dispensation for waterlogging||The mayors of the three BJP-led municipal corporations of Delhi on Friday sought to blame the AAP government for waterlogging in parts of the national capital, even as they demanded that the funds "due" to the civic bodies be released soon. At a joint press conference, North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash, South Delhi Mayor Anamika and East Delhi Mayor Nirmal Jain also alleged that Kejriwal government was "not cooperating" with the corporations in fighting Covid-19 or addressing civic issues. "Delhi suffering from Covid and the city government woke up only after the Union Home Minister swung into action, and now people are facing waterlogging issues. We are saying, let's work together but the AAP government doesn't wish to," Prakash said. The North Delhi mayor blamed the problem of waterlogging in various parts of the city on Delhi government. "There are five agencies associated with waterlogging issues -- PWD (Public Works Department), DJB (Delhi Jal Board), DSIIDC (Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation), flood department, and MCD (civic bodies). Four of the agencies are under the Delhi government, we only take care of drains which are up to 4 feet deep. So, the city government should have prepared well for the monsoon. We see what happens at Minto Bridge every year," he said. On July 19, a 56-year-old man, who was driving a mini-truck, had drowned after he was stuck under the waterlogged Minto Bridge as heavy rains lashed parts of the national capital. The other two mayors also raised the issue, besides seeking the funds "due to the civic bodies". "I am going to Kirari tomorrow, there is a huge waterlogging there. I will be writing to the CM and Raghav Chadha, who is the vice chairman of the DJB, to also visit the area and help people," Prakash said. The three mayors also sought release of funds from the Delhi government. "We are unable to pay salaries to our heathcare workers as our source of income have dried up during the pandemic. We urge the Delhi government to release funds worth Rs 1,108 crore due to the NDMC, and similarly for other two corporations," Prakash said. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha told reporters that healthcare workers in civic-run hospitals have "not been given salary for the past three months". He alleged that this was "because of the corruption plaguing the corporations" and demanded that these corona warriors be paid their salaries. Rejecting the charge, Praskash said, "AAP govt has failed in making arrangements for monsoon leading to waterlogging. Chadha is making this baseless allegation to divert attention from the waterlogging issue." The mayors also said that one lakh trees each would be planted in the areas falling under the jurisdiction of the NDMC, SDMC and EDMC, respectively. "SDMC has already started it. We (NDMC) have also started it and about 5,000 tress we have already been planted," the mayor added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civic-bodies-seek-funds-from-delhi-government-blame-aap-dispensation-for-waterlogging-865144.html
24-07-2020||National||HRD Ministry sets up panel to form guidelines to encourage local education||The HRD Ministry has set up a committee to form guidelines and suggest measures to ensure that more students study in India and there is a smooth transition for students returning from abroad due to Covid-19 situation, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Friday. The committee headed by chairman of the University Grants Commission (UGC) is also supposed to recommend a mechanism to increase the intake in well-performing universities. According to officials, mechanisms will be explored for starting multi-disciplinary and innovative programs, twinning and joint degree programs, cross-country designing of centres, facilitating online lectures by eminent faculty abroad, linkage between academia and industry, facilitate joint degree ventures and lateral entry to Indian higher education institutions. The committee will present its report within 15 days. "Due to the current Covid-19 situation, many students who wanted to pursue studies abroad have decided to stay back and pursue the studies in India. There are also rising number of Indian students returning to India with concern about completion of their studies," Nishank said at a session on "Stay in India and Study in India". "We should make all efforts to look into the needs of both these categories of students. Initiatives needed to be taken to retain them by providing appropriate opportunities of education in premier institutions in India as well as concerns of students returning from abroad need to be addressed by supporting them to complete their programme here in India," he added. The minister said that last year around 7.5 lakh students travelled abroad to pursue their studies and because of this valuable foreign exchange moved out of India as well as many bright students moved abroad. "We should make all efforts to help bright students to pursue their education in India. Also, as per this government's manifesto we have to increase seat capacity by 50 per cent in all premier institutions by year 2024 and also Institutes of Eminence should be increased to 50 by 2024," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hrd-ministry-sets-up-panel-to-form-guidelines-to-encourage-local-education-865165.html
24-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Bengaluru Mayor urges officials to speed up Covid-19 tracing process||In today’s episode, A report from the Financial Stability and Development Council said that the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to push up the gross non-performing assets in the Indian banking system to at least 12.5% by March 2021, from 8.5% in March 2020, Bengaluru city Mayor M Gautham Kumar has urged officials to speed up the process of tracing primary and secondary contacts in the wake of Covid-19 and Manmohan Singh says that former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao was a "great son of the soil" and he can truly be called the father of economic reforms in India as he had both the vision and the courage to push them forward.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bengaluru-mayor-urges-officials-to-speed-up-covid-19-tracing-process-865167.html
24-07-2020||National||Over 10 cr free LPG cylinders delivered as Covid-19 relief||Over 10 crore free cooking gas (LPG) cylinders were supplied to poor households under the government's Covid-19 relief package between April and June, Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) said on Friday. To overcome the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had announced a relief package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) comprising free ration, cooking gas, and cash to certain vulnerable sections. One of the initiatives under PMGKY was to supply three free LPG refills to the 8 crore Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) beneficiaries during April-June. "An estimated over 10 crore free LPG refills were supplied under PMGKY by HPCL and other oil marketing companies. "HPCL supplied more than 2.85 crore free LPG refills at doorsteps of its PMUY beneficiaries during April-June, 2020, helping the PMUY beneficiaries during this unprecedented crisis," the company said in a statement. As the Covid-19 pandemic is still continuing and normal work is taking time to resume to full capacity, the government has extended the period of availing the free LPG benefits until September. "This particular initiative of door delivery of free LPG refills to poor households has helped them not only sustain their living but also has significantly reduced their chances of getting infected," it said. The government had on May 1, 2016 launched the PMUY initiative to provide environment-friendly clean cooking fuel to women, especially in rural areas. "Since the launch of PMUY, LPG penetration in Indian households has increased from around 55 percent to over 97 percent," the statement said. The initial target of providing 5 crore LPG connections under PMUY was achieved much before the deadline of March 2019. In view of the tremendous success of the scheme, a revised target of providing 8 crore LPG connections was set up with target date of March 31, 2020. "Oil marketing companies (OMCs) achieved the revised target of providing 8 crore LPG connections in September 2019, six months ahead of the target date," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-10-cr-free-lpg-cylinders-delivered-as-covid-19-relief-865168.html
24-07-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for ecommerce sites to disclose country of origin of goods||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Union government on a plea for a direction to the Centre to formulate a law in order to ensure that ecommerce sites and business houses declare “Country of Origin” of goods so as to enable customers to take informed decisions. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Centre on a PIL by advocate Divya Jyoti Singh. The petitioner contended that ecommerce portals surreptitiously do not disclose the "Country of Origin" for the products on their web-portals. "It seems large influx of junk is made and imported from China. Indian consumers are still kept in dark by not disclosing the Country of Origin, for if the consumers do not know where the products are made, they cannot stop buying them or to put it in other words let the consumers make an informed decision," the plea claimed. In an extraordinary circumstance when the entire nation stands united and there is a wave in the country for boycotting the Chinese products, ecommerce portals are playing with the sentiments of people and defeating the Prime Minister's call to use local products and be self-reliant, the petition submitted. The petitioner sought formulating a law, which makes it a mandatory for all the ecommerce portals like Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal, etc to disclose and display the Country of Origin for all goods sold in India in a proper size that makes it legible for the consumers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-ecommerce-sites-to-disclose-country-of-origin-of-goods-865169.html
24-07-2020||National||HC stays penalty proceedings against Patanjali Ayurved by anti-profiteering authority||The Delhi High Court on Friday stayed the penalty proceedings initiated against Patanjali Ayurved for allegedly profiteering Rs 75 crore through sale of its products, subject to the condition that it deposits the amount in question in the consumer welfare fund in six monthly instalments. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula issued the direction on Patanjali''s plea challenging the March 12, 2020 order of the National Anti-profiteering Authority (NAA) holding that the company denied to its customers the benefits of reduction in Goods and Services Tax (GST) between November 2017 to March 2019. The high court also issued notice to the Centre, NAA and the Director-General of Anti Profiteering (DGAP) seeking their stand on the company's plea which has claimed that NAA "failed to appreciate" that Patanjali has passed on benefits worth over Rs 151 crore to the consumers. Patanjali, represented by senior advocate Aman Sinha, has also challenged the constitutionality of section 171 of Central GST Act which provides that any reduction in the rate of tax on any supply of goods or services or the benefit of the input tax credit shall be passed on to the recipient by way of commensurate reduction in prices. According to Patanjali, it passed on the benefit in tax reduction to consumers by various means, including cashback schemes, discounts through secondary and retailer schemes and not increasing the selling price of certain items even after the increase in the tax rate. However, without appreciating these claims, NAA held that it has profiteered an amount of Rs 75,08,64,019 and had directed that it be deposited in the consumer welfare fund, Sinha contended. It had also initiated penalty proceedings against the company. The Centre, represented by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, and NAA and DGAP, represented by central government standing counsel Ravi Prakash and advocates Farman Ali Magray and Zoheb Hussain, opposed the company's petition. They also said that given the huge annual turn over of the company it should be directed to deposit the amount in one go and not in instalments. However, the high court passed the same order it did recently on a similar plea by Samsonite South Asia Pvt Ltd which was directed to deposit, in the consumer welfare fund, the principal profiteered amount of Rs 21,81,20,748 in six equal monthly instalments. The high court tagged all similar matters for hearing together on August 24. Patanjali in its plea has contended that the provisions of the CGST Act and the rules framed thereunder give "excessive and unfettered powers" to NAA to determine the methodology and procedure to be adopted for determining profiteering at its "discretion". It said that this resulted in the passing of the "arbitrary" order of March 12. The petition also challenges the composition of NAA, claiming it to be "unconstitutional".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-stays-penalty-proceedings-against-patanjali-ayurved-by-anti-profiteering-authority-865170.html
24-07-2020||National||Green shoots visible, India may post 6% growth next fiscal: Niti VC||The Indian economy will start recovering completely by the fourth quarter of the current fiscal and could grow by 6 per cent in the next financial year as green shoots are visible in many sectors where the business is back to pre-Covid levels, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said on Friday.         Kumar also expressed hope that Covid -19 will begin to taper off from the metros and their economic activity will be normal in the coming quarter.   "I expect the economy to start recovering completely by the fourth quarter.... and achieve positive growth.       "And next (fiscal) year, it could grow by 6 per cent," he said in a Twitter live session.         The Niti Aayog vice-chairman noted that green shoots of recovery are already visible in multiple sectors. "If you notice, in 15-16 sectors, businesses are coming back to pre-Covid levels," he said.          Kumar pointed out that for India, the timing of the Covid -19 pandemic was very unfortunate as the economy was bottoming out in the last quarter of 2019-20.         "Our economy was bottoming out in the fourth quarter of 2019-20 after seeing a low of 4.5 per cent growth but the outbreak of Covid -19 resulted in a significant negative impact in the first quarter of this fiscal. "And that downward momentum could not be reversed because of Covid -19," he observed.         Quoting the finance minister, Kumar said there is always a possibility of another stimulus from the government to boost demand.       "The finance minister has said there is always the possibility of the government coming up with another round of stimulus. Problem is going to be on the demand side.  "The government may look at a stimulus again to revive investment spirit and boost demand," he said.             Responding to a query about the challenges before India in the post-Covid -19 period, Kumar said the country will have to design and implement necessary structural reforms to ensure recovery is as sharp and sustained as possible.           Besides, India will have to collaborate with the rest of the world to redesign some global institutions and regulations as some of them have reached the expiry date, he said. India will also have to collaborate on the technological front as post-Covid technology turbulence can have a major unforeseen impact on many countries, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/green-shoots-visible-india-may-post-6-growth-next-fiscal-niti-vc-865172.html
24-07-2020||National||India has one of world's lowest Covid-19 infection, death rate: Vardhan at SCO health ministers' meet||At 864 cases and less than 21 deaths per million population, India has one of the world's lowest Covid-19 infection and death rate, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said underlining that the recovery rate among coronavirus-infected patients in the country is 63.45 percent and the mortality is 2.3 percent. These remarks were made by Vardhan at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Health Ministers' Digital Meet held digitally, the health ministry said. According to the ministry's statement, Vardhan emphasised on how the Indian traditional system of medicine has also contributed substantially in boosting the immunity of general population during Covid-19. "There is currently no institutional mechanism within SCO to discuss cooperation in traditional medicine that has the potential to fulfil the WHO Traditional Medicine Strategy 2014-2023 and also reinforce the effective implementation of the joint statement on cooperation in combating epidemics signed at the Qingdao Summit in 2018," the statement quoted him as saying. "This is in spite of such complementary medicine systems being widely practised in all member states of our SCO," he said and proposed the setting up of a new sub-group on traditional medicine under the existing institutional meetings of the SCO health ministers. Expressing his condolences at the loss of lives across the world due to Covid-19, Vardhan described the India's political commitment to contain the pandemic and spoke on how Prime Minister Narendra Modi has "personally monitored the situation and ensured a pre-emptive, pro-active and graded response to prevent the deadly virus from spreading". He explained that a series of actions were initiated in a graded way that included issuing of travel advisories, point-of-entry surveillance, community-based surveillance, enhancement of laboratory and hospital surge capacities, wide dissemination of technical guidelines on managing different aspects of disease outbreak and communicating risk to the public. "The consecutive lockdowns provided India with much required time and opportunity to build up on technical knowhow, laboratory capacities, hospital infrastructure and also to build up its pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions," Vardhan said. Speaking on the result of the lockdown he said, "India has so far reported 1.25 million cases and more than 30,000 deaths due to Covid-19. At 864 cases per million and less than 21 deaths per million of our population, India has one of the world’s lowest infection and death rate. "Our recovery rate stands at 63.45% whereas our mortality at 2.3 percent." The Union Health Minister also spoke on the increase in testing capacity and health infrastructure during the lockdown and after, the statement said. On logistics, Vardhan said, "India didn't have a single manufacturer of personal protective equipment (PPE) and now the country has developed indigenous capacity in the past few months to the extent that the country can export quality PPEs. "Similar scaling up was also done for achieving other indigenous capacity and reducing the demand & supply gap for ventilators and medical oxygen." He also elaborated on the innovative use of information technology in virtually every aspect of Covid-19 management. "Aarogya Setu app and ITIHAS, a cellular-based tracking technology, are used for surveillance and identification of potential clusters of disease, RT-PCR app for testing, facility app for managing information on admitted patients and hospital bed capacities, all integrated with a single Covid-19 portal." According to the statement, Vardhan called upon all member nations to rise in this time of crisis and mitigate the effect of Covid-19 on health and economy. He also congratulated all the frontline staff dealing with the pandemics and called them "no less than God for humanity".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-one-of-worlds-lowest-covid-19-infection-death-rate-vardhan-at-sco-health-ministers-meet-865176.html
24-07-2020||National||Railways to introduce 'zero-based' timetable; around 6,000 stoppages may be scrapped||Indian Railways working on introducing a 'zero-based' timetable for all trains once the trains services normalise in post-Covid-19 period to improve efficiency in train services. The zero-based timetable will allow railways to scrap some of the existing stoppages of mail/express trains and increase the speed of trains. The railways roped IIT-Mumbai to prepare a zero-based time table. As per the current proposal, the existing total of 5,500 to 6,000 stoppages in the railway network may be scrapped, a Railways official said. The railways decided to stop or continue the specific stop of a particular train based on at least 50 people board or deboard in a day. The stoppages of a train with less than 50 people board or deboard may be stopped as they were considered uneconomical, said an official in the national transporter. The new system not only increases the speed of trains and its efficiency but also avoid jostling of space by goods and passenger trains. Railway Board Chairman  V K Yadav said the plan to implement a new system was delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic but it will be executed. He also said if one train stoppage scrapped in a particular station, the railways will ensure alternate trains on that route stop at the station so that passengers of that region should not face inconvenience. The zero -time table will also ensure separate time slots for every section to repair and maintaince of system track and related system maintaince, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-introduce-zero-based-timetable-around-6000-stoppages-may-be-scrapped-865177.html
24-07-2020||National||Enforcement Directorate attaches Rs 3.88 crore assets in PMLA case against IRS officer||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs 3.88 crore in connection with a money laundering case against an IRS officer, who worked in the investigation wing of the Income Tax Department in Kolkata, and others. The central probe agency said, in a statement, that it has issued a provisional order under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for attaching a residential property worth Rs 3.15 crore in Mumbai and bank balance of Rs 73.16 lakh. The ED had pressed money laundering charges against Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Neeraj Singh and his alleged associate Govind Agarwal after going through a 2017 Kolkata Police FIR against them. Singh, the then additional commissioner of I-T investigation in Kolkata, was accused by the Kolkata Police of "wrongfully using his power and capacity of a public servant and obtaining huge amount of money through illegal gratification", the ED said. The probe found that "Singh kept Agarwal as his frontman and laundered the proceeds of crime through number of bank accounts of various companies", it said. "Agarwal used to park the ill-gotten money of Singh into his companies. He also used to compensate for Singh's personal expenses, including flight tickets, travels and tours as well as hotel expenses," the ED said in the statement. Singh had acquired a residential property in Mumbai in 2014 in the name of one of his relatives, the agency claimed. The ED said for acquiring this property, Singh routed his "ill-gotten money" through a number of companies floated by Agarwal and finally placed them into the accounts of his relative in guise of loans extended from a company. "Singh possessed and used bank accounts of his relatives which were utilised for acquiring proceeds of crime," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforcement-directorate-attaches-rs-388-crore-assets-in-pmla-case-against-irs-officer-865185.html
24-07-2020||National||Jenburkt Pharma launches Covid-19 drug at Rs 39 per tablet||Drug firm Jenburkt Pharmaceuticals on Friday said it has launched antiviral drug Favipiravir under the brand name 'Favivent' for the treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 symptoms at a price of Rs 39 per tablet. The tablet will be available in 200 mg strength in the form of a strip of 10 tablets, it added. The drug will be manufactured at a pharmaceutical plant in Telangana with the highest safety and manufacturing protocols in place, Jenburkt Pharmaceuticals said in a statement. On Thursday, pharma company Brinton Pharmaceuticals had said it will be selling Favipiravir under the brand name 'Faviton' at a maximum retail price of Rs 59 per tablet. Pharma major Glenmark Pharmaceuticals is already selling Favipiravir under the brand name 'FabiFlu' at a price of Rs 75 per tablet.    Earlier this year, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had approved the use of Favipiravir -- an antiviral drug developed in Japan and commonly used for treating influenza -- for the treatment of mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 in India.   "Given the current scenario of grave health concerns and economic challenges surrounding Covid-19 in India, if we as a pharmaceutical company cannot make a significant positive difference to the society, our company's very existence is inconsequential," Jenburkt Pharmaceuticals Chairman and MD Ashish U Bhuta said.   The company hopes that the easy accessibility and affordable price point of an effective treatment such as Favivent will offer Indian citizens a timely, much-needed therapeutic solution, he added.   Shares of Jenburkt Pharmaceuticals closed at Rs 391.90 per scrip on BSE, down 1.05 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jenburkt-pharma-launches-covid-19-drug-at-rs-39-per-tablet-865186.html
24-07-2020||National||NHRC notice to UP govt, DGP over 'self-immolation' attempt by mother-daughter duo||The NHRC has sent notices to the Uttar Pradesh government and the police chief of the state over reports of a mother-daughter duo attempting self-immolation in Lucknow due to alleged inaction by authorities in a case. Issuing the notices, the commission has observed that the recourse taken by the victims cannot be justified but it indicates towards the "reckless attitude of the authorities", who "seemingly failed to take a timely action" on a complaint lodged by the victims. "The National Human Rights Commission has issued to notices to the Chief Secretary and DGP, Uttar Pradesh after taking sou moto cognisance of media reports that due to the alleged inaction by the authorities on their complaint of sexual harassment, a mother-daughter duo from Amethi attempted self-immolation in front of the Lok Bhawan in Lucknow on July 17," the rights panel said in a statement. Reportedly, the woman with 90 per cent burn injuries died and her daughter with 15 per cent burns is undergoing treatment in the civil hospital, it said. The commission has given four weeks' time for the response, seeking a detailed report, including action taken against the guilty and the action taken on the complaint reportedly lodged by the victims, the statement said. The report must include the status of the medical treatment being provided to the injured woman, her health conditions and any relief given by the authorities to the injured and the aggrieved family, it added. "This is a serious issue of violation of human rights. Had timely action been initiated, the women may not have been forced to take such extreme steps," the commission observed. According to media reports, the family members of the victims have also alleged: "ill-treatment by police personnel and the doctors at the Civil Hospital, when the son of the deceased woman visited her in the hospital". Four people have been arrested by the police in connection with the matter, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-notice-to-up-govt-dgp-over-self-immolation-attempt-by-mother-daughter-duo-865190.html
24-07-2020||National||UGC panel to address concerns of Covid-19-hit students||A committee chaired by University Grants Commission Chairman D P Singh will explore possibilities of universities increasing their intake students and starting multi-disciplinary and innovative programs, facilitating online lectures by eminent faculty from abroad and twinning or joint degree programs. As many as 7.5 lakh students had travelled abroad for higher studies during 2019 and several of them had returned to India due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The committee will present its report within 15 days. “Due to the current Covid-19 situation, many students who wanted to pursue studies abroad have decided to stay back and pursue their studies in India. There are also a rising number of Indian students returning to India with concern about completion of their studies,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said at a brainstorming session on ‘Stay in India and Study in India’. “We should make all efforts to look into the needs of both these categories of students. Initiatives need to be taken to retain them by providing appropriate opportunities of education in premier institutions in India as well as concerns of students returning from abroad need to be addressed by supporting them to complete their programme here in India,” he added. The committee will prepare guidelines and measures to ensure that more and more students stay in India and come out with a mechanism for increasing intake in well-performing universities. “It will also explore mechanisms for starting multi-disciplinary and innovative programs, twinning and joint degree programs, cross country designing of centres, facilitating online lectures by eminent faculty abroad, the linkage between academia and industry, facilitate joint degree ventures and lateral entry to Indian Higher Education Institutions,” an HRD Ministry statement said. It added that the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) Chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe will oversee the issues related to technical institutions and separate sub-committees consisting of Directors of IIT, NIT, IIIT, CoA and Vice Chancellors of Central Universities will be created who will assist Chairman UGC and Chairman AICTE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-panel-to-address-concerns-of-covid-19-hit-students-865194.html
24-07-2020||National||Domestic airfare cap to remain in place till November 24 or until further orders: Aviation Ministry||The upper and lower limits on domestic airfares have been extended till November 24 or until further orders, the Aviation Ministry said Friday. The ministry had on May 21 placed these limits till August 24. “As per the prevailing situation of Covid-19, the Central government...directs that the order shall remain in force till 2359 hrs on 24th November, 2020, or until further orders,” the Aviation Ministry said. Domestic passenger services resumed on May 25 after nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak. The aviation regulator DGCA had on May 21 issued seven bands of ticket pricing with lower and upper fare limits. The first such band consists of flights that are of less than 40 minutes duration. The lower and the upper fare limits for the first band is Rs 2,000 and Rs 6,000, respectively. The subsequent bands are for flights with durations of 40-60 minutes, 60-90 minutes, 90-120 minutes, 120-150 minutes, 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes. The lower and upper limits for these bands are: Rs 2,500-Rs 7,500; Rs 3,000-Rs 9,000; Rs 3,500-Rs 10,000; Rs 4,500-Rs 13,000; Rs 5,500-Rs 15,700 and Rs 6,500-Rs 18,600, respectively, the DGCA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-airfare-cap-to-remain-in-place-till-november-24-or-until-further-orders-aviation-ministry-865204.html
24-07-2020||National||Agri-input products to be marketed through CSCs||Common Services Center (CSC), a Special Purpose Vehicle under Ministry of Electronics and IT, has tied up with Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Limited (IFFCO), one of the biggest cooperatives in India, to distribute fertilizers and agricultural inputs to farmers through its pan-India network of CSCs across India, particularly in rural areas. With the partnership, the Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) who run around 2.5 lakh CSCs in rural areas out of a total of around 3.6 lakh, CSC can now place orders of various fertilizers and agricultural inputs for farmers through IFFCO e-Bazar platform, which has been integrated with Digital Seva Portal of CSC. There is no requirement of license for sale of these products through e-Bazar. The VLEs will earn additional commission on all orders placed and the items will be directly delivered at the shipping address mentioned in the order.  IFFCO e-Bazar provides agri inputs like fertilizers, agro-chemicals, bio-fertilizers, bio-stimulants, cattle feed, sprayers, and other agri-implements to the farming community under one roof. “The last-mile delivery is an important aspect of our activities at IFFCO and the partnership with CSC and its VLEs will help us reach out to farmers and citizens in the villages with timely supply of reliable and quality Agri inputs," U S Awasthi, MD & CEO, IFFCO, said. “Our partnership with IFFCO is a step ahead in furthering the agenda of the Government in serving the farmers and underserved community, especially those living in the rural areas,"  Dinesh Tyagi, CEO, CSC said. IFFCO will also utilize the network of CSCs across the country to purchase Neem fruit (nimboli), which are used to make bio-pesticides, from farmers across the country, Yogendra Kumar, Marketing Director IFFCO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agri-input-products-to-be-marketed-through-cscs-865205.html
24-07-2020||National||Postal deparment extends small savings schemes to branch post office level||To strengthen its network and postal operations in rural areas and provide facility of small savings scheme to the vast majority in villages, the Department of Posts has now extended all small savings schemes upto the branch post office level. There are 1,31,113 branch post offices functioning in rural areas. Apart from facilities of letters, speed post, parcels, electronic money order, Rural Postal Life Insurance, these Branch Post Offices had been providing Post Office Savings Account, Recurring Deposit and Sukanya Samriddhi Account  schemes till now. The new order has allowed branch post Offices to offer facilities of Public Provident Fund, Monthly Income Scheme, National Savings Certificate, Kisan Vikas Patra and senior citizen savings schemes also, said a statement. People living in villages will now be able to get the same Post Office Savings Bank facilities which people in urban areas have been availing. They will be able to deposit their savings into these popular schemes through the post office in their village itself, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/postal-deparment-extends-small-savings-schemes-to-branch-post-office-level-865206.html
24-07-2020||National||LAC: India, China military commanders to meet again to end stalemate in disengagement of troops||India and China on Friday agreed to hold yet another meeting between the senior military commanders of the two sides to resolve the stalemate in the process of mutual withdrawal of troops from the scenes of the face-offs along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.  The senior diplomats of India and China had yet another round of video conference on Friday, amid concerns in New Delhi over the Indian Army’s reports that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had not yet withdrawn troops from several face-off points, including the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake. India is also worried as China has not yet shown signs of thinning out the troops it deployed over the past few weeks in the “depth areas” on its side of the LAC – the de facto border between the two nations.  The video conference was the 17th meeting the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), which was instituted in 2013.  Naveen Srivastava, who heads the East Asia division at the MEA led the delegation of the Government of India in the video conference. The delegation of the Chinese Government was led by Hong Liang, the Director-General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This was the third video conference they had within the framework of the WMCC to resolve the current India-China stand-off in eastern Ladakh. They earlier had two WMCC video conferences on June 24 and July 10.  Srivastava and Hong agreed that it was necessary for both sides to sincerely implement the understandings reached between senior military commanders in the meetings they had held till date. Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, earlier had four marathon meetings with his counterpart Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on June 6, June 22, June 30 and July 14.  The diplomats of the two sides agreed that “early and complete disengagement of the troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and de-escalation from India-China border areas in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for the smooth overall development of bilateral relations”, the MEA added in its press-release. The “disengagement” of troops along the LAC means withdrawal of the front-line soldiers by both sides from the scenes of the face-offs caused by the Chinese PLA’s transgression into the territory of India – ostensibly to unilaterally alter the status quo along the disputed boundary. The de-escalation in the border areas however will require the withdrawal of a large number of soldiers the Chinese PLA amassed on its side of the LAC, as well as the “mirror deployment” by the Indian Army in response to the build-up by the other side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lac-india-china-military-commanders-to-meet-again-to-end-stalemate-in-disengagement-of-troops-865209.html
24-07-2020||National||Railways spent Rs 2,142 crore on Shramik Specials, generated Rs 429 crore revenue: Data||The Railways spent Rs 2,142 crore on running Shramik Special trains for ferrying stranded migrant workers home during the coronavirus lockdown, but earned a revenue of just Rs 429 crore, official data shows. According to data available with PTI, the highest amount of money -- Rs 102 crore - was paid by the Gujarat government as fares for ferrying more than 15 lakh migrant workers back to their native states in 1,027 trains. It was followed by Maharashtra, which paid Rs 85 crore to ferry 12 lakh workers back in 844 trains. Tamil Nadu paid Rs 34 crore to the Railways for transporting around four lakh migrant workers to their home states in 271 trains. States like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, which are generally considered source states for migrant workers, paid Rs 21 crore, Rs 8 crore, and Rs 64 lakh respectively to ferry migrants out, the data shows. The data, received through an RTI application filed by activist Ajay Bose, shows that the Railways earned Rs 428 crore till June 29, by when most of the 4,615 trains had been run. Additionally, it earned around Rs 1 crore by running 13 trains in July. Another set of data, received from the Railways on its expenditure, shows that it spent Rs 3,400 per passenger the Shramik Special trains, which amounts to Rs 2,142 crore for around 63 lakh migrant workers ferried in total. A senior railway official said the national transporter only managed to recover 15 percent of the cost of operations from states and the rest 85 per cent was borne by the ministry.   “The average fare per person on Shramik Special trains is Rs 600. However, we have spent Rs 3,400 per passenger, amounting to a total of Rs 2,142 crore. And by carrying 63 lakh migrant workers home since May 1, we generated a revenue of Rs 429 crore,” the official confirmed. However, this effort of the Railways should not be seen from the prism of profit and loss, he said. ¨What the Railways did during the pandemic was part of a united effort to contribute in the fight against the pandemic. It should not be seen in terms of profit and loss,” said the official. On Thursday, the Railways said it had met all the demand of states by then for Shramik Special trains, with the last service being operated on July 9. The Railways started Shramik Specials on May 1 to transport stranded migrant workers to their native states after thousands tried to reach home on foot due to the lockdown transport restrictions. On July 9, the last two trains departed from the Chennai Central station -- one to Jodhpur with 1,449 passengers, and the other to Howrah with 1,620 passengers, officials said. The Railways said it operated 4,109 Shramik trains in May, which came down to 493 in June, and 13 in July.   Most of these trains originated from Gujarat, followed by Maharashtra and were destined to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-spent-rs-2142-crore-on-shramik-specials-generated-rs-429-crore-revenue-data-865218.html
24-07-2020||National||Software engineer hacks into database of firm to get back job, held||A software engineer was arrested for allegedly hacking into the database of his former company and deleting selective information in order to get back his job which he lost during the lockdown, police said on Friday. Based on a complaint lodged by the CEO of the private company, police launched a probe into the matter and tracked the IP address, Deputy Commissioner of Police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said. They arrested Vikesh Sharma, a resident of Old Maujpur, on Thursday. Sharma, who a M.Sc (IT) degree, told police that he used to work as a senior software engineer in the company and was fired during the lockdown due to disagreement over salary. To cause financial trouble to the company, he deleted data of many patients so that the organisation would be forced to hire him back to rectify the issue, the DCP said. The accused said he deleted 18,000 data entries of patients, billing information of around three lakh patients and made around 22,000 false entries, Arya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/software-engineer-hacks-into-database-of-firm-to-get-back-job-held-865219.html
24-07-2020||National||Top Indian Air Force commanders draw 10-year roadmap for enhancing country's aerial prowess||At the end of a three-day brainstorming conclave, top commanders of the Indian Air Force on Friday drew up a broad roadmap for next 10 years to significantly enhance the country's aerial prowess to confront emerging threats including from the adversaries on the northern and western fronts, officials said. The IAF commanders held detailed deliberations on the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, key short-term and long-term security challenges facing the nation and on the complex geo-political power play in India's neighbourhood, they said. In his closing remarks, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria emphasised on the need for rapid capacity building, increase in serviceability of all assets and dedicated work towards effective integration of new technologies in the "shortest timeframes". An IAF spokesperson said the Chief of Air Staff talked about the vision 2030 for the force and laid down milestones for transforming it in the coming decade. He stated that it was important to recognise the nature of emerging threats in a rapidly changing world. The official said the commanders held a series of discussions and carried out reviews on operational preparedness and strategies for countering security threats envisaged across the entire spectrum. "They discussed the current situation and thereafter carried out a thorough review of the IAF's transformation roadmap for the next decade," spokesperson said. In his address on the opening day of the conclave, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh complimented the IAF for its rapid deployment of assests at forward locations in responding to the border row with China, saying its Balakot strike and the current combat readiness have sent a strong message to the "adversaries". Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of the Army Staff Gen MM Naravane too addressed the conference and interacted with the commanders as well as the principal staff officers (PSOs) at Air headquarters. The interactions covered a wide range of subjects including ways to ensure of jointness and ensuring integrated war fighting. The spokesperson said the IAF chief underlined the need for work on the IAF's long term goals for building sustainable capability, employment of niche technologies and development of indigenous platforms and weapons. "The chief stated that since human resource was the most valuable asset of the IAF, recruitment, training and motivation strategies should keep pace with the changing times," he said. Officials said the commanders also deliberate on the deployment of first batch of around six Rafale jets in the Ladakh sector by early next month as the aircraft are set to join the IAF's fighter fleet by July 29. The IAF has been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in the last few weeks, in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. The IAF has deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China notwithstanding disengagement of troops by Chinese military from a number of friction points. The IAF has also deployed Apache attack choppers as well as Chinook heavy-lift helicopters to transport troops to various forward locations The IAF has also pressed into service a fleet of C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft as well as C-130J Super Hercules in transporting heavy military equipment and weaponry to several forward bases in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-indian-air-force-commanders-draw-10-year-roadmap-for-enhancing-countrys-aerial-prowess-865226.html
24-07-2020||National||UP: Married woman raped by 50-year-old neighbour multiple times||A 50-year-old man from Bulandshahr has allegedly raped a woman, who is his neighbour, several times over the last two years and threatened to upload a video he took of her bathing, police said on Friday. The victim, who lives in a locality in Sikandrabad town, lodged a complaint on the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister's Complaint Portal that she is living with her family on rental accommodation. The man is also living with his family in the same place. Kotwali Inspector Jitendra Kumar said no complaint has been received regarding the matter but assured that strict action will be taken against the accused based on a written complaint. Two years ago, the man purportedly shot a video of her bathing at her home. One such day, the victim's husband went out for work when the man came to her room in the night and raped her. She has been facing this ordeal since then and the alleged rapist has threatened to upload the video and also spoke of killing her toddler son. According to the victim, the man raped her several times by threatening to make the video viral. Even 10 days ago, the man tried to rape her but finally disclosed this to her family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-married-woman-raped-by-50-year-old-neighbour-multiple-times-865229.html
24-07-2020||National||SC to consider 2009 contempt against Prashant Bhushan on August 4||The Supreme Court on Friday deferred its hearing in a 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan for accusing past CJIs of corruption, to August 4. A bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra, however, rejected a contention by senior advocate Shanti Bhushan that he was willing to go to jail, if his son was guilty, saying that it was an argument made out of love and affection and can't be treated as a legal argument. Senior Bhushan has sought to be impleaded in the matter. Other counsel senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, for Prashant Bhushan and Kapil Sibal for Tehelka magazine, which had published the statement, and complainant Harish Salve sought adjournment on the grounds that the case documents were locked up in chambers. They also said it was not an urgent matter and would rather require physical hearing because of lengthy arguments to be advanced. Advocate Prashant Bhushan was issued another contempt notice on July 22 for his tweets, wherein he accused four CJIs of "playing a role in destruction of democracy". He faced the adverse action for another tweet on June 29, wherein he accused the current CJI of "riding a Rs 50 lakh bike of a BJP leader" and keeping "the SC in lockdown denying citizens their fundamental right to justice".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-2009-contempt-against-prashant-bhushan-on-august-4-865230.html
24-07-2020||National||Govindan Rangarajan appointed new Director of Indian Institute of Science||The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) on Friday announced the appointment of Professor Govindan Rangarajan as its new Director. Rangarajan has been formally appointed by the Governing Council of the Institute as the next Director with effect from August 1, 2020, after obtaining approval from the Visitor, the Honourable President of India, IISc said in a release. His appointment comes as Professor Anurag Kumar will superannuate from his service at the IISc, and thereby complete his term as the Director of the Institute on July 31. Rangarajan obtained an Integrated M Sc. (Hons.) degree from the Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani, and a PhD from the University of Maryland, College Park. He then worked at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, USA, before returning to India in 1992. Prior to his current appointment, he was the Chair, Division of Interdisciplinary Research at IISc comprising 10 departments and centres, and also headed the fundraising and alumni outreach efforts of the institute. Rangarajan has also served as the Chair of Department of Mathematics and the Chair of International Relations Cell, the release added. Rangarajan said it was an honour and privilege for him to be appointed as the next Director of IISc. "The Institute has a glorious 111-year-old legacy of impactful contributions to science and engineering. I will strive to uphold this tradition and take the Institute to even greater heights in the coming years," he said. Pointing out that the outgoing Director Anurag Kumar was appointed to the post on August 1, 2014, IISc said, during his tenure, he introduced initiatives to modernise IISc's administration and infrastructure, improve faculty recruitment, and enhance IISc's visibility abroad among others. "It has been an honour for me to serve as the Director of IISc, Indias top-ranked university of science and engineering," Kumar said, as he congratulated the new Director and wished him success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govindan-rangarajan-appointed-new-director-of-indian-institute-of-science-865235.html
24-07-2020||National||World's 1st electrified double-stack container tunnel near Haryana may be operational in a yr: Official||A one-km-long tunnel has been cut through the Aravallis on the railway's Western Dedicated Freight Corridor near Haryana's Sohna with a plan to ply electric goods train with double-stack containers through it in the next 12 months, officials said on Friday. Engineers had to blast through 2,500 to 500 million-years-old proterozoic rocks to build the world's first electrified double-stack container tunnel. The last blasting was completed on Friday. "This means the excavation work for the one-kilometre tunnel is complete and it is now through and through," an official said. Once operational, a double-stack container goods train will be able to run at a speed of more than 100 kmph in this tunnel. It connects Mewat and Gurgaon districts of Haryana, and negotiates a steep gradient on the uphill and downhill slope of the Aravalli range. "Tunnel-breaking ceremony marks the completion of the tunnel caving work at the WDFC's (Western Dedicated Freight Corridor) one-km-long tunnel through the Aravallis near Sohna in Haryana," implementing agency of the project, the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) said, in a statement. "This will be the world's first electrified rail tunnel fit to run double-stack containers. The last blasting of the tunnel, which is situated on the Rewari-Dadri section, was done today (Friday). This work has been completed in less than a year's time," it stated. A spokesperson said they are looking to complete it in "the next 12 months". Geologically, the tunnel is safe and stable as it is caved through 2,500 to 500 million-years-old proterozoic rocks, mainly quartzite, schists and slates of Alwar/Azabgarh groups of Delhi supergroup rocks, which have high bearing capacity, according to the statement. The D-shaped tunnel has a cross-sectional area of 150 square metres to accommodate double line with higher overhead equipment to enable double-stack container movement on the freight corridor. Cross-sectional area wise, it is one of the biggest railway tunnels in India. One end of the tunnel is near Rewari while the other end is at Dadri. The dimension of tunnel is 14.5 metre in width and 10.5 metre in height in straight portion, and 15 metre wide and 12.5 metre height to provide extra clearance while negotiating the curve. "Tunnelling work has been done systematically and in a planned manner from both the ends by deploying high-tech man and machinery. This is the reason behind completing the caving work in a record one-year time," the DFCCIL said in the statement. There are a total of six tunnels in both the Eastern and Western Dedicated Freight Corridors. "Despite the coronavirus pandemic, work is progressing at a fast and resolute pace in DFCCIL. The Eastern (excluding the PPP section) and Western DFC is slated for completion in June 2022," according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worlds-1st-electrified-double-stack-container-tunnel-near-haryana-may-be-operational-in-a-yr-official-865239.html
24-07-2020||National||Vikas Dubey’s fifth aide arrested: STF||Yet another alleged accomplice of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, who participated in the massacre of eight policemen at Bikru village in Kanpur was arrested by the UP Special Task Force, the STF said in a statement on Friday. Identified as Shivam Dubey (24) was arrested on Thursday evening, the STF said. Shivam is the fifth accused arrested in the case. Of the 21 named accused in the Kanpur ambush case, six have been killed and five arrested so far, said STF, adding a hunt is on for 10 other accused. Vikas Dubey was the sixth man to die in a police encounter after his arrest following the July 2 ambush of a police team which had gone to arrest the dreaded gangster to his village. The probe has confirmed that Shivam was present in Bikru on a fateful night and actively took part in massacring police personnel, including deputy SP Devendra Kumar Mishra, three sub-inspectors and four constables, a senior STF official said. Electronic evidence confirmed Shivam's presence in the Bikru ambush and it was also corroborated by others who have been arrested in this connection earlier, the official added. The STF headquarters had received information about Shivam's presence in Kanpur itself, the statement said. Shivam reportedly took shelter at his relative's house in Hardoi initially and then kept changing his hideout frequently after the police started tracking him, the official said, requesting anonymity. Following a tip-off, an STF team was deployed to nab him. Shivam was arrested on Thursday night from near a soap factory in Chaubeypur, the statement said. He was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest, the STF said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vikas-dubey-s-fifth-aide-arrested-stf-865248.html
24-07-2020||National||Phase-I human clinical trial of potential Covid-19 vaccine: Man given first dose at AIIMS||The phase-I human clinical trial of India's first indigenously-developed vaccine against novel coronavirus, Covaxin, began at the AIIMS here on Friday with the first dose of the injection given to a man, who is in his 30s. Already, over 3,500 volunteers have already registered themselves for the trial at AIIMS since last Saturday, of whom the screening of at least 22 people is underway, Dr Sanjay Rai, Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine at AIIMS and the principal investigator of the study, said. "The first volunteer, a resident of Delhi, was screened two days ago and all his health parameters were found to be within the normal range. He also does not have any co-morbid conditions. "The first dose of 0.5 ml intramuscular injection was given to him around 1.30 pm. No immediate side-effects have been observed so far. He was under observation for two hours and will be monitored for the next seven days," Rai said. Few more participants would be given the vaccine on Saturday after their screening reports come. AIIMS-Delhi is among the 12 sites selected by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting phase I and II randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials of Covaxin. In phase I, the vaccine would be tested on 375 volunteers and the maximum of 100 of them would be from AIIMS. The second phase would include around 750 volunteers from all 12 sites together, Rai said. Phase I of the vaccine trial will be done on healthy people aged 18-55 years having no co-morbid conditions. Women with no pregnancy will also be selected to be a part of the trial in the first phase. In the second phase, 750 people will be recruited between 12-65 years, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria had said. The phase-I human trials have so far begun in AIIMS Patna and few other sites too. "In the first phase we see the safety of the vaccine which is of primary importance and the dose range is also calculated," Dr Guleria had said. There are three formulations of the vaccine, and each subject will be given any one of the formulation in two doses two weeks apart.The first 50 will get the lowest strength dose of the vaccine. If it is found to be safe in them, then it will be given to another 50 patients in high doses, according to Rai. Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the ICMR and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), had recently got the nod for human clinical trials from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phase-i-human-clinical-trial-of-potential-covid-19-vaccine-man-given-first-dose-at-aiims-865257.html
24-07-2020||National||Nearly 10 lakh people hit by Bihar floods; breach in embankments in 2 districts||Nearly one million people have been affected by floods in Bihar, where the Gandak river breached two embankments at three places, leaving several areas inundated, officials said on Friday. However, there was no report of loss of life or property in the deluge so far. According to the state disaster management department's bulletin, a total of 9.60 lakh people have been affected by floodwaters in 529 panchayats of 74 blocks in 10 districts. The Gandak river breached the embankment in Devapur village in Barauli block of Saran district and Puraina village of Majha block in Gopalganj district this morning, while another breach took place on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday near Bhawanipur village of East Champaran district. At least 50,000 people of 45 villages in Gopalganj district have been affected by the breach at two places, officials said. Bihar's Water Resources Minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, who conducted an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas, following a breach in the embankments, said there is no report of any loss of life due to the breach. "It came as a complete surprise for us that breach has occurred at places which have not witnessed any breaches in the past. There is a strong current in the floodwater that has overtopped at several places and put pressure on embankments," Jha told reporters here. There has been a 35 to 40-meter wide breach at the affected sites in the two districts, he said, while stating that the state government has sought Indian Air Force's helicopter for distribution of food packets to people which is expected to arrive on Saturday. The Gandak river turned turbulent, following the discharge of 4,36,500 lakh cusecs of water from Valmikinagar barrage on July 21 due to heavy rainfall on July 19, 20 and 21 in the catchment area of Nepal. Due to a heavy downpour, 80,000 to 1,00,000 cusecs of water was discharged in the river, Jha said. The Gandak river water has also overtopped National Highway 28 in Gopalganj due to the breaches, disrupting vehicular movement between Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and the districts of Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, West Champaran in Bihar. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Areraj (in East Champaran), Dhirendra Mishra said thousands of people of seven villages of Sangrampur villages have been rescued in the night by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel. NDRF 9th battalion Commandant Vijay Sinha, who monitored the rescue operations, said various teams were engaged in the rescue operations in both Gopalganj and East Champaran districts. The NDRF teams have so far evacuated around 3,200 people and 126 livestock to safer places, Sinha said, adding that they are taking medical teams to the affected places through its boat. The NDRF rescuers are following safety measures and protocols to avoid getting infected by Covid-19 during the flood rescue operations, Sinha said and added that East Champaran District Magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok was also present on its rescue boat to personally monitor the entire operation. A total of 7.65 lakh people were affected by floodwaters in 426 panchayats of 64 blocks of 10 districts yesterday. Thirteen teams of the NDRF and eight of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) are involved in the rescue operations as part of which 93,891 people have been evacuated from the marooned areas so far, it said, adding that 12,023 people are staying in 21 relief camps while nearly 1.15 lakh people were being fed at 271 community kitchens. The districts affected by the floods are West Champaran, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, and Khagaria. Several rivers such as Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan, Lalbakeya, Adhwara, Khiroi and Mahananda are flowing above the danger level while the Ganga river is flowing below the danger mark at all locations, including two places at Gandhi ghat and Digha ghat in Patna, it said. The water resources department collects the report of the Ganga's water level from seven places, including Buxar, Bhagalpur, Munger, and two places in Patna. Meanwhile, train services between Darbhanga-Samastipur have been suspended since 7 am Friday due to floodwaters touching the girder bridge near Hayaghat in Darbhanga district, East Central Railway (ECR) CPRO Rajesh Kumar said. The Indian Railways has decided to run Darbhanga-Delhi Bihar Sampark Kranti Express via Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur or via Sitamarhi, Narkatiaganj in West Champaran district, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-10-lakh-people-hit-by-bihar-floods-breach-in-embankments-in-2-districts-865259.html
24-07-2020||National||India best destination for foreign investment with high returns: Nitin Gadkari to EU investors||Terming India as the best destination for foreign investment with high returns, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday urged European investors to invest in India. He also said that the government is promoting clean fuel and working towards running long-distance buses and trucks on LNG. Apart from LNG, the government's focus is to take ethanol economy from the present Rs 20,000 crore to Rs 1 lakh crore, Road Transport, Highways and MSME Minister Gadkari said while addressing the members from European Economic Group on 'Sustainable Transport and MSMEs' through video conference. "Government is looking at LNG as fuel for trucks and buses in transport on long routes of more than 700 to 800 km. In addition, it is promoting ethanol to reduce Rs 7 lakh crore annual import of crude. The volume of the ethanol industry is Rs 20,000 crore which we want to take to Rs one lakh crore," the minister said. He said plans are afoot also to develop industrial clusters, including leather, plastic, chemical, furniture and others, along with the Rs one lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai Expressway on the pattern of clusters in China, and it is opportune time for investors particularly from Europe to invest in India to get high and safe returns under the present circumstances when the world is battling Covid-19. Developing such clusters would reduce logistics costs and bring good returns, he said. India is the best destination for foreign investment with high returns, Gadkari said, adding that the government is trying to tap investment from different sources, including from the pension fund, insurance fund and stock market, besides the World Bank and ADB. He also said apart from being one of the fastest growing economies, India is making things digital for transparency and urged investors to invest in infrastructure, MSMEs, banks, NBFCs and other areas. "It is a golden opportunity for you. Your investment will be safe and you will get very good returns," the minister said, adding that COVID-19-hit Indian economy needs liquidity. "Invest in India including through JV. It will be secured here as India has strength. India needs liquidity. It has big market, skilled manpower and is focussing on increasing exports and reducing imports," the minster noted. Urging players to invest in the highways sector, the minister said that 22 green expressways were on the anvil and work has already started on seven of them. He said that talks were also on with a Swedish firm for electric highway stretch on Delhi-Mumbai Expressway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-best-destination-for-foreign-investment-with-high-returns-nitin-gadkari-to-eu-investors-865263.html
24-07-2020||National||UP: 30-year-old wine contractor shoots himself dead||A 30-year-old wine contractor died on Friday by allegedly shooting himself at his house in Ankit Vihar area here, police said. Wine contractor Moolchand shot himself over some unknown problem in the locality that falls under New Mandi police station area, they said. The body bore bullet injuries and has been sent for a postmortem. An investigation is on. In another incident, the body of a 40-year-old woman was found a day after she went missing from her home in Sikri village of Bhopa area in the district, according to police. Suresho Devi, the wife of Dharamvir, was reported to be missing on Thursday. Police said the body has been sent for a postmortem and a probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-30-year-old-wine-contractor-shoots-himself-dead-865274.html
24-07-2020||National||Pathalgadhi movement: Gujarat ATS arrests three in Tapi for 'waging war against nation'||Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrests three persons including a woman from Tapi near Surat for allegedly propagating the "Pathalgadhi movement" and booked them for "conspiracy, waging war against nation, sedition and promoting enmity between two groups, according to DH sources. The arrested persons have been identified as Babita Kachhap, Somu and Birsa Oreya, all originally from Jharkhand. ATS officials say they have seized laptops and literature on banned CPI (Maoist) from suspects' possession. Pathalgadhi is a movement that demands self-rule by local gram panchayats by declaring villages as sovereign territory and restricting outsiders' encroachment. The movement started from Jharkhand's Khunti district, the birthplace of tribal icon Birsa Munda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pathalgadhi-movement-gujarat-ats-arrests-three-in-tapi-for-waging-war-against-nation-865291.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Congress has become a 'Twitter Party': Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Terming the Congress as a Twitter Party, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said its leaders are busy posting messages on the popular micro-blogging platform. He also targeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he talks more about China than India these days. The Congress these days has become a Twitter Party. They keep playing Twitter-Twitter, Chouhan said while welcoming Congress MLA Narayan Patel into the BJP. Earlier in the day, the MLA from Mandhata in Khandwa district resigned from the state assembly and announced joining the ruling BJP. Slamming Gandhi, Chouhan said, Rahul is not talking about India, but China. Even in dreams, he watches Modiji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi). Under the Congress government, the state was in misery. "There is an atmosphere of despondency in the Congress where a single person is everything in the party in Delhi and also in the state (apparently referring to Kamal Nath, who is MPCC president and also served as chief minister). The BJP chief minister claimed the Congress leadership does not listen to its own MLAs in the state. They have not listened to anyone, nor developed the state. He (Nath) did not listen even to his own MLAs. (Congress) legislators who have joined the BJP were asked to go away whenever they went to meet him, Chouhan alleged. When you tell them to go away, how they willstay with you? The BJP has developed Mandhata (during its rule), but during the Congress regime of 15 months nothing happened in the constituency. "I assure you (Patel) that we will not break your trust and together we will serve the people of the state," said Chouhan. Patel said on the occasion that he joined the BJP for development of his constituency as he believed only the saffron outfit is capable to ensure growth of his area and also the state. Earlier, state BJP president Vishnu Dutt Sharma and other leaders formally welcomed Patel into the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-has-become-a-twitter-party-madhya-pradesh-chief-minister-shivraj-singh-chouhan-864878.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Scandal, infighting erupt within ailing Congress party||As the once-formidable Indian National Congress party began to crumble in recent years, Sachin Pilot, a young, well-connected politician, stepped up to help his bloc weather one crisis after another. Pilot’s parents were Congress stalwarts and served in elite government positions. He is close with members of the Gandhi family, who have controlled the party for decades, dominating India’s electorate until Prime Minister Narendra Modi first swept into office six years ago on a wave of Hindu nationalism. Many thought Pilot, 42, who represented Congress as deputy chief minister in the northern state of Rajasthan, had the perfect résumé to lead the party to a rebirth. Instead, India’s political establishment has been jolted by accusations this month that Pilot was secretly working on behalf of Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, possibly in an effort to depose a chief minister he had fallen out with. Pilot has denied those accusations. Congress loyalists fear the scandal is another severe blow to the survival of the party, which led the country to independence more than 70 years ago but has been cracking internally under the weight of huge Bharatiya Janata Party victories led by Modi. Party officials in Rajasthan immediately called for dozens of Congress politicians to move into a hotel in a desperate effort to keep them from defecting. As the country’s political discourse has been dominated by nationalism and Hindu-centric policies, many also worry that the weakness of Congress, which traditionally has championed minorities, harms India’s democracy more broadly. The scandal broke out in recent days when party officials accused Pilot of offering multimillion-dollar bribes to fellow Congress leaders and urging them to defect to the Bharatiya Janata Party over a period of several months. The fallout was swift and unforgiving. Party leadership removed Pilot from his post and accused 18 other politicians of colluding with him. Ashok Gehlot, the chief minister in Rajasthan, called his deputy a “worthless person” and released audiotapes that he said implicated Pilot in a conspiracy to buy off officials “like goats in a market.” “Speaking good English, giving good quotes and being handsome isn’t everything,” Gehlot told reporters. Pilot, who did not respond to requests from The New York Times for comment, maintained his innocence in an interview with India Today, insisting that he had no intention of joining the Bharatiya Janata Party. He accused Gehlot of trying to “humiliate me” and block him from a bigger role in the Congress party. It was one of the most public expressions yet of resentment within Congress that the party is failing to make room for a younger group of leaders to emerge. The upshot is that Modi’s party is stronger than ever.Gilles Verniers, an assistant professor of political science at Ashoka University, said Congress has failed to give incentives to officials to stick with the party, leading some to “seek greener pastures.” In recent years, dozens of senior Congress leaders have left the party, fed up with a lack of visionary leadership. Modi’s BJP has seized on the turmoil, steadily undermining Congress in the few states that it still controls. In Madhya Pradesh, Jyotiraditya Scindia, another Congress star who was close to the Gandhis and came from a long line of princes, defected to the BJP in March, causing Congress to lose its fragile hold on the state government. In an interview, Satish Poonia, the president of the BJP in Rajasthan, said “all of the allegations against us are false.” Instead, he described the conflict as a bitter generational rift between Pilot and older Congress leaders like Gehlot, 69 — a view also shared by many within Congress. India has a long history of power grabs and high-level defections, and local news outlets have published accounts from unnamed BJP officials in Rajasthan describing a political coup attempt gone awry, with a disgruntled Pilot at its center. Rajasthan is a large, politically competitive state, and home to some of India’s vital heritage and cultural sites. Congress controls 107 seats in the state legislature, barely enough to form a majority government. Just a few crossovers would shift the balance of power to the BJP. Congress leaders in Rajasthan are deeply rattled. Last week, Gehlot’s government moved more than 100 elected officials into the Fairmont Hotel, a five-star resort in the city of Jaipur, the capital of Rajasthan, hoping to prevent them from leaving for the BJP. The fear was that if the lawmakers remained at home, it would be easier to bribe or entice them to defect. On a recent day this week, riot buses and police officers dressed in camouflage blocked the resort’s entrance. Inside, politicians attended yoga classes and watched Bollywood movies in a marble-floored lobby. Rafeek Khan, a member of Rajasthan’s Legislative Assembly who is among those staying at the hotel, said he had no idea when they would be allowed to leave. “The BJP is playing with democracy,” he said. “They think one can be bought if enough money is offered. That is the message the BJP is sending to the electorate.” In the coming days, Rajasthan’s legislature is expected to decide whether Pilot and the 18 other rebel officials will lose their seats, which would make forming a new government under the BJP much tougher. The decline of Congress accelerated last year, when Rahul Gandhi, the great-grandson of India’s first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, resigned from his post as president after a humiliating general election defeat against Modi. Many Indians see the Congress party as a protector of the nation’s founding secular values, but far too beholden to the Gandhis, who are often perceived as a symbol of India’s Anglicized upper class. Gandhi, his mother, Sonia, who assumed the role of interim president, and his sister, Priyanka, all still call the party’s shots. Modi continually hammers Congress for being a family dynasty, and his party’s embrace of a brawny Hindu nationalism that emphasizes India’s Hindu heritage has tracked well with voters. Rasheed Kidwai, a former journalist who wrote a book about Sonia Gandhi, said Congress simply could not compete. “They are going through the motions,” he said. “They are very demoralized. They don’t have any hope.” Analysts say trouble has been brewing for Congress in Rajasthan since 2018, when the party scored a victory over the BJP in state elections and retook control of the state government after five years in the opposition. In his interview with India Today, Pilot said he proposed himself as chief minister, citing his role in helping secure that win. But he ultimately relented to an agreement to take the second spot behind Gehlot under the impression that he would soon be elevated. Pilot, whose name comes from the fact that his father was a decorated combat pilot, apparently felt sidelined by Gehlot, and bitterness between the men grew. “This was a badly handled show and one more state could slip out of Congress’ hands,” said Neerja Chowdhury, a political analyst in New Delhi. “It is a failure of national leadership.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/scandal-infighting-erupt-within-ailing-congress-party-864907.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||DH Exclusive | Everyone wants to become minister in first term, says Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh||Amid a political standoff in Rajasthan, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday rued that unlike in the past, young leaders nowadays want to assume posts of power soon after entering politics. “I remember becoming a minister for the first time around 16-17 years after entering politics. But the problem is nowadays everyone wants to become a minister in their first term,” Singh told DH.   “That is something we need to understand— things don’t work like that. Everyone has to wait for their turn,” Singh said responding to a question on the inability of the Congress to hold on to power in states such as Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Singh’s comments also come against the backdrop of a somewhat similar power struggle in Punjab with a new entrant to the Congress— Navjyot Singh Sidhu and the chief minister’s running battle with fellow partyman Partap Singh Bajwa. Singh said there was no generational fight in Rajasthan, but differences within the party which were cashed in by the BJP. “There is no generational fight in Rajasthan. There are some differences between youth and seniors everywhere. But unfortunately, the gaps here were narrow, particularly in Madhya Pradesh, and so the BJP took advantage of it,” the armyman-turned-politican said. AICC general secretary Jyotiraditya Scindia had walked out of the Congress in March along with 22 MLAs which led to the fall of chief minister Kamal Nath’s government. Scindia’s exit from the Congress came after a bitter fight with senior leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh, who were trying to edge him out of state politics. Scindia was a contender for the post of Madhya Pradesh chief minister, which went to Kamal Nath after the Congress won a slender majority in the December 2018 Assembly elections. The crisis in Rajasthan was precipitated by the intense power struggle between Chief Minister Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. Like Scindia, 42-year-old Pilot was also a contender for the chief minister’s post in Rajasthan after the December 2018 elections but was trumped by 67-year-old Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-exclusive-everyone-wants-to-become-minister-in-first-term-says-punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-864935.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Don't just watch movies: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tells CM Ashok Gehlot, MLAs||Taking a jibe at Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Union Jal Shakti Minister and Jodhpur MP Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, took to Twitter to criticise Ashok Gehlot and MLAs of his camp for engaging in leisurely activities at a five-star hotel amid the ongoing political crisis. The MLAs were allegedly kept there to avoid possibilities of any offer by the rival camps to shun the party. In several photos and videos that are doing rounds on social media, the MLAs were seen performing yoga in the hotel lawn, watching movies, playing carrom and celebrating the birthday of an MLA. “Request Mr Gehlot to not to just watch movies in the hotel, but listen to good religious sermons and worry about the state!” Shekhawat wrote in Hindi. Rajasthan plunged into a political crisis after former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot rebelled. Pilot, who was sacked from his post following the rebellion, along with 18 MLAs supporting has moved to the high court, challenging the Speaker's disqualification notice. Later, the BJP sought to know the source of the tape and asked how the state police got it. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-just-watch-movies-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-tells-cm-ashok-gehlot-mlas-864941.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan HC allows Centre as party to proceedings in Sachin Pilot, 18 Congress MLAs' disqualification matter||The Rajasthan High Court on Friday allowed the application moved by sacked Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and 18 dissident Congress MLAs seeking impleadment of the Union of India as a party to the proceedings in the disqualification matter. A bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta allowed the application that was moved by the petitioners on Thursday. The court then adjourned for 20 minutes. The application for impleadment was moved on the grounds that the constitutional amendment is under challenge and, therefore, the Union of India is a necessary party now. The dissident Congress MLAs led by Pilot have challenged their disqualification notices through the writ petition which was taken up by the bench on Friday last week and arguments were held. The hearing continued on Monday and the arguments concluded on Tuesday. The court on Tuesday said it will give appropriate order on the writ petition on Friday.  The notices to MLAs were served after the party complained to the Speaker that the legislators had defied a whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party meetings, on Monday and Tuesday last week. The Pilot camp, however, argued that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session. In its complaint to the Legislative Assembly Speaker, the Congress had sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they 'voluntarily' give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House. Pilot was sacked as deputy chief minister and the president of the state unit of the party after he rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-hc-allows-centre-as-party-to-proceedings-in-sachin-pilot-18-congress-mlas-disqualification-matter-864986.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Have majority, some rebel Cong MLAs wish to return but being held captive: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot says the Congress and its allies have a majority in the assembly and a section of its MLAs are anxious to return to the party fold but are being held captive in a hotel in Haryana. All constitutional and legal options are open before the state government and will be resorted to "as and when necessary", the chief minister told PTI as uncertainty persists over the future of his government following a rebellion by his now sacked deputy Sachin Pilot.  "I want to repeat that we have a majority of the MLAs and even our adversaries know this. We will never shy away from resorting to democratic and constitutional processes in this regard and will take decisions at the right time," Gehlot said to a question on when he will call an assembly session. Asserting that his government has a complete majority of the Congress and its allies in the 200-member state assembly, Gehlot said, "Everyone is aware that a small section of our MLAs has been held captive in a hotel outside the state under the watch of bouncers and police of other states." He added that he has learnt the MLAs want to "break free of their captivity" and go along with the government. "This will become evident in some time," he said when asked whether the Rajasthan Congress is in touch with MLAs in the Pilot camp. The Rajasthan speaker had issued disqualification notices against the 19 dissident MLAs, who challenged it in the high court. On Friday, the court ordered status quo and said there will be no action for now on the disqualification notices against the dissident MLAs. Any high court order will be subject to the outcome of a petition by the Rajasthan speaker that the Supreme Court is now hearing. The chief minister sounded dismissive of Pilot and purported attempts to bring him back to the Congress fold, saying the party leadership had been anguished by his anti-Congress activities. "Only the party leadership can give this information. The leadership is bound to be anguished by ongoing anti-party activities by some of our MLAs under the leadership of Sachin Pilot. We will accept the high command's decision in this matter," Gehlot said when asked if Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi had spoken to him about Pilot's return. He also noted that any decision on Pilot would depend on the high command's approach. Responding to a question on what would be his condition if Pilot wants to return, he said, "This would depend on his future moves, his activities and the decision of Congress high command." The chief minister was also noncommittal when asked if he regretted the use of harsh words like "nikamma" and "nakaara" for Pilot. He said his words were borne of his pain following the recent developments involving a conspiracy against the party and "blatant disregard" of discipline and basic courtesies. The chief minister also reiterated his allegation that top BJP leaders were involved in the conspiracy to dislodge his government. Asked about the BJP's claim that current developments in Rajasthan are a reflection of internal Congress factionalism, he said, "Can anyone say that the BJP does not have a hand in current developments in the state... Audio tapes in the public domain, raids on my close aides, hospitality offered to Congress MLAs by BJP-led Haryana government, prove BJP's hand in this matter." Refuting Union minister Congres's charges that he was being framed to avenge the Lok Sabha defeat of Gehlot's son Vaibhav Gehlot, the chief minister said, "It is not appropriate to link current developments with Lok Sabha elections that were held a year-and-a-half ago." "Probe agencies are conducting impartial legal investigations based on evidence. In the end, truth shall prevail," he said. The chief minister also said legal proceedings are underway in the matter of the audio tapes that have recently surfaced in the public domain. "I don't have any further comment on this right now. But I can assure you of impartial police and legal proceedings in this matter," the chief minister said when asked about the BJP's charge that the Rajasthan government resorted to phone-tapping which is illegal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/have-majority-some-rebel-cong-mlas-wish-to-return-but-being-held-captive-gehlot-865023.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi says govt rubbishing his warnings on Covid-19, China||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the government over the rise in Covid-19 cases and Chinese aggression in Ladakh, saying it continues to rubbish his warnings. He said even though he kept warning the government on Covid-19, "disaster" has followed. "I kept warning them on Covid-19 and the economy. They rubbished it. Disaster followed. I keep warning them on China. They're rubbishing it," he said on Twitter. India saw a record single-day spike of 49,310 Covid-19 cases taking the country's tally to 12,87,945 on Friday, while the recoveries surged to 8,17,208, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll mounted to 30,601 with 740 new fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-says-govt-rubbishing-his-warnings-on-covid-19-china-865029.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Ashok Gehlot accuses Rajasthan Governor of being under pressure to not call assembly session||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot accused Governor Kalraj Mishra on Friday of being under pressure to not call an assembly session. Gehlot said the state government requested the governor to call a session, but he had not yet issued the order. "We want an assembly session from Monday," the chief minister told reporters outside the hotel where the legislators supporting him are camping. "The governor is not giving orders for calling assembly session under pressure." After the recent cabinet meeting, Gehlot said, the governor was requested through a letter to hold assembly session to discuss political situation, review the coronavirus pandemic and its effects on the state's economic situation. "We hoped that governor would issue an order to call assembly session yesterday night itself. I waited overnight but still there is no reply from his side," he said. "It is beyond our comprehension because simple procedures are adopted. The governor has to give orders. There is no reason for him to stop." The chief minister said the governor was holding a constitutional post and he should immediately take a decision to maintain the dignity of post. "Otherwise, all our MLAs will come to Raj Bhawan and collectively request you please give your decision immediately," he said. After addressing the media persons, Gehlot called for party's legislature meeting in the hotel. The chief minister urged the governor to decide on the basis of his conscience. Otherwise, he added, they would "not be responsible" if people of the state gherao the Raj Bhawan. Gehlot said he had a majority and things would be crystal clear in the assembly. Referring to the disgruntled Congress MLAs camping in Haryana, Gehlot said: "This whole game is a conspiracy of the BJP and its leaders. Just like they did in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and other states , they want to do in Rajasthan." "But in Rajasthan, the people of the entire state, the entire MLAs are with us," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ashok-gehlot-accuses-rajasthan-governor-of-being-under-pressure-to-not-call-assembly-session-865061.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||'Overambitious' young leaders quitting Congress as they feel party won't come to power soon: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury feels a section of young "overambitious" leaders is becoming increasingly restless and deserting the party due to the growing perception that it is not going to return to power at the Centre anytime soon. Conceding that their exit might adversely impact the party "temporarily", the veteran Congress MP, however, said party "discipline and ideology can't be compromised to satisfy the individual aspirations of leaders who lack ideological commitment. The Congress leader hinted at the possibility of some more young leaders quitting the party after the high-profile desertion of Jyotiraditya Scindia and rebellion by Sachin Pilot. "There is a certain section of overambitious young leaders.....they are becoming restless and feeling they are not getting their due in the party and are looking for other options to satisfy their individual ambitions. "This is happening due to a growing perception that as the Congress won't return to power (at the Centre) shortly, so the party won't be able to satisfy all their demands. So they are either jumping the ship or are planning to do so, Chowdhury told PTI in an interview. Talking about Scindia and Pilot, he said they were never neglected or given short shrift by the party. He said there have been leaders with great potential in several political parties who did not get their due. "But did they leave their party to enjoy the fruits of power? The answer is no. The problem is the lack of commitment," he said. Chowdhury also rejected the claim that Jyotiraditya Scindia won Madhya Pradesh for the Congress as its campaign committee chief for the assembly polls. If that were the case, he would not have lost his Lok Sabha seat, the veteran Congress leader said. Rajasthan, where Sachin Pilot has risen in revolt against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, has a history of change of guard every five years, Chowdhury said. "Had he (Pilot) been the only factor which led to our victory in the 2018 assembly polls we wouldn't have fared so badly in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Rajasthan, he said. Scindia left the Congress with his band of loyal MLAs in March and joined the BJP, resulting in the fall of the Kamal Nath government and the saffron party's return to power. Pilot was removed as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress president after he revolted against Gehlot, a representative of the old guard in the Congress. He has neither left the party nor been expelled. Former union minister Milind Deora, one of the young faces in the Congress had last year proposed Pilot and Scindia for the post of the party's national president. Deora had told PTI he agreed with Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh that the new Congress president should be young, capable and possess electoral, administrative and organisational experience, and a pan-India appeal. "In my view, Sachin Pilot and Jyotiraditya Scindia have all these qualities and can provide strength to the organisation and vigour to the opposition space," he had said. When asked whether the disillusionment of the young leaders stems from the power struggle between the old guard and the Young Turks in the party, with the former holding sway, Chowdhury replied in the negative. Can you show me one political party in India which has leaders of only one age group? Any political party or organisation is a blend of young and experienced leaders. Just because I am over 60 will you throw me out of the party? In BJP, when Atal Bihari Vajpayee, L K Advani were leaders, they had groomed others like Narendra Modi and the present-day BJP leadership, he said. Chowdhury blamed a section of media for presenting the difference of opinion as disputes within the party. He dismissed as "untrue" suggestions that Scindia and Pilot were sidelined as they could pose a threat to Rahul Gandhi's leadership. "This is completely untrue. Had Rahul Ji felt threatened by them, he wont have encouraged them to take up important assignments both in the party and in governments, he said. When asked whether the problems the Congress is facing stemmed from a leadership crisis, the five-time MP from West Bengals Beharampore said the party is just going through a bad, rough patch, which is quite common in politics. There is no leadership crisis in our party. Its a media creation. We have Sonia Gandhi as our leader and no one should question her political acumen as it under her leadership that the party won two successive terms from 2004- 2014, he said. Responding to a question about who will take over the mantle from interim president Sonia Gandhi, Chowdhury, a member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body of the party, said though there were several good leaders they lack the stature and charisma of the Gandhi family which acts as glue for the party. "We would like to have a member of the Gandhi family to lead us. Sonia Gandhiji has done a great job in the last year. If Rahul Gandhi Ji wants to take up the mantle he can always do so, he said. Asked why the Congress was reluctant about looking beyond the Gandhi family despite repeated electoral reverses, he said, "Thats because no one has the charisma the Gandhi family has. When we have someone else with such charisma, he can lead the party. We had P V Narasimha Rao, Sitaram Kesari as party presidents in the past. He said a "false" perception has been created by a section of media at BJP's bidding that Rahul Gandhi is a "part-time politician". Chowdhury said Rahul Gandhi is the only leader who has been consistently opposing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government's policies. "He has been uncompromising in it. But a section of media loves to paint him as an immature politician. The day we return to power, you will find Rahul ji being hailed as a great politician," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/overambitious-young-leaders-quitting-congress-as-they-feel-party-wont-come-to-power-soon-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-865067.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Congress to hold protests across Rajasthan against BJP on Saturday||The Congress in Rajasthan will hold demonstrations in all district headquarters on Saturday against the BJP's "conspiracy to murder democracy", the party said. This comes amid the political crisis in Rajasthan. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has accused the BJP of trying to topple his government. He has also accused his former deputy Sachin Pilot, who he is locked in a power tussle with, of colluding with the BJP to make his own party sink. "Congress workers will hold demonstrations in all district headquarters tomorrow at 11 am against the BJP's conspiracy to murder democracy," PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra said on Friday. Earlier this week, Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi accusing Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, other BJP leaders and some "overambitious leaders" of his own party of being involved in the alleged attempt to bring down the Congress government in Rajasthan. The BJP, however, has rejected the Congress's allegations saying whatever is going on is the result of infighting between Gehlot and Pilot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-hold-protests-across-rajasthan-against-bjp-on-saturday-865161.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan political crisis: Having suffered setbacks, Congress to move SC||With the Rajasthan High Court's order on Friday directing status quo on disqualification petition against 18 rebel Congress MLAs and sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, Congress is left with no choice but to move the Supreme Court. Sources say, Congress party's chief whip Mahesh Joshi would file a special leave petition in the matter. The recent turn of events did not go in favour of the party in either of the ways after Pilot with his supporters showed billigerence towards the state leadership and nearly walked away, posing a threat to the government.  First, the High Court ordered the Speaker to await the judgement on a plea against disqualification notice to the rebels. Secondly, the Supreme Court declined to intervene into the High Court's interdiction into anti-defection law proceedings. Thirdly, the High Court on Friday put the matter further in limbo, awaiting the top court's judgement on a plea made by the Speaker. Having suffered multiple setbacks, the party would raise the basic question before the top court - Can courts enter the political thickets? The complaint filed before the Speaker was related to failure of the MLAs to attend the legislative party meetings and he should have been allowed to examine the matter.  "It was a political issue between the party and its MLAs and in the S R Bommai case, the Constitution bench has already declared that the courts would not enter into political arena," they said. Notably, the Supreme Court, recently in the case of resignation of 22 Congress MLAs in Madhya Pradesh, said that the spectacle of rival political parties whisking away their political flock to safe destinations does little credit to the state of our democratic politics. It is an unfortunate reflection on the confidence which political parties hold in their own constituents and a reflection of what happens in the real world of politics.  "It is best that courts maintain an arm‘s length from the sordid tales of political life... In defining constitutional principle, however, this court must be conscious of the position on the ground and an effort has to be made to the extent possible to ensure that democratic values prevail," it has said. The court has also said where we increasingly see a breakdown in the composition and allegiances of the political party due to private allurements offered to members as opposed to public policy considerations, the law may have to evolve to address these burgeoning evils.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-having-suffered-setbacks-congress-to-move-sc-865198.html
24-07-2020||National Politics||Election Commission decides to hold by-elections across India||The Election Commission on Friday decided to hold by-polls across the country to fill up vacancies in state legislatures and the Lok Sabha. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora had a meeting with Election Commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra to discuss scheduling the by-elections. They reviewed the preparations of the state governments to hold the bye-elections, particularly in view of the Covid-19 pandemic as well as heavy rainfall and flood situation in some parts of the country. The commission decided to announce the schedule of the by-elections “at an appropriate time”. “Decision to hold bye-elections in Assembly and Parliamentary Constituencies was taken by the Commission after a review today. The schedule etc. shall be announced at an appropriate time,” S B Sharan, the spokesperson of the EC, posted on Twitter. The EC on Friday also discussed scheduling eight other bypolls – in seven other assembly constituencies in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Assam and a parliamentary constituency in Bihar. The deadline for holding elections to fill up the eight vacancies ranged from July 30 to September 7. But the commission issued a certificate on Thursday, expressing its “considered view” that the by-elections due to be held up to September 7 might be deferred “in public interest” in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the flood situation in several states. It noted that the by-elections should be held when the situation would become conducive and necessary logistics and protocols would be put in place. The EC on Friday discussed scheduling the eight bye-elections beyond September 7, along with the 49 others, which are due after that date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/election-commission-decides-to-hold-by-elections-across-india-865202.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Undemocratic pandemic: Kamal Nath writes to PM Narendra Modi||With three Congress MLAs in Madhya Pradesh resigning in the last two weeks, former chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, exhorting him to protect "democratic values". There was an "undemocratic pandemic" prevailing in the country in which the BJP was luring away MLAs to topple elected governments in states ruled by opposition parties, the Madhya Pradesh Congress chief alleged. "I am sure...you will come forward to save the declining credibility of Indian democracy by not giving any place in your government and the party to such opportunist leaders who are facing charges of trading democratic values, so that India's established identity as a nation having democratic neutrality, transparency and maturity will remain intact," the letter said. The Congress government headed by Nath lost power in Madhya Pradesh in March this year when 22 party MLAs joined the BJP. The Congress government in Rajasthan too is facing a political crisis at present. The "toppling" of his government was among the most abominable act in the history of Indian democracy, Nath said. When the whole world was fighting coronavirus, "a senior BJP leader along with....MLAs went away to Bengaluru to topple my government," he alleged. The federal structure is the beauty of Indian democracy as per Dr B R Ambedkar, but the same structure was now under attack, the Congress leader said. Narayan Patel, Congress MLA from Mandhata, resigned from MP Assembly on Thursday. Earlier this month Sumitra Devi Kasdekar and Pradyuman Singh Lodhi had quit the party and joined the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/undemocratic-pandemic-kamal-nath-writes-to-pm-narendra-modi-864879.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Claims about Rs 500-crore property false, we have been left in lurch: Vikas Dubey's wife||Wife of slain gangster Vikas Dubey on Thursday said that she had unsuccessfully tried to convince her husband to leave the path of crime, and now with him being dead the family has been left in the lurch. About the claim that Dubey had acquired property worth crores of rupees, she said it was "fake news" and that her husband has left the family to fend for themselves. "Today, we terribly needed him. He has left nothing for us. People may say that he has left a property worth Rs 500 crore, but the truth is that I do not have anything," the gangster's wife Richa Dubey told a TV news channel. To a question that Dubey has properties worth crores at a number of places, even in Dubai, she said, "This is absolutely fake news. Just think, if a person has property worth crores, will his wife live in a 1,600 square feet house in Lucknow?" Richa Dubey also claimed that she had tried to convince her husband to leave crime, but he was a man of a different mentality. "He was a good husband, and good father. He wanted that his children should become well-educated, but he himself never wanted to come out of the world of crime," the wife of the slain gangster said. She that whenever she tried to convince her husband about leaving the path of crime, he used to beat her. Richa Dubey claimed that she did not like the atmosphere of her in-laws' place in Bikru village, and in order to keep her children away from the world of crime, she started living in to Lucknow since 2008. "Had Vikas told me about his plan of killing the policemen, I would have made every effort to stop him," she said. Tendering an apology to the wives of the policemen killed in the ambush in Bikru village in Kanpur on the intervening night of July 2-3, Richa Dubey said that if she had her way, she would have herself become a widow and stopped her husband.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/claims-about-rs-500-crore-property-false-we-have-been-left-in-lurch-vikas-dubeys-wife-864880.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||MHA asks states to invite Covid-19 warriors for Independence Day functions||As the country is grappling with the pandemic, the MHA made it clear that it does not want the usual huge crowd for the Independence Day celebrations, however, the customary events at Red Fort where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the tri-colour as well as those in state capitals and district, block and panchayat headquarters will be held as usual. It has asked states to go digital in a big way to enable people to celebrate indoors, as people usually venture out on Independence Day to picnic hotspots, shopping malls and other crowded places. The MHA has recommended the states to consider celebrating Independence Day in "innovative ways" like propagating patriotic or national integration messages and songs through social/digital media and “waving of national flags by people at rooftops and balconies” among others. At the same time, the government also wants to use the national day celebrations as a platform to showcase the fight against the pandemic by involving survivors and healthcare professionals in the official ceremonies.  "It would also be appropriate that Covid-19 warriors like doctors, health workers, sanitation workers etc. are invited in the ceremony as a recognition of their noble service in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Some persons recovered from Covid-19 infection may also be invited," MHA Joint Secretary Anuj Sharma said. It also wants the states to "suitably" publicise the theme of 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat' (Self Reliant India programme), a Rs 21,000 lakh crore package announced by the Narendra Modi government in the wake of the pandemic, during functions and on social media on Independence Day. The MHA letter also scotched speculation about the 'At Home' reception at Rashtrapati Bhavan hosted by President Ram Nath Kovind by announcing that it will be held as usual. However, it left it to the discretion of Governors whether to hold such functions in Raj Bhavans in states. Here too, the MHA wants them to invite Covid-19 warriors and survivors. It has also recommended organising debates for school and college students on digital platforms, online quiz competitions, thematic webinars, patriotic songs or speeches by selected boys and girls on the social media and online campaigns by National Service Scheme (NSS) in place of what one witnessed earlier on August 15. Performance of police and military bands should be recorded at places of historic importance associated with the Independence movement and recorded versions should be displayed through large screens during public functions and on social media, it said. While the emphasis on controlling the number of people attending functions, the MHA has made it clear that there are no changes in the programme at Red Fort where Modi will unfurl the tri-colour at 7:30 am after a tri-service guard of honour and a customary 21-gun salute. While the letter did not mention crowd control for the Red Fort ceremony, officials indicated that all Covid-19 protocol will be followed and there would be more than usual crowd control measures. The missive to the states also mentioned that it is imperative to follow preventive measures, including proper sanitisation, and technology is used in the best possible manner for celebration befitting the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mha-asks-states-to-invite-covid-19-warriors-for-independence-day-functions-864895.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Teen molested, uncle beaten up in Uttar Pradesh||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly sexually harassed in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district by three men, who also beat up her uncle when he opposed them, police said on Friday. The incident occurred at Bhokarhedi area on Thursday. The girl's uncle was beaten up with sticks and he has been admitted to a hospital in a serious condition, Bhopa police station in-charge Sanjiv Kumar said. A case has been registered against the three suspects, Amol Kumar, Abhishek and Nikhil Kumar, who are absconding, the officer said. In neighbouring Shamli district, three youths allegedly attempted to kidnap a woman when she was on her way to a shop at a village in Kairana police station area on Thursday, an officer said. A search is on for the suspects, who also threatened the woman, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teen-molested-uncle-beaten-up-in-uttar-pradesh-864966.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Law and order has surrendered before 'goons' in UP: Priyanka||Hitting out at the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh over rising crime, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday alleged that the law and order in the state has "surrendered" before goons and no one feels safe anywhere. Her attack over the UP government came over the reported killing of a man from Kanpur allegedly by his kidnappers even after ransom was paid. Priyanka Gandhi said the law and order in Uttar Pradesh has completely collapsed. After taking the life of common people, now public proclamations are being made about it, she said, adding that be it home, road, office, no one feels safe anywhere. "After Vikram Joshi, now abducted Sanjeet Yadav in Kanpur has been killed. The police got the money paid to the kidnappers and he was killed as well. A new 'gundaraj' has come into being," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "In this jungle raj, law and order has surrendered before the goons," she said. Priyanka Gandhi has been attacking the UP government over the state of law and order and the rising crime in the state. The Congress had also slammed the government over the Vikas Dubey incident and the killing of Ghaziabad-based journalist Vikram Joshi, who was shot in the head by some assailants. Joshi had lodged a complaint with the police alleging harassment of his niece on July 16, and was attacked around 10.30 pm on Monday while he was returning home in Vijay Nagar area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/law-and-order-has-surrendered-before-goons-in-up-priyanka-864988.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Ghaziabad journo killing: Cop suspended for negligence||The Ghaziabad Police has suspended for negligence the police station incharge of the area where journalist Vikram Joshi was shot at and subsequently died at a hospital, an officer said on Friday. The probe in the case has been transferred from the local Vijay Nagar police station to the Kotwali Nagar police station, Ghaziabad Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani said. The action has been taken in view of the report submitted by a circle officer who was probing the matter, Naithani said. Joshi succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday, two days after he was shot at by assailants in front of his minor daughters. It is alleged that the attackers included a group of men against whom Joshi had filed a complaint accusing them of harassing his niece after he had objected to their betting racket in the locality. The journalist's family claimed that the police did not take action on his complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghaziabad-journo-killing-cop-suspended-for-negligence-865000.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan HC order status quo on speaker's notices||The Rajasthan High Court on Friday ordered maintaining status quo on disqualification notices issued by the assembly speaker to 19 dissident Congress MLAs, including Sachin Pilot. The notices were served by the assembly speaker to the MLAs on July 14 after the party complained to him that the legislators had defied a whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party meetings last week. The Congress had sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they "voluntarily" give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House. The Pilot camp, however, argued that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session. The dissident MLAs challenged the notices through the writ petition which was taken up by the bench on Friday last week and arguments were held. The arguments continued on Monday and concluded on Tuesday. The court on Tuesday said it will give appropriate order in the writ petition on Friday.  Meanwhile, the assembly speaker moved the Supreme Court and filed a special leave petition (SLP) on Wednesday. Pilot was sacked as the deputy chief minister and the president of the party's state unit after he rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-hc-order-status-quo-on-speakers-notices-865022.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Another Covid-19 patient dies in Himachal Pradesh, toll rises to 12||The Covid-19 death toll in Himachal Pradesh increased to 12 after a 52-year-old man from Kangra district died in the early hours of Friday, officials said. The patient, a resident of Amb village in Kangra's Jwalamukhi, had high comorbidities, Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said. Meanwhile, two more Army jawans, aged 23 and 33 years tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Kangra. The deputy commissioner said they were being shifted to a military hospital in Yol cantonment in Dharamshala. The state's infection tally now stands at 1,837. The state currently has 672 active Covid-19 cases, with 1,062 people having recovered and 15 migrated out of the state, officials said. Solan has the highest number of active cases in the state at 273, followed by 125 in Sirmaur, 64 in Kangra, 68 in Shimla, 43 in Una, 21 in Chamba, 19 in Mandi, 17 in Bilaspur, 15 each in Kinnaur and Kullu, and 12 in Hamirpur, they said. The Kangra deputy commissioner said the man who died on Friday had also been suffering from chronic liver disease. He died in an ambulance when he was being taken to the zonal hospital in Dharamshala from the Severe Acute Respiratory (SARI) ward at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Tanda, the officer said. Earlier, the patient was being treated at the out-patient department (OPD) of the PGIMER in Chandigarh. He was admitted to the SARI ward in Tanda on July 23. His Covid-19 sample was taken and the report was found positive. After the report came positive, the patient was referred to the zonal hospital in Dharamshala as per protocol. With his demise, the number of Covid-19 deaths in the state has risen to 12. The deaths include a 70-year-old Delhi woman who had been staying at a factory's guest house at Baddi in Solan district since March 15. She tested positive and died at the PGIMER in Chandigarh on April 2. Initially, the state health department showed her death in its record but later it stopped doing so stating that as per protocol, her death should be included in Chandigarh where she had tested positive. The Chandigarh authorities, however, said her death should be included in the record of Himachal Pradesh from where she had been referred to the PGIMER.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-covid-19-patient-dies-in-himachal-pradesh-toll-rises-to-12-865052.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||UP government should take stock of law and order situation: BSP president Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Friday condemned the killing of a kidnapped lab technician in Kanpur, saying "jungle raj" prevailed in Uttar Pradesh. The lab technician, who was kidnapped last month was killed within a week of being held captive and the body was thrown in a river, police said. In a tweet, the BSP supremo said, "In another incident during the jungle raj in UP, the body of Sanjit Yadav was thrown into the river by kidnappers in Kanpur after killing him which is very sad and condemnable." "The state government needs to immediately come into action, especially on the issue of crime control and law and order," she said. The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday suspended four police personnel, including an Additional SP and a Circle Officer, for laxity in the probe into the case. The government also said Additional Director General (ADG-Police Headquarters) B P Jogdand will probe whether a ransom was paid by the family of the lab technician or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-government-should-take-stock-of-law-and-order-situation-bsp-president-mayawati-865053.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||BJP legislator moves court over BSP MLAs' merger with Congress in Rajasthan||A BJP MLA on Friday filed a petition in the Rajasthan High Court for quashing the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress, a move which helped the ruling party to retain majority in the assembly. The petition by Madan Dilawar also challenges the “inaction” of the Speaker in not deciding on his plea seeking the disqualification of the Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs from the assembly. The petition will be heard in the HC on Monday. The Speaker passed an order on September 18 last year declaring that the six MLAs will be treated as an integral part of the Congress. The BSP MLAs had joined the Congress as a group after the 2018 assembly polls to avoid action under the anti-defection law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-legislator-moves-court-over-bsp-mlas-merger-with-congress-in-rajasthan-865054.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Abducted Kanpur lab technician killed even after payment of ransom; ASP among ten cops suspended||A lab technician, who had been kidnapped last month from Kanpur town, was killed by his abductors, even after alleged payment of Rs 30 lakh as ransom. Police said on Friday that the technician, identified as Sanjeet Yadav, had been abducted by his friends and was killed to prevent him from exposing the criminals. His body was dumped into a river. Five people, including a woman, have been arrested in connection with the kidnapping. Ten cops, including assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Aparna Gupta and a circle officer, were suspended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on charges of laxity. Police said that Sanjeet's friends had abducted him for ransom. ''They thought that Sanjeet had a lot of money as he was planning to set up his own diagnostic lab,'' said a senior police official in Kanpur. The official said that Sanjeet was called by his friends on the pretext of joining a birthday party on June 22. ''He was drugged and taken to a secluded place,'' he said. The abductors demanded a ransom of Rs 30 lakh from the family to release Sanjeet. The police laid a trap but the abductors managed to escape after taking the money under the police's nose. Police said that Sanjeet was killed, when he tried to escape on June 26, police said.  The killing triggered widespread outrage and the opposition parties attacked the BJP government over what they alleged complete breakdown of law and order in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abducted-kanpur-lab-technician-killed-even-after-payment-of-ransom-asp-among-ten-cops-suspended-865066.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Akhilesh slams UP govt over law and order situation, demands President's rule in state||Lashing out at the Yogi Adityanath government over the killing of a lab technician in Kanpur, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Friday demanded that President's Rule be imposed in the state. He also announced an assistance of Rs 5 lakh for the family of the technician. The lab technician, who was kidnapped last month, was killed within a week of being held captive and the body was thrown in a river, police said "The news of death of man kidnapped in Kanpur is saddening. Government remained inactive after warning. Now the government should give at least Rs 50 lakh to the aggrieved family. SP will give Rs 5 lakh to the family," the SP president said in a tweet in Hindi. "Where are those with 'divya shakti' (divine power) and his 'bhayotpadak' (fear creating) 'prabhamanda' (aura) and his 'gyan mandali' (those giving him feedback)" Yadav tweeted with a hashtag "#PresidentRuleInUP". The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday suspended four police personnel, including an Additional SP and a Circle Officer, for laxity in the probe into the case. The government also said Additional Director General (ADG-Police Headquarters) B P Jogdand will probe whether ransom was paid by the family of the lab technician or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-slams-up-govt-over-law-and-order-situation-demands-presidents-rule-in-state-865080.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Haryana man arrested for killing his five children in last four years: Police||A 38-year-old man has been arrested in Haryana's Jind district after he confessed to killing his five children in the last four years, including two of them recently, a senior police official said on Friday. The man, identified only as Jumma, is a labourer and belongs to a village in Safidon in Jind, he said, adding that his wife is pregnant with the sixth child. The bodies of two of his daughters, ages 11 and 7, were recovered from the Hansi-Butana Link canal near his home in Didwara village on July 20, five days after the accused had lodged a police complaint stating the duo had gone missing. However, during the course of investigation, Jumma kept changing his statements which raised suspicion, Jind Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Ajit Singh Shekhawat told PTI over the phone. The police presumed that he was under mental stress due to the death of his children and did not subject him to sustained questioning at the moment. The village panchayat was later involved in the investigation, and the man confessed before them and later, the police, that he killed his five children. Jumma admitted that he drugged his two minor daughters and threw them in the canal a few days ago, the ASP said. "We arrested him on Thursday evening, and he has been charged with murder," said Shekhawat. Earlier, Jumma's three children, all below 11, had also died mysteriously. At that time, he had told his neighbours that one of his sons died in sleep, a daughter died while playing and another son started vomiting and died. "He has now confessed that he killed those three children as well. While two of them were strangulated by him, one was administered a poisonous tablet," the police officer said. Shekhawat said in the recent case, while the accused administered some intoxicants to two of his daughters before throwing them in the canal, he had also given some drugs to his wife. "He had kept his wife, who was pregnant with the sixth child, under heavy sedation during past few days," he said. Asked if Jumma had taken the steps under the influence of some 'tantrik' (occultist), Shekhawat said the accused is believed to have mentioned something in this regard to the villagers, but no such statement has been made before the police yet. The police will seek the help of a mental health expert in the case to further question the accused and find the exact motive which led him to kill his own children, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-man-arrested-for-killing-his-five-children-in-last-four-years-police-865084.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Haryana govt's action against industrial units highly inadequate: NGT||Action taken by Haryana government against large scale violation of laws by industrial units for alleged contamination of groundwater is highly inadequate, National Green Tribunal said on Friday. Withdrawal of groundwater without any assessment of impact of such extraction needs to be taken seriously against all the non-compliant industries, the green panel said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Haryana resident Ramesh Chand with reference to the allegation of pollution caused in the process of dying by the industrial units, resulting in contamination of groundwater in Khandra village in Panipat district, Haryana. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that as per the analysis results of the underground water samples, few parameters were exceeding the acceptable limits. According to the report filed by State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), two non-complying units have been closed and prosecution is under process.  Compensation has been assessed and three units have not resumed their operations after lockdown, the report said. The NGT said the report showed large scale violation of law by the industrial units for which action taken so far is highly inadequate.  “Illegal extraction of groundwater without any assessment of the impact of such extraction needs to be taken seriously against all the non-compliant units... Compensation needs to be recovered for the entire period of violation up to the last five years,” the tribunal said. The NGT asked the Haryana government to take further action in the matter and file report filed before the next date by e-mail. The matter is posted for next hearing on January 5, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-govts-action-against-industrial-units-highly-inadequate-ngt-865089.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Soil from RSS HQ sent to Ayodhya for Ram temple 'bhoomi pujan'||Soil from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters here has been sent to Ayodhya for the August 5 'Bhoomi pujan' ceremony of the Ram temple, a VHP functionary said on Friday. Talking to PTI, Govind Shende, the Vidarbha prant pramukh of Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), said that soil from a temple in Ramtek and water from the confluence of five rivers, both near Nagpur city, have also been sent for the upcoming event. "Earlier, it was decided that soil and water from different places in the country, including the religious places, would be collected and people in thousands would go for the Bhoomi pujan of Ram temple in March. However, due to the COVID-19 outbreak, it could not happen," he said. "Now, as August 5 was suddenly fixed as the Bhoomi puja date, we decided to gather the soil and water from the places that we could visit and send it to Ayodhya," he added. As part of the exercise, we collected the soil from RSS headquarters in Nagpur and from Shree Ram Mandir in Ramtek, besides water from Ambhora (confluence of five rivers), Shende said. "The intention is that we will feel that we have also taken part in the Bhoomi puja ceremony," he said. According to him, the soil and water have been sent to Ayodhya by courier on Thursday. On Wednesday, a member of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra trust had said in Pune that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would attend the ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram temple on August 5. The trust member, Swami Govind Devgiri Maharaj, had also said that in view of the coronavirus pandemic, only 200 people would attend the ceremony and all social distancing norms will be followed at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/soil-from-rss-hq-sent-to-ayodhya-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-865112.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC to assess preparedness of CSE centres to hold DU final year OBE exams||The Delhi High Court Friday sought to know the preparedness of Common Service (CSE) centers, which have been set up to provide services to students who do not have infrastructure to give Open Book Examinations (OBE) conducted by the Delhi University for final year courses. The high court issued notice to the owner of CSE Academy to appear before it on July 27 and inform about the preparedness of centers for both mock tests and main exams. CSE Academy has been engaged by the Ministry of Electronics and Technology and has an agreement with the Delhi University. Justice Prathiba M Singh, who was holding the proceedings through video conferencing, also asked the academy owner to give a list of centers which have been taken on board by the Delhi University for the final exams. The counsel for Delhi university was also asked to seek instructions if any other organisation is also engaged for conducted exams. Besides CSE Academy, the varsity conducts exams in-house. The high court was hearing a plea challenging Delhi University’s decision to hold OBE, as per the UGC guidelines, for final year undergraduate courses which will be in long form exams. During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing University Grants Commission (UGC), apprised the high court that various petitions challenging the UGC guidelines relating to conduction of final year exams by central universities were listed before the Supreme Court on Thursday and are likely to be listed again on July 27. The law officer urged that these petitions be taken up for hearing after the apex court hearing. The high court said, “Be that it may, the hearing in the matter is ought to be deferred. List on July 30.” It also perused the report submitted by the UGC’s committee headed by professor R C Kuhad on final guidelines. The high court had on July 22 asked the UGC to clarify that can final year examinations by the universities be conducted based on Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ), open choices, assignments and presentations, instead of long form exams. The Delhi University had contended that they were holding online exams as the UGC guidelines make it mandatory to hold final year examinations. DU is scheduled to hold final year undergraduate online OBE from August 10-31 and the students who will be left out of online exams will be given an opportunity to appear in physical examinations, to be held sometime in September. It has also decided that the first phase of mock tests will start from July 27 and the second phase will commence from August 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-to-assess-preparedness-of-cse-centres-to-hold-du-final-year-obe-exams-865125.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Woman raped by three men in UP's Banda||A 24-year-old woman was allegedly raped by three men in Uttar Pradesh's Banda district, police said on Friday. The incident took place in Naraini area on Wednesday, they said. The woman had gone out to look for her father as he hadn't returned home from the fields. She was raped by three men near a pond. They also threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident, SHO, Naraini, Girindra Singh said. On the victim's complaint, an FIR was lodged in the matter on Thursday night against Zeeshan, Karamatullah and another man, he said. Efforts are being made to arrest the accused, who are absconding, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-raped-by-three-men-in-ups-banda-865129.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan political crisis: High Court orders status quo on speaker's notice to rebel Congress MLAs||The Rajasthan High Court on Friday ordered maintaining status quo on disqualification notice issued by the state assembly speaker to 19 dissident Congress MLAs, including Sachin Pilot. The assembly speaker issued the notice to the MLAs on July 14 after the ruling Congress complained to him that the legislators had defied a whip to attend two legislature party meetings last week. "The writ petition has been admitted and the court has ordered for status quo on the notices dated July 14. The matter will be heard in due course now," a counsel for the speaker said. The bench, in its order, said the writ petition is maintainable and is admitted on the ground of three pleas of the petitioners. "After completion of filing of pleadings of the parties and the intervenors, Counsel for the parties shall be at liberty to file an application for early hearing of the writ petition. Till then, the 'status quo', as exists today viz-a-viz impugned notices dated 14.07.2020, shall be maintained," the order stated. Prior to this, the court allowed an application for impleadment of the Union of India in the list of respondents. The court also rejected two pleas which sought an order declaring that alleged actions of the petitioners as the members of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly do not come within the purview of disqualification envisaged under Para (2) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, and declaring Clause 2 (1) (a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution ultra vires. Rejecting the petitions, the court said they are beyond its jurisdiction. The Congress had sought action against Pilot and the other dissidents under paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. The provision disqualifies MLAs if they "voluntarily" give up the membership of the party which they represent in the House. The Pilot camp, however, argued that a party whip applies only when the assembly is in session. The disqualification notice was challenged by the dissident MLAs through the writ petition which was taken up by the bench on Friday last week and arguments were held. The arguments continued on Monday and concluded on Tuesday. The court had on Tuesday said it would give appropriate order on the writ petition on Friday. Meanwhile, the assembly speaker moved the Supreme Court and filed a special leave petition (SLP) on Wednesday. Pilot was sacked as the deputy chief minister and the president of the Congress state unit after he rebelled against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-political-crisis-high-court-orders-status-quo-on-speakers-notice-to-rebel-congress-mlas-865133.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh girls risk lives to take selfie, luckily get rescued||In Chhindwara's Belkhedi village, two girls ventured into the Pench river to click a selfie. They perched on a rock in the middle of the river.  However, when the flow of the river became aggressive, they were left stranded. The incident took place on Thursday.  A group of girls had left for a small picnic, when two of them ventured on their own.  Due to the monsoons, the river became unpredictable and the girls were stuck on the rock for over an hour.  Thankfully, the friends these girls came with, alerted both the police and the local panchayat.  Police officers went into the river and rescued the girls. They were then sent to a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-girls-risk-lives-to-take-selfie-luckily-get-rescued-865183.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||As lockdown continues, Covid-19 cases decline in J&K||As strict lockdown in the valley entered the second day, Covid-19 positive cases saw almost 50% decline with 353 cases reported across Jammu and Kashmir on Friday against 718 reported on Thursday. The Kashmir division had 224 cases today while Jammu region reported 129 Covid-19 positive cases taking the total tally in the Union Territory to 16782. Srinagar district which was reporting over 100 cases daily from the last few days reported just 40 positives on Friday. On July 20, J&K had reported 751 positive cases which was the highest single day tally. With 40 new cases, the number of active cases in Srinagar reached 2088 while total active cases across Kashmir 5,736. Currently, a health official said, these patients are admitted in various hospitals in the city. Although J&K government has recently reduced the admission time of Covid-19 patients by four days, by modifying the discharge policy, the hospitals meant for coronavirus cases are full to capacity, he said. Due to worsening Covid-19 situation, authorities imposed strict restrictions in Kashmir on Thursday for six-days. No movement of people, except medical emergencies and essential services, was allowed with most of the roads barricaded by the police in Srinagar city. In most parts of Srinagar and other districts police vehicles fitted with public addresses systems continued to urge people to stay indoors and follow the advisories in letter and spirit. Jammu and Kashmir has one of the highest Covid-19 cases in the country per million of population, which is nearly 1,350 cases per million. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is 955. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Kashmir has also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. Meanwhile, novel coronavirus on Friday claimed eight more lives in J&K, taking the toll of deaths due to Covid-19 to 296 in the UT. While 275 deaths have been reported from Kashmir and 21 are from Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-lockdown-continues-covid-19-cases-decline-in-jk-865203.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Those not wearing masks kept in temporary jail in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain||Over 300 people caught without masks in public and violating social distancing norms were kept in a temporary jail for nearly three hours in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, a senior official said on Friday. The temporary jail has been set up at Dewas Gate, said Additional District Magistrate Bidisha Mukherjee. "The 320 people who were apprehended were confined in the temporary jail for nearly three hours so that they wear masks, follow social distancing norms, and also inspire others to do the same. They were given masks made by Rashtriya Aajivika Mission on payment basis," Mukherjee told reporters. "They were also administered an oath that they will wear masks and follow social distancing norms," the ADM said. Ujjain currently has 1,080 Covid-19 cases, though the number of active ones is 186 as 823 people have been discharged and 71 have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-not-wearing-masks-kept-in-temporary-jail-in-madhya-pradeshs-ujjain-865210.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||MRDC calls students back to campus to give exams in August||Manav Rachna Dental College (MRDC), affiliated to the Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) is set to conduct offline examinations in the month of August.  The college is located in Faridabad, Haryana. The district itself was a red zone while certain buildings in the college campus had  previously been deployed as a quarantine center.  A catch-22 situation lies ahead of the students of MRDC - whether to risk their health and that of their family by travelling to and living in a city with rampant Covid-19 cases or to give supplementary exams later, which would be recorded on their marksheet as repeating an exam after failing.  Students fear that even with checks and balances like temperature scans are practised, asymptomatic students and those who take paracetamols to go undetected through temperature checks, would still filter through and endanger everyone else.   The fear of contracting Covid-19 is not the only problem students have. There are other less obvious but equally relevant problems like the cost of inter-state travel, living arrangements to be made if a family member were to accompany them, not having access to their books and notes that they left behind when they hurriedly vacated their hostels due to the pandemic, along with other familial responsibilities that have popped up during these testing times.  “I have spent the last seven days with my sister, who has been critically ill in a hospital. I just got back from there and now I have this added pressure of exams and how to study for them” says Madhumitha (name changed), a third-year student from the college.  Students say they have written “over a hundred emails” to the PMO, the HRD ministry, the Chief Minister’s office, but claim to have found no political support anywhere.  “Almost 500-700 students are against these examinations. They need to question why we are against them?,” asks Madhumitha.  Tanmay (name changed) is a final year student at MRDC who is worried about living in a shared space like the hostel during the span of the exams. “I do not have any other option. My flat is in a containment zone in Faridabad. Our principal said that those who live outside, in PG or flats, can live in the college hostel. I have booked the hostel and even though it is dangerous, I have to go,”  Upon being asked why he chose to give the exams when the option of giving supplementary papers is available, he chuckles and says, "Of course, I can give them later but I do not want it printed on my degree that I failed in my exams, I hope you understand.”  In order to prepare for the upcoming exams, Tanmay recently travelled from Punjab to Haryana to collect books that he left behind in Faridabad when he hurriedly vacated his flat.  The MRDC administration maintains that the decision to conduct examinations was unilaterally made by the governing university - PGIMS.  “If they (PGIMS) take out a datesheet, we (MRDC)  have to comply. It is a government university run by the government of Haryana. But we have written to them (on this matter),” said a high-ranking administrative official from the college who chose to be anonymous.  “We ourselves are not very happy with this, let me be honest. Our college is shut, the university is shut. It is going to be difficult for us to manage as well. But it is entirely up to the university to decide whether the exams happen or not,” he added.  While the administration claims to be helpless in this situation and political leaders remain unresponsive - a difficult choice lies ahead of the students of MRDC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mrdc-calls-students-back-to-campus-to-give-exams-in-august-865270.html
24-07-2020||North and Central||Three Congress MLAs of Sachin Pilot camp deny they are in captivity||Three dissident MLAs of Rajasthan’s former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s camp on Friday dismissed the allegations that they are being held hostage in Haryana. The MLAs junked the accusation in a video, saying they are accompanying Pilot on their own. The video of the MLAs was issued on Friday. “Some people sitting in Jaipur are alleging that we have been held hostage but I want to say that we came here voluntarily. No party has held us hostage. We were with Sachin Pilot and will remain with him,” MLA Vedprakash Solanki said. Another legislator Murari Lal Meena said he was disappointed at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s functioning and therefore they have come to Delhi. Meena asserted that they are in Congress and have not contacted any other party. He said the Rajasthan’s investigation agencies like the Anti-Corruption Bureau and Special Operation Group are being misused and the MLAs' families are under fear. “I want to make it clear that neither we have been held hostage nor we have bouncers sitting with us. We are neither sick nor shedding tears either,” MLA Suresh Modi said. He alleged that the chief minister did not work for his constituency and did not pay heed to the MLAs' demand related to works. The MLAs are seen sitting in a group but it is not clear when and where the videos were shot. There are a total of 19 dissident Congress MLAs including Sachin Pilot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-congress-mlas-of-sachin-pilot-camp-deny-they-are-in-captivity-865273.html
24-07-2020||Opinion||Why can’t Trump’s America be like Italy?||Italy, you see, was the first Western nation to experience a major wave of infections. Hospitals were overwhelmed; partly as a result, the initial death toll was terrible. Yet cases peaked after a few weeks and began a steep decline. And White House officials were seemingly confident that America would follow a similar track. We didn’t. The US cases plateaued for a couple of months, then began rising rapidly. Death rates followed with a lag. At this point we can only look longingly at Italy’s success in containing the coronavirus: Restaurants and cafes are open, albeit with restrictions, much of normal life has resumed, yet Italy’s current death rate is less than a 10th of America’s. On a typical recent day, more than 800 Americans but only around a dozen Italians died from Covid-19. Although Donald Trump keeps boasting that we’ve had the best coronavirus response in the world, and some credulous supporters may actually believe him, my guess is that many people are aware that our handling of the virus has fallen tragically short compared with, say, that of Germany. It may not seem surprising, however, that German discipline and competence have paid off (although we used to think that we were better prepared than anyone else to deal with a pandemic). But how can America be doing so much worse than Italy? I don’t mean to peddle facile national stereotypes. For all its problems, Italy is a serious and sophisticated country, not a comic-opera stage set. Still, Italy entered this pandemic with major disadvantages compared with the United States. After all, Italy’s bureaucracy isn’t famed for its efficiency, nor are its citizens known for their willingness to follow rules. The nation’s government is deeply in debt, and this debt matters because Italy doesn’t have its own currency; this means that it can’t do what we do and print lots of money in a crisis. Unfavourable demography and economic troubles are also major Italian disadvantages. The ratio of seniors to working-age adults is the highest in the Western world. Italy’s growth record is deeply disappointing: Per capita, the gross domestic product has stagnated for two decades. When it came to dealing with Covid-19, however, all these Italian disadvantages were outweighed by one huge advantage: Italy wasn’t burdened with America’s disastrous leadership. After a terrible start, Italy quickly moved to do what was necessary to deal with the coronavirus. It instituted a very severe lockdown and kept to it. Government aid helped sustain workers and businesses through the lockdown. The safety net had holes in it, but top officials tried to make it work; in a supreme case of non-Trumpism, the prime minister even apologized for delays in aid. And, crucially, Italy crushed the curve: It kept the lockdown in place until cases were relatively few, and it was cautious about reopening. America could have followed the same path. In fact, the Covid-19 trajectory in the Northeast, which was hard-hit in the beginning but took the outbreak seriously, actually does look a lot like Italy’s. But the Trump administration and its allies pushed for rapid reopening, ignoring warnings from epidemiologists. Because we didn’t do what Italy did, we didn’t crush the curve; quite the opposite. Matters were made worse by pathological opposition to things like wearing masks, the way even obvious precautions became battlegrounds in the culture wars. So cases and then deaths surged. Even the promised economic payoff from rapid, what-me-worry reopening was a mirage: Many states are reimposing partial lockdowns, and there is growing evidence that the jobs recovery is stalling, if not going into reverse. Incredibly, Trump and his allies seem to have given no thought at all about what to do if the overwhelming view of experts was right and their gamble on ignoring the coronavirus didn’t pan out. A miraculous boom was Plan A; there was no Plan B. In particular, tens of millions of workers are about to lose crucial unemployment benefits, and Republicans haven’t even settled on a bad response. On Wednesday Senate Republicans floated the idea of reducing supplemental benefits from $600 a week to just $100, which would spell disaster for many families. For someone like Trump, all this must be humiliating — or would be if anyone dared tell him about it. After three and a half years of Making America Great Again, we’ve become a pathetic figure on the world stage, a cautionary tale about pride going before a fall. These days Americans can only envy Italy’s success in weathering the coronavirus, its rapid return to a kind of normalcy that is a distant dream in a nation that used to congratulate itself for its can-do culture. Italy is often referred to as “the sick man of Europe”; what does that make us?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-can-t-trump-s-america-be-like-italy-864902.html
24-07-2020||Opinion||Tying the knot||I just could not tie my shoelaces as a child. I struggled with the technique which to some came automatically. For me, it was all uphill. I could not proceed beyond the first knot. The laces would lie there on each side of the shoe, while I helplessly looked at them, almost wishing they had the superpowers to understand my predicament and magically ‘bow’ tie themselves.   And because of this battle with the laces, class time-tables with Physical Training in the late afternoon, struck terror in my heart.   But most of the time fate favoured me. I was blessed with teachers who were indulgent to us wearing keds to school on PT day. All dressed up, I would wait quietly for my mother to tie the knot. It was a practised ritual. “How will you get by, Hema?”, she would exclaim exasperated. “You are there, Amma”. But one academic year the tide turned. The rules demanded that one had to change for PT and one couldn’t arrive wearing sneakers to school. Stiff upper lip with total internal panic was my first response.  But that did not fool my mother dear. Seeing her progeny’s utter helplessness at this ‘timetable googly’ my wise mother sat me down with a knot tying tutorial. “Balloons”, she explained patiently. “Make two balloons with each end of the shoelace. Now lay them over and pull one under the other. And hey presto! You have your knot!”.  I stared at this solution with a warm feeling of hope. It did not sound tough at all. As usual, my mother had come to my rescue. In my head, I was already practicing the ‘balloon knot’.  Trying the technique, I was amazed that it actually worked.  I was empowered. And armed with this natural logic I sailed forth in life. To this day, as I prepare for my walks, the memories of my tryst with knots comes alive and smiling to myself, I tie the laces with the ‘balloons’ logic. And I make it a point to make a note of all the knots I find folks around me tying – while gift wrapping, or tying their laces and even the ‘parcels’ from the local darshini. You will be surprised at the number of balloons you find along the way. Many years later, I smiled gleefully when I saw my husband visibly struggle while tying our ‘thaali’ knot in Guruvayur. “Try balloons”! I whispered, in his ear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/tying-the-knot-864995.html
24-07-2020||Opinion||China will answer ‘heavenly question’: Can it land on Mars?||Having already joined the upper ranks of spacefaring nations, China is preparing to try its next bold leap: launching an orbiter, a lander and a rover to Mars. The mission — shadowing NASA’s Perseverance rover and the United Arab Emirates’ Hope orbiter — lifted off on Thursday and aims to place China where its Communist leadership has long wanted to be. China is eager to show that it can manage complex interplanetary missions on its own, and landing on Mars is a difficult accomplishment that only the United States and, briefly, the Soviet Union have achieved before. “We cannot lie in the cradle of Earth forever,” Bao Weimin, a senior director at the state-owned China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation, said on state television recently, paraphrasing a Soviet rocket scientist, Konstantin Tsiolkovsky. He called the exploration of Mars “a manifestation of the country’s scientific and technological strength.” For China, more than pride is on the line. The country’s leader, Xi Jinping, has made space exploration a pillar of the country’s development in the decades ahead, with an assortment of missions planned through the middle of the century, many involving human crews.  The mission is called Tianwen-1, or “Questions to Heaven” after a classical Chinese poem (also sometimes translated as “Heavenly Questions”) from the 3rd century B.C. The vessel, weighing more than five tons in all, includes an orbiter that will circle the planet for a Martian year — 687 days — and conduct its own scientific observations. It will also serve as a relay for communications to a lander and rover that two or three months after arriving in orbit in February will try to descend to the planet’s surface. While the United States has reached all these milestones, China is trying to do them all at once. “Tianwen-1 is going to orbit, land and release a rover all on the very first try, and coordinate observations with an orbiter,” four scientists involved in the program wrote last week in the journal Nature Astronomy. “No planetary missions have ever been implemented in this way,” they added. “If successful, it would signify a major technical breakthrough.” Lander A parachute attached to a protective SHELL will slow the lander’s descent. Next, a set of STRUTS will deploy midair. Once on the surface, a RAMP will slide out so the rover can drive off. Orbiter The orbiter will carry seven instruments, including cameras, a subsurface radar, a spectrometer, a magnetometer and particle analyzers to conduct what they called “a global and extensive survey of the entire planet.” The lander — which, at 530 pounds, is nearly twice the mass of the rovers China sent to the moon — has six instruments that it will employ over 90 days on the surface. They include ground-penetrating radar to study the planet’s geology and search for potential underground reservoirs of ice — a key to sustaining an extended human presence in space. The main candidate for a landing site, the scientists said, is Utopia Planitia, a 2,000-mile wide basin where NASA’s Viking 2 landed in 1976. Tianwen-1 is lifted off on Thursday from the Wenchang Space Launch Center on Hainan, the island off China’s southeastern coast. The center, which launched its first rocket in 2016, was selected to take advantage of its comparatively lower latitude than those of China’s other launch sites. This will not be China’s first attempt to travel to Mars. That one, in 2011, ended in failure, though not one of China’s own making. It built an orbiter, Yinghuo-1, that was piggybacking on a Russian mission to Phobos, one of the Martian moons, but the Russian rocket stalled in low-Earth orbit, crippled by faulty computer circuits. The two spacecraft eventually plunged back to Earth. In the years that followed that setback, China has racked up a number of impressive spaceflight accomplishments. On three occasions, China’s astronauts have docked in orbit with space stations of the country’s own construction. And twice it has landed robotic rovers on the moon, with its latest mission reaching the lunar far side, a feat never before accomplished by any space program. That rover continues to roam, and its ground-penetrating radar has deepened understanding of the lunar surface. Namrata Goswami, an independent analyst and author of a forthcoming book, “Great Power Competition in Outer Space,” said that the Chinese were systematically building strategic and logistical capabilities in space with a geopolitical goal in mind. Last month, for example, China launched the last of the satellites needed to establish a global positioning system, called Beidou, which it plans to offer to countries as an alternative to the American GPS and other countries’ navigation systems. “The Communist Party of China wants to prove to the world that they are actually a legitimate alternative to a U.S.-led space order,” she said. Mr. Bao, from the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation, even floated the idea last year that China could create an economic zone in space by the middle of this century, one that could contribute $10 trillion to the Chinese economy. In the nearer term, China plans to launch another lunar lander at the end of the year, which will return samples from the moon for the first time since the Apollo missions, and complete its third orbiting space station as soon as 2022. It hopes to gather samples for return to Earth from Mars by 2030 — setting up a race with a joint project by NASA and the European Space Agency with the same goal. “For the Chinese, space touches on all the strands of comprehensive national power,” said Dean Cheng, an expert on China’s space program with the Heritage Foundation in Washington, D.C.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-will-answer-heavenly-question-can-it-land-on-mars-864998.html
24-07-2020||Panorama||Needed: An Urban Employment Guarantee Act||There is increasing demand for an Urban Employment Guarantee Act (UEGA) now, given the job crisis and precarity of the urban informal sector, especially due to the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. But any employment guarantee scheme is criticised as money being given to one person to dig ditches and to another to fill them up!  Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticised the MGNREGA as a “monument to Congress’ failures”. However, his government is now relying on the same scheme to provide work in the villages to the lakhs of migrants who have returned to their native villages. There are some who argue that rather than an Employment Guarantee Act (EGA), which has the twin objectives of creating assets and jobs, a simple cash transfer would fulfil the objective of poverty alleviation better. But, why should assets not be created while doling out money, given the large amount of work that needs to be done in our cities? Doing so will also enhance the dignity of the worker, who would feel that he is earning the money by doing honest work instead of subsisting on a dole.  Is the Covid-19 pandemic an opportunity and can the UEGA be used to put an end to our squalid slums next to the high-rises and flyovers, the heaps of stinking, loose garbage lining our roads, the tin-sheds at construction sites where malnourished toddlers play with stones and iron rods, the anganwadis run under staircases without toilets and playgrounds, the crumbling and leaky-roofed schools, the absent primary health centres? Can the UEGA also help to re-green our widened, tree-less roads, break the concrete in our road-side drains and let the water sink into the ground, rejuvenate our foaming and burning lakes on the one hand and end the desperate hunt for drinking water on the other? In effect, can we make the development of our cities inclusive and sustainable, that is, meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)?   How did we land in this poor condition of our cities in the first place? Though the 74th Constitutional Amendment of 1992 made “Planning for Economic Development and Social Justice” the chief function of municipalities, the big cities appear to have restricted themselves to “Planning for Economic Development” through mere GDP growth, and forgotten the second half – the “Social Justice” aspect of it.  The JNNURM and RAY initiated by the UPA government did have a seven-point agenda of making cities slum-free and ensuring access for the urban poor to anganwadis, schools and health centres, but the states failed to meet those goals as there was not much political will to give land to the poor and meet their basic needs. The ‘Smart Cities Mission’ initiated by the Modi government has ended up having projects, most of which had the limited objective of developing small areas of the city into islands of utopia amidst a sea of ugliness and squalor. These projects did not do much for the attainment of SDGs, although the stated aim of this Mission was to “improve the quality of life of urban residents”.  Many academicians are calling for an UEGA covering the small and medium towns only. This, to retain workers there itself and stem their migration to mega cities in search of livelihood, which results in congestion and poor living and working conditions there. Diverting investments to the small and medium towns through an UEGA is also a rational step considering that huge investments for mega infrastructure are being made only in the metros, while the smaller towns languish without development. This disincentivises investors from setting up enterprises and creating jobs in the smaller towns.  But there is also a great need to implement the UEGA in the big cities so as to alter their skewed priorities resulting in growing inequality and ecologically unsustainable development in them. By limiting employment under the UEGA in big cities to local residents only, one can prevent the influx of migrants to the metro cities just to take advantage of the better wages that are likely to be paid here.  Further, one needs to restrict the projects under the UEGA to those that fulfil the obligatory functions of municipalities, and contribute to the attainment of the SDGs,  such as the setting up of local wet-garbage processing centres, the building of decent, affordable housing for the urban poor and day-care centres for children, upgradation of schools and health centres,  restoration of water bodies, rain-water harvesting, greening of roads, etc. So, elevated corridor projects for private vehicles would not find a place under the UEGA.  Odisha, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh have already introduced UEGAs. Every city in Odisha is to have a Ward-Level Committee to prepare a suggested “List of Projects” to be finalized by a city-level committee. The Ward-Level Committees comprise officials as well as local self-help groups (SHG) and Slum Dwellers’ Associations, which also implement the works, if the project cost is less than Rs 1 lakh. Projects costing more than Rs 1 lakh are implemented by the municipality itself, with the help of workers registered under the UEGA. This ready supply of workers substitutes for the large number of vacancies of regular workers that exist in most municipalities. Himachal Pradesh has a provision for paying unemployment allowance if work is not allotted within 15 days. All these states provide for the payment of state-fixed minimum wages, drinking water and child-care facilities at work spots, etc. Kerala has a provision for conducting social audits of the works at ward level. But experts point out that all this needs greater capacity building of municipalities and their enhanced funding. Surely, an UEGA will provide livelihood with dignity to the urban poor and benefits to the city that go beyond the mere digging of ditches and filling them up? (The writer is Executive Trustee, CIVIC Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/needed-an-urban-employment-guarantee-act-864996.html
24-07-2020||Panorama||A threat to food security?||India is an agricultural country and it continues to be a mainstay of Indian economy. There have been many land reform legislations in India-- measures designed to effect a more equitable distribution of agricultural land, especially by governmental action. In India, land reform legislations consist of four main categories:  Abolition of intermediaries who were rent collector under pre-independence land revenue system Tenancy regulation that attempts to improve the contractual terms  faced by tenants A ceiling on land holdings with a view to redistributing surplus land to the landless  Attempts to consolidate disparate landholdings. Abolition of intermediaries is generally agreed to be one component of land reforms that has been relatively successful. But then,  the record in terms of other components is mixed and it varies from state to state over time An ordinance was passed by Governor of Karnataka on July 13 this year amending the Karnataka Land Reform Act, 1961. Under Article 213 of Constitution of India, the Governor may pass an ordinance when 1) state Legislature Assembly is not in session or if it has two houses and one of the houses is not in session 2) the Governor is satisfied that circumstances exist which renders it necessary for him to take immediate action.  This ordinance omits section 79A (acquisitions of land by certain person’s prohibited), section 79B (prohibiting of holding agricultural land by certain persons),  Section 79C (the penalty for failure to furnish declaration), completely. This complete omission of section 79A, 79B, 79C has created fear in the mind of farmers. By omitting these sections, the ordinance has made way for industrialists to buy agricultural lands. Earlier, according to Karnataka’s land reforms act, transfers to non-agriculturalists was completely barred.  There is no doubt that India has a mixed economy-- along with the public sector,  the private sector also has a role to play. And restrictions imposed on the acquisition of agricultural land, in certain instances, have come in the way of achieving development, particularly in the agro-industrial sector where the state holds considerable potential for advancement.  Why then is there a problem in giving these rights to non-agriculturalists?  Firstly, the fact remains that, India is ‘socialist’ state. The distribution of material resources of the community to subserve the common good is the aim. Will the state able to guarantee that this pursuance of ‘common good’ when non-agriculturalist will be allowed to take over the agricultural land? Will there be proper distribution of land amongst farmers?  Our Constitution also speaks about distributive justice. A law should be used as an instrument of distributive justice to achieve a fair division of wealth amongst the members of our society, based upon the principle; from each according to his capacity; to each according to his needs. Article 40, 39(b), 39(c) of our Constitution supports this principle. Can this be preserved? We need to remember what Dandekar and Rath said, “The problem of poverty cannot be solved by redistribution of land to everyone who needs it.” One of the reasons behind Karnataka land reforms act was to minimise the disparity between large and small-holdings and also distribute surplus lands to the poor landless agriculturalists.  Bringing such an ordinance into force would affect other laws like the Land Acquisition Act, 2013 and Food Security Act, 2013. If agricultural lands are not immune from acquisitions, it would impact livelihoods. Close to 70% of India’s population depends on agriculture for their livelihood. They may receive compensation at once, but what about their future generations? They would lose their livelihood forever. Section 10 of the Land Acquisition Act, 2013 makes a special provision to safeguard food security. Under this section, no irrigated multi-cropped land shall be acquired under the act except under some conditions. Section 31 of the National Food Security Act, says that central government and state government would take steps to further advance food and matrimonial security. How can the state government take steps to advance food security by allowing non-agriculturalist to acquire the agricultural lands?  If farming lands are replaced with industrial activities, our source of food will be at risk.  Farmers constitute the backbone of our country, but they are also vulnerable. Should we build the economy at the cost of people’s livelihood? Our priorities must be clear. (The writer is a BA, LLB (Hons) student at Karnataka State Law University’)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-threat-to-food-security-864997.html
24-07-2020||Right in the Middle||To golfing, with love||I’ve taken to golf. It started off more as a whim. Anybody who was somebody was playing it. Or if not playing it, speaking about it. Moreover, the lush green expanse called to me even though the environmentalist in me baulked at the water required to maintain it. What started as a whim, however, grew to be a desperate desire to actually play the game. I’ve taken to golf. Which is all very well, except for one damning truth. Golf hasn’t taken to me.  Every so often, I rearrange my schedule and make my way hopefully to the golf course. And, without fail, each time, the hope turns to despair. Always an articulate man, Winston Churchill said, “Golf is a game whose aim is to hit a very small ball into an ever-smaller hole, with weapons singularly ill-designed for the purpose”. Truer words were not spoken. I was a bad golfer except when it came to actually hitting the ball. At first, the excuses had tripped out – the distant blaring of the horn skewed my otherwise perfect drive. The flap of the bird’s wings on the other side of the green at a crucial moment distracted me from my putt. Eventually, I reached the inevitable conclusion. I couldn’t play the game.  In the midst of this despair is my golf coach. A colossus standing tall in the midst of my ruinous game. Each time I make a grievous drive, he smiles encouragingly and reminds me that while my shot was terrible, my backswing was perfect. Every time I miss a putt, he kindly tells me that the slope of the green at that particular hole was known to be treacherous and to trip up even the most expert of players. And when I can’t get out of a bunker and tell him miserably that I’d rather curl up in the sand and die, he pats my back encouragingly and reminds me sagely that golf is much like life. We have to play the ball where it lies.  He is the very epitome of patience and kindness. Never a harsh word for not following his instructions, never a rebuke for repeating the same mistakes, never impatience with my inability to get it right. I am aware how I lose my temper with my own daughter when I teach her school work, so his patience with a rank outsider amazes me.  PG Wodehouse said “To find a man’s true character, play golf with him”. I would like to stretch that further. To know a real gentleman, meet with my golf teacher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/to-golfing-with-love-865298.html
24-07-2020||Second Edit||Fight against hunger suffers setback||There is yet another warning on the impact of Covid-19 on the lives of the poorest sections of people in the world from the UN, not only in the near term but in the long run, too. Its report, State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World, states that achieving the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) of zero hunger by 2030 may not be realised as the pandemic has setback progress on this front. While it is not possible to assess the full impact of the lockdowns and other measures on the economy and on the poverty alleviation programmes of governments yet, it has estimated that at least an additional 83 million people, and possibly as many as 132 million than already do, may go hungry in 2020. There was a setback even last year, when 140 million people suffered from chronic hunger, 10 million more than the previous year.  Asia had the highest number of hungry people last year, and Africa and Latin America came next. By 2030, most hungry people will be in Africa, but hunger will be widespread in other places, too. The international poverty benchmark is $1.9 per day, but the report shows that a healthy diet for a day costs much more than this in any part of the world. In South Asia and in sub-Saharan Africa, more than 50% of the populations do not meet this diet criterion, and the situation is going to get worse. The 2030 target may not be achieved in the case of other SDGs also. Along with hunger, malnutrition also remains a major challenge. The targets for breast-feeding and prevention of stunting, wasting and low birthweight, which are all linked to malnutrition, may not be achieved by 2030.  Climate change has affected food production systems worldwide and there will be more disruptions in future. The present impact of Covid-19 on economics, agriculture and distribution is likely to be felt for long. The report calls for a transformation of food systems to reduce the cost of nutritious foods and to increase the affordability of healthy diets. Costs of production, storage, transportation and marketing of food should be reduced and inefficiencies and wastage should be avoided. It also seeks better support for small-scale producers and greater priority for children’s nutrition. The UN favours a combination of direct cash transfers and in-kind transfers to secure food security, especially when the public distribution system is inefficient. The challenges to food security are especially real in the case of India, and long-term and short-term strategies have to be implemented to address them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/fight-against-hunger-suffers-setback-864991.html
24-07-2020||Second Edit||Formality done, attitudes must change||The government has at last acted to implement a Supreme Court order that has the potential to inject a measure of gender equality in the Indian Army. On Wednesday, the Ministry of Defence issued a formal Government Sanction Letter (GSL) granting Permanent Commission to women officers in the army. It will apply to Short Service Commission (SSC) women officers in 10 streams of the army. Hitherto, only men were eligible for Permanent Commission after completion of 10 years as SSC officers. This option was not available to their female counterparts. Consequently, women were kept out of command positions and denied pensions, too, on the ground that they had not completed 20 years of service as officers. If the MoD sanction letter is taken to its logical conclusion and implemented in letter and spirit, it will eliminate an important source of institutionalised discrimination against women in the armed forces. For this reason, it is important that the MoD and the military leadership at all levels act robustly to ensure that women officers are granted Permanent Commission. While the MoD has done well to issue the GSL, it is too early to celebrate. It may be recalled that in its appeal before the apex court, the government had argued against Permanent Commission for women on the ground that the army’s largely rural rank and file would not take orders from women commanders. There is little evidence to show that this thinking has changed in the months since. If the MoD has acted to open up Permanent Commission to women now, it is because the Supreme Court ordered it to do so and repeatedly nudged it to implement the order as the government repeatedly missed deadlines and procrastinated on the matter. Opposition to granting women Permanent Commission thus remains strong in the political and bureaucratic establishment. This resistance will continue to block implementation. Even stronger is the opposition of the armed forces to allowing women into command positions. Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat is known to hold views against allowing women a larger role in the army. He has, for instance, said that doing so would result in an increase in allegations of sexual harassment. Hence, whether the army will do its best to throw open the door to Permanent Commission for women or make it difficult for them to survive there remains to be seen. The military is a hierarchical organisation. Unless the top levels fully support Permanent Commission for women, the MoD move will remain a meaningless gesture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/formality-done-attitudes-must-change-865294.html
24-07-2020||South||Demanding money from prisoners on parole by police escorts amounts to bribery, says Madras High Court||The Madras High Court has said that police officials (escorts) demanding or accepting money from prisoners on parole or their family members amounts to bribery punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act. A Division Bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani, on Thursday while granting parole of 10 days to a life convict in Salem prison, directed the Tamil Nadu government to tweak the prison rules so as to fix a time limit of two weeks to dispose of applications for parole from convicts. "Violation of the timeframe will amount to contempt of court and expenses of any litigation arising out of non- complianceof the rule shall be borne by the erring officer," the Bench said. The prisoner wanted the leave to arrange medical expenses of his wife who needed to undergo a surgery. "It is brought to the notice of this court that the police officials who are accompanying convicts are taking money in the name of charges. If it is happening, then it is illegal, and it would amount to bribery," the court said. It is made clear that if any such incident is brought to the notice of this court, departmental proceedings and action under the Prevention of Corruption Act would be taken, the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/demanding-money-from-prisoners-on-parole-by-police-escorts-amounts-to-bribery-says-madras-high-court-864967.html
24-07-2020||South||Puducherry Covid-19 tally climbs to 2,513; 97 new cases||As many as 83 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release. He said with the identification of 97 fresh cases at the end of testing of 647 samples, the total number of Covid- 19 cases in Puducherry stood at 2,513 after the transfer of four cases to Tamil Nadu account. Kumar further said the total number of active cases was 996 while 1,483 patients had recovered and been discharged so far from hospitals in the union territory. The fatalities remained at 34 as no death was reported during the last 24 hours, the Health Department Director said. While 906 active cases were reported from hospitals in Puducherry, Karaikal had 52, followed by Yanam (37) and Mahe region (1). The rate of positivity after identification of 97 fresh cases after testing of 647 samples was 14.9 percent and the fatality rate was 1.4 percent. So far 33,658 samples were tested and it was found that 30,648 samples tested negative and results of the examination of remaining samples were awaited, he said. As many as 83 patients (82 from Puducherry and one from Karaikal) were discharged during the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-2513-97-new-cases-864999.html
24-07-2020||South||Hyderabad encounter: Supreme Court extends time by 6 months for inquiry panel to conclude probe||The Supreme Court on Friday extended the term of Justice V S Sirpurkar Commission, probing into Hyderabad encounter deaths of four men accused of gang rape and murder of a veterinary doctor, by another six months. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde allowed an application filed by the court-appointed Commission on the ground that due to prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, it could not conduct its proceedings since March 25 lockdown. During the hearing, an advocate sought orders to prevent what he alleged were custodial deaths in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh "How can any court in the world grant relief like this and say there should be no crime? As a lawyer you have a greater responsibility. Tell us, how can we ensure that there will be no deaths in custody? Somebody may die of natural causes," the bench said. Acting on two PILs filed by advocates G S Mani and Mukesh Kumar Sharma for probe into the Hyderabad encounter, the court had on December 12 appointed the Commission headed by Justice Sirpurkar as chairman and former Bombay HC judge, Justice R P Soundarbaldota and former CBI director, D R Kaarthikeyan as its members to conduct an inquiry into the incident within a period of six months. The Commission sought six months extension from the date it would be able to conduct open hearings and do spot inspection, in order to submit its report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-encounter-supreme-court-extends-time-by-6-months-for-inquiry-panel-to-conclude-probe-865041.html
24-07-2020||South||Sonia Gandhi now hails PV Narasimha Rao's 'bold leadership'||In rare praise for former Prime Minister late P V Narasimha Rao, Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Friday hailed him for the “bold leadership” that helped India overcome many challenges at a time when it was passing through a “grave economic crisis”. Besides Gandhi, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi also showered encomium on Rao, whose legacy “continues to shape modern India”. The praise from the Gandhis came through messages they sent to the Telangana unit of the Congress, at the launch of year-long celebrations to mark the birth centenary of Rao, the first leader outside the Nehru-Gandhi family to complete his tenure as prime minister. At a function organised by the Telangana Congress, also to commemorate the presentation of 1991 Union Budget that ushered in liberalisation, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh recalled how Rao had given him freedom to roll out economic reforms after understanding what was ailing the Indian economy. The Congress had shunned Rao all these years for not taking enough steps to prevent the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992 and had blamed him for the party’s loss in the 1996 Lok Sabha elections. Congress leaders gave him the cold shoulder as he navigated the legal battles related to the Babri Masjid demolition. The ties turned frosty, so much so that upon his death in 2004, Congress did not allow his mortal remains to be kept for public viewing at the AICC Headquarters. On Friday, the Congress President remembered Rao as the “most scholarly and erudite personality” who was a “respected national and international figure”. “Through his bold leadership, our country was able to overcome many challenges successfully. The Union Budget of July 24, 1991 paved the way for the economic transformation of our country,” Gandhi said. “The Congress Party takes pride in his many accomplishments and contributions,” Gandhi said. The Congress’ endearment to Rao comes at a time when the Telangana Rashtra Samithi-led state government launched year-long birth centenary celebrations, whipping up the ‘son-of-the-soil’ sentiment. BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi too have recalled Rao fondly as it targeted the Congress for pursuing “dynastic politics”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sonia-gandhi-now-hails-pv-narasimha-raos-bold-leadership-865044.html
24-07-2020||South||CPM initiates damage control measures in Kerala ahead of polls||With the alleged nexus of key persons in the Kerala government being named in the gold smuggling racket dashing the hopes of the ruling CPM-led left front for a walk over to the second term, the CPM has initiated damage-control measures starting from the grass-root level. The state assembly election is hardly ten months away and the local body election is due by October. But the allegations against the government, especially the Chief Minister's office, came as a bolt from the blue. Apart from the alleged link of some key persons with the smuggling accused, the backdoor appointments to government projects through consultants had not gone down well with the young cadres as thousands are struggling to get a job. The CPM leadership kicked off the corrective measures from Thursday with the party state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan holding a meeting with personal staff members of all ministers from the party as the principal secretary of the chief minister is now allegedly linked with smuggling racket. They were reportedly advised to ensure utmost caution in every step to avoid embarrassment to the government as well as to initiate all possible measures to enhance the government's goodwill. The CPM will be also holding door-to-door campaigning from August to clear the air. The opposition parties were unleashing fake campaigns against the government and hence the public need to be made aware of the facts, Balakrishnan had said. DYFI Kerala president S Satish said that serious discussions were required on appointments to government projects through consultants without a fair selection process. Appointment of consultants for government projects was in accordance with the norms being followed by the centre. DYFI's stand is that any model that affects the employment opportunities should be opposed, he said. Though the left front suffered a debacle in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls by getting defeated in 19 of the 20 seats in Kerala, the party made a damage control by in the subsequent assembly bypolls by winning three of the six seats, including Pala constituency that was being held by Kerala Congress (M) leader K M Mani for over 50 years in a row.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpm-initiates-damage-control-measures-in-kerala-ahead-of-polls-865046.html
24-07-2020||South||Neuberg Diagnostics gets ICMR approval for Covid-19 testing in Kerala||Neuberg Diagnostics Private Limited hasreceived approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid-19 testing in Kerala. Neuberg, India's fourth largestpathology player, had earlier received approvals for Covid testing in Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai and Pune, it said in a press release. Kerala had reported 1,078 coronavirus cases on Thursday, the highest single day surge so far. Its infection tally has crossed the 16,000 mark. Aishwarya Vasudevan, Group Chief Operating, Neuberg Diagnostics Private Limited said, as the virus continues to spread globally, India finds itself between Stage 2 and Stage 3 of the disease spread. "The State and Central Government are taking the right measures to curtail its spread. At this point of time, it is Neuberg and the healthcare fraternity's duty to fight this pandemic, hand-in-hand with our policymakers and our people at the forefront," shesaid. "We have also set up a special support fund for the weaker sections of the society. Through this, we will offer free of cost testing to people with a BPL ration card and appropriate doctor prescriptions," she added. "Neuberg Diagnostics in Kochi has already started collecting Covid samples. The mandatory requirement is the identity and address proof, Requisition/Prescription from Physician with their Medical registration number. We intend to adhere to the regulated timeline of 24-48 hours for reports throughout Kerala. Reporting and sample acceptance will be strictly in accordance with the ICMR guidelines," she said. As per the guidelines issued by ICMR for Covid- 19 testing in private laboratories, Neuberg will provide the test to an individual only when prescribed by a qualified physician, while also adhering to the sample collection and testing guidelines set by ICMR. Best-in-class laboratories across India, USA, UAE and South Africa have united under the banner of Neuberg Diagnostics, to bring the latest technology and techniques within the reach of developing countries. Utilising their combined strengths, the Neuberg Alliance brings capabilities to perform over6,000 varieties of pathological investigations and will promote Prevention & Early Diagnosis, focused wellness programmes and sStructured Disease Management programs for rare diseases using the most advanced technologies assisted by Data science and AI tools, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neuberg-diagnostics-gets-icmr-approval-for-covid-19-testing-in-kerala-865058.html
24-07-2020||South||Two more CBI officers probing Tuticorin custodial killings test positive for Covid-19||Two more officers of the CBI team that probed the Tuticorin custodial death case tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, while one of the accused policemen is found to have contracted the virus. The CBI office cum quarters at Athikulam here, where the investigation was held and four officers from Delhi were staying, has been sealed and disinfected. While two officers tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, the others on Friday, officials said. The police personnel arrested in connection with the case and lodged in the central prison here has been placed under quarantine, they added. The father-son duo, Jeyaraj and his son Bennicks died in a hospital in Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district, after they were allegedly thrashed by the personnel at Sathankulam police station. The state government has transferred the case to CBI following public outrage over the incident. The CBI has swung into action as soon as it received a reference from the Centre to proceed with its investigation and had dispatched a team from its special crime unit. The team reached the location on July 10 and collected crucial forensic evidence and met a large number of people during the fieldwork, possibly exposing the members to the contagious pathogen. The father and son were arrested by Sathankulam police for alleged violation of prohibitory orders in force due to Covid-19 lockdown by keeping their mobile phone shop open in Tuticorin district beyond the allowed time. They were taken to jail in the early hours of June 20. While Bennicks died on June 22, his father Jeyaraj succumbed to injuries within hours on June 23. The ghastly manner in which the two were allegedly beaten by police personnel had evoked a sharp response from civil society, movie industry and political parties, resulting in the recommendation of the CBI probe by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-more-cbi-officers-probing-tuticorin-custodial-killings-test-positive-for-covid-19-865093.html
24-07-2020||South||Kerala HC dismisses activist Rehana Fathima's anticipatory bail plea||The Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed controversial activist Rehana Fathima's plea seeking anticipatory bail in cases against her for allegedly circulating a video in which she was seen posing semi-nude for her minor children, allowing them to paint on her body. Dismissing the plea, the court observed that it was not in a position to agree with the petitioner that she should teach sex education to her children in this manner. In her bail plea, the activist, while justifying her act had submitted that so far as children are concerned, they need to be imparted sex education and made aware of the body and its parts as well enabling them to view it as a different medium altogether rather than seeing it as a sexual tool alone. Justice P V Kunhikrishnan observed that the petitioner has got the freedom to teach her children according to her philosophy, "but, that should be within the four walls of her house and should not be forbidden by law." The court also quoted verses from Manusmrithi and Holy Quran to explain the role of a mother in the life of children but directed the investigation officer to investigate the matter untrammelled by any of the observations in the order. "The petitioner feels that she should teach sex education to her children. For that purpose, she asks her children to paint on her naked body and then uploading the same in social media. I am not in a position to agree with the petitioner that she should teach sex education to her children in this manner", the judge said, resolving the contentions raised by the petitioner. The allegation against Fathima is that she asked her children, a boy and girl aged 14 and 8 respectively to paint on her semi-nude body. In the video, she was lying semi-nude and her two children painting on her body. The video was shot by the petitioner and uploaded on social media. The petitioner said she is teaching sex education to her children by uploading the video. When the video was found by the Cyber Dome, Kochi City Police, a case was registered against the activist last month alleging offences punishable under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act), Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. Earlier, the woman was also booked by police in Pathanamthitta district under the Information Technology Act and the Juvenile Justice Act on a complaint lodged by BJP OBC Morcha leader A V Arun Prakash. The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, which sought a report on the matter from Pathanamthitta district police chief, had also directed the police to register a case against the woman under various sections of the POCSO Act. After the Supreme Court allowed women in traditionally barred age groups of 10-50 into the Sabarimala temple in September 2018, Fathima made an attempt to enter the hill shrine, but had to retreat following protests by Hindu activists and devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-dismisses-activist-rehana-fathimas-anticipatory-bail-plea-865111.html
24-07-2020||South||Bihar flood: Over eight lakh affected across ten districts||The incessant rainfall in upper catchment area of Nepal, followed by torrential rains in North Bihar, has wreaked havoc and made lives of around eight lakh people in ten districts of Bihar miserable. The heavy discharge of water, around 4.67 lakh cusecs, from Valmiki Nagar Barrage in Champaran district, which shares border with Nepal, has further compounded the problem. Embankments at many places have breached, standing crops washed away, state highways submerged and a large section of population in North Bihar has been forced to take shelter on National Highway-28 and NH-31. Rivers like Kosi, Gandak, Kamla Balan, Bagmati and Adhwara are in spate and flowing well above danger mark at Supaul, Samastipur, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi and Madhubani respectively. The State Government has pressed into service 13 teams of NDRF and eight teams of SDRF for relief and rescue operations. "The worst affected are farmers. With early rainfall (since June), most of the farmers had completed paddy transplantation by the first week of July. However, the flood water has washed away standing crops. Besides, prolonged accumulation of water is likely to destroy maize crops too," an expert from Rajendra Agriculture University (RAU) in Samastipur argued. However, there seems to be no relief for people of Bihar as the Met Department has predicted heavy rainfall on Saturday too. Already, the rainfall, followed by heavy discharge of water from Valmiki Nagar barrage, has breached the approach road of Gandak Mahasetu which connects Gopalganj with West Champaran. Even in East Champaran, an embankment was breached near Sikrahana on Thursday, resulting in flooding of State Highway (SH-74) and several villages. "Movement of trains on Samstipur-Darbhanga section too has been stopped till further orders due to flood water touching girder near Hayaghat bridge," Chief Public Relations Officer (CPRO) of East Central Railway (ECR) Rajesh Kumar told Deccan Herald here on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bihar-flood-over-eight-lakh-affected-across-ten-districts-865142.html
24-07-2020||South||Kerala CM's former secretary to be quizzed again in gold smuggling case||Kerala chief minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar is likely to be quizzed by NIA again in connection with his nexus with gold smuggling case accused. According to sources, NIA has summoned Sivasankar to Kochi next week for further quizzing. He was quizzed for nearly five hours in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. The customs had also questioned Sivasankar last week. It is reliably learnt that though there was no evidence for Sivasankar involving in the gold smuggling activities, the investigation agencies were trying to get details about the connections of gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Sivasankar was found be having very close relationship with Swapna over the last couple of years. But he repeatedly told the investigation agencies that he was totally ignorant about her smuggling activities. Customs sources said that so far there were no evidence to implicate Sivasankar in the smuggling case. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate also registered a case for money laundering charges and the properties of the smuggling cases accused would attached soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cms-former-secretary-to-be-quizzed-again-in-gold-smuggling-case-865166.html
24-07-2020||South||Kerala: Vellappally Natesan chargesheeted in misappropriation case||Vellappally Natesan, general secretary of SNDP Yogam that represents the prominent Hindu Ezhava community in Kerala, was charge-sheeted by the Crime branch of Kerala police on Friday in a case of financial misappropriation. Natesan allegedly misappropriated Rs. 50 lakh from the funds collected as part of golden jubilee celebrations of the SN College in Kollam, which is managed by the SN Trust of the SNDP Yogam, in 1997. The case was pending for long time and the petitioner had also approached the High Court. Natesan was also facing investigation pertaining to misappropriation of SNDP's micro finance funds as well as the recent suicide of a local leader of SNDP. While Natesan is close to the ruling left-front in Kerala, his son Thushar is NDA Kerala convenor and had contested against Rahul Gandhi in Wayanad in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-vellappally-natesan-chargesheeted-in-misappropriation-case-865174.html
24-07-2020||South||MGR’s statue draped with saffron shawl; Tamil Nadu CM condemns||A statue of AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran in the Union Territory of Puducherry was found draped with a saffron shawl on Thursday, prompting calls of condemnation against such “barbaric activities” from Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam.  In a strong statement issued here on Friday, Palaniswami termed draping of MGR’s statue with a saffron shawl was “hurtful” and "barbaric" and will never be accepted by Tamils. The statue located on the Villianur road in Puducherry was found draped with the shawl in saffron colour on Thursday evening.   Statues of Periyar in Tamil Nadu have come under attack in the past few years, but this is the first time in the recent past that a bust of MGR has been subjected to “insult.” He also said Tamils will not accept the conspiracy of people who are attempting to disturb national integration just to stay relevant in electoral politics. Palaniswami’s strong statement came a day after his deputy Panneerselvam also condemned the incident and demanded strict action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mgr-s-statue-draped-with-saffron-shawl-tamil-nadu-cm-condemns-865178.html
24-07-2020||South||Kerala records more Covid-19 recoveries than active cases; Total shut down unlikely soon||A total lockdown is also unlikely in the state soon as major political parties and experts were opposed to it. While 885 more fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Friday, 968 recovered. Four more Covid-19 patients, including two Kasargod natives, died, taking the total deaths to 54. The number of active cases came down to 9,371 from 9,458 on Thursday. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who held a meeting with political party leaders on Friday, told reporters that a majority of experts and political party leaders were not in favour of further total lockdown, but only suggesting stringent containment measures at areas were local spread was high. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress said that imposing further total lockdown would cause severe hardships to the people and might lead to serious consequences. Chief Minister said that an action plan would be initiated at all places were Covid-19 super spread was being noticed. Of the 885 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, 724 were due to local spread. The source of infection of 56 cases could not be even detected yet. Apart from the four Covid-19 deaths reported on Friday, which included Kasargod natives Khairunissa, 48, and Madhavan 68, two more suspected Covid-19 deaths were reported. One of it was in an old age home in Kochi. Over 50 nuns in two convents were also tested Covid-19 positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-more-covid-19-recoveries-than-active-cases-total-shut-down-unlikely-soon-865213.html
24-07-2020||South||1 kg gold, Rs 1 crore recovered from gold smuggling accused||Investigation agencies have recovered around Rs 1 crore in cash and nearly one kilogram of gold from one of the key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh.  According to a remand report submitted by the NIA at the special court in Kochi on Friday, Rs 1.05 crore and gold ornaments weighing 982.5 gram were recovered from two bank lockers. While the gold was believed to be presented by her parents and relatives for her marriage and other occasions, the cash was suspected to be earned from gold smuggling. The report also said that Ramees K, who is the kingpin of the racket, was suspected to be involved in unlawful activities that posed a threat to national security. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar is likely to be questioned by the NIA again in the gold smuggling case. According to sources, the NIA has summoned Sivasankar to Kochi next week for further questioning. He was quizzed for nearly five hours in the state capital on Thursday. The Customs had also questioned Sivasankar last week. According to sources, though there was no evidence against Sivasankar’s involvement in the gold smuggling activities, the investigation agencies are trying to get details about his connections with accused Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Customs sources said so far there was no evidence to implicate Sivasankar in the smuggling case. The report also said that Ramees K, who is the kingpin of the racket, was suspected to be involved in unlawful activities that posed a threat to nation's security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1-kg-gold-rs-1-crore-recovered-from-gold-smuggling-accused-865224.html
24-07-2020||South||Fire breaks out in TN hospital; Patients evacuated to safety||A fire broke out in a block used as a storeroom at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Friday but alert authorities evacuated all patients to safety quickly. The blaze reportedly occurred due to faulty electrical wires in the Crystal Block, and was put out after a two-hour battle by the Fire and Rescue Service Personnel, officials said. Three of the fire-fighters suffered breathlessness and were hospitalised, they said. The fire was noticed early in the morning at the block, where chemicals and acid bottles meant for the sanitary purpose were stocked, by the doctors and nurses who immediately alerted the authorities. "After informing the fire and rescue services department, we evacuated all the inpatients to a safe place and cautioned others not to enter the building," hospital dean Dr Elangovan told PTI. " The three firemen inhaled the fumes and had to be treated for suffocation," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fire-breaks-out-in-tn-hospital-patients-evacuated-to-safety-865225.html
24-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh to spend Rs 1,000 crore over 6 months for Covid-19 care||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy stated that his government would spend Rs 1,000 crore, in the next six months, towards Covid-19 medical care. As of now, the state is spending about Rs 6.5 crore every day towards Covid-19 expenses, Rs five crore of it for conducting tests and Rs 1.5 crore for treatment, food, sanitation etc., at the quarantine facilities. The state has till Friday morning conducted 15,41,993 Covid-19 tests, with 28,876 tests on average per a million population. It has registered 80,858 positive cases, with a positivity rate of 5.24 percent; 39,990 of them are active cases. The state has been adding new cases in shocking numbers from the last few days. While there were 7,998 fresh cases on Thursday, it was 8,147 on Friday.    On Friday, when the state’s Covid-19 related death toll stood at 933, Reddy held a review meeting with the health officials on the pandemic situation. He approved an action plan to recruit the doctors, paramedical staff required for the next six months, on a large scale.  According to officials, the CM directed for addition of 54 more hospitals to take the total number of Covid-19 treatment hospitals in the state to 138, which would altogether provide 39,051 beds, 4,300 of them in ICU. Besides, five more critical care hospitals are being set up to offer 2,380 beds. “Asking us not to spare any expense in Covid-19 treatment, the CM suggested stocking of high-end Remdesivir and Tocilizumab like anti-viral drugs, which cost about Rs 35,000 per course, to save lives of the critically ill patients,” officials said.   Senior health administrators are attributing the high number of positive cases reported lately to the over 50,000 tests they are conducting daily across the state, “with 90 percent of these screenings concentrated in the containment zones and on high-risk individuals.” “The large incidence of cases would continue like this for some more days and then decline,” officials say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-spend-rs-1000-crore-over-6-months-for-covid-19-care-865227.html
24-07-2020||State||Karnataka publishes inflated testing figures for five days||Karnataka's testing figures for the past five days from July 17 to July 22 were wrong and inflated. The health department, in their bulletin on Thursday, blamed it on technical problem in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal. DH had reported on Wednesday that for the first time more antigen tests were done than RTPCR tests in a single day. While 24,319 antigen tests and 23,256 RTPCR tests were done as per Wednesday's bulletin, on Thursday, the state health department clarified in its bulletin that it was only 6,107 antigen tests and 21,666 RTPCR and other tests. There was no breakup provided for Wednesday's RTPCR tests. In all, the state tested 27,773 samples on July 22 (Wednesday) as opposed to its claim in Wednesday's bulletin of testing 48,140 samples on that day. The bulletin follows a format where under the subhead 'lab data', a column with the header 'today's' gives the total number of samples tested and the total samples reported as negative. it also has five other columns for RT-PCR, CBNAAT, TrueNAT, Antigen, and Cumulative.  A senior official of the health department said, "When we say 'today's' in the bulletin it is samples tested from 12 am midnight on the previous day to 12 am midnight on the next day. So it is essentially data from two separate days and not like 5 pm to 5 pm cycle followed for new cases detected." IAS Officer Arundhati Chandrashekhar who is in charge of lab testing data for the bulletin did not respond to calls and messages from DH. "Due to technical problem in ICMR portal, the cumulative figure of rapid antigen tests done was given instead of the tests done per day. This discrepancy is seen in the testing details given from July 17 to July 21," said Thursday's bulletin. Even the Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted, "So far we conducted 11,40,647 tests across 88 labs in the state."  But on July 16, the bulletin had said the state had conducted cumulative tests of 9,25,477. As per Thursday's clarification 1,26,499 tests were conducted for five days from July 17 to July 21. On July 22, only 27,773 tests were conducted. Adding this gives a cumulative total of 10,79,749, lesser than the cumulative tests claimed by the minister.  When DH contacted Sudhakar, he said he will look into the matter and said, "The state's correct figures are only the ones issued by me every evening. Let me check the figures and get back."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-publishes-inflated-testing-figures-for-five-days-864906.html
24-07-2020||State||ASHA worker cum auto driver in Udupi helps woman in labour||When a woman developed labour pain midnight, an ASHA worker who is also an auto driver, drove her to a hospital 18 kms away from the village. ASHA worker Rajivi has been lauded for her service on social media. She drove her auto with the pregnant woman from Pernankila to Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Haji Abdulla Government Women and Children's Hospital Udupi. Speaking to DH, she said "I received a call at 3.15 am that Srilatha from Pernankila developed labour pain. Immediately, I drove my auto and got her admitted to the hospital. Srilatha delivered a girl baby on Thursday." "Being a woman, it is my duty to respond to the woes of a woman. I do not charge for hiring my auto to shift pregnant women for delivery.  The family members thank me after the delivery, that itself is the biggest gift for me," she said with a smile.  Pernankila village did not have bus facilities in the past. Only autorickshaws were plying on the dilapidated road. "With the help of my husband, I learnt to drive an auto as a passion. Over a period of time, the auto became my source of livelihood. I have been driving an auto for the last 20 years. After my husband's death, I have been working as an auto driver. I work as an ASHA worker from morning till noon. From noon till night, I ride auto for living," she said. She also creates awareness on Covid-19 by pasting a poster urging people to maintain social distance, wear a mask and use a sanitiser on her auto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/asha-worker-cum-auto-driver-in-udupi-helps-woman-in-labour-864979.html
24-07-2020||State||Congress-BJP tussle continues over Covid-19 procurement||A bitter war of words between the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress continued on Friday. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah stuck to his demand for a judicial enquiry whereas the government was firm on its position that the corruption charges were far from the truth. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who is also the Social Welfare minister, released documents Friday, to counter the allegation that thermal scanners were bought for Rs 9,000. On Friday, Siddaramaiah continued his salvo against the state government over alleged irregularities in Covid-19 procurement. "Why is the government afraid of judicial enquiry on corruption in procurement of medical essentials? If the ministers are so clean, what is holding them back from initiating investigation? This is their heights of arrogance," he said. A sitting judge of the High Court should conduct the judicial enquiry, the Congress leader said, challenging the ruling government to submit their documents. "We will submit our documents and let the govt submit their documents. If they are confident, why are they reluctant to initiate investigation?" Revenue Minister R Ashoka, responding to the same, said that Siddaramaiah cannot order the government to do something. "He is not the CM in this government. He doesn't have power now, even within his own party," he said. Siddaramaiah can only advise, Ashoka said. "All our decisions regarding procurement were made in a transparent manner," he said, adding that the allegations were baseless. "We have given sufficient clarification regarding the issue." Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar reminded Siddaramaiah of his 'small services' while he was in Congress. Clarifying that his remarks against the former CM were not intended to demean or poke fun at him, Sudhakar tweeted, "I am always grateful for the cooperation and guidance offered by him in the past and I hope that he hasn't forgotten the 'small services' offered by me." ಮಾನ್ಯ ಸಿದ್ದರಾಮಯ್ಯನವರು ನಾನು ಅಧಿಕಾರದ ಅಹಂನಿಂದ ಮಾತನಾಡಿದ್ದೇನೆ ಮತ್ತು ನನಗೆ ಉಪಕಾರ ಸ್ಮರಣೆ ಇರಬೇಕು ಎಂದಿದ್ದಾರೆ. ಅವರು ಹಿಂದೆ ನೀಡಿರುವ ಸಹಕಾರ ಮತ್ತು ಮಾರ್ಗದರ್ಶನವನ್ನು ಸದಾ ಸ್ಮರಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ ಮತ್ತು ನನ್ನ ಅಳಿಲು ಸೇವೆಯನ್ನು ಅವರೂ ಸಹ ಮರೆತಿಲ್ಲ ಎಂದು ಭಾವಿಸಿದ್ದೇನೆ. (1/2) Meanwhile, Karjol refuted claims of the Congress that his department paid Rs 9,000 per thermal scanner. He released documents showing they were procured at Rs 4,720 per unit. While a previous order by the department quoted higher prices for equipment to social welfare hostels, the order was withdrawn, Karjol added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-bjp-tussle-continues-over-covid-19-procurement-865253.html
24-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka crosses 5,000-mark as it clocks highest single-day coronavirus spike||Karnataka on Thursday clocked its highest single-day spike as it breached the 5,000-mark in new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally beyond 80,000, while state capital Bengaluru saw more than 2,000 new infections. Thirteen of the 30 districts in the state recorded more than 100 new cases. With 5,030 more patients testing positive in the state in a single day, the total number of coronavirus patients reached 80,863, which includes 1,616 deaths and 29,310 people being discharged.  In another grim day for the tech hub, Bengaluru reported 2,207 cases and led the list once more. The total number of confirmed patients in the city stands at 39,200, while active cases are at 29,090. Of the 97 deaths reported on Thursday, 48 were from the state capital. The state’s recovery rate now stands at 36.25%. The state tested 27,773 samples on July 22, the last available statistics for testing. The cumulative tests done so far is 10,79,749. As many as 640 patients are recuperating in the ICUs of the state with as many as 361 from Bengaluru alone. The state's recovery rate stands at 36.25% and the mortality rate is 1.81%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-crosses-5000-mark-as-it-clocks-highest-single-day-coronavirus-spike-864855.html
24-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New industrial policy eyes Rs 5 lakh crore investments||The Cabinet on Thursday approved the state’s new industrial policy that aims to generate Rs 5 lakh crore investment over the next five years and create 20 lakh jobs by offering a slew of incentives. All new investment projects, as per the policy, shall create direct employment opportunities “with a minimum employment of 70% to Kannadigas on an overall basis and 100% in case of Group D employees”. Special Investment Regions (SIR) were also announced, with Dharwad SIR — encompassing Gadag, Haveri and Belagavi districts — being the first. “Probably for the first time in India, we have decided to offer investment promotion subsidy to medium, mega and large enterprises ranging from 1.75% to 2.5% on turnover in each year for a period of 5-10 years,” Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said. The subsidy will be in the form of a grant and will be based on the company turnover. The subsidy will be limited to 35-60% of the Value of Fixed Assets (VFA) of an enterprise. MSMEs, too, will be eligible for an investment promotion subsidy of 10% of their annual turnover for a period of five years and limited to 20-30% of VFA. Shettar said that SIRs will be notified as areas with more than 100 sqkm and deemed industrial townships. While the first will be at Dharwad, another will be notified for Shivamogga, which will also cover Davanagere, Chitradurga and Chikmagalur districts. The policy will allow development of private industrial parks in the state, he said, noting that such parks were functional in Tamil Nadu district. Apart from amending labour laws to facilitate industries, restrictions on the purchase of agricultural land has been lifted by amending the Land Reforms Act. “This will facilitate industrialists to purchase land and start industries,” he said. The Karnataka Industries Facilitation Act is also amended to ensure ‘ease of business’, and will allow investors to start work on their projects as soon as district-level committees clear them, he said. The policy has identified automobiles and auto components, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, engineering and machine tools, knowledge-based industries, renewable energy, electric vehicles, and aerospace and defence as focus sectors. Industry 4.0, research and development, intellectual property rights and others will be thrust areas of the policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-industrial-policy-eyes-rs-5-lakh-crore-investments-864857.html
24-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shivamogga Palike, Zilla Parishad staff contract Covid-19||The offices of Shivamogga City Corporation and Zilla Panchayat were sealed on Thursday after the staff at both the local bodies tested positive for novel coronavirus. The Palike and ZP offices will remain sealed till July 27. At the city corporation office, an accounts staff contracted the virus while two employees of the development section in Zilla Panchayat tested positive for Covid-19. Both the offices were sanitised and sealed. The elected representatives, officials and the staff who were in contact with the infected have been asked to undergo home quarantine. On Thursday, the district saw 84 people, including an Indian Army jawan from Konandur, test positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, the virus continued to hit the Covid warriors hard, paralyzing the work/services at government offices, police stations and healthcare centres across the state. The town municipal council office in Ramdurg, Belagavi district, was closed for two day, starting Thursday, after 16 municipality employees, including office staff and civic workers, tested positive for the virus. As many as 10 staff of Ramdurg KSRTC depot and three cops of Katakol police station also contracted the disease. The government hospital in Chintamani, Chikkaballapur district, was sealed for two days after a doctor and a nursing mother tested positive for the virus on Thursday.  The throat swab samples of an assistant sub-inspector and a head constable of Dharwad sub-urban police station have returned positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. In Huvina Hadagali, Ballari district, four staff of KSRTC depot and two cops tested positive for the Covid-19. Three police personnel and a private bank staffer in Jamkhandi taluk and two town panchayat staff in Kamatagi, both in Bagalkot district, also contracted Covid-19. Big spike in districts On Thursday, the state saw its highest single-day Covid-19 tally of 5,030 cases. While Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,207 fresh infections, 12 districts recorded the cases in three digits with four of them going past 200-mark. The remaining 17 districts reported infections in two digits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shivamogga-palike-zilla-parishad-staff-contract-covid-19-864931.html
24-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 5,007 fresh cases of Covid-19, 110 deaths||Karnataka on Friday registered 5,007 new cases of Covid-19 and a record 110 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 85,870 and the death toll to 1,724, the health department said. The day also saw 2,037 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the fresh, a whopping 2,267 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. The state on Thursday had reported a biggest single-day spike of 5,030 cases. A total of 11,10,497 samples were tested so far, out of which 29,819 were tested on Friday alone. According to the department bulletin,7,411 of the 29,819 samples examined today were through rapid antigen tests. As of July 24 evening, cumulatively 85,870 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 1,724 deaths and 31,347 discharges. It said, out of 52,791 active cases, 52,180 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 611 are in ICU. Of the 110 deaths today, 50 are from Bengaluru urban, followed by six each from Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada, five each from Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru, three each from Udupi, Chikkaballapura, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Chitradurga, two each from Ballari, Hassan, Gadag, Davangere, Koppala and Bengaluru rural, and one each from Belagavi, Raichur, Uttara Kannada, Haveri, Kolara and Chamarajanagara. Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI),according to the bulletin. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,267, followed by Mysuru 281, Udupi 190, Bagalkote 184, Dakshina Kannada 180, Dharwad 174, Kalaburagi 159, Vijayapura 158, Ballari 136, Hassan 118, Belagavi 116, Gadag 108, Raichur 107 and others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with 41,467 infections, followed by Dakshina Kannada 4,389 and Kalaburagi 3,529. Among discharges, Bengaluru urban reported 10,072 discharges so far, followed by Kalabuagi 1,921 and Udupi 1,918.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-5007-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-110-deaths-865207.html
24-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Demand mounts on CM B S Yediyurappa for 10% EWS quota for upper castes||With Brahmins now eligible to get caste certificates, political pressure is mounting on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to implement the 10% economically-weaker section (EWS) quota in the state. Seeking a Cabinet approval for this, the Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board has urged Yediyurappa to implement the reservation at the earliest. In January 2019, the Centre notified 10% reservation in government jobs and admissions into educational institutions for families from the upper caste communities whose annual income is below Rs 8 lakh, by passing the Constitution (103 Amendment) Act, 2019.  However, according to state government estimates, about Rs 1,000 crore will be required to implement this reservation. Speaking to DH, KSBDB chairperson H S Sachidananda Murthy said the caste certificates being issued now would enable the reservation process. “We have requested the government to approve this soon. Of the 10%, the Brahmin community will be eligible for around 4% reservation,” he said.   The demand is also backed by Brahmin legislators such as L A Ravi Subramanya. The Basavanagudi MLA said he had discussed the issue with Yediyurappa recently. “The idea is not for an exclusive reservation for the Brahmin community. The 10% EWS reservation talks about reservation for the poorer sections among the upper caste communities. There are several families from these communities that are struggling to pay school fees, for instance. The idea is to benefit such families,” he said. There is support across party lines for this demand. Senior Congress leader R V Deshpande, too, opined it was high time that the government brought it into force. “It is already late. They should implement it soon. Merit should be recognised and the government should facilitate opportunities for deserving candidates from poor families. The Congress-JD(S) coalition government had constituted a committee under the chief secretary and the report is ready. I have requested the chief Minister to act on it soon,” he said.   Meanwhile, in the span of a week, there have been at least 5,000 applicants just in Bengaluru city for caste certificates among the Brahmin community, according to Murthy. The certificates are being issued in the offices of tahsildars on submission of requisite documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-demand-mounts-on-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-for-10-ews-quota-for-upper-castes-865256.html
24-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sandalwood reps to meet Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa for relief package, nod to resume shooting||The Sandalwood actors, directors and producers have decided to approach Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to seek permission to resume shooting and relief package in the wake of Covid-19 crisis.  Senior actors, directors and producers met at the residence of actor Shivarajkumar in Bengaluru on Friday and took a decision in this regard. However, they decided to hold further meetings before finalising the date to meet the Chief Minister. "The industry leaders resolved to take a delegation to meet Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in a few days to request permission to resume the shooting and sanction relief packages similar to the one the government announced a few weeks ago to daily wage workers," Shivarajkumar told reporters after the meeting. Each of those who attended the meeting shared difficulties being faced and threw light on every section of the industry and current challenges. United efforts were needed as everybody was facing problems, he said. "We should work like a team to solve the problems," he added. The actor added,"It is our responsibility to support all technicians, junior artistes, spot boys, make-up artists, camera and light boys. Further meetings will be held with all holders in the industry before meeting the Chief Minister."  The hat-trick hero exuded confidence that the movie-lovers, fans would help the Kannada films to bounce back strongly after the temporary snooze triggered by the pandemic. Prominent personalities like Rajendra Singh Babu, Sa Ra Govind, K Manju, Sadhu Kokila, Ashok and others participated in the meeting. They discussed the prevailing situation and its impact on the people dependent on the film industry.  A representatives, who attended the meeting, told DH, “The discussion ranged from individual problems and responsibilities to resumption of shooting, precautionary measures to be taken at work place and approaching the government to release monetary relief packages to benefit technicians.”  Other major issues, including opening of theatres and multiplexes, were also discussed.  Whenever crisis erupted in the past, all stakeholders in the industry were united under Dr Rajkumar, Dr Vishnuvardhan and Ambareesh for solutions. The representatives in the industry have now passed on the reins to hat-trick hero.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sandalwood-reps-to-meet-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-for-relief-package-nod-to-resume-shooting-865272.html
24-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to rope in final year MBBS, PG students for Covid-19 duty||The state government has directed final year students of MBBS, PG medical and super-specialty students to report for Covid duty to meet shortage of healthcare professionals amid exponential rise in the number of cases. In an order that was made available to the media on Friday, the director of medical education (DME) directed all such students to report to the department after completing their exams. "The heads of the institutions are directed to inform the students to report to office of the DME," the order said, adding that the registrar of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences shall instruct non-allopathic graduates to report to the university. The release accompanying the order said Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar has directed the officials to utilise the final year students for Covid duties as the government has been facing shortage of staff to achieve the testing targets. "Along with direct recruitment, the final year students of lab technician courses, Science students of RGUHS and volunteers will be given proper training before assigning Covid duties to them," it said. The step, he said, was necessary to meet the target of conducting 30,000 tests per day in Bengaluru. The service of staff from 80 private labs and fever clinics is being utilised already. Mobile units are also running short of trained manpower. Therefore, necessary arrangement is being made under Disaster Management Act, the Minister had told the officials. Zone-wise dashboard To streamline flow of information to enable real-time management, the minister has also directed that dashboards should be set up at zonal-level to share war room data. He also instructed them to recruit data entry operators from Keonics. "There are 12,000 containment zones in the city alone. There is a need to quickly find out ILI and SARI cases and the information has to be shared with zonal officers. Also, decisions have to be made to admit them in Covid care centres and hospitals. It is also the duty of zonal teams to provide ambulances wherever necessary," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-rope-in-final-year-mbbs-pg-students-for-covid-19-duty-865277.html
24-07-2020||West||The Lead: As Ganesh Chaturthi approaches, Mumbai vendors still shaken by pandemic||In today's episode, DH Journalists Varsha Gowda and Ahmed Shariff talk to Mrityunjay Bose about small businesses in Mumbai and what's the situation ahead of the biggest festival in India's financial capital.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/the-lead-as-ganesh-chaturthi-approaches-mumbai-vendors-still-shaken-by-pandemic-864899.html
24-07-2020||West||Covid-19 doubling rate in Mumbai crosses 60 days||According to the latest data of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the doubling rate now stands at 61 days. The first positive Covid-19 case and death in Mumbai were reported on March 11 and March 17, respectively, and on March 22 the doubling rate was three days. “From three days on March 22 to 60 days on July 22, there has been a significant improvement in doubling rate,” BMC officials said, adding that the doubling rate was based on data collected from all the 24 wards of Mumbai spread over two districts – Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban. On July 23, the doubling rate was 61 days. On that day, the total Covid-19 positive cases stood at 1,05,829 and deaths 5,927. The active patients numbered 22,800 and the recovery rate was 72 percent.  Till date, the total number of tests conducted is 4,56,511. The doubling rate came down after the government implemented the Chase-the-Virus policy in June-July – an example that is being replicated in other areas of Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and elsewhere. The overall policy focussed on 4 Ts – Tracing, Tracking, Testing and Treating. The Maharashtra government and BMC ensured that at least 15 contacts are traced against every positive patient, and put to quarantine and their health was monitored. Snapshot of Covid-19 doubling rate in Mumbai:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-doubling-rate-in-mumbai-crosses-60-days-864922.html
24-07-2020||West||Try toppling Maharashtra government, CM Uddhav Thackeray dares Opposition||“I am sitting and giving interview….try and topple the government,” Uddhav said in an interview to Saamana executive editor Sanjay Raut, a Rajya Sabha member of Shiv Sena. The two part-interview would be printed and webcast on Saturday and Sunday, in the run-up to his 60th birthday, that falls on July 27. Thackeray, the leader of MVA, who is running the Sena-NCP-Congress coalition, has decided not to celebrate his birthday next week. “Instead of spending money on garlands, the amount should be contributed to the chief minister’s relief fund, health camps, blood and plasma donation camps should be organised. There should be no posters, banners and crowd,” Uddhav, the photographer-turned-politician, has said in a statement. In the last three days, three promos of the interview were released. Uddhav, an MLC, smiled as Sanjay Raut posed a question on receding hairline after he took over as the chief minister. “I may have become the chief minister now but I have not turned 60 in a day,” he said, admitting that his tenure has been full of challenges. The chief minister said that Covid-19 is a threat and people will have to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. “I follow the norms,” he said.   “I am not pessimistic and will never allow anyone to be pessimistic,” he said. Asked about the BJP's charge that the government runs on three wheels, he said: “On how many (wheels) does the Central government runs?” To a question when vada-pav will be available, he said: “I do not deny that there is a lockdown. We are unlocking gradually”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/try-toppling-maharashtra-government-cm-uddhav-thackeray-dares-opposition-864968.html
24-07-2020||West||Revise Goa Budget, avoid assembly nod now: GFP chief Vijai Sardesai||The Goa Forward Party (GFP) has communicated to the assembly speaker that passing of the Budget without a discussion in the House would amount to "fraud on the people of Goa". The state government has convened a day-long session of the assembly on July 27 to pass the Budget. GFP chief Vijai Sardesai, in a letter to Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Thursday, criticised the action of Business Advisory Committee (BAC) to schedule passing of the Budget during the day-long session. I find it difficult to comprehend the attitude of the Chief Minister and the Government to bulldoze various important bills without any discussion and without allowing any of the elected representative to apply his or her mind to issues concerned, especially as they are linked to the future of Goa, Sardesai, an MLA, said in the letter. It will be a fraud on the people of Goa to pass the Budget without discussion as it has been presented in the House. "It is very clear that due to the pandemic and its social and economic effects, both revenue and expenditure estimates of the budget will take a massive beating and approving these estimates without discussion and revision will be a meaningless exercise, the GFP leader added. A revised Budget can be passed after a thorough discussion at the next full-fledged session sometime in November or December, the GFP leader said. "In the meantime, the government should pass a vote-on-account (to fund short-term expenses) for four months, he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/revise-goa-budget-avoid-assembly-nod-now-gfp-chief-vijai-sardesai-864981.html
24-07-2020||West||Businessman loses over Rs 32 lakh to online fraud in Mumbai||A businessman from suburban Kandivali here has allegedly lost over Rs 32 lakh in online fraud, police said on Friday. As per the police complaint, the trader received an email from a Ghana-based medical research company in June asking him to procure an organic chemical liquid, which was only available in India and assured him a good deal, an official said. The complainant then contacted a supplier and forwarded the detailed quotation and samples to the research firm, which in turn gave a purchase order of 10 gallons of the liquid but did not pay any advance for the same, he said. However, when the trader got in touch with the supplier, he was asked to pay Rs 15 lakh as advance and was asked for more money over a period of one month, the official said. After having shelled out Rs 32.64 lakh and not receiving any product in return, the complainant realised that he had been duped and approached Samta Nagar police station, he said. A case of online fraud has been registered and further probe is underway, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/businessman-loses-over-rs-32-lakh-to-online-fraud-in-mumbai-865003.html
24-07-2020||West||BMC restricts gathering for home installation of Ganesh idols||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said only five people should participate in arrival and immersion processions of domestic Lord Ganesh idols during the Ganpati festival next month in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The BMC, which is spearheading Mumbai's fight against coronavirus, on Thursday made a special appeal to citizens in this regard ahead of the festival to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the metropolis, which has recorded more than 1 lakh cases and nearly 6,000 deaths so far. Besides public installation of Lord Ganesh idols, thousands of people install such idols at home and immerse them on different days during the 10-day festival, the most popular religious event in Maharashtra. Requesting people to refrain from doing any act that leads to the spread of Covid-19, the civic body, in a release, warned that violators may invite strict action under relevant sections of the Epidemic Act 1897, the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code. Asking people to follow safety protocols that include use of mask or shield, hand sanitizers and social distancing norms during the festival, the BMC appealed to citizens to avoid participating in big processions to protect their families from Covid-19. This year, the festival starts from August 22. The civic body said home-installed Ganpati idols should be made using eco-friendly materials and their height should not be more than two feet. "Instead of using idols made of clay, if possible, worship metal or marble idols," the BMC urged the citizens. The civic body asked people to carry out immersion of eco-friendly Ganpatis at home. If that is not possible, then idols should be immersed in artificial lakes, it said. The BMC said taking out a common procession of domestic idols from a housing society or building should be avoided. Also, children and elderly persons should not be allowed to visit immersion sites, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-restricts-gathering-for-home-installation-of-ganesh-idols-865004.html
24-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: New Covid-19 cases found at housing complexes in Thane||With close to 74,000 cases of Covid-19 recorded in Maharashtra's Thane district so far, the authorities on Friday noted that new infections are being detected in housing complexes and not slums as seen before. As many as 1,718 cases were reported in Thane district on Thursday, taking the tally to 73,922, while the toll has gone up to 2,053, an official said. Fresh Covid-19 cases are now emerging from big housing complexes and not slums as seen before, Thane municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma said. "We have to concentrate more on housing complexes and impose certain restrictions on them," he said, adding that residential buildings will now have to record movement of visitors. Among the major towns and cities in the district, Kalyan has recorded 17,389 Covid-19 cases and accounts for 24 per cent of the region's tally, he said. The toll in Kalyan has reached 281, with nine deaths reported on Thursday, he added. Thane city comes close second with 16,859 Covid-19 cases and 586 deaths, the official said. There were 24,209 active cases in the district as of Thursday, while mortality rate stood at 2.7 per cent, he said. Meanwhile, two Covid-19 patients escaped from at the civic-run CSMH at Kalwa town late on Thursday and efforts were underway to nab them, deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malavi said. As per official data, neighbouring Palghar district has recorded 242 fresh cases of Covid-19 and nine deaths on Thursday. With this, the district's tally has gone up to 12,839, while the toll reached 244, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-new-covid-19-cases-found-at-housing-complexes-in-thane-865017.html
24-07-2020||West||'Smart helmets' to now detect possible Covid-19 infections||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana (BJS) have deployed two smart helmets in the Dahisar, northern suburbs of Mumbai, taking the combat strategies to a high-tech dimension. The four thermo-scanners or smart helmets have been imported from South Korea. One helmet costs Rs 6 lakh. According to BJS managing committee member Dr Neelu Jain, the helmet has two cameras - an image camera in the front and a thermal camera on the side. "The thermal camera enables it to screen 13 people at a time. Earlier, we used to use the thermal gun to check temperatures. That could only screen about 200-300 people in nearly a couple of hours. With the portable smart helmet, over 5,000 to 6,000 people can be screened in the same time frame, provided they are in a queue," she said. According to Dr Jain, the helmets are being used for screening on camps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/smart-helmets-to-now-detect-possible-covid-19-infections-865035.html
24-07-2020||West||From darkness to light: Maharashtra tribal village finally gets electricity||Residents of Navi Talai, a tribal village in Akola district of Maharashtra, erupted in joy when they got electricity in their homes for the first time two days ago. Earlier residing in the core area of the Melghat Tiger Project in Amravati district, they were shifted and rehabilitated by authorities in Navi Talai in 2018. However, the village under Telhara taluka, which has a population of around 540, was without electricity connection since then, forcing people to live in darkness. This changed on July 22 when Navi Talai finally got electricity for the first time, ending a long wait for power for its residents, who had to go to neighbouring villages to recharge their mobile phones. A Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) official said it was the state-run utility's duty to provide power connection to the village. "MSEDCL works on mission mode... so all the houses in the village are now lit up. It's MSEDCL's duty," the official said. For the residents of Navi Talai, it was an early Diwali and a moment of joy as they celebrated the occasion by lighting up lamps while children cut a cake and played on the streets in the night. The groundwork for bringing electricity to the village was prepared by local social activist Gopal Kolhe and MLC Amol Mitkari, who regularly visited Navi Talai and liaised with MSEDCL for setting up transformers and to ensure every home gets power connection. "After we were rehabilitated, there was no light in any of our houses. Until now, we had to spend the night in dark so there were many problems. "But with the help of MLC Mitkari now every house is refulgent. This day is bigger for us than Diwali," Navi Talai resident Nanda Thakre told to PTI. Mitkari, who has adopted the village, said Navi Talai will now become a model of development and a household name in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/from-darkness-to-light-maharashtra-tribal-village-finally-gets-electricity-865043.html
24-07-2020||West||Stopping elderly artistes to go out and work discriminatory: Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the Maharashtra government that if the state does not prohibit a senior citizen from opening his shop and sitting there all day, then on what basis does it prevent artistes above 65 years of age from going out to work amid the current lockdown. A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla said that the state's decision to prohibit the artistes above 65 years of age, even if they are physically fit, from going out for shooting and such work, seemed like a case of "discrimination". The bench directed the state government to submit its affidavit by Saturday explaining the basis on which such a prohibition had been imposed. The bench also said that the state must clarify if it took into account any "data, statistics, or reports" for issuing the prohibitory orders. The bench was hearing a petition filed by one Pramod Pandey, challenging guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government on May 30, 2020. As per these guidelines, no cast or crew member above the age of 65 years is allowed at film and television shooting sets. In his plea filed through advocate Ashok Sarogi, 70-year-old Pandey said that he had been performing small roles in films and TV serials for four decades and that he did not have any other source of livelihood. He said in his plea that though he was physically fit, the state was stopping him from going to work and earning a living. On Friday, the state's counsel Poornima Kantharia told the high court that the guidelines were not discriminatory as all senior citizens had been prohibited from stepping out, except for going out for essentials. She said that the state's guidelines on the age limit for artistes were based on several central government guidelines issued over the last few months of the lockdown. The court, however, asked if all senior citizens had also been prohibited from resuming all types of professional work, to which the state said they hadn't. "If I am a 70-year-old man who owns a shop, will you stop me from opening my shop and sitting there all day?" the court asked. To this, advocate Kantharia said, "No." "Then why are you stopping artistes?" the bench asked. "Where else have you applied this rule? This is discrimination," it said. During the previous hearing held earlier this week, the high court had asked the state how a physically fit person, above 65 years of age, was expected to live a dignified life if he was not allowed to go out and earn his livelihood. On Friday, the court-appointed senior counsel Sharan Jagtiani as the amicus curiae to assist the court in the case. It will now conduct a final hearing of the matter next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stopping-elderly-artistes-to-go-out-and-work-discriminatory-bombay-high-court-865059.html
24-07-2020||West||Must follow CPCB norms for disposal of biomedical waste: Bombay HC to govt||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the Maharashtra government and civic bodies are obligated to adhere to the Central Pollution Control Board's (CPCB) guidelines on the treatment and disposal of biomedical waste generated during diagnosis and quarantine of Covid-19 patients. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Madhav Jamdar directed the state government, the Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board and civic bodies to follow the guidelines for the disposal of biomedical waste. "It is the paramount duty of the state government to ensure that the life of every citizen is preserved and Covid- 19 pandemic does not take any further toll," the court said. The CPCB has issued guidelines on June 10 to ensure healthy living conditions of everyone in view of the pandemic, the court said. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Dombivali resident Kishor Sohoni through his advocate Sadhna Kumar, raising concerns over biomedical waste such as used PPE kits being dumped on roads by the Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC). Advocate Sharmila Deshmukh, appearing for the MPCB, told the court that a notice was issued to the KDMC over the incident. "The state government and all other stakeholders (civic bodies) are duty bound and obligated to adhere to the guidelines issued by the CPCB on handling, treatment and disposal of waste generated during diagnosis and quarantine of Covid-19 patients," the court said. If negligence is found on any civic body's part, the MPCB shall take appropriate action against the errant stakeholder, it said and disposed of the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/must-follow-cpcb-norms-for-disposal-of-biomedical-waste-bombay-hc-to-govt-865060.html
24-07-2020||West||Covid-19: 'Janta curfew' in Nagpur city on Saturday, Sunday||A 'janta curfew' will be imposed in Nagpur city of Maharashtra on Saturday and Sunday to curb the rising number of coronavirus cases, the civic chief said on Friday. Nagpur municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe announced the imposition of 'janta curfew' on Saturday and Sunday (July 25 & 26) in the city. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of elected representatives and the civic administration here. More details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-janta-curfew-in-nagpur-city-on-saturday-sunday-865074.html
24-07-2020||West||Charity in adversity: Couple spends Rs 4 lakh to feed poor||A school principal and her husband have come to the rescue of not only their students, but also people in their neighbourhood hit hard by the coronavirus-induced lockdown, loosening their purse strings to help those in crisis. The couple has spent over Rs 4 lakh of their personal savings in feeding hundreds of poor people in their neighbourhood during the lockdown and also waived three months fees of students studying in their school at Ambujwadi in suburban Malad here. Mizga Shaikh, 38, the principal of non-aided Zeal English School at Ambujwadi, and her husband Faiyaz, 45, who is a trustee of the school, have provided food and ration to over 1,500 people during the lockdown period. Faiyaz Shaikh, who works in a private cosmetic company, said they started helping people with food and ration in coordination with an NGO just 5-6 days after the lockdown was enforced in March-end due to the coronavirus outbreak. Four months on, they are continuing with their humanitarian work. Initially, they received support from the NGO, which distributed khichdi to the poor people in the neighbourhood. But, this wasn't enough for families hit hard by the lockdown and hence they decided to put in their own money to feed them, Faiyaz Shaikh said. "Initially, the condition was very bad and many people would approach us for help, but with the easing of lockdown restrictions their number has gone down," he told PTI. He said in the past four months, they have spent nearly Rs 4.5 lakh of their own savings on distribution of food and ration to people. Faiyaz Shaikh had to dip into his wife's provident fund savings to carry on the charitable work.  "When Mizga shared the idea of withdrawal of her provident fund, I told her to go ahead," he said. He said currently they are living in a rented house with their two kids and had been saving for buying a home of their own. However, after seeing the plight of people around them the couple decided to spend the money on a larger good. According to the couple, who has been running the school for a decade, several family members, friends and acquaintances also helped in their mission. The couple said have waived the fees for three months (April to June) when they learnt from students that their parents were not in a position to make payments to the school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/charity-in-adversity-couple-spends-rs-4-lakh-to-feed-poor-865085.html
24-07-2020||West||PR firms give fake social media followers to celebs: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||Several PR agencies provide "fake" social media followers to Bollywood celebrities or other "big people" and such followers are used for trolling and data theft, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Friday. The Maharashtra police will probe into the matter, he said. "Several PR agencies give fake followers, called bots, to Bollywood celebrities or some other big people. Such bots are used for trolling or data theft." "Hence, the Maharashtra police will probe into this," Deshmukh said in a video message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pr-firms-give-fake-social-media-followers-to-celebs-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-865096.html
24-07-2020||West||Coronavirus: Mumbai's Dharavi leads in plasma donation||After the rapid spread of Covid-19 and successful Chase-the-Virus strategy, Dharavi seems to be leading in plasma donation. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is organising screening camps in Dharavi.  Dharavi, the largest slum cluster of Asia, has reported over 2,500 plus positive cases and 82 deaths. Though there was a spike in April-May,  the northward zoom was brought down following the Chase-the-Virus initiative involving 4 Ts - Tracing, Tracking, Testing and Treating.   The recovery rate in Dharavi is more than 80 per cent - higher than Mumbai's 61 per cent. Now Dharavi has large number of potential plasma donors. As part of the drive at Kamraj School, samples of 50-odd persons were collected. According to BMC officials, details of prospective donors were noted and blood samples were collected. People with co-morbidities were not registered for plasma  donations. After the samples are examined, the donors will be called in Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion, Sir King Edward Memorial Hospital at Parel and BYL Nair Charitable Hospital in Mumbai Central.  According to public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope, the government will set up plasma banks in Dharavi in Mumbai and Malegaon in Nashik district. Last month,  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month launched Mission Platina, that will be worlds largest trial-cum-treatment project in the world. The government intends to benefit and save around 500 lives of critically ill Covid-19 patients of Maharashtra. "Convalscent  Plasma therapy is now coming up as one of the most important methods in the treatment of severe Covid-19 patients in the absence of definite treatment drugs for the same," CM Thackeray had stated. The trial will be carried out in 17 medical colleges under department of medical education and drugs, Government of Maharashtra and four BMC medical colleges in Mumbai - a total of  21 centres. All critical patients will receive two doses of 200 ml of convalescent plasma. The plasma of recovered Covid-19 patients contains antibodies against novel coronavirus thereby fighting infection and helping critically ill patients greatly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-mumbais-dharavi-leads-in-plasma-donation-865131.html
24-07-2020||West||ARC opens outdoor horse riding facilities, aims to host tournaments||The Amateur Riders’ Club (ARC), a civilian horse riding club in Mumbai announces the opening of its riding facilities. The club has made arrangements for outdoor riding while the clubhouse and stables are still under lockdown since March 19. This was done, keeping in mind lost practice time and the need for competitive equestrian athletes and horses to resume practice for upcoming tournaments.  With this step, the club aims to host competitive equestrian tournaments soon upon government permits. In wake of Covid-19, the club has maintained all government-regulated standard operating procedures while resuming the outdoor riding facilities.  Riders may now avail the facilities directly at the riding arenas at the racecourse to ensure minimal contact. The members are not permitted to visit the clubhouse or the stables. At the riding arena, a special record is created to register all riders' entries; provision of sanitization and thermal screening; wearing of masks and maintaining a 6 feet distance while riding. Given the long break, the club faced a lot of challenges to open the outdoor riding facilities, especially in the monsoon. It was necessary to address the safety concerns of riders and trainers as well. ARC issued a circular to members stating safety norms and ensuring all members strictly abide by the same. Polo, show jumping and dressage athletes have resumed practice and professional training for upcoming tournaments. These athletes will be seen reconnecting with their horses; following a planned diet and exercise regime, for themselves and the horses and gradually looking at working extra training hours to bridge the gap and make up for the lost time.  In a press statement, Shyam Mehta, president, ARC,  and polo player,  said: “Considering the current situation and the weather it has been an effort to reopen our outdoor riding facilities but we did so keeping in mind the health and the lost training time of our members and the horses. I am hopeful that the club will be able to host competitive equestrian tournaments once the government permits.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/arc-opens-outdoor-horse-riding-facilities-aims-to-host-tournaments-865147.html
24-07-2020||West||Centre gives lion's share of N95 masks, tablets, ventilators to Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government is the biggest beneficiary of the Centre's supply of N95 masks, tablets and the ventilators. This was revealed in replies sought under RTI by veteran activist Anil Galgali.The Department of Health and Family Welfare, while replying to an RTI query filed by  Galgali, has said that it has allocated the highest number masks, kits, tablets and ventilators to Maharashtra.  Galgali had sought information from the Department of Health and Family Welfare on May 1, about equipments and materials allotted to the states to fight Covid-19 pandemic, but the department refused to share the details.  On refusal to give the information, Galgali filed an appeal on June 1, 2020 with the Director of the Ministry,  Rajiv Wadhwan, and then Wadhwan directed HLL Life Care Limited to share the material distribution information to Anil Galgali.  Under Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, G.K. Pillai gave a list of equipments allocated to States, Union Territories till July 10.  According to this list, the Centre has allocated 2.18 crore N95 masks, 1.21 crore PPE kits, 6.12 crore HCQ tablets and 9,150 ventilators across the country.  The Uddhav Thackeray government in Maharashtra got 21.84 lakh N95 masks, 11.78 lakh PPE kits, 77.20 lakh HCQ tablets and 1,805 ventilators.   However, the central government has made provisions for central institutions.  This includes 26.61 lakh N95 masks, 14.38 lakh PPE kits, 57.32 lakh HCQ tablets and 330 ventilators.  "There is a requirement of 17,938 ventilators across the country. Out of this, only 9150 ventilators have been allotted by the Centre.  While Sikkim, Lakshadweep, Ladakh are still deprived of ventilators. Maharashtra still needs 1770 ventilators, Karnataka 1020, Andhra Pradesh 914, Uttar Pradesh 811, Rajasthan 706 and Tamil Nadu 529 ventilators," Galgali said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-gives-lions-share-of-n95-masks-tablets-ventilators-to-maharashtra-865153.html
24-07-2020||West||Senior lawyer, author Bhaskarrao Avhad passes away in Pune hospital||Senior advocate and author Bhaskarrao Avhad passed away in a hospital in Pune on Friday after a brief illness. He was 78, and is survived by his wife, son and daughter. Born in Ahmednagar, Avhad served as president of Bar Council of Maharashtra, Goa as well as other associations of lawyers, and also penned several books, many of them on law. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar tweeted that a true, honest and principled legal expert has gone from among us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/senior-lawyer-author-bhaskarrao-avhad-passes-away-in-pune-hospital-865179.html
24-07-2020||West||Use ballot papers in Gujarat bypolls in view of Covid-19: Congress to Election Commission||The Gujarat Congress on Friday urged the Election Commission (ECI) to use ballot papers instead of the electronic voting machines (EVMs) in the upcoming by-elections to eight Assembly seats in the state to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The EC is yet to announce the dates for the bypolls. In a letter sent to the Chief Election Commissioner on Friday, senior Congress MLA and Deputy Leader of Opposition Shailesh Parmar said that voting through ballot paper is the best option in the prevailing coronavirus situation. "Every constituency normally has 2 lakh voters. Around 1,000 voters come to a single booth to cast their votes. If EVMs are used, thousands of voters will touch one button. "If a coronavirus-infected person touches that button, everyone who pushes it afterwards would contract the infection," Parmar said in the letter. "Asymptomatic persons do not know that they are coronavirus positive. But others are at risk if they come in their contact. Hence, to stop people from getting infected, I urge you to opt for ballot paper instead of EVMs for the by- election to eight assembly seats," he said. Meanwhile, the Gujarat BJP said in a statement that the party and its cadres were ready to face the election. "It is upto the EC to decide when it wants to hold by-election to these eight seats. It's a democratic procedure to hold election on a seat within six months of an MLA's resignation. But the EC should also take into consideration the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state," Gujarat BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya said. "No matter when the elections are scheduled, the BJP is ready because our workers always remain amongst people to serve them. We are confident of winning all the eight seats," he said. In March, when Rajya Sabha election for three seats was declared, five Congress MLAs had resigned. The RS polls later got postponed. When the election was scheduled for June, three more Congress MLAs had resigned. Of these eight, five have already joined the ruling BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/use-ballot-papers-in-gujarat-bypolls-in-view-of-covid-19-congress-to-election-commission-865196.html
24-07-2020||West||One-day surge of 9,615 Covid-19 cases in Maha; 278 more dead||Maharashtra reported a single-day spike of 9,615 Covid-19 cases on Friday, which took the number of patients in the state to 3,57,117, the health department said. With as many as 278 deaths reported during the day, thefatality count mounted to 13,132, it said in a statement. A total of 5,714 patients were discharged on Friday, that increased the number of recovered persons to 1,99,967. Currently, there are 1,44,018 active cases in the state, the department said. So far, 17,87,306people have been tested across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-day-surge-of-9615-covid-19-cases-in-maha-278-more-dead-865241.html
24-07-2020||West||Amid a power tussle in Rajasthan, all eyes lay on Governor Kalraj Mishra||As the power struggle in Rajasthan grew intense, all eyes were on Governor Kalraj Mishra who has been accused by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot of “being under pressure from the top” to prevent him from proving majority in the state assembly. Congress MLAs led by Gehlot staged a five-hour sit-in protest on the Raj Bhawan lawns to press their demand of convening a session of the Rajasthan assembly. The protests were called off late Friday night after the Governor assured the MLAs to look into the matter and sought certain clarifications from the Chief Minister. Gehlot summoned a meeting of the cabinet scheduled to being at 9:30 pm on Friday to address the doubts raised by the Governor on the proposal sent by the Chief Minister to summon a session of the assembly. Protests by the Congress MLAs revived memories of a similar storming of the Raj Bhawan lawns by BJP leader Bhairon Singh Shekhawat in 1993 demanding that he be called to form the government in the state. “We requested him to call a session in a letter yesterday and we waited all night, but there was no response,” the Chief Minister said. “I told him that you must follow your conscience and uphold the dignity of the constitutional post. The people of Rajasthan are with us. If the masses surround Raj Bhawan in protest, we will not be responsible,” Gehlot said. According to the Constitution, the Governor is bound to accept the recommendation of the Council of Ministers to convene a session of the state assembly. Congress stepped up pressure on the Governor for calling a session after it failed to get a favourable ruling from the Rajasthan High Court ordered status quo to be maintained in the disqualification case against rebel leader Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs camping in the national capital region. “We are ready to prove our majority. The opposition (BJP) should welcome it, but here the river flows in the opposite direction (ulti Ganga behti hai),” Gehlot told reporters after meeting the Governor on Friday afternoon. Gehlot has a wafer thin majority in the assembly after Pilot’s rebellion – 102 in the House of 200, against his claims of 109. Pilot had claimed support of 30 MLAs, but has only 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-a-power-tussle-in-rajasthan-all-eyes-lay-on-governor-kalraj-mishra-865246.html
24-07-2020||West||National Investigation Agency court refuses bail to Anand Teltumbde||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here on Friday rejected `default' bail application of scholar and activist Anand Teltumbde, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Teltumbde had sought bail under section 167 (2) of Code of Criminal Procedure on July 13 as the NIA failed to file a charge sheet against him within 90 days as mandated under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Such bail is sometimes called default bail. But special judge D E Kothalikar rejected the application. On July 12, the court had granted the NIA ninety days' extension to file charge sheet. Teltumbde was arrested by the NIA on April 14 after he surrendered following the Supreme Court's direction. The NIA court had earlier rejected similar plea of another accused in the case, activist Gautam Navlakha. Teltumbde, Navlakha and nine others have been booked under stringent provisions of the UAPA for allegedly having links with the Maoists and conspiring to overthrow the government. They were initially booked by the Pune police after violence erupted near Koregaon-Bhima in Pune district. Inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet held in Pune on December 31, 2017, `backed' by Maoists, triggered the violence the next day, the police had alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/national-investigation-agency-court-refuses-bail-to-anand-teltumbde-865258.html
24-07-2020||West||1,068 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, 26 deaths||With the second-highest single-day spike of 1,068 new cases, the tally of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 53,631 on Friday, said a release by the state health department. Surat saw a spike of 309 cases, as well as 12 deaths. Overall, twenty-six coronavirus patients died, taking the death toll due to the pandemic in the state to 2,283, the release said. With 1,068 new cases, Gujarat was in the 10th spot in the country in terms of daily spike, it said. There are 12,518 active patients in the state now including 83 who are on ventilator, it said. On average, Gujarat is conducting around 15,000 tests every day which translates into per million 224.53 tests, it said. 872 persons were discharged from hospitals since Thursday evening, taking the number of recovered coronavirus patients to 38,830. 227 patients recovered in Surat district during this period, followed by 205 in Ahmedabad and 48 in Vadodara. But the Surat district also accounted for the highest 309 new cases (216 cases from the Surat city). It was followed by Ahmedabad with 176 new cases -- 161 from city area and 15 from rural areas. Ahmedabad has reported 25,349 coronavirus cases so far, the highest in the state. Surat has reported 11,693 cases, second-highest. Since Thursday evening, 12 coronavirus patients died in Surat district alone, followed by three each in Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Kutch, and one each in Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Mehsana, Rajkot and Tapi districts. 3.49 lakh people are home quarantined in the state and 1,764 are in quarantine centres. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 53,631, new cases 1,068, total deaths 2,283, discharged patients 38,830, active cases 12,518 and people tested so far 6,06,718.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1068-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-26-deaths-865278.html
24-07-2020||West||Mumbai man held for running prostitution racket from spa||A 32-year-old man was arrested on Friday by Crime Branch for allegedly operating a prostitution racket from a spa in Andheri East in Mumbai, an official said. He was identified as Hanif Moiuddin Shaikh, who was held after a raid on 'Brista Spa' by Unit X personnel, he added. Two women were rescued from there, he said, and Shaikh had been charged under IPC and Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-man-held-for-running-prostitution-racket-from-spa-865279.html
