25-07-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Man kills wife, daughter, then hangs self in Dharwad||In a heart-wrenching incident, a man reportedly killed his wife and daughter by feeding them poison and ended his life by hanging in his house. The incident took place in Dharwad on Saturday.  The deceased have been identified as Mounesh Pattar, his wife Arpita and four-year-old girl Sukruta.  Mounesh was working in a private company in Dharwad and was depressed from the last one week fearing job loss. On Friday late night, he reportedly gave poison to his wife and daughter and later committed suicide by hanging self. The incident came to light on Saturday morning. A case is registered at Sub Urban police station and further investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/man-kills-wife-daughter-then-hangs-self-in-dharwad-865447.html
25-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka grapples with recovery even as Covid-19 cases surge||Karnataka reported 5,000 odd Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Friday, but the state's recovery rate is struggling to catch up with the surge. At 36.2% (as per the state war room's July 23 report), the rate is one of the lowest in the country. Experts, however, say this is not an indication of the recovery period getting longer among the patients here but because the state is on an ascent in terms of cases. Other states peaked much earlier than Karnataka, they say. The state reported 5,007 cases on Friday, a marginal dip from the 5,030 on Thursday. Bengaluru accounted for 2,267 cases. There are 52,791 patients recuperating at various facilities in the state. Among the districts, Yadgir has the highest recovery rate of 83.2%. Dr Giridhar Babu, epidemiologist and member of the state and ICMR expert committee, said, "The cases are all recent and there is no recovery as such. The surge in cases in Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu happened many weeks earlier. Those states are seeing fewer cases than discharges because they had the peak earlier." This is typically seen in the ascending phase of the surge where new cases are isolated and very few from the earlier phase have recovered. "So, we are actually comparing two different time periods," Babu said. "At least two weeks' time is needed to see the trend in terms of what the actual recovery rate is. Most people will recover within 10 to 14 days. Eventually, all states will have similar recovery rate," he added. Dr Trilok Chandra, who heads the Critical Care Support Unit in the state, said, "The data on the number of recoveries needs to be updated. We are working on it. Our average recovery period remains 14 to 17 days and hasn't increased." Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar had, at a recent press conference, said, “The spike has happened in the past 15 days. In fact, around 23,000 positive cases have been reported in the past one week itself and of these, 77% patients are asymptomatic. Unlike symptomatic patients, who may require some time to recover, asymptomatics will be discharged the next week.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-grapples-with-recovery-even-as-covid-19-cases-surge-865303.html
25-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Panchayat Development Officer dies of Covid-19 in Kalaburagi||A 58-year-old Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) died of Covid-19 here on Saturday. The deceased, a resident of Hatagunda village of Kalaburagi taluk, was working as PDO of Maratur Gram Panchayat in Shahabad taluk for the past seven years. He had given his throat swab sample on July 16 and the report had returned positive on July 18. The PDO who had been under treatment for his heart aliment, died of virus infections on Saturday. The officer was also in-charge of Hongunta Gram Panchayat and had supervised a quarantine centre earlier opened for the migrant returnees. He is said to be in constant touch with the people after the works under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme began. State Grama Panchayat Employees' Association joint secretary Shivanand said a total of nine and 11 staff worked with the deceased in Hongunta and Maratur Gram Panchayats respectively. No one has displayed any symptoms so for, he told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/panchayat-development-officer-dies-of-covid-19-in-kalaburagi-865612.html
25-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Residents rescue five from vehicle||Residents of Badadal village in Afzalpur taluk of the district rescued five passengers of a car which was washing away in the flash floods while crossing a bridge on the outskirts of the village on Friday evening. The villagers who saw the vehicle sweeping away in the undercurrent of the water, rescued the passengers with the help of a rope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/residents-rescue-five-from-vehicle-865666.html
25-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||One year of BSY govt: BJP plans massive outreach||The BJP has lined up a series of events to celebrate the B S Yediyurappa government completing one year in office. Yediyurappa took oath on July 26 last year.  Addressing a news conference, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said Yediyurappa will release a booklet containing the achievements of the BJP government at Vidhana Soudha on July 27.  “The government faced four major crises in the last one year such as drought, floods, by-elections and Covid-19,” Narayan said, adding that the government took many important policy decisions and handled challenges with efficiency. BJP general secretary N Ravikumar said the party will plant one crore trees on July 28. “From July 29 to July 31, the party will take up a massive outreach programme to take the achievements of the government to 50 lakh homes,” he said. The one-year commemoration will conclude on August 1 with a virtual rally that will be addressed by Yediyurappa and BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/one-year-of-bsy-govt-bjp-plans-massive-outreach-865682.html
25-07-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh sees record 8,000 virus cases||After ravaging urban centres, Covid-19 is fast spreading in India’s largely rural states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttarakhand, putting to test the fragile health infrastructure in these states, even as the outbreak assumed alarming proportions in Andhra Pradesh. The southern state saw a record 8,147 fresh cases and 49 deaths on Friday.  Amid the surge, Cabinet Secretary Ajay Gauba on Friday held a meeting with chief secretaries and health secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam, Karnataka, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. The states were asked to step up testing, with special focus on containment zones, to prevent the spread of the infection and advised to have a clear focus on health infrastructure availability.  According to a DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 13,35,128 confirmed cases of the infectious diseases of which 8,48,738 patients had already recovered and discharged from healthcare facilities at 7.30 pm on Friday. Reports from Bihar, which added 1,611 new cases on Thursday, suggested that the healthcare infrastructure in the state was stretched with patients being left unattended for days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-sees-record-8000-virus-cases-865306.html
25-07-2020||National||China to Chennai: Foxconn to invest more in Tamil Nadu iPhone unit||Taiwanese electronics manufacturer Foxconn, which has commenced assembling high-end Apple iPhones at its manufacturing facility at Sriperumbudur near here, is likely to invest an additional Rs 7,000 crore to expand capacity. Highly-placed sources in the Tamil Nadu government told DH that the investment is expected to be finalised in the coming months. The expansion will enhance Foxconn’s capacity to assemble iPhones at its Tamil Nadu facility, they said. Though Apple and Foxconn were tight-lipped about assembling the phones in India, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal’s office and IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad retweeted reports regarding the development and hailed the move as a “significant boost to Make in India”. Foxconn's move came amid expectations that several firms, especially those manufacturing electronics, would move out of China as a fallout of the coronavirus outbreak and set up their units in India. “In all probability, Foxconn would make an investment of Rs 7,000 crore in Tamil Nadu to expand its Sriperumbudur facility. This is the facility where the company is manufacturing iPhones, and the investment is likely to be finalised in the coming months,” a top government official told DH. Another official said Foxconn is “impressed” with the workforce that is available in Tamil Nadu and has given enough hints about the fresh investment in the state, despite being wooed by other states too. “Foxconn was allotted 100 acres a few years ago and they have enough land with them. They are very much interested in investing in Tamil Nadu because of the excellent workforce here. Three ports in and around Chennai is also a major reason for companies preferring the city,” the official explained. The Twitter handle of Goyal’s office retweeted a media report in this regard and said the assembling of iPhone 11 was a “significant boost to Make in India”. “Apple has started manufacturing iPhone 11 in India, bringing a top-of-the-line model for the first time in the country,” the tweet read. Retail sources in Bengaluru also confirmed to DH that the locally assembled iPhone 11 has reached the shelves along with those assembled in China. Apple had begun production of some of its models at the Wistron plant in Bengaluru in 2016 and now plans to make iPhone SE 2020 at the aforesaid facility. If the additional investment by Foxconn is finalised, it will be a major boost for Tamil Nadu’s efforts to garner investments from firms that are planning to shift out of China due to the pandemic. Already, the state has signed MoUs with nearly 30 companies for setting up manufacturing units in Tamil Nadu in the midst of the pandemic. One of the leading destinations for Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) into the country, the state has attracted $29,848 million in FDI from April 2000 to March 2019. According to figures released by the government, Tamil Nadu had retained its position by attracting $2,613 million during 2018-19. It is also the third-largest exporter of goods in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-to-chennai-foxconn-to-invest-more-in-tamil-nadu-iphone-unit-865313.html
25-07-2020||National||India hands $1 million aid to North Korea, greets Kim Kong Un||India on Friday extended medical assistance worth $ 1 million to North Korea in a rare reach-out to the pariah nation. New Delhi extended the medical assistance in response to a request received from the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. India is “sensitive to the shortage of medical supply situation” in North Korea and decided to grant humanitarian assistance of $1 million in the form of medicines to fight tuberculosis, said the MEA spokesperson. New Delhi’s medical assistance is under the aegis of an ongoing WHO anti-tuberculosis programme in North Korea and hence exempted from the sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council. New Delhi’s envoy to Pyongyang, Atul Malhari Gotsurve, on July 16 handed over to North Korean Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, Pak Myong Ho, a floral basket and a congratulatory letter addressed to the pariah nation’s “Supreme Leader”, Kim Jong Un, on the occasion of the 8th anniversary of conferment of the title of ‘marshal” on him. India had earlier provided North Korea two consignments of food worth $ 1 million each in 2011 and 2016 – both under the World Food Programme. V K Singh, then Minister of State for External Affairs, had embarked on a rare visit to North Korea in May 2018 – the first by a minister of the Government of India to the reclusive communist country in two decades. Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi's visit in September 1998 had been the last by a minister from India to North Korea. Naqvi had been the Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting in Prime Minister A B Vajpayee's Government, when he had visited North Korea to attend the sixth Pyongyang Film Festival. Singh’s May 2018 visit had come close on the heels of the historic summit between Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in in the demilitarized zone on the border between the two neighbours. He had underscored the “threat from nuclear proliferation” during his visit and conveyed to North Korean leaders New Delhi's “concerns in the context of the proliferation linkages with neighbourhood” of India. India has since long been concerned over North Korea's clandestine defence technology cooperation with Pakistan. New Delhi, according to the sources, suspects that Pyongyang-Islamabad secret defence cooperation, which in the mid-1990s led to supply of Rodong Missiles and technology to Pakistan, is still continuing. Abdul Qadeer Khan, the founder of nuclear program of Pakistan, was in 2003 found to have traded know-how and technology with Iran, Libya and North Korea. Khan in 2011 made public documents in support of his claim that North Korea had bribed senior officials of Pakistani Army and got them to allow him to share nuclear technology and certain equipment with the pariah nation. New Delhi received inputs, suggesting that certain nuclear materials supplied to Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission by the Suntech Technology Company Limited of China in the recent years were being diverted to North Korea in violation of the sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hands-1-million-aid-to-north-korea-greets-kim-kong-un-865335.html
25-07-2020||National||Rajasthan Governor will go by Constitution on calling session, Cong MLAs end sit-in||Congress MLAs in the Ashok Gehlot camp on Friday ended a five-hour dharna at the Raj Bhawan after an assurance from the governor that he will go by the constitutional provisions on summoning an assembly session, a party leader said. The governor, however, wanted the state government's clarification on some points before he makes the announcement, Congress leader Randeep Surjewala told reporters outside the Raj Bhawan. He said the governor has given assurance that he will abide by Article 174 of the Constitution. The Article deals with the governor's role in summoning a session of the state assembly. Legal experts earlier told PTI that the governor has no option but to accept the recommendation of the Ashok Gehlot Cabinet and convene the assembly session. Outside the Raj Bhawan, AICC spokesperson Surjewala said the governor has given a note to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot seeking clarifications. He said these points will be taken care of at a Cabinet meeting Gehlot is calling at Friday 9.30 pm. "The Governor informed that he will abide by the Constitution and will take a decision without being under any pressure," Surjewala said. He said that after the Cabinet gives the clarification to the queries, the governor will be duty-bound to abide by Article 174. "We believe in the assurance given by the governor." Later, a statement from the Raj Bhawan said Governor Kalraj Mishra, in a six-point questionnaire, has asked the government to respond as to why the assembly session is being called. "When the government has a majority, what is the justification for convening the session to prove it then?," he posed. The governor also said that neither justification nor any agenda has been proposed to call the session on a short notice. The date from which the assembly session is to be convened is not mentioned in the Cabinet note and no approval has been given by the cabinet, the Raj Bhawan said in the statement. Earlier in the day, the chief minister said despite a letter, the governor has not called the assembly session and alleged that he was under "pressure from the higher ups". "We want an assembly session from Monday. But the governor is not calling the session under pressure," he told reporters outside the hotel where the legislators supporting him are camping. Gehlot said that after the recent cabinet meeting, the governor was requested through a letter to call an Assembly session to discuss the political situation, review coronavirus pandemic and its effects on the state's economic situation. He also said that if the public surrounds the Raj Bhawan, then it will not be the government's responsibility. Gehlot, along with the MLAs, went to the Raj Bhawan in the afternoon, complaining that the governor was sitting on letter that the Cabinet had sent seeking an assembly session on Monday.  The chief minister held discussions with the governor separately while the MLAs began a dharna in the lawn and asserted that it will be called off only when the date for beginning the session is announced. After nearly five hours, the dharna ended and the MLAs returned to the hotel. Meanwhile, the BJP sought to cornered Gehlot for his "public may surround the Raj Bhawan" remark, saying he himself has violated provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code by his statement. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the Centre should deploy CRPF in the state to handle law and order instead of trusting the state police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-governor-will-go-by-constitution-on-calling-session-cong-mlas-end-sit-in-865336.html
25-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 25||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 13 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 13,70,339 as of July 25 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 31,655 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 8,49,432 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-25-865360.html
25-07-2020||National||DH Toon | Herd immunity for Delhi and politics?||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-herd-immunity-for-delhi-and-politics-865376.html
25-07-2020||National||CRPF SI kills senior, self in Delhi||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Sub Inspector allegedly shot dead his senior before killing himself in the Lodhi Estate area of the national capital, officials said on Saturday. The incident took place around 10:30 PM on Friday at 61, Lodhi Estate, a bungalow allotted to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), they said. Officials said an argument took place between Sub Inspector Karnail Singh (55) and his senior Inspector Dashrath Singh (56). The SI allegedly killed the Inspector with his service weapon and later shot himself dead, they said. The SI hailed from Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir, while the Inspector was from Rohtak in Haryana. Senior officials of the paramilitary force and local police reached the spot soon after. An inquiry is being conducted to ascertain the reason behind the incident, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-si-kills-senior-self-in-delhi-865411.html
25-07-2020||National||US court rejects bail plea of 26/11 accused Rana being sought by India||A US court has rejected the USD 1.5 million bail application of Pakistani-origin Canadian businessman Tahawwur Rana, who has been declared a fugitive by India for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack case, describing him a flight risk. Rana, 59, a childhood friend of David Coleman Headley, was re-arrested on June 10 in Los Angeles on an extradition request by India for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. He is a declared fugitive in India. US District Court Judge in Los Angeles Jacqueline Chooljian, in her 24-page order dated July 21, denied bail to Rana arguing that he is a flight risk. Describing Rana as a flight risk, the US government opposed his release on bail, arguing that if he were to flee to Canada, he may escape the possibility of a death sentence in India. “Given the stakes, an allowance of bail in any amount would not guarantee Rana’s presence in court. Granting bail would invite the possibility of embarrassing the United States in the conduct of its foreign affairs, straining its relationship with India,” Assistant US Attorney John J Lulejian had told the court. On the other hand, Rana’s attorney told the court that the 26/11 accused is not a flight risk and has proposed a USD 1.5 million bond for his release. Rana, in his defence, has argued that the US’ decision not to extradite his co-conspirator, Headley, to India is inconsistent and bars his extradition. While Rana “has presented a robust bail package and proffered conditions which significantly mitigate the risk of flight, the court cannot find that he has negated the risk of flight and accordingly grants the Detention Request (of the government) on that basis,” Judge Chooljian said. For someone facing conspiracy to murder and murder charges in India, the incentive to flee to avoid extradition is strong, the court said. Pakistan-born Rana completed Army Medical College there, and served in the Pakistani Army as a doctor for more than a decade, but eventually deserted. He is currently a Canadian citizen, but was a resident of Chicago where he had a business. According to the court papers, he has also resided in and traveled to Canada, Pakistan, Germany and England and speaks seven languages. If he flees to Canada, he could effectively avoid exposure to the death penalty as such country’s extradition treaty with India contains a provision which allows extradition to be refused if the offence for which extradition is requested is punishable by death in India and is not punishable by death in Canada unless India gives assurances that a death penalty would not be executed, federal prosecutors had said. “There is no question in the court’s mind that given” Rana’s significant foreign ties, particularly to Canada, and the potential death penalty awaiting him in India if he is extradited on and convicted of the most serious pending charges, he is a flight risk, the court said. According to the court papers, Rana had tested positive for Covid-19 at Terminal Island in Los Angeles on April 28, 2020, but was asymptomatic and has since recovered. He tested negative in the last three tests on June 13, June 15 and June 25. According to the federal prosecutors, between 2006 and November 2008, Rana conspired with Headley, also known as "Daood Gilani”, and others in Pakistan to assist Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Harakat ul-Jihad-e-Islami, both US-designated terrorist organisations, to plan and carry out the Mumbai terrorist attacks. Pakistani-American LeT terrorist Headley was involved in plotting the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. He was made an approver in the case, and is currently serving a 35-year prison term in the US for his role in the attack. India seeks his arrest on a number of offences, including the conspiracy to commit murder, conspiracy to commit forgery for the purpose of cheating, and murder under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He is sought for his role in 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai. The 2008 Mumbai attack was one of India’s most horrific terrorist attacks in which 166 people were killed and over 300 injured as 10 heavily-armed terrorists from Pakistan created mayhem. Pakistani national Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the lone terrorist captured alive, was hanged to death on November 21, 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-26/11-accused-rana-being-sought-by-india-865422.html
25-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally soars to 13,36,861 with 48,916 fresh cases; death toll now 31,358||India's Covid-19 tally zoomed past 13 lakhs on Saturday, just two days after it crossed the 12 lakh mark, while the recoveries mounted to 8,49,431, according to the Union Health Ministry. With 48,916 fresh cases, the country's coronavirus infection tally surged to 13,36,861, while the death toll rose to 31,358 with 757 more people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. There are currently 4,56,071 active cases of Covid-19 in the country. Thus, around 63.54 per cent people have recovered so far. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners.  This is the third consecutive day when Covid-19 cases increased by more than 45,000. Of the 757 deaths reported, 278 were from Maharashtra, 108 from Karnataka, 88 from Tamil Nadu, 59 from Uttar Pradesh, 49 from Andhra Pradesh, 35 from West Bengal, 32 from Delhi, 26 from Gujarat, 14 from Jammu and Kashmir, 11 from Madhya Pradesh and eight each from Rajasthan and Telangana. Assam, Chhattisgarh and Odisha have reported six fatalities each, followed by Punjab five deaths, Kerala and Haryana four each, Bihar and Jharkhand three each, and Puducherry, Tripura, Meghalaya and Nagaland one fatality each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-soars-to-1336861-with-48916-fresh-cases-death-toll-now-31358-865428.html
25-07-2020||National||Rajasthan Cabinet meet likely; govt to send revised proposal to Governor requesting Assembly session||The Rajasthan Cabinet is likely to meet again on Saturday to revise a proposal to be sent to Governor Kalraj Mishra requesting him to convene a session of the Assembly. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, facing a revolt by some Congress MLAs led by Sachin Pilot, chaired a meeting of the Cabinet on Friday night to discuss the points raised by the governor on its earlier proposal. "Discussions on the points raised by the governor with regard to calling the Assembly session were held in the meeting last night," a source said, adding that the Cabinet is likely to meet again on Saturday. A revised proposal will be forwarded to the governor after approval by the Cabinet. The Congress government is pushing for a session of the Assembly so that the chief minister can prove his majority on the floor of the House after the Rajasthan High Court on Friday ordered that status quo should be maintained on the disqualification notices sent out by the Speaker to Pilot and 18 other MLAs. The Governor on Friday asked the Ashok Gehlot government why it wanted to call an Assembly session to secure a vote of confidence if it already had the majority. The governor posed the query in a six-point questionnaire entailing a note sent by the Raj Bhawan to the state Parliament Affairs Department, the Raj Bhawan said in a statement. In his note to the state government, Governor Mishra emphasised that “no one is above the Constitutional dignity and no pressure politics should be resorted to.” He also pointed out that neither had any date for convening the session been mentioned in the Cabinet note, annexed with the government's request, nor had the Cabinet given its approval to it. The government has neither given any reason for calling the session on such a short notice nor proposed any agenda for it, said the governor, pointing out that a 21-day notice is mandatory for calling an Assembly session. In the statement, the Raj Bhawan added that Governor Mishra had also asked the government “to ensure the independence and freedom of movement of all members of the legislative assembly”. On Friday, the chief minister said that a letter was forwarded to the governor on Thursday night for calling the session, but he had not taken any decision on it. Congress MLAs loyal to Gehlot on Friday held a five-hour sit-in at the Raj Bhawan to press for an Assembly session. The Congress said it ended the sit-in following an assurance from the Governor that he will abide by Article 174 of the Constitution, after getting some clarifications from the CM. The provision deals with the Governor's role in summoning a session of the assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-cabinet-meet-likely-govt-to-send-revised-proposal-to-governor-requesting-assembly-session-865437.html
25-07-2020||National||No buyers, huge losses: Covid-19 turns Eid insipid for goat sellers||Shakeel Khan came from Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, around two weeks ago to sell his employer's goats at Delhi's famous caprine market near Jama Masjid. A week away from Eid al-Adha or Bakri Eid, he has not been able to find any buyers. With a little money left on him, the 22-year-old spends his nights outside closed shops on Urdu Bazar Road near the famous mosque. "Had I been able to sell some of my goats and earn something, I would have found a shelter nearby," he says. The novel coronavirus pandemic has hit businesses and people who could afford four goats till last year do not have enough money to buy even one this Eid, says a buyer who approached Khan but could not seal the deal. Khan's employer had fixed the price of a pair of goats, each weighing around 40 kg, at Rs 30,000. "The price is reasonable," he says. "Last year, I sold eight goats for Rs 1.6 lakh -- Rs 20,000 a goat. This year, no buyer has offered more than Rs 10,000 a goat so far," says Khan, who has been a regular to the caprine market for five years. Safeena, 53, and her daughter-in-law have come from Filmistan area in Old Delhi to buy a goat for the festival on July 31. "We buy a goat every year. This year, our shop remained shut for most of the period," she says. "These are tough times. We had saved some money for the festival but we cannot afford to splurge." Fariya, the daughter-in-law, says they bought a goat for Rs 15,000 last year. "This year, we have got only Rs 10,000. It has been hard to find a nice goat in this price range," she says, resting for a while on a bench outside a cloth shop in the market. Zaid Malik, the cloth shop owner, says the administration did not give permission for selling of goats this year for fear of coronavirus. "Compared to previous years, there is nothing in the market this time. It would bustle with activity and you won't find any empty space. Now, you can count the number of people on your fingers," he says. In normal times, Mohammad Izhaar would have sold around 15-20 goats on the festival of sacrifice. This year, he has sold only a pair, that too at a loss. "We have scaled down our prices. Our asking price was Rs 18,000, we got Rs 15,500," he says. In a world without coronavirus, the pair would have fetched Rs 30,000-35,000, according to Izhaar. "It takes around 18 months to prepare a goat. A lot goes into its upkeep. We spend around Rs 10,000 on food, which includes gram, wheat, maize, barley, per goat a year," Izhaar, a resident of Azadpur, says. The goats are kept in a 1,300-square-foot plot his father has rented for Rs 7,000 a month. Aslam Khan, 13, comes to the market around 10 am and leaves at 8 pm. But in over a week, he has not been able to find a buyer for any of his four goats. "My brother drops me here every morning and he himself goes to the Jafrabad market to sell goats. I don't have a place to sit, so I keep standing the whole time," he says. "Only a few buyers have approached us so far. They, too, offered a very low price. If we are not able to sell them this year, we will keep them for next time," Khan says. Mohammad Zahid, from Uttar Pradesh's Amroha, says he had brought five goats and have sold three of them at a loss of around Rs 18,000. "I had no option but to sell them at a loss. The transport cost is so high given the circumstances. Tempo drivers have been asking for Rs 500-700 per goat. Also, police have to be taken care of," he says. Business is lean and fuel prices have increased. Everyone is fighting for survival. The virus has already killed us all, Pawan Kumar, a tempo owner, says. "This is the worst I have seen. People from Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and other states come here to sell goats. They would rent a place and stay in the city for a month at least. Only a few people have come from outside this year, due to strict restrictions in place," he says. Shahbuddin Khan, a hardware shop owner, says an arrangement could have been made to avoid losses, but the government is unwilling. "The municipal corporation could have used the grounds nearby to set up stalls for goat sellers, adhering to social distancing norms," he says. "Based on a token system, there could have different slots for sellers to avoid overcrowding," he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-buyers-huge-losses-covid-19-turns-eid-insipid-for-goat-sellers-865452.html
25-07-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tests positive for Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has tested positive for Covid-19. In a tweet, the minister appealed to those who came in contact with him to get tested for coronavirus. People who came in close contact with me have been quarantined, he said.  The minister said that he got tested for Covid-19 after he showed some symptoms and the result was positive.  "I had symptoms of Covid-19. In the test report, I was found positive. I appeal to all my colleagues that whoever has come in my contact to get tested for coronavirus. My close contacts should move to quarantine," Chouhan said in a tweet. In another tweet, the chief minister said that if detected and treated on time, one can recover from the Covid-19 infection. "I have been reviewing the status of coronavirus infection in the state every evening since March 25. Now I will try to review the situation through video conferencing as much as possible," he said. Chouhan also said that in his absence, the meeting to review the coronavirus situation will be held by Home Minister Narottam Mishra, Urban Development and Administration Minister Bhupendra Singh, Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang and Health Minister Prabhuram Choudhary.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-865457.html
25-07-2020||National||UN report warns of significant number of ISIS terrorists in Kerala, Karnataka||A UN report on terrorism has warned that there are “significant numbers” of ISIS terrorists in Kerala and Karnataka, noting that the al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent terror group, which reportedly has between 150 and 200 militants from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar, is planning attacks in the region. The 26th report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team concerning ISIS, al-Qaida and associated individuals and entities said that the al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) operates under the Taliban umbrella from Nimruz, Helmand and Kandahar provinces of Afghanistan. “The group reportedly has between 150 and 200 members from Bangladesh, India, Myanmar and Pakistan. The current leader of AQIS is Osama Mahmood…, who succeeded the late Asim Umar… AQIS is reportedly planning retaliation operations in the region to avenge the death of its former leader,” it said. According to the report, “One member state reported that the ISIL Indian affiliate (Hind Wilayah), which was announced on May 10, 2019, has between 180 and 200 members”. It said that there are “significant numbers of ISIL operatives in Kerala and Karnataka states.” In May last year, the Islamic State (also known as ISIS, ISIL or Daesh) terror group claimed to have established a new "province" in India, the first of its kind announcement that came after clashes between militants and security forces in Kashmir. The dreaded terror outfit, through its Amaq News Agency, had said that the Arabic name of the new branch is "Wilayah of Hind" (India Province). A senior Jammu and Kashmir police officer had rejected the claim. Previously, ISIS attacks in Kashmir were linked to its so-called Khorasan Province branch, which was set up in 2015 to cover "Afghanistan, Pakistan and nearby lands".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-report-warns-of-significant-number-of-isis-terrorists-in-kerala-karnataka-865458.html
25-07-2020||National||Cong workers stage demonstrations across Rajasthan against BJP||Scores of Congress workers staged demonstrations against the BJP on Saturday, accusing it of "conspiring" to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. The Congress had on Friday given the call for demonstrations in all district headquarters against the "conspiracy to murder democracy" and to press the governor for convening an Assembly session. The Congress government is pushing for a session of the Assembly so that Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot can prove his majority on the floor of the House after the Rajasthan High Court on Friday ordered that status quo should be maintained on the disqualification notices sent out by the Speaker to rebel leader Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs. In Jaipur, the demonstration was held at the Youth Congress office. Party leaders addressed the gatherings across the state. "The BJP's intentions will not work out and the Ashok Gehlot government will complete its tenure. It is also disappointing that the Governor is not calling an Assembly session. The session should be called,” a party leader said in Bikaner. Congress workers took out a rally in Kota and staged a dharna in Jodhpur. Similar protest demonstrations were held elsewhere in the state. Giving the call for demonstrations, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara had on Friday said the programmes would be held following COVID-19 preventive measures such as social distancing. He said that not more than 50 persons would gather in any place. However, Congress workers gathered for the demonstrations in large numbers in all district headquarters disregarding social distancing norm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-workers-stage-demonstrations-across-rajasthan-against-bjp-865481.html
25-07-2020||National||People, govts together attained victory over Covid-19, fight not yet over: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said people of the city, his government and the Centre together have attained victory over Covid-19 but the fight is not yet over. Speaking at the inauguration of a 450-bed Delhi government hospital in Burari via videoconferencing, he said in the last one month, coronavirus-related parameters have improved in the national capital. "Two crore people of Delhi, Delhi government and the Centre together have attained victory over coronavirus but it would not be correct to say that the fight is over," Kejriwal said. He said in the past one month, the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has gone down, deaths have reduced, recovery rate has improved and the positivity ratio has lowered. With the inauguration of this hospital, the number of beds for coronavirus patients in the city will further increase, he added. Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who recently recovered from Covid-19, inaugurated the hospital in Burari. As of Friday, Delhi had 1,28,389 Covid-19 cases, while the toll due to the disease stood at 3,777. There were 13,681 active cases in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-govts-together-attained-victory-over-covid-19-fight-not-yet-over-kejriwal-865486.html
25-07-2020||National||Covid-19 case peaks won't be uniform across India, says expert||There cannot be a uniform peak in Covid-19 cases in a large country like India and each state has its own trajectory based on when people there were exposed to the infection, a public health expert said. The peak could be witnessed in states like Delhi by this month end or early August while it may be around September in others such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Karnataka, Director of the Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH) here Prof. G V S Murthy said. IIPH was set up under the aegis of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). In states such as Jharkhand it may take longer time as the spread has started only after the return of the migrant labourers, he said. "So, each state has its own trajectory based on when people were exposed to the infection in that particular state. There is not going to be a uniform peak for the country. There is going to be a number of peaks in the country," he told PTI. For example, Bihar seemed to be reporting a large number of cases suddenly after all those who migrated to other cities, specifically Mumbai and Delhi, started returning. It takes about 10-14 days for a Covid-19 person to infect others in their families and then the next wave of cases will happen, Murthy, who established and headed the first Community Ophthalmology Department in the public sector in the country at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences till 2010, said. Governments need to continue with measures to deal with the virus and the community also should strictly adhere to preventive guidelines such as washing hands and maintaining physical distancing, he said and stressed on taking intense steps in densely populated areas. States like Jharkhand (present total cases 7,564), Chattisgarh (6,819) and parts in eastern Uttar Pradesh too had reported much lower cases earlier but the spread would start occurring as the migrants have returned now to their homes. "There, the peak will take much longer. It would be somewhere towards the end of September or October that those states which had low reporting earlier, will have a peak," he said. But, states like Haryana, Telangana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu should be able to achieve the maximum number of cases by mid-September, he said. All these states which were reporting very high numbers now, should not be getting the same numbers beyond mid- September. Some states should achieve the peak by mid-August also. For example, Delhi seems to be on a path where, by the end of this month or early August, it can be said that the peak has been crossed, he said. The same could be the case with Rajasthan and Punjab, and other states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh may reach the peak in September, he said. The peak should occur in Tamil Nadu by the middle or the third week of August, said Murthy, who had worked at the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Childhood Blindness programme. He said the governments need to continue with measures to deal with the virus as the health system would be overwhelmed if there was a sudden rise in cases and if the states are unprepared. Such a scenario had been seen in Mumbai and others, the expert, who was a UNAIDS Consultant with the National Aids Control Organisation (NACO), added. "Kerala, you have seen now. They thought they had seen the end of Covid-19. Suddenly, in the last over 10 days, Kerala has had a much larger number of cases than before," he said. Complete monitoring was required in densely populated areas and intense steps should be taken when there is a sudden spike in cases. The three Ts Test, Track and Treatment were important to reduce the infections and slipping into serious complications, he noted. The community should follow precautions, including wearing a mask, hand-washing and maintaining physical distance, the health expert said. If somebody has any doubt of infection, they should immediately seek medical attention. Gatherings should be avoided. "As a community, we cannot put the entire onus on the government. As a community, it is our responsibility (to take the precautions)," he added. At the government level, Murthy suggested arranging mobile labs to collect samples (to avoid overcrowding) in a city like Hyderabad rather than people coming to certain locations to give samples. The community health centres can be strengthened with a few beds having oxygen supply facilities dedicated to Covidcare to treat needy patients. Those having severe breathlessness should be transferred to bigger tertiary hospitals, he said, adding that the focus should be on saving lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-case-peaks-wont-be-uniform-across-india-says-expert-865487.html
25-07-2020||National||Monsoon in north-central India can drop significantly: US scientific agency||Rainfall in north-central India can drop significantly this year because of the projected reduction in monsoon low-pressure system, according to a study of an American scientific agency. The study by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), released on Friday, projected a significant decrease in Monsoon Low-Pressure System (MLPS) occurrence over the south Asian monsoon region, attributed mainly to a reduction in low-level relative vorticity over the core genesis region. Notably, MLPSs are the primary rain-producing synoptic-scale systems over the Indian subcontinent, and are estimated to be responsible for more than half of the annual precipitation in agrarian north and central India. Changes in the characteristics of MLPSs, whether natural or forced, have far-reaching socio-economic impacts, the NOAA said. Despite increases in the total precipitation across much of the monsoon region, the model simulates little change or even slight decreases in precipitation over the core MLPS genesis region. “Assuming a fixed radius of influence, the projected reduction in monsoon low-pressure systems would significantly lower the associated precipitation over north-central India,” it said. Generally poor representation of MLPSs in global climate model simulations erodes the confidence in future projections. To date, only a few studies have investigated the potential changes in south Asian MLPSs, without conclusive findings, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-in-north-central-india-can-drop-significantly-us-scientific-agency-865495.html
25-07-2020||National||President Kovind completes 3 years in office||President Ram Nath Kovind completed three years in office on Saturday with the Rashtrapati Bhavan noting that he guided the country in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic and met nearly 7,000 people, including soldiers and scientists, during the year. "The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, completes three years in office today," it said in a tweet. According to a Rashtrapati Bhavan communiqué, President Kovind, along with the First Lady and other members of the family, joined the fellow citizens and expressed their gratitude towards all those who are safeguarding the health of the nation in spite of grave risk to them and their families. President Kovind also donated one-month salary to PM-CARES fund and has decided to forego 30 per cent of his salary for a year, it said in a series of slides mentioning various initiatives and work done during the third year of his presidency. "The Rashtrapati Bhavan has rationalized its expenditure for optimal use of resources,” the president's office said. President Kovind along with the Vice President held two video-conferences with Governors and Lieutenant Governors of all states and Union Territories to bolster the efforts at the central and state levels to contain and manage Covid-19, it said. As many as 6,991 people met the president at the Rashtrapati Bhavan and during his visits to different states. "On an average, President Kovind has met 20 persons per day, from soldiers to scientists, farmers to fire fighters,” another slide said. It said the president gave assent to 48 bills of the Union government and 22 bills of the state governments, promulgated 13 ordinances and appointed 11 governors, Chief Justice of India, Chief Information Commissioner and Central Vigilance Commissioner. The president visited 19 states and four Union territories in the third year of his presidency, said the slide on “Taking Rashtrapati Bhavan to the states”. Highlighting details of a more accessible Rashtrapati Bhavan, it said 1,22, 292 persons visited it since July 25, 2019. The Mughal Gardens and public tours of Rashtrapati Bhavan is closed since March 7 and March 13 respectively as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. Kovind paid tributes to martyrs at Chinar Corps (15 Corps) war memorial in Srinagar and attended the Army Day, Navy Day and Air Force Day reception, it said. The president presented colours to Corps of Army Air Defence at Odisha’s Gopalpur, to the Army Aviation Corps at Nashik, Maharashtra and to the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala, Kerala. He also visited the School of Artillery, Deolali and interacted with brave gunners, said the slide titled “Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces”. The president also honoured India’s best by interacting with achievers who have done commendable work in various fields. “Hailing from across the country, from Jammu and Kashmir to Kerala, these achievers were invited to meet the president and visit Rashtrapati Bhavan,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-completes-3-years-in-office-865498.html
25-07-2020||National||Mahanagar Gas hikes CNG prices by Re 1 to Rs 48.95/kg||State-run city gas utility Mahanagar Gas on Saturday announced a marginal Re 1 per kg increase in the price of compressed natural gas (CNG) to Rs 48.95 per kg. "To partially recover fixed costs in the face of lower sales due to the pandemic, and higher landing cost of gas due to the depreciation of the rupee against the dollar, we are constrained to increase the selling of CNG by Re 1 effective today,” MGL said in a statement. Accordingly, revised selling price inclusive of all taxes in and around Mumbai will be Rs 48.95/kg, it added. Even after the above revision, CNG offers attractive savings of about 60 per cent and 39 per cent compared to petrol and diesel, respectively, at the current price levels in the megapolis, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahanagar-gas-hikes-cng-prices-by-re-1-to-rs-4895/kg-865510.html
25-07-2020||National||Online convention to pay homage to former president A P J Abdul Kalam||‘Mission Kalam’, an online convention celebrating the life and time of the 11th President of India A P J Abdul Kalam was inaugurated on Saturday. The convention will be hosted by Los Angeles-based Pink Jaguars Entertainment, the banner behind the former president's upcoming biopic “APJ Abdul Kalam: The Missile Man”. The event will take place for eleven weekends with eleven online sessions starting from July 25, the day when Kalam took charge as the 11th president in 2002, to October 15, which marks his 89th birth anniversary. “This convention will have leaders from various areas of expertise to share their experiences on Dr Kalam, who was known as the ‘Missile Man of India’,” Suvarna Pappu, managing director, Pink Jaguars Entertainment, said in the Zoom session. The virtual inauguration was attended by Vellaichamy Ponraj, ADA scientist and former technical advisor to Kalam; Shekhar Rao Perala, ex vice-chairperson-Nehru Yuva Kendra Sanghatan(NYKS) and national executive member, BJP; Vasa Seshagiri Rao, IRS, Chief Commissioner CGST, Hyderabad Zone; Shaina NC, spokesperson BJP; director-writer of biopic, Jagadeesh Daneti; and actor Mohammed Ali, who essays the role of Kalam in the film. Reminiscing his journey with the former president, Vellaichamy said it was a life-changing experience to work with Kalam and co-author the book “Manifesto of Change” with him. “I was in 10th standard when SLV-3 was launched and I had a dream to become a scientist like Dr Kalam. I never knew I will be travelling with him for 20 years after joining DRDO. His mission was to make India self-reliant in aeronautics, defence and atomic energy. “I hope the biopic will inspire youth across the globe as the growth of science and technology is parallel to the growth of Kalam,” Vellaichamy said. Perala said Kalam shared a great bond with every citizen of India and he is looking forward to the biopic. “He was a man of simple living and high thinking. He was a man of actions and not just words. Dr Kalam is an inspiration for people across the world. He is loved by everyone in India. The biopic being made on him can inspire many young minds,” he added. The first look poster of the biopic was released by Minister for Information & Broadcasting of India, Prakash Javadekar earlier this year in February. Politician-fashion designer, Shaina NC, said while the biopic is a great step to make people aware about Kalam’s journey, a lot more is needed to be done to “understand” what he stood for. “At this given point in time, there are very few people who understand the relevance of Dr Kalam. Post COVID-19, life has changed and we have realised the power of simplicity. It is important to think about the past and realise that there are legends who are remembered for their sheer simplicity and brilliant vision,” she added. Biopic’s director Daneti also revealed the film’s international title at the online inaugural ceremony of ‘Mission Kalam’. The film, produced by Daneti, Pappu and Martini Films' Johnny Martin, will be released in the US under the title “Immortal President”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-convention-to-pay-homage-to-former-president-a-p-j-abdul-kalam-865515.html
25-07-2020||National||Over 18 lakh pleas filed in courts during coronavirus lockdown: Justice D Y Chandrachud||Over 18 lakh pleas were filed across courts in India during the coronavirus-induced lockdown between March and July, Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud said on Saturday. He also said that virtual courts, which have been set up under "very very exceptional circumstances", are not here stay and the physical courts would gradually start functioning once again. He was speaking during a virtual inauguration ceremony of the country's first E-Governance Centre in Nashik. "During the period of lockdown between March 24 and July 24, as many as 18,03,327 cases were registered across the country, of which 7,90,112 have been disposed of," Justice Chandrachud said. "During this period, the district courts in Maharashtra saw 2,22,431 cases, of which 61,986 have been disposed of despite functioning under the shadow of a serious pandemic," he added. According to him, the virtual courts have prevented justice from getting locked down even during this period of crisis. Justice Chandrachud, however, allayed fears that the virtual courts will replace the regular ones. "Virtual courts were introduced to prevent justice being locked down during the period of crisis. But you can never replace the open court hearing...These are intended to be special measures set up under very very exceptional circumstances and gradually we will go back to physical court hearings," he said. "But before we go to regular hearings, we have to be guided by the public health experts," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-18-lakh-pleas-filed-in-courts-during-coronavirus-lockdown-justice-d-y-chandrachud-865536.html
25-07-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind completes three years in office||President Ram Nath Kovind completed three years in office on Saturday with the Rashtrapati Bhavan noting that he guided the country in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic and met nearly 7,000 people, including soldiers and scientists, during the year. "The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, completes three years in office today," it said in a tweet. President Kovind, along with the First Lady and other members of the family, joined the fellow citizens and expressed their gratitude towards all those who are safeguarding the health of the nation in spite of grave risk to them and their families, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a series of infographics highlighting various initiatives and work done during the third year of his presidency. President Kovind also donated one-month salary to PM-CARES fund and has decided to forego 30 percent of his salary for a year, it said. "The Rashtrapati Bhavan has rationalized its expenditure for optimal use of resources,” the president's office said. Kovind hosted heads of from the United States of America, Sri Lanka, Zambia, Brazil, Sweden, Mongolia, Netherlands, Portugal and Myanmar between July 2019 and July 2020. He received 15 global leaders from five continents and Ambassadors/High Commissioners of 28 countries presented credentials at six different ceremonies, it said in an infographic, titled “Diplomacy-Busy year”. “First time in the history of Rashtrapati Bhavan that credentials were also presented through video conference due to Covid-19 pandemic,” it said. Kovind hosted 50th conference of Governors and Lieutenant Governors at Rashtrapati Bhavan. “The president said that Governors have a very important role in our Constitutional system. He expressed confidence that they will play an important role in helping states achieve the national goals,” another inforgraphic said. President Kovind along with the Vice President held two video-conferences with Governors and Lieutenant Governors of all states and Union Territories to bolster the efforts at the central and state levels to contain and manage Covid-19, it said. As many as 6,991 people met the president at the Rashtrapati Bhavan and during his visits to different states. "On an average, President Kovind has met 20 persons per day, from soldiers to scientists, farmers to firefighters,” the infographic said. In a slide titled “Focus on Campus”, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said that the president addressed nine convocations across India – IIT Roorkee, Pondicherry University, Sikkim University, Jamia Millia Islamia and Visva Bharti. It said the president gave assent to 48 bills of the Union government and 22 bills of the state governments, promulgated 13 ordinances and appointed 11 governors, Chief Justice of India, Chief Information Commissioner and Central Vigilance Commissioner. The president visited 19 states and four Union territories in the third year of his presidency, said the slide on “Taking Rashtrapati Bhavan to the states”. Kovind made seven state visits in the third year of presidency and addressed the Indian community in all the countries. He became the first Indian president to visit Benin, Gambia, Guinea and Slovenia. Kovind also made the first standalone visit of the president of India to West Africa. Highlighting details of a more accessible Rashtrapati Bhavan, it said 1,22, 292 persons visited it since July 25, 2019. The Mughal Gardens and public tours of Rashtrapati Bhavan is closed since March 7 and March 13 respectively as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. Kovind paid tributes to martyrs at Chinar Corps (15 Corps) war memorial in Srinagar and attended the Army Day, Navy Day and Air Force Day reception, it said. The president presented colours to Corps of Army Air Defence at Odisha's Gopalpur, to the Army Aviation Corps at Nashik, Maharashtra and to the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala, Kerala. He also visited the School of Artillery, Deolali and interacted with brave gunners, said the slide titled “Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces”. The president also honoured India’s best by interacting with achievers who have done commendable work in various fields. “Hailing from across the country, from Jammu and Kashmir to Kerala, these achievers were invited to meet the president and visit Rashtrapati Bhavan,” it said. The president banned plastic bottles in Rashtrapati Bhavan and promoted use of glass bottles in official meetings, state functions and for guests hosted by him. “An e-invitation system has been introduced to send invites for the official functions at Rashtrapati Bhavan including the At-Home reception, state functions and other official programmes,” Kovind’s office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-completes-three-years-in-office-865545.html
25-07-2020||National||Local Kashmiri apps help plug the hole left behind by SHAREit ban: Report||SHAREit, a file sharing application which does not need an internet connection, had been used prolifically by the people of Jammu and Kashmir, after a clampdown was imposed on internet following the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5. Mir Moien (18), a medical student from Kupwara, said that the application was like a backbone for Kashmiris. “I know someone who had transferred 2,000 GB of data within the first two months since the 5 August lockdown. And after the coronavirus lockdown, we had also been using SHAREit to transfer shows, movies and anything to keep ourselves occupied; we can’t access entertainment like the rest of the world,” Moien told LiveMint. Moien travelled to Delhi, where his brother was pursuing a PhD at Jamia Handard University. He downloaded lectures from YouTube and shared them with his peers after he went back. The application was not only used by students to continue their education, but also by journalists to transfer documents or work-related content. Journalists from Kashmir have been using the application before the 11-month long internet clampdown too. Last year, Anees Zargar, a journalist, was working on a story about the minors who had been detained after Article 370 was revoked. Though he could speak to the family of a detained minor in Shopian, south Kashmir, it was impossible for the family to transfer the documents—school and medical certificates—that would prove the boy was under 18. “Since the unprecedented shutdown last August, I used it to take documents for stories of people who fell ill inside jails, juveniles. SHAREit was the only way to get access to them," Zargar said. Quratulain Rehbar (26), another journalist, used the application to access research and background. “We work in times when internet and phones are the basic tools of journalism, and they don’t work—we need it for research, background and more especially when we are filing stories for publications outside Kashmir who don’t have context of the conflict zone we live in,” she added. Despite these difficulties, Kashmiris have started developing local applications. Tipu Sultan Wani, a web developer from Chadoora in Budgam district has already launched File Share Tool. Developed by his brother and himself, the new application has over 10,000 downloads on Google Play Store. Finding ways around the internet shutdown, the new application uses Wi-fi technology called SoftAP that creates a personal network using the Wi-Fi radio built into every phone. To establish a connection between two phones, a QR is required. Wani is also developing alternative applications of TikTok and has already launched a document scanner application to replace CamScanner. “No one knows how to adapt and survive like us. I really wish the world recognised the talent we have here. With better access and more opportunities, our local apps could be world class,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/local-kashmiri-apps-help-plug-the-hole-left-behind-by-shareit-ban-report-865551.html
25-07-2020||National||India's coronavirus testing hits record high of 4.20 lakh samples a day||India has gradually ramped-up its testing capacity for Covid-19 and conducted over 4.20 lakh tests in a day, the highest ever, the Union Health Ministry said Saturday, crediting the increase in number of labs for the achievement. India had only one lab for testing samples for the disease in January but it has now increased the number to 1,301, including private labs. The Health Ministry said revised guidelines by ICMR and all-round efforts by states also aided in widespread testing. Till Friday, a total of 1,58,49,068 tests for Covid-19 had been done in the country. India did 3.50 lakh tests every day over the last one week, the ministry said. With 4,20,898 samples tested in the past 24 hours, it added, the Tests Per Million (TPM) has increased to 11,485 and continue to maintain an upward trend. "The Union government has advised all state and UT governments to keep up the strategy of 'Test, Track and Treat' with aggressive testing which may lead to higher number of daily positive cases initially but would eventually achieve a decline as has been demonstrated after the central government's targeted efforts in the NCT of Delhi," the ministry said in a statement. With increased testing of samples for Covid-19, the fatality rate has significantly dropped to 2.35 per cent on Saturday and the recovery rate has surged to 63.54 per cent. "India has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world," the health ministry said. The downward trend in fatality rate means the collective efforts of the Centre and state and UT governments have checked the mortality due to Covid-19, it stated. A total of 8,49,431 Covid-19 patients have recovered. The recoveries exceed the active cases by 3,93,360. However, with 48,916 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally zoomed past 13 lakh on Saturday, just two days after it crossed the 12-lakh mark, while the death toll mounted to 31,358, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-testing-hits-record-high-of-420-lakh-samples-a-day-865554.html
25-07-2020||National||POSOCO to use AI to forecast electricity demand: Chairman||National electricity grid operator POSOCO will use Artificial Intelligence (AI) for electricity demand forecasting, said POSOCO chairman KVS Baba said here. He was speaking at a virtual global workshop titled ''Power Utility Challenges during Covid-19 Pandemic'' organised by Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) India Council and Power & Energy Society (PES) India Chapters Council with panelists from various countries, the Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO) said in a statement. The POSOCO chairman and managing director also stressed upon distribution companies (discoms) to use AI and derive patterns based on this technology. "Demand forecasting is still a challenge but for system operators, more forecast errors mean more reserves to be kept on our part to meet variables," Baba said in the statement. When asked about variation in renewables, the CMD said that renewables are highly unpredictable since sub-stations are not yet highly efficient in terms of data logging. POSOCO is a wholly owned Government of India enterprise under the Ministry of Power. It is responsible to ensure the integrated operation of the grid in a reliable, efficient, and secure manner. It consists of five Regional Load Despatch Centres (RLDCs) and the National Load Despatch Centre (NLDC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/posoco-to-use-ai-to-forecast-electricity-demand-chairman-865558.html
25-07-2020||National||Twitter withholds Prashant Bhushan's tweets which led to contempt proceedings||Microblogging site Twitter has disabled two tweets by advocate Prashant Bhushan, days after the Supreme Court issued contempt notice to him for the posts, saying it prima facie undermined the dignity and authority of the Supreme Court and the office of Chief Justice of India. The offensive tweets are no longer visible. Instead, a message has been posted stating the tweet has been withheld in India in response to a legal demand. A bench led by Justice Arun Mishra had on July 22 taken Suo Motu cognisance of the matter and issued a criminal contempt notice to Bhushan for his tweets posted on June 27 and 29. The court had then orally asked Twitter counsel why those tweets were not disabled. It had sought a reply from the US-based company as well and posted the matter for consideration on August 5. Twitter had then claimed that it can disable a tweet only on direction by the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-withholds-prashant-bhushans-tweets-which-led-to-contempt-proceedings-865561.html
25-07-2020||National||Railways to revamp IRCTC website, make it more passenger-friendly||To give better experience to passengers in booking online tickets, the Indian Railways is revamping the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). "Artificial Intelligence (AI)  will be used to provide a better ticket booking experience to passengers. The AI will predict the booking pattern for passengers and suggest the best possible combination of trains available," Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said here. "With 80 per cent of railway passeners booking tickets online, the railways is working on revamping the IRCTC website to make it more passenger-friendly, with easy filters to search trains, availbility of seats in all trains, fare display and waiting list confirmation probability. The IRCTC website will also be integrated with hotel and meal booking," he said. As part of the national transporter's efforts to introduce contactless ticketing system, it is also working on issuing QTcode-enabled tickets, both through online booked and physical counters. A pilot of contactless ticket-checking on the line of airport-like check in was already started at Prayagraj Junction of North Central Railway, he said. The railways also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for satellite tracking of trains. This is to capture real-time data relating to the speed and location of the trains and arrival and departure. This will also improve the efficiency in train operation and helps passengers to get to know the movement of trains on a real-time basis, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-revamp-irctc-website-make-it-more-passenger-friendly-865566.html
25-07-2020||National||NGT slams Road Ministry over delay in guidelines on scrapping of vehicles||The National Green Tribunal has rapped the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways for the delay in issuing guidelines on scrapping of vehicles. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said a proper mechanism to set up authorised recycling centres compliant with environmental norms was an urgent need in view of a large number of 'End of Life Vehicles' (ELV). The tribunal noted that draft guidelines for setting up, authorisation and operation of Vehicles Scrapping Centres have been uploaded on MoRTH website for public comments and have been suitably modified in reference to inputs.  However, a formal notification is to be issued under the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 after approval of the Cabinet, it noted. The green panel said the response of the MoRTH is very unsatisfactory and lacking in sensitivity.  "There is no tangible explanation for the long delay in issuing the necessary notification. Making allowance for the pandemic, we grant further time of two months for issuing requisite notification," the bench said. The tribunal warned that if no notification is issued before January 6, the next date, the Joint Secretary, MoRTH concerned will have to remain present in person and explain why action was not taken, and for the unnecessary delay. It further said that the stand of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee shows that clandestine activities are still being found for which vigilance may be strengthened. Noting that the number of ''end of life vehicles'' will be over 21 million by 2025, the NGT had directed the government to formulate a standard operating procedure (SOP) for setting up authorised recycling centres to scrap them scientifically. It had said the scrapping of vehicles in a scientific manner needs to be taken up on an organised basis as the current capacity is hardly adequate. The NGT had taken note of an English newspaper report about the scrap business in Mayapuri and initiated proceedings on its own.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-slams-road-ministry-over-delay-in-guidelines-on-scrapping-of-vehicles-865573.html
25-07-2020||National||Low-cost device to detect Covid-19 developed by IIT Kharagpur researchers||Researchers at IIT Kharagpur have developed a low cost portable rapid testing device to detect Covid-19. With the device, called Covirap, each test can be conducted in an hour and results can be made available through a customized smartphone application. It costs less than Rs 400 per test with the device which researchers claim is the “first-of-its-kind.” “This first-of-its-kind device will bring the testing for Covid-19 out from the walls of expensive laboratories and RT-PCR machines and enable testing at affordable costs for the under-served community across the world,” stated a release issued by IIT Kharagpur. The device costs about Rs 2000 if a pilot facility is used but the price will come down further with increase in production scale. “This compares very favorably with the RT PCR machine costing Rs 15 lakhs,” stated the release. The brainchild of Prof. Suman Chakraborty from the Mechanical Engineering Department and  School of Bio Science of  IIT Kharagpur the device is capable of conducting a large number of tests on replacement of the paper cartridge after each test. The device can not only be used at places with extremely poor resources but it can be operated by minimally trained personnel addressing the issue of need for skilled technicians. Prof. Chakraborty pointed out that during assessment of the utility of a specific method of disease detection, the fact that the cost of the test kit may not be the most crucial fact in terms of providing affordable diagnosis is often overlooked. “ In that light, the RT-PCR based tests suffer from a compelling constraint of requiring an elaborate laboratory-infrastructure and support system including the operational and maintenance cost, to perform the test,” he said. The device can not only be used for detection of Covid-19 infection but also for detection of any other kind of RNA virus following the same generic procedure. “This unique innovation is aligned with the Institutional vision to develop high-end healthcare technologies that can be afforded by the ailing common people all around the globe at virtually no cost, and is likely to make significant breakthrough in global viral pandemic management”, opined Director of IIT Kharagpur Prof. V K Tewari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-cost-device-to-detect-covid-19-developed-by-iit-kharagpur-researchers-865582.html
25-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Crematorium fees waived for those who succumb to Covid-19 in Bengaluru||In today’s episode, Karnataka has announced a full waiver of crematorium fees for those who succumb to the Covid-19 infection in Bengaluru, Jeevan Rekha Hospital in Belagavi will commence both phase-1 and phase-2 of the trials of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine next week, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that he was not in favour of complete lifting of the lockdown in the state.  Transcript: Here is the top news of today, Saturday: July 25, 2020: Karnataka has announced a full waiver of crematorium fees for those who succumb to the Covid-19 infection in Bengaluru.   Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the family of Covid-19 patients need not pay any fee that was fixed by the BBMP at the city’s 12 electric crematoriums.  He said: “The BBMP had fixed Rs 250 as the cremation fee, Rs 100 for the ash pot and Rs 900 for the bamboo stretcher (bier) on which the body is carried. All the fees have been waived for Covid-19 patients. The BBMP will bear these costs.”  The minister also announced a Rs 500 per body incentive for the personnel who conduct the last rites. Speaking about the shortage of land for Covid-19 patients to be buried or cremated, the minister said that the government had identified spaces, but locals were protesting. The government, he said, has identified 23 acres of land across the city to cremate Covid-19 patients and non-Covid, too, once the pandemic subsides. Jeevan Rekha Hospital in Belagavi which was selected by the Indian Council for Medical Research for clinical trials of indigenous Covaxin vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, will commence both phase-1 and phase-2 of the trials next week. The vaccine will be administered to the volunteers after swab sample results of their Covid-19 tests come in. Director of the hospital Dr Amit Bhate said: “Screening of the volunteers is under progress and their swab samples have been sent for tests. Those who test negative for Covid-19 will be shortlisted for tests.”  The hospital has registered 200 volunteers for the clinical trials for the vaccine, both men and women of different age groups. After the vaccine is administered to the volunteers, antibodies will be tested as per the ICMR protocols, norms and period earmarked. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has tested positive for Covid-19. In a tweet, the minister appealed to those who came in contact with him to get tested for coronavirus. People who came in close contact with me have been quarantined, he said. The minister said that he got tested for Covid-19 after he showed some symptoms and the result was positive.  He tweeted:  "I had symptoms of Covid-19. In the test report, I was found positive. I appeal to all my colleagues that whoever has come in my contact to get tested for coronavirus. My close contacts should move to quarantine." In another tweet, the chief minister said that if detected and treated on time, one can recover from the Covid-19 infection. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that he was not in favour of complete lifting of the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the state only to address the economic concerns. He said there was a need to strike a balance between the issues related to health and economy considering the challenge posed by the pandemic. He said: "I will never say that the lockdown will be lifted completely. But I have started reopening a few things gradually. Once reopened, it shouldn't be shut again. Hence, I prefer taking steps in phases. You can't just think about economy or health. There needs to be a balance between the two." Thackeray made this statement in an interview published in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'. The ongoing lockdown in the state will continue till July 31.   Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-crematorium-fees-waived-for-those-who-succumb-to-covid-19-in-bengaluru-865586.html
25-07-2020||National||Serum Institute of India seeks DCGI permission for phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of Oxford's Covid-19 'vaccine'||Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine candidate for Covid-19, has sought permission from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for conducting phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the potential vaccine, highly-placed sources said on Saturday. The sources told PTI that the Pune-based drug firm submitted its application to the DCGI on Friday seeking permission for conducting the trials of the vaccine candidate 'Covishield'. "According to the application, it would conduct an observer-blind, randomised controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of 'Covishield' in healthy Indian adults. The firm said that an around 1,600 participants of more than 18 years would be enrolled in the study," a source said. Initial results of the first two-phase trials of the vaccine conducted in five trial sites in the UK showed it has an acceptable safety profile and homologous boosting increased antibody responses, the source said. India will ensure regulatory facilitation and actively consider supplementing resources if needed for expediting the Serum Institute of India's phase 3 trial of a vaccine for Covid-19 developed by Oxford University. With the trials of Covid-19 vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University showing encouraging results, Serum Institute of India (SII) on Monday had said it will apply for licence from the Indian regulator to start clinical trials of the shot in a week's time. SII, the largest vaccine manufacturer in the world, has been chosen by Oxford and its partner AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine once it gets ready. To introduce the vaccine, SII, the world's largest vaccine maker by number of doses produced and sold, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute (Oxford University) in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. On the partnership with AstraZeneca, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla had said, "Serum Institute of India has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce and supply 1 billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Oxford University." These vaccines will be for India and middle and low income countries across the world (GAVI countries), he had said. The firm plans to start the phase 2 and 3 human trials in India in August. Oxford University on Monday announced satisfactory progress with the vaccine, making it one of the leading ones among the dozens of vaccine candidates being developed around the world. According to a report in the Lancet, the initial trial results showed that the vaccine is safe and prompts protective immune response. Last Monday, NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul had said that India will ensure regulatory facilitation and actively consider supplementing resources if needed for expediting SII's phase 3 trial of the vaccine developed by Oxford University. "Regulatory facilitation will be ensured. It is already being undertaken and being done. If resources need to be supplemented, that will be actively considered. "The government will leave no stone unturned to ensure that the people of India and the international community has access to an Indian vaccine as early as possible," Paul had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-seeks-dcgi-permission-for-phase-2-and-3-clinical-trials-of-oxfords-covid-19-vaccine-865592.html
25-07-2020||National||Anti-CAA riots: Delhi Police charges Sharjeel Imam with sedition||The Delhi Police on Saturday charged former JNU student Sharjeel Imam with sedition before a court here for allegedly inciting people to indulge in activities detrimental to the sovereignty and integrity of the country. The police made the allegations in its charge sheet filed before the court in a case related to anti-CAA riots earlier this year. The agency filed the final report under various sections including 124-A (Sedition), 153(A) (Promoting enmity), 153-A (promoting enmity, Hatred between different communities), 153-B (Assertion prejudicial to national integration) and 505 (spreading rumors) of IPC and under the sections of stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. "He is accused of delivering seditious speeches and inciting a particular section of the community to indulge in unlawful activities, detrimental to sovereignty and integrity of the nation," the charge sheet said.   "In the garb of protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act, he exhorted people of a particular community to block the highways leading to the major cities and resort to 'Chakka Jam', thereby disrupting normal life," it said. It further alleged that Iman openly defied the Constitution and called it a "fascist" document.  "In the name of opposing 'CAA' he also openly propagated blocking the 'chicken neck' connecting the mainland India with the Northeast. He also showed utter contempt and disregard for the democratic means of protest," it said. The court is likely to take up the matter for hearing on July 27. Imam is being probed for his alleged inflammatory speech at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13 and subsequently on January 16 at Aligarh Muslim University, where he allegedly threatened to "cut off" Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. He is currently lodged at Guwahati Central Jail. The police had earlier submitted before the court that after his speech on December 13, widespread arson and violence took place in various parts of Delhi, and that several protest sites emerged after his January 16 speech. He is currently lodged in Guwahati Jail and has been found to be coronavirus positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-caa-riots-delhi-police-charges-sharjeel-imam-with-sedition-865595.html
25-07-2020||National||Coverage area increases by 18%, kharif sowing healthy in India||Riding on favourable rainfall in the third week of July, the area of major kharif crop sowing in the country increased by 18.50 percent over the corresponding period of the previous year, according to the latest data available with the Ministry of Agriculture. Sowing data of major kharif crops such as paddy, pulses, coarse cereals and oilseeds on July 24 showed that a total of 799.95 lakh hectare have been covered this year, compared to 675.07 lakh hectare in the last Kharif season. Rural growth has outpaced urban growth in the recent months and analysts remained optimistic that good crop sowing and higher yield will boost rural income, an analyst with a brokerage house told PTI. Paddy sowing was done in 220.24 lakh hectare out of the normal 397 lakh hectare till July 24. During the period under review last year, paddy was planted only in 187.70 lakh hectare, the ministry data said. The 32.54 lakh hectare of increase in area under coverage was contributed by states like Uttar Pradesh (6.50 lakh hectare), Jharkhand (6.10 lakh hectare), Madhya Pradesh (5.98 lakh hectare), Bihar (5.66 lakh hectare), Chhattisgarh (3.57 lakh hectare) and West Bengal (2.80 lakh hectare). In pulses, the total sowed area was 99.71 lakh hectare out of 128.88 lakh hectare. So far, the coverage is higher by over 25 percent over the same period last year. While area coverage of coarse cereals such as jowar, bajra, ragi and maize was increased by 16.83 lakh hectare over the period under review, that of oilseeds was up by 32.80 lakh hectare till now. Jute and Mesta showed a marginal growth of 1.49 percent so far. Data showed almost 90 percent sowing had completed out of 7.87 lakh hectare of normal sowing. Almost three million farmers are engaged in jute cultivation, the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coverage-area-increases-by-18-kharif-sowing-healthy-in-india-865609.html
25-07-2020||National||Draft Environment Impact Assessment rules legitimise illegality: Jairam Ramesh||Former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh has registered his “strongest objections” to the draft Environment Impact Assessment notification 2020 pointing out that it had provisions for granting post-facto green approvals for development projects. “Environmental regulation is not an unnecessary burden but an essential obligation for the health and welfare of our people and sustainable development,” Ramesh said in a letter to Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar. Ramesh objected to the draft EIA notification 2020 on five grounds, pointing out that it allowed post-facto approvals which was against the principle of assessment and public participation prior to environment clearance and had provision that will routinely legitimise illegality. “It reduces public participation in all steps of the environment clearance process by lessening the notice period for public hearing and doing away with them with a large category of projects and does away with environment impact assessment altogether in very many cases of expansion,” he added. Ramesh said it increased the validity of environment clearances allowing projects to “secure” land for long duration even when they are not constructed. “This promotes land grab, not development and gives the Union government full powers to appoint State Environmental Impact Assessment Authorities. This is yet another nail in the coffin of cooperative federalism,” he said. “The Chairman of the Rajya Sabha very recently in his characteristic style said nature plus culture is equal to future. I am marking a copy of this letter to him as well so as to let him know how the equation he has so rightly and nicely formulated will be thrown out of the window if the draft EIA Notification 2020 becomes a reality,” Ramesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/draft-environment-impact-assessment-rules-legitimise-illegality-jairam-ramesh-865621.html
25-07-2020||National||Confederation of All India Traders presents over 10,000 rakhis for Indian soldiers to Defence Minister||Traders' body CAIT on Saturday presented more than 10,000 rakhis to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh designed by women entrepreneurs for Indian soldiers posted at borders with China and Pakistan, amid its campaign for boycott of Chinese goods.  The rakhis handed over to Singh included 'Modi Rakhi' made in Delhi. "The rakhis handed over to Singh for the soldiers consist of Modi Rakhi made in Delhi, Jute Rakhi made in Nagpur, Paint Rakhi made in Jaipur, Seed Rakhi made in Pune, Wool Rakhi made in Satna, Jharkhand Rakhi made from tribal items in Jamshedpur, Tea leaves Rakhi made in Tinsukia in Assam, Rakhi made with tea leaves in Kolkata, Silk Rakhi made in Kolkata, fashionable rakhi made in Mumbai, etc," CAIT said.  Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal said women entrepreneurs have made millions of rakhis by using Indian goods in collaboration with women of lower economic strata from different states. "These rakhis will be distributed to traders and their employees through trade associations spread across the country," CAIT said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/confederation-of-all-india-traders-presents-over-10000-rakhis-for-indian-soldiers-to-defence-minister-865637.html
25-07-2020||National||Premium, imported liquor can be sold in UP shopping malls from August 25: Officials||Premium, foreign and imported brands of liquor will be available in shopping malls from August 25, but there will be no permission to serve it inside the premises, officials said on Saturday. Additional Chief Secretary, Excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said, "In view of the increasing trend of people purchasing various items from the shopping malls in the past few years, permission has been granted to sell costly foreign liquor in the shopping malls. Customers can buy imported foreign liquor, scotch manufactured in India, brandy, gin and all brands of wine from the shopping malls." In a statement issued here, he said, "Permission to sell vodka and rum, whose cost is more than Rs 700, and beer cans which are more than Rs 160, has also been granted." The annual licence fee of such shops has been fixed at Rs 12 lakh, which can be obtained by any person, company, firm or society. Customers can enter the shops, and can choose their brand of liquor. The licensing process will start from July 27, he said. All such shops have to be air-conditioned, Bhoosreddy said, and added that there will be no permission to serve liquor inside the shopping malls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/premium-imported-liquor-can-be-sold-in-up-shopping-malls-from-august-25-officials-865643.html
25-07-2020||National||Railways to introduce clause in procurement process to promote local suppliers||The Railways is set to introduce a clause for promoting local content in its procurement process so that it gets more bids from local vendors/suppliers to give a boost to the government's mission Atma Nirbhar Bharat, a statement from the national transporter said on Saturday. It said that the Railway ministry has sought support of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) to make suitable policy revisions, if required.  "In a review meeting held today (Saturday) for steps to promote Make in India products in procurement process, it was emphasised to increase the participation of local vendors in the procurement process," the statement said. Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal reviewed the steps to promote Make in India products in procurement process of Indian Railways as well as government of India, it said. During the meeting, Goyal urged to take measures to generate confidence in industry of corruption free and transparent procurement environment on Indian Railways. While reviewing the steps to promote Make in India products in procurement process, it was emphasised to increase the participation of local vendors in procurement process.  "Local content clause in the procurement should be such that we may get more bids from local vendors/suppliers. This would also give a boost to mission Atma Nirbhar Bharat," the statement said. Active support of DPIIT was sought to make suitable policy revisions, if required, to facilitate the efforts of Indian Railways in this direction, it said. "It was felt that encouragement needs to be given to such vendors who can supply higher locally manufactured content. It was also suggested to create a FAQ section and a helpline number so that vendors may get clarity on various issues relating to procurement process," the statement said. Detailed presentation was made by the member (materials management), railway board on enhancing Make in India and steps being taken to procure through Government e-Marketplace (GeM) along with the progress made.    Goyal emphasised on the need to do Railway goods and services procurement of approximately Rs 70,000 crore on GeM platform to open up the market to industry even at remote places and specially MSMEs. During the meeting, it was decided that Railways would work more towards having a user-friendly single step vendor web based interface for all its activities. The website should, transparently, provide every interested vendor a clear idea of how to do business with Indian Railways. It should also have all relevant information to generate confidence of corruption-free and transparent environment on Indian Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-introduce-clause-in-procurement-process-to-promote-local-suppliers-865647.html
25-07-2020||National||Rajasthan Speaker C P Joshi to withdraw petition against deferral of disqualification proceedings from SC||Rajasthan Speaker C P Joshi is likely to withdraw on Monday his pending petition before the Supreme Court against the High Court's interim order of July 21. The High Court had then directed him not to take any action in disqualification proceedings against rebel Congress MLAs, till pronouncement of judgement on July 24. As a change of strategy, a considered decision has been taken not to pursue the matter before the top court, sources said. Acting on the Speaker's petition, a bench led by Justice Arun Mishra had on the last date of hearing on July 23 indicated to examine a larger issue if MLAs can have a right to voice their "dissent in democracy". In the light of the High Court's order of July 24 and the SC's oral observations, the legal team pursuing Speaker CP Joshi's petition has decided that they would prefer to withdraw the matter, they said. The top court has on Thursday posted the matter for consideration on Monday, July 27. It had declined to stay the High Court's interim order of July 21. It had then allowed the High Court to pass the judgement but with the condition that it would be subject to the outcome of the petition (by the Speaker). Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi is also learnt to have expressed no keenness to take the matter to the top court against the High Court's July 24 order. The High Court had then ordered status quo and framed legal questions for consideration on the petition filed by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot and other rebel MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-speaker-c-p-joshi-to-withdraw-petition-against-deferral-of-disqualification-proceedings-from-sc-865649.html
25-07-2020||National||India adds 1.38 lakh Covid-19 cases in 3 days; steps up testing||India added 1.38 lakh new cases of Covid-19 in the past three days even as it stepped up testing for the infectious disease sharply as a network of state-run and private laboratories tested more than 4.2 lakh samples in a single day. The steep increase in new infections continued for the third consecutive day as India had added 40,303 new cases as on 8:30 PM on Saturday as against the 49,310 reported on Thursday and 48,916 on Friday, taking the cumulative figure for the three days to 1,38,529. According to a DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 13,77,170 confirmed cases of the infectious disease of which 8,77,845 had already been discharged from healthcare facilities after recovery. The Health Ministry said it had tested 4,20,898 samples on Friday alone, the highest number of samples tested in a single day, and planned to increase the capacity to 10 lakh samples over the next few weeks. “The Tests Per Million (TPM) has further increased to 11,485 and cumulative testing to 1,58,49,068,” the ministry said in a statement. The Centre said it had advised all state governments and union territory administrations to test aggressively, an approach that may lead to higher number of daily positive cases initially, but would eventually decline as seen in the national capital. With increased testing of samples and effective clinical management practices, the fatality rate has significantly dropped to 2.35% on Saturday and the recovery rate has surged to 63.54%. India had begun testing for Covid-19 from a single laboratory at the National Institute of Virology, Pune and gradually increased it to 1,301 laboratories over the past six months. This also includes the private labs who have acquired test kits and have joined the fight against Covid-19. Meanwhile, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has cancelled the rapid diagnostic kit import licenses of three firms and suspended that of 16 others after the USFDA removed them from their list of approved Covid-19 serology test kits. The three firms are Cadila Healthcare, MDAAC International and N W Overseas while the 16 companies include Transasia Bio-Medicals, Cosmic Scientific, Inbios India, S D Biosensor, Accurex Biomedicals, Biohouse Solutions and Trivitron Healthcare among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-138-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-3-days-steps-up-testing-865651.html
25-07-2020||National||Test your knowledge on the Kargil War here||Here’s a quiz you can take to expand your knowledge about the Kargil Vijay Diwas, which celebrates the brave-hearted soldiers who fought in the Kargil War. Observed on July 26 for the last 20 years, it salutes the courage and sacrifice of the Indian troops that fought to expel intruders from the neighbouring country. To commemorate the occasion, the Indian government is holding a national level quiz for students to inculcate patriotism among students. With a multiple choice format, the quiz will assess the knowledge and understanding about the Kargil war. The quiz is timed where the participant has to answer 6 questions within 6 minutes. The quiz portal will remain open from July 23 to July 27. The quiz has no negative marking and all participants who score above 80% will get a merit certificate signed by UGC and NCERT. Fought between May and July of 1999, the war between India and Pakistan was the first war that was constantly covered by the media. ‘Operation Vijay’ was aimed at flushing out intruders from Kargil and recovery of the high-altitude outposts like Siachen, in Jammu and Kashmir that were captured by the neighbouring country. The Indian troops recaptured several mountain tops overlooking the strategic Srinagar-Leh highway from the intruders, while 527 Indian soldiers were martyred during the conflict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/test-your-knowledge-on-the-kargil-war-here-865654.html
25-07-2020||National||As cost cutting measure, Railways stops British-era practice of using Dak messengers||The Railways has decided to do away with a British-era practice of sending confidential documents via personal or Dak messengers and instructed zones to move to communication via videoconferencing. This is the latest in a string of instructions for zonal railways to cut costs. "As a measure to reduce cost and improve savings on establishment related expenditure, the Board has desired that all discussions amongst officials of Railways PSU /Railway Board should invariably be held over video conferencing accordingly booking of personal messenger/Dak messenger should be stopped immediately. "Compliance of the above should be ensured, as it would lead significant savings in allowances, stationery, Fax etc.," the order dated July 24 to the zones stated. These dak messengers are usually peons who are identified and given the responsibility of ferrying files, documents of sensitive nature across the Railways' network -- from Railway Board to its various departments, to its zones and divisions. This was introduced by the British when there was no internet or email. Earlier, the Railways had called for a freeze in the creation of new posts, rationalisation of manpower at workshops, shifting outsourced work to CSR, moving ceremonial functions to digital platforms. It also advised the zones to control expenditure by reducing staff cost, rationalising staff and also by making them perform multiple tasks. It further asked the zones to review contracts, reduce energy consumption and cut cost in administrative and other areas. The Railways also instructed that all file work be moved to the digital sphere and advised that all correspondence must be done through secure e-mails and asked them to reduce the use of stationery articles, cartridges and other items by at least 50 per cent. It asked the zones to review and close all uneconomic branches of the ministry. While most communication by officials are currently done by email, the Dak messengers are as good as obsolete, say officials. With the latest direction, their use has been officially brought to an end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-cost-cutting-measure-railways-stops-british-era-practice-of-using-dak-messengers-865660.html
25-07-2020||National||Pakistan-Bangladesh ties: Imran-Hasina talk stirs unease in India, MEA suspects China's role||A phone call between the Prime Ministers of Pakistan and Bangladesh earlier this week stirred unease in New Delhi, which suspected China's hidden hand behind the rare outreach.  However, Islamabad sang a different tune, with Khan's office stating that he also briefed Hasina about Pakistan’s view about the “grave situation” in Jammu and Kashmir. Khan purportedly “stressed the importance of peaceful resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute for a safe and prosperous region”. But the readout issued by Bangladesh Prime Minister after the phone call did not have any reference to Jammu and Kashmir. For New Delhi, this was of some cold comfort, even though the fact that Hasina did agree to take the call was not lost on New Delhi. The next day, the MEA in New Delhi appreciated Bangladesh’s “consistent stand” — that the issue of Jammu and Kashmir was an internal matter of India. He also noted that India’s relations with Bangladesh were “time tested and historic”. New Delhi suspects that Beijing is trying to play the role of a mediator to bring its “all-weather ally” Islamabad and Dhaka closer, leaving behind the five-decade long bitterness, which has its origin in Pakistan Army’s atrocities in erstwhile East Pakistan during the 1971 liberation war that gave birth to Bangladesh. A source told DH that the phone call indicated a move by Pakistan to reach out to Dhaka, particularly Hasina, daughter of Mujibur Rahman, who had led the struggle for liberation of East Pakistan. “Dhaka possibly would not have agreed for it unless the push came from Beijing,” said the source. He pointed out that the rare phone-call between Hasina and Khan happened almost three weeks after Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen had a meeting with Islamabad’s envoy to Dhaka, Imran Ahmed Siddiqui, on July 1. Islamabad claimed that Siddiqui and Momen agreed to promote bilateral relations with a forward-looking approach. Momen, however, stressed that Pakistan must formally apologize to people of Bangladesh for the atrocities its soldiers committed during the 1971 war. Bangladesh is the fourth South Asian country after Nepal, Sri Lanka and Maldives, which China is trying to win over – ostensibly to spread its geo-political influence in the neighbourhood of India. Even as its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was engaged in a stand-off with the Indian Army along the disputed boundary between the two nations, China recently brought into effect a zero-tariff policy for 97% of its imports from Bangladesh, allowing the South Asian nation to export to the communist country an additional 5161 items without paying any customs duty. Beijing is also understood to be in discussion with Dhaka for granting loans to the tune of $ 6.4 billion for several infrastructure projects across Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-bangladesh-ties-imran-hasina-talk-stirs-unease-in-india-mea-suspects-chinas-role-865664.html
25-07-2020||National||No respite from floods in Assam, Bihar; thunderstorm warning issued in Himachal||The flood situation remained grim in Assam and Bihar on Saturday with one more death reported from the northeastern state and nearly 36 lakh people affected in total. The death toll due to floods and landslides has reached 123 in Assam, and 10 people have died due to the deluge in Bihar. In Assam, nearly 26.38 lakh people were affected by the deluge in 27 districts, a government report said. While 97 people have died in flood-related incidents, 26 were killed in landslides, it said. The report said the number of people affected by the deluge has decreased by over 1.6 lakh since Friday, while that of the district has increased by one. Goalpara continued to be the most affected district with 4.7 lakh people hit by the deluge, followed by Barpeta (4.24 lakh) and Morigaon (3.75 lakh), it said. The Brahmaputra is flowing above the danger mark at Guwahati, Tezpur, Dhubri and Goalpara towns. Its tributaries Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Kopili, Beki and Sankosh at Golokoganj in Dhubri are also flowing above the danger levels at various places. The report said the floods have so far claimed the lives of 127 animals of different species, while 157 others were rescued in Kaziranga National Park. In Bihar, relief packets were air-dropped in the flood-affected districts to the north where over a million people have been hit by the deluge. No fresh casualties were reported on Saturday. The packets contain two-and-a-half kg of rice, one kg gram, half kg jaggery, match box and a packet of candles. Besides, the state government will also soon start disbursing Rs 6,000 as gratuitous relief to flood-affected families after identifying them. As per a state bulletin, 10.61 lakh people have been affected in 10 districts. Thirteen teams of the NDRF and eight of the SDRF are involved in the rescue operations, officials said. The districts hit are West Champaran, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, and Khagaria. Several rivers such as Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan, Lalbakeya, Adhwara, Khiroi, Mahananda ans Ghaghra are flowing above the danger level. Train services between Sugauli-Narkatiaganj have been suspended due to flood waters touching the girder bridge between Sugauli-Majhowalia section in East Champaran district, an official said. In Sikkim, an Indian Air Force helicopter airlifted essential commodities for the people of two remote villages in North Sikkim, which are cut off from other parts of the state due to landslides, an official release said. The MI-17 helicopter carried out three sorties and dropped essential supplies comprising 100 bags of rice weighing 50 quintals each, 550 litres of cooking oil, 1.5 quintals of salt, 100 packets of candles and matches and medicines among others for the people of Sakyong and Pentong villages of North Sikkim, it said. The villages are cut-off from the nearest town Dzongu since July 10 last as multiple landslides had washed off roads and bridges connecting these villages due to incessant rainfall. An India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin said heavy rainfall was likely at isolated places in sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya on Sunday. Up north, heavy to very heavy rains lashed parts of Rajasthan, and light to moderate rain and thundershowers occurred at a few places over eastern Uttar Pradesh, while a 'yellow' weather warning for thunderstorm was issued in Himachal Pradesh. In Delhi, the maximum temperature was recorded at 35.5 degrees Celsius, one notch above the normal for this time of the year, and rains gave the city a miss during the day. The city's humidity level oscillated between 68 per cent and 95 per cent. The city is likely to see moderate to heavy rains on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, the weather office said earlier. In Himachal Pradesh, the highest temperature was recorded in Una at 34 degrees Celsius, while the lowest was registered in tribal district Lahaul-Spiti's administrative centre Keylong at 13.2 degrees Celsius.   The weather office in Shimla has predicted rainfall in the state till July 31. The 'yellow' warning was issued for heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning in the plains and the lower hills from July 28-29, and in the mid hills from July 26-29, it said. Heavy to very heavy rains lashed parts of Rajasthan, with Marwar junction in Pali district recording the maximum rainfall at 15 cm in the last 24 hours till Saturday morning. Pisangan (Ajmer), Riyanbari (Nagaur), Rupangarh (Ajmer), Merta city (Nagaur) and Ajmer recorded 14 cm, 13 cm, 12 cm, 10 cm and 9 cm rainfall respectively during this period. Dabok (Udaipur), Barmer, Sikar, Jodhpur and Churu recorded 32 mm, 7.4 mm, 0.8 mm, 0.4 mm and 0.3 mm rainfall respectively, the Jaipur weather office said. The department has predicted heavy rains at some places in the state during the next 24 hours. Light to moderate rain and thundershowers occurred at a few places in eastern Uttar Pradesh and at isolated places over the western part of the state, the Lucknow weather office said. Etawah was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 38.4 degrees Celsius. The IMD bulletin said heavy rainfall was very likely at isolated places in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and east Rajasthan on Sunday. Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning is very likely at isolated places in Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during the same period, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-from-floods-in-assam-bihar-thunderstorm-warning-issued-in-himachal-865669.html
25-07-2020||National||Video of waiters donning PPE kits at a wedding in Andhra Pradesh goes viral on social media||A video of PPE-wearing waiters serving food to guests at a wedding in Andhra Pradesh has gone viral on social media. The wedding organisers had instructed the caterers to equip their waiters to wear PPE kits in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Koti Caterers from Gudivada obliged and arranged food for about 150-200 plates for the wedding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-of-waiters-donning-ppe-kits-at-a-wedding-in-andhra-pradesh-goes-viral-on-social-media-865672.html
25-07-2020||National||DCGI cancels import licenses for rapid diagnostic kits of 3 firms, suspends licenses of 15 other firms||The three firms are Cadila Healthcare, MDAAC International and N W Overseas while the 15 companies include Transasia Bio-Medicals, Cosmic Scientific, Inbios India, S D Biosensor, Accurex Biomedicals, Biohouse Solutions and Trivitron Healthcare among others.     The companies were issued a show-cause notice on July 17 asking why their import licenses shall not be cancelled since the diagnostic kits of the manufacturers have been removed by USFDA with the direction that it should not be distributed from the list of product of serology test kits for Covid-19 disease, according to an official order by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). They were directed to submit their reply by July 20, failing which it would be presumed they have nothing to say in the matter and action deemed fit will be initiated under provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. "Your response to the show cause notice has not been found satisfactory with respect to removal of said kit, by USFDA from their list mentioning not to distribute," the DCGI order issued to the 15 companies on July 21 stated. "However, it has been mentioned by you to not to cancel your said import license for the above product. Therefore, in public interest, your import license for above product becomes inoperative and stands suspended, till further orders," it said. As for the three companies whose licenses were cancelled, the orders said, "Your response to the show cause notice has not been found satisfactory with respect to the removal of said kit, by USFDA from their list mentioning not to distribute." "Further, it has been mentioned by you that you intend to surrender your license for the above product. Therefore, in the public interest, your import license for above product becomes inoperative and stands cancelled with immediate effect," the order issued on July 21 read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-cancels-import-licenses-for-rapid-diagnostic-kits-of-3-firms-suspends-licenses-of-15-other-firms-865688.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Congress sharpens attack on Gajendra Shekhawat, demands his resignation as Union minister||Stepping up its attack on Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the Congress Friday demanded his resignation as a Union minister, a day after a Jaipur court asked the Rajasthan Police to probe a complaint alleging his involvement in a credit society scam. "The Congress Party demands that for the sake of transparency and accountability in democracy, the prime minister ask Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to tender his resignation today," party spokesperson Pawan Khera told an online press briefing. The Congress has been alleging that Jal Shakti Minister Shekhawat was conspiring to topple its government in Rajasthan through its rebel MLAs, a charge vehemently denied by him. After an FIR was registered against one Gajendra Singh, who was heard talking to rebel Congress MLAs in audio tapes, the Congress has asked the minister to give his voice sample to Rajasthan police’s Special Operations Group (SOG), which is probing the matter. Khera had said on Thursday that a Court in Jaipur ordered an enquiry into the Rs 884-crore ponzi scheme, call the Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society, an office-bearer of which was linked to the Union minister. Shekhawat dismissed the allegation as a "political conspiracy" and took a swipe at the Congress, saying leaders of a party whose central leadership is "on bail" have been going after him. Khera on Friday also alleged that in the last six years, one has not seen a single example of the prime minister taking any initiative to ensure transparency and accountability in democracy. "Even, if one was wrongly accused, we (the Congress) gave several such examples. Our history is replete with such examples. Mr Prime Minister in your legacy, let there be at least one example of transparency that is our demand today," he said. Khera also questioned as to where the “money that was being offered to rebel Congress MLAs (in Rajasthan)” was coming from and wondered if it was through such ponzi schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-sharpens-attack-on-gajendra-shekhawat-demands-his-resignation-as-union-minister-865346.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Congress posts throwback pic of Manmohan Singh taken after he presented 1991 budget||The Congress on Friday posted a nostalgia-steeped black and white photo of Manmohan Singh from 29 years ago, taken just after he presented the historic budget as Union Finance Minister, opening up the Indian economy. Singh, the then finance minister in the Congress government led by former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao, had been instrumental in ushering in economic liberalisation. "Finance Minister Dr Manmohan Singh in his North Block office after presenting the 1991 budget," the Congress wrote in the Instagram post with the picture. Singh, dressed in a shirt, pant and tie, is seen standing in his office after presenting the budget. The Congress posted the picture on a day the party's Telangana unit organised an inaugural function of the year-long birth centenary celebrations of the late prime minister. Singh, while addressing the event, said Rao was a "great son of the soil" and he can truly be called the father of economic reforms in India as he had both the vision and the courage to push them forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-posts-throwback-pic-of-manmohan-singh-taken-after-he-presented-1991-budget-865350.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Ram Nath Kovind epitomises nobility and humility, his 3 years as President eventful: Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday greeted President Ram Nath Kovind on completion of three "eventful" years in office, and said it has been "a wonderful experience" working with him for the development of the nation. Kovind took over as the President in 2017. The vice president said Kovind's three years in Rashtrapati Bhavan have been eventful. "He epitomises the qualities of nobility and humility and has enhanced the dignity of the office of the President of India," Naidu wrote on Twitter. Kovind's graciousness and warmth touches everybody, Naidu said, adding that "it has been a wonderful experience to work with him over the last three years for the development of the nation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ram-nath-kovind-epitomises-nobility-and-humility-his-3-years-as-president-eventful-venkaiah-naidu-865471.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Modi govt converting disaster into profits, alleges Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday accused the government of benefitting by making profits during the coronavirus-induced lockdown when people were in trouble. He tagged a news report that claimed the Indian Railways was making profit by running 'Shramik trains' for transporting migrants during the pandemic. "There are clouds of disease and people are in trouble, but one seeks to benefit -- this anti-people government is converting a disaster into profits and is earning," he said in a tweet in Hindi. The news report claimed that the railways made a profit of Rs 428 crore by running Shramik special trains during the lockdown that transported migrants to their native places. In another tweet, he lauded the efforts of the Himachal government in conducting a survey to select 'one district, one product', saying he had suggested this sometime back. "This is a good idea. I had suggested it some time back. Its implementation will need a complete change of mindset," he said on Twitter. He also tagged a report that stated the state Industries Department is conducting a baseline survey in all districts to select one district, one product for centrally-sponsored Micro and Small Enterprises Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-converting-disaster-into-profits-alleges-rahul-gandhi-865492.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Former union minister uses Scindia's photo while offering Nagpanchmi wishes||Former union minister and Congress leader Arun Yadav on Saturday wished people on the occasion of Nagpanchmi using a photograph of BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia. Yadav is also the former Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee chief, who held the post till April 2018. He was then replaced by Kamal Nath.  Ever since Jyotiraditya Scindia defected and joined the BJP, Congress has launched relentless attacks on him using pejoratives like a traitor or ‘Jaichand’. Even as Scindia did not react to Yadav’s tweet, the move drew a lot of reactions on social media.    Arun JiThis is best nagpanchmi greetings.Bhahut dard karega mahraj ko. “Whatever amount of milk you feed to a snake it doesn’t leave its habit of biting”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-union-minister-uses-scindias-photo-while-offering-nagpanchmi-wishes-865496.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra slams Uttar Pradesh government over Covid-19 handling||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, saying that at a time when there is "explosive" growth in cases, its "no test is equal to no corona" policy can lead to a "frightening situation". In a letter to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, the Congress general secretary said that the battle against the pandemic cannot be fought by just "managing publicity and news". Noting that 2,500 cases of coronavirus were reported in UP on Friday, she said almost all the metros were flooded with Covid-19 cases, but now even the villages were not far behind in the spread. "Quarantine centres in UP are in a pathetic state. In some places, the situation is so bad, that people are fearing mismanagement more than the coronavirus. Because of such a scenario, they are not stepping out of their homes for getting tested," Priyanka Gandhi said. "This is a great failure of the government," she asserted. The state government by believing in the "no test = no coronavirus" mantra has adopted a low testing policy, she alleged. "There is an explosive rise in Covid-19 cases. Till testing will not be increased in a transparent manner, the fight against the pandemic will be incomplete and the situation can become more frightening," she said. "The prime minister is a Member of Parliament from Varanasi, the defence minister from Lucknow, many other Union ministers are from UP. Why can't temporary hospitals be opened in Varanasi, Lucknow, Agra etc." Priyanka Gandhi asked. Tightening its grip over Uttar Pradesh, Covid-19 claimed a record 50 lives in the state on Friday as the deadly virus infected 2,667 people more in the largest single-day spike till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-slams-uttar-pradesh-government-over-covid-19-handling-865513.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Only those who 'looted' country can describe subsidy as profit: Piyush Goyal's jibe at Rahul Gandhi||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal hit back at the Congress on Saturday after Rahul Gandhi accused the railways of making profit through Shramik trains, alleging that only those who "looted" the country can call subsidy a profit. "Only those who looted the country can describe subsidy as profit. The railways spent more money in running Shramik trains than it received from state governments. People are now asking what happened to Sonia ji's promise of paying for people's tickets," Goyal tweeted. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had said during the migrant crisis that her party will pay for tickets of Shramik train passengers after reports emerged that they, mostly poor migrants, were made to pay for their journey. "There are clouds of disease and people are in trouble, but one seeks to benefit -- this anti-people government is converting a disaster into profits and is earning," he said in a tweet in Hindi, tagging a new report. The railways spent Rs 2,142 crore on running Shramik Special trains but earned a revenue of just Rs 429 crore, official data showed. The data, received through an RTI application filed by activist Ajay Bose, shows that the railways earned Rs 428 crore till June 29, by when most of the 4,615 trains had been run. Additionally, it earned around Rs 1 crore by running 13 trains in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-those-who-looted-country-can-describe-subsidy-as-profit-piyush-goyals-jibe-at-rahul-gandhi-865534.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||13-member BJP delegation to meet Rajasthan governor||A delegation of the opposition BJP will meet Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra around 5 pm on Saturday. A party spokesperson said the delegation would hold discussions on the situation arising due to the spread of coronavirus. BJP state president Satish Poonia and Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria will lead the 13-member delegation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/13-member-bjp-delegation-to-meet-rajasthan-governor-865549.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Karnataka MP L Hanumanthaiah in Rajya Sabha panel of Vice-Chairmen||Karnataka MP L Hanumanthaiah (Congress) and Odisha's Sasmit Patra (BJD), both first-time MPs, were on Saturday nominated to the panel of Vice-Chairmen in Rajya Sabha by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. Along with them, Vandana Chavan (NCP), Sukhendu Sekhar Roy (Trinamool Congress), Bhubaneswar Kalita and Surendra Singh Nagar (both BJP) were nominated to the panel, which helps the Chairman in the running of the House. Roy has retained his place in the six-member panel while DMK's Tiruchi Siva, who has been re-elected, does not find his name in the list. The members of the previous panel also included Satyanarayan Jatia (BJP), TK Rangarajan (CPIM), M V Rajeev Gowda (Congress), Kahakashan Perween (JDU), who have retired from the House recently. Besides Roy, Kalita has also previously been in the panel of Vice-Chairmen. Perveen was the first woman to be chosen to the panel in March 2018. With her retirement from the House, Chavan has taken that place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/karnataka-mp-l-hanumanthaiah-in-rajya-sabha-panel-of-vice-chairmen-865580.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi passing off Gujarat's initiatives as his own: Chief Minister Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of "copying" Gujarat's initiatives and "selling" them as his own after the latter tweeted that he had suggested the "one district, one product" concept for cluster development. Rupani said this concept was initially proposed and launched by then chief minister of Gujarat, Anandiben Patel, way back in 2016. In his tweet, Rahul shared a news report from Solan in Himachal Pradesh about "one district, one product" survey being carried out by the Industries Department for the Centrally-sponsored cluster development programme for micro and small enterprises. "This is a good idea. I had suggested it some time back. Its implementation will need a complete change of mindset," Rahul tweeted on Saturday. Hitting back, Rupani linked a February 15, 2016 tweet from Anandiben Patel when she was CM. Patel is current Governor of Uttar Pradesh and holding additional charge of Madhya Pradesh. In her tweet, Patel had talked about 'one village, one product' concept and said it will be "initiated on a pilot basis to preserve languishing crafts through focused approach and support". "Rahul Ji, Copying Gujarat's initiatives and selling them as your ideas does not show your smartness. I don't expect you to know details of anything, but your script-writers should know better! How about 'One defeat, one reinvention' policy for you?" Rupani tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-passing-off-gujarats-initiatives-as-his-own-chief-minister-vijay-rupani-865623.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||BJP attacks Rahul Gandhi for 'copying' their idea of district-specific product promotion||The BJP on Saturday attacked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for stating that he had suggested the proposal of promoting one product from each district and accused him of "copying" their idea. "This is a good idea. I had suggested it some time back. Its implementation will need a complete change of mindset," Gandhi tweeted, tagging a story about a survey in BJP-ruled Himachal Pradesh by the industries department to select one product in each district for the centrally-sponsored cluster development programme for micro and small enterprises.   Hitting out at the Congress leader, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said, "Rahul ji, Copying Gujarat's initiatives and selling them as your ideas do not show your smartness. I don't expect you to know details of anything, but your script-writers should know better! How about a 'One defeat, One reinvention' policy for you?" Rupani tagged a 2016 tweet of the then state chief minister Anandiben Patel in which she said the concept of "one village one product" would be initiated.  Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also targeted Gandhi, without naming him, and said his government had given the mantra of "one district, one product" and has been working to implement it.  Will he ever desist from his "childish" behaviour, he added.  "His memory is either weak or is like this only. He will remember this if he thinks hard. The BJP in its 2017 manifesto had spoken about promoting local products of every district. This has proved a boon for small industries and artisans," Adityanath said, in a swipe at the Congress leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attacks-rahul-gandhi-for-copying-their-idea-of-district-specific-product-promotion-865626.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Delhi reports 1,142 fresh coronavirus cases, 29 deaths; tally crosses 1.29 lakh||Twenty-nine fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the health department. It added that the total number of cases has climbed to 1,29,531. On June 20, the fresh cases count had dipped to 954, and increased the next day to 1,349. Since Tuesday, the fresh cases have been recorded in excess of 1,000. The number of active cases was 12,657, down from 13,681 on Friday. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-reports-1142-fresh-coronavirus-cases-29-deaths-tally-crosses-129-lakh-865631.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviews micro credit scheme for street vendors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the implementation of a special micro-credit facility for street vendors, stressing that it should not be seen from the perspective of extending loans to them but as part of an outreach for their holistic development and economic uplift. The PM Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) aims at facilitating a collateral-free working capital loan of up to Rs 10,000 of one-year tenure, to help street vendors resume their businesses post lockdown. The review meet was informed that over 2.6 lakh applications have been received, over 64,000 have been sanctioned and over 5,500 have been disbursed.  The Prime Minister expressed satisfaction on the use of end-to-end IT solution through a web-portal and mobile application for administration of the scheme to ensure transparency, accountability and speed, an official statement said.  While noting that the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs is working on a complete IT solution, including mobile application, for seamless implementation of the scheme, the Prime Minister said that its design should incentivise use of end-to-end digital transactions by the street vendors. This should cover the entire gamut of their business - from procurement of raw material to the collection of sale proceeds. Appropriate incentives and training should be held for the purpose. Use of digital payments would also help build a credit profile for the street vendor helping them in future financial needs, Modi observed. He said that the scheme should not be just seen from the perspective of extending loans to street vendors. It should also be seen as a part of an outreach to the street vendors for their holistic development and economic uplift, the statement quoted Modi as saying. One step in this direction would be by capturing their entire socio-economic details to facilitate necessary policy interventions.  Such data could also be used by different central ministries to benefit them under various schemes for which they are eligible, on a priority basis. These include housing under PMAY-U, cooking gas under Ujjawala, electricity under Saubhagya, health under Ayushman Bharat, skilling under DAY-NULM, and bank account under Jan Dhan scheme, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prime-minister-narendra-modi-reviews-micro-credit-scheme-for-street-vendors-865645.html
25-07-2020||National Politics||Government is 'profiting out of misery of poor Indians': Sitaram Yechury on Shramik Special trains revenue||CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Saturday alleged the government was "profiting out of misery of poor Indians" from the Shramik Special trains that were pressed into service to ferry stranded migrant workers home amid the coronavirus crisis. In a tweet, Yechury tagged reports that Railways earned Rs 429 crore from the migrant special trains and said the "attitude" of the government was "shameful". "Profiting out of misery of poor Indians is Modinomics where the rich cronies get loan waivers for lakhs of crores. The approach, attitude and antics of this government are utterly shameful and condemnable," he tweeted. The railways spent Rs 2,142 crore on running Shramik Special trains but earned a revenue of just Rs 429 crore, official data showed. The data, received through an RTI application filed by activist Ajay Bose, shows that the railways earned Rs 428 crore till June 29, by when most of the 4,615 trains had been run. Additionally, it earned around Rs 1 crore by running 13 trains in July, the Railways' internal data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-is-profiting-out-of-misery-of-poor-indians-sitaram-yechury-on-shramik-special-trains-revenue-865662.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan political crisis: It's CM Ashok Gehlot vs Governor Kalraj Mishra||A cat and mouse game was on in Rajasthan with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot pushing for the convening of a state Assembly session to face a floor test, while Governor Kalraj Mishra questioned the need for it. A Raj Bhawan communique, issued late Friday night, picked holes in Gehlot’s letter recommending convening of the Assembly, saying that it did not mention the date from which the session was to be called nor had appended the agenda for it. Mishra also questioned the need for a floor test when the government enjoyed the majority. He also asked the government on how the session would be conducted at a time when Covid-19 cases were rising. Unprecedented scenes were witnessed at the Raj Bhawan, where Gehlot led a sit-in protest of Congress MLAs, accusing the Governor of “being pressure from the top” to reject his demand for convening a session of the Assembly. “I told him that you must follow your conscience and uphold the dignity of the constitutional post. The people of Rajasthan are with us. If the masses surround Raj Bhawan in protest, we will not be responsible,” Gehlot said. Congress stepped up pressure on the Governor for calling a session after it failed to get a favourable ruling from the Rajasthan High Court, which ordered status quo to be maintained in the disqualification case against rebel leader Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs. Rahul Gandhi also joined the call for convening of the Assembly session, accusing the BJP of conspiring to unseat the Congress government in the state. “The Governor should convene a session of the state Assembly so that the truth comes out before the nation,” Rahul said. Congress MLAs led by Gehlot staged a five-hour sit-in protest on the Raj Bhawan lawns to press for their demand for convening a session of the Rajasthan assembly. The protests were called off late Friday night after the Governor assured the MLAs to look into the matter and sought certain clarifications from the chief minister. Gehlot summoned a meeting of the cabinet at 9:30 p.m. on Friday to address the doubts raised by the Governor on the proposal sent by the chief minister to summon a session of the assembly. The protests by the Congress MLAs revived memories of a similar storming of the Raj Bhawan lawns by BJP leader Bhairon Singh Shekhawat in 1993 demanding that he be called to form the government in the state. According to the Constitution, the Governor is bound to accept the recommendation of the Council of Ministers to convene a session of the state assembly. Gehlot has a wafer-thin majority in the assembly after Pilot’s rebellion – 102 in the House of 200, against his claims of 109. Sachin Pilot had claimed support of 30 MLAs, but has only 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-political-crisis-its-cm-ashok-gehlot-vs-governor-kalraj-mishra-865299.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Why vote of confidence in assembly needed if govt enjoys majority: Rajasthan Governor asks govt||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Friday asked the Ashok Gehlot government why it wanted to call an assembly session to secure a vote of confidence if it already has the majority. The governor posed the query in a six-point questionnaire entailing a note sent by the Raj Bhawan on Friday evening to the state government’s Parliament Affairs Department, the Raj Bhawan said in a statement. In his note to the state government, Governor Mishra emphasized that “no one is above the Constitutional dignity and no pressure politics should be resorted to.” As per the statement, Mishra, detailing the circumstances in which the Raj Bhawan sent the missive to the state government, said, “The state government had submitted a letter to the Raj Bhawan on July 23 night for convening an assembly session at extremely short notice.” “The letter was examined on its merits and even legal and constitutional experts were consulted over it,” he said. The Raj Bhawan subsequently has sent a note to the state’s Parliament Affairs Department seeking the status on the following six issues, the statement said. In his note, Governor Mishra pointed out that neither any date for convening the session had been mentioned in the Cabinet note, annexed with the government’s request for the purpose, nor the Cabinet had given any approval for it. The government’s request has not given any rational either to call the session on such a short notice nor any agenda for it has been proposed, said the governor, pointing out that a 21-day notice is mandatory for calling an assembly session in the normal course. The Raj Bhawan statement added that Governor Mishra has also asked the government “to ensure the independence and freedom of movement of all members of the legislative assembly”. The governor also asked the government to “explain the manner in which the assembly session would be convened amid the ongoing spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the state”. The Raj Bhawan has specifically directed that “the constitutional dignity and the relevant procedure must be adhered to in any action by the government”, the statement said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had earlier told reporters that the governor has said he would abide by the Constitution and will take the decision without any duress. "The Governor has given a note to the chief minister, which will be taken up in the state Cabinet to submit the clarification on the points raised by the governor," Surjewala told reporters after coming out of the Raj Bhawan here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-vote-of-confidence-in-assembly-needed-if-govt-enjoys-majority-rajasthan-governor-asks-govt-865344.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Nurses dealing with non-Covid-19 patients cannot be covered under Centre's insurance scheme: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday said nurses not dealing with Covid-19 patients cannot be included in the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, which provides for a Rs 50 lakh insurance cover to frontline health workers, as doing so might affect the very budget of the scheme. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said it ought to be kept in mind that such schemes are formulated on the basis of availability of funds. "If more persons have to be included, budget of the scheme will be affected. Therefore, it is a policy decision to be taken by the respondent (Centre) whether to include other nurses or not," it said, adding that "this court will be slow to interfere with a policy decision". The observation by the bench came after perusing the affidavit filed by the Heath Ministry stating that under the scheme, Rs 50 lakh insurance cover has been provided to 22.12 lakh health workers, including community health workers, who may have to be in direct contact of Covid-19 patients and therefore, would be at risk of being impacted by the virus. The affidavit was filed through central government standing counsel Anil Soni. The court said such health workers who are in direct contact with Covid-19 patients are at a high risk of getting infected and are a class unto themselves and it is for them the insurance benefits have been extended. The observation came while disposing of a PIL by an NGO which had sought that the benefit of the scheme be extended to nurses working in private hospitals and nursing homes, whether in direct contact with coronavirus patients or not, and that the insurance premium be paid by the authorities at least for the limited period during the COVID-19 pandemic situation. Besides that, the plea by NGO Distress Management Collective had also sought that N-95 masks and PPE kits be provided to all nurses in private nursing homes and hospitals, and ex-gratia be given to those working in such establishments who die attending to Covid-19 patients. The plea had also sought setting up of a helpline on which the nurses can raise their grievances or lodge a complaint with the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). On this aspect, the court asked the Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Anupam Srivastava, to consider setting up a special dedicated helpline for the nurses. The NGO had also sought implementation of a July 14 circular of DGHS directing all registered hospitals, both government and private, to file an undertaking that necessary PPE kits, N-95 masks and other protective equipment was being made available to their staff, including nurses, paramedics and housekeeping staff. On this aspect, the bench directed that the authority which issued the circular has to ensure that it is executed and implemented by the private nursing homes and hospitals. The court said that any individual case of violation can be brought to its attention and requisite orders will be passed after hearing the alleged violator. It went on to add that in the instant case, looking at the steps taken by the Centre and the Delhi government it sees no further reason to monitor the case. "Suffice to say that respondents (Centre and Delhi government) have taken all care of the situation," it added. The Delhi government, in its affidavit, had said that ex-gratia would be provided posthumously to only those persons, whether in private or public sector, who are deployed for COVID duties. It also said that a nodal officer would be appointed by DGHS for dealing with complaints of health workers. The NGO, which claims to be a group of social workers, healthcare professionals, lawyers, retired bureaucrats and retired judges, had alleged that the Centre and the Delhi government have a "discriminatory approach" towards nurses in private hospitals and nursing homes as compared to those working in state-run facilities. It had also claimed that private entities which run these nursing homes/hospitals "are maintaining nil or meagre inventory of requisite stock of safety equipment" and are not exercising basic precautions for safety and security of their healthcare workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nurses-dealing-with-non-covid-19-patients-cannot-be-covered-under-centres-insurance-scheme-delhi-hc-865355.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh health minister says he has tested Covid-19 positive||Uttar Pradesh Health Minister Jai Pratap Singh said on Friday that he has tested positive for Covid-19. His family members were also tested for the disease and their reports are awaited. Asked whether he was suffering from Covid-19, Singh told PTI on Friday, "Yes. Yesterday evening itself it happened, and the reports have come." The minister said that currently, he is in Lucknow. About his family members, the 66-year-old Singh said, "They were tested today (Friday) in the evening, and their reports are likely to come tomorrow."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-health-minister-says-he-has-tested-covid-19-positive-865365.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh government imposes lockdown for two days in Nahan, BBN||The Himachal Pradesh government on Friday announced a lockdown for two days in Nahan and Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN), following a spike in Covid-19 cases. In a video statement, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur stated that the lockdown for two days would remain in force in Nahan in Sirmaur district and industrial town BBN in Solan district to check the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown in Nahan will be remain in force from July 24 midnight to 6 am on July 27, while in BBN from July 25 midnight to 6 am on July 28. An increasing number of Covid-19 cases has been found recently at Gobindgarh locality in Nahan after a large number of people attended a wedding there and in BBN due to several migrant industrial labourers there.  The chief minister said a campaign for finding active case would be launched during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-government-imposes-lockdown-for-two-days-in-nahan-bbn-865368.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||CM Arvind Kejriwal says Delhi is moving towards herd immunity: Report||The chief minister also seemed optimistic about the dip in the number of cases being recorded daily. “I feel Delhi is ready to open its Metro seeing the number of cases today. We will talk to the Centre,” Kejriwal told the publication. As on July 24, Delhi had reported 1,27,364 confirmed cases, out of which 14,554 were still active. While the city's death toll stands at 3,745, the number of recoveries has touched 1,09,065.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-arvind-kejriwal-says-delhi-is-moving-towards-herd-immunity-report-865370.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Kanpur lab technician killed within one week of kidnapping: Police||A lab technician kidnapped a month back in Kanpur was killed within a week of being held captive, police said on Friday, while 11 police personnel, including two senior officers, were suspended for laxity. Five people, including a woman and two friends of S Yadav, were arrested in connection with the case, the police said. Meanwhile, the government directed Additional Director General (ADG-Police Headquarters) B P Jogdand to probe whether any ransom was paid by the family of the 27-year-old lab technician or not. According to an official spokesman in Lucknow, the government has suspended SP (South) Aprana Gupta and then circle officer Manoj Gupta in public interest. Besides, the SSP has suspended former SHO (Barra) Ranjit Rai, chowki in-charge Rajesh Kumar and seven others -- a sub-inspector and six constables -- for laxity in the investigation, the spokesman said. Kanpur SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said a police probe confirmed that Yadav was murdered by his abductors. He said that several suspects were detained and grilled intensively, and two of them confessed to the crime. The official said the accused initially tried to mislead the police, but later they disclosed that they kidnapped Yadav, and killed him either on June 26 or June 27. They further confessed that they disposed of Yadav's body in Pandu river, the SSP said, adding that the accused had worked together with Yadav in another pathology lab. The body hasn't been discovered so far, the circle officer of Govind Nagar said. The victim's motorcycle has been recovered, according to police. Yadav was taken to the rented accommodation in Govind Nagar, just one and half kilometres away from his house, where the accused took turns to keep a watch over him in the following days, police said. Yadav was strangled to death with a rope when he made an attempt to escape, they added. Five people, including a woman and two friends of the deceased, have been arrested in the case so far, the SSP said. The arrested persons were identified as Gyanendra Yadav alias Eishu, an alleged mastermind, Kuldeep Goswami, Neelu Singh, Ram Ji Shukla, and Preeti Sharma, all resident of Kanpur city, IG (Kanpur branch) Mohit Aggarwal added. The SSP said several police teams, including crime branch and surveillance, have been directed to find the victim's body and arrest all those involved in the crime. The family members of Yadav had earlier appeared before the media and claimed that they had thrown a bag containing Rs 30 lakh from a flyover to railway tracks in the presence of police and also did whatever the kidnappers demanded, but the accused did not free the victim. Circle Officer Vikas Pandey said that no ransom money was paid for his release in the presence of police and the allegation was not true. "Kuldeep, who had worked with Yadav at another pathology lab, invited him for a liquor party at his rented accommodation in Ratanlal Nagar," Pandey said, adding that the victim was injected with sedatives and held hostage for about five days. He was sedated whenever he regained consciousness during captivity, the CO said, adding that Kuldeep with the help of others killed him either on June 26 or 27 and he kept the body in his car and dumped it into the Pandu river. The SSP said on June 22, Yadav, a resident of Barra area, was kidnapped and his family filed a missing complaint with Barra police station the next day. Just three days later, the charges were changed into kidnapping charges. The victim's family alleged that the kidnappers had called on the mobile phone of his father, Chaman Singh Yadav, and demanded Rs 30 lakh for his release. The SSP took cognisance of a media report that claimed a ransom of Rs 30 lakh was given to the kidnappers. "I am talking to the aggrieved family. If anyone is wrong, they will be punished," he said. The SSP had also assured the family about the safe return of the victim and said that if any ransom was paid it would be recovered. Opposition parties, including the Congress and the BSP, condemned the killing of the lab technician and alleged that there was "jungle raj" in the state. BSP president Mayawati, in a tweet, said, "In another incident during the jungle raj in UP, the body of Sanjit Yadav was thrown into the river by his kidnappers in Kanpur. This is very sad and condemnable. The state government needs to immediately come into action specially in the matters of crime control and law and order." Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said the law and order in Uttar Pradesh has "completely collapsed". After taking the life of a common man, now public proclamations are being made about it, she said, adding that be it home, road, office, no one feels safe anywhere. "After Vikram Joshi, now abducted Sanjeet Yadav in Kanpur has been killed. The police got the money paid to the kidnappers and he was killed as well. A new 'gundaraj' has come into being," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "In this jungle raj, law and order has surrendered before the goons," she said. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said, "The death of man kidnapped in Kanpur is saddening. The government remained inactive even after warning. Now it should give at least Rs 50 lakh to the aggrieved family and the SP will give Rs 5 lakh to them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-lab-technician-killed-within-one-week-of-kidnapping-police-865375.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Violence down in Kashmir, ceasefire violations by Pakistan have gone up: J&K DGP||Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh on Friday said the overall law and order situation in the valley had improved and violence had come down, but ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops along the Indo-Pak border had gone up by 50-60 per cent this year. The Director General of Police inaugurated two open air gymnasiums, one each at Udhampur, Reasi, and dedicated these health facilities to the public, besides an upgraded conference hall at Range Police Headquarter Udhampur and Lower Subordinates Quarters at Arnas. Singh was on a visit to twin districts of Udhampur Reasi Range to review the crime and security scenario of these districts. "(Overall) law and order situation has improved significantly while violence has also come down. All security agencies are working in close synergy, which is yielding good results," he told reporters at Udhampur. The DGP said in Jammu province militancy is almost wiped out except for two to three militants who are still active in Kishtwar district.  "The number of militants has gone down and we are committed to reducing the number of militants further. The border grid has strengthened from earlier times and working better than before due to which infiltration has reduced," he said. He said that unfortunately our neighbouring country Pakistan is always prompted to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in Jammu and Kashmir.  Singh said that our officers and jawans on the border and in the hinterland are ever ready to tackle such types of attempts by Pakistan-sponsored terrorists to disrupt peace and order. On ceasefire violations by the Pakistan troops along the Indo-Pak border, the DGP said there was an increase of 50-60 per cent in such incidents this year as compared to last year. "If we compare with the last year, there is an increase of 50-60 per cent. Pakistan and its agencies aim to send more number of terrorists while they violate ceasefire," Singh Said. He also said police were fully prepared to deal with any situation in view of the first anniversary of abrogation of provisions of Article 370 on August 5. "People have been cooperating with us. Situation will remain calm and peaceful in days to come," Singh said.  He said Jammu and Kashmir Police is always on the forefront to make its people safe and secure and added that an initiative has been taken by police in association with the hedlth Department in organising 'plasma screening camp' in Srinagar.  The DGP said police personnel who had contracted Covid-19 and had recovered will voluntarily donate plasma.  He advised people to come forward to donate their plasma to Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/violence-down-in-kashmir-ceasefire-violations-by-pakistan-have-gone-up-jk-dgp-865378.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan cabinet discusses guv's six points on assembly session||A cabinet meeting chaired by Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday night discussed the six points raised by Governor Kalraj Mishra for calling an assembly session, sources said. The meeting was held at the chief minister's residence which lasted for nearly two and a half hours. "Discussions over the points given by the governor with regards to calling the assembly sessions were held in the meeting," the sources said. The governor had earlier sought a reply on the six points from the state government, including about the reason to call a session of the Assembly for a floor test. The cabinet note to the governor is likely to be forwarded on Saturday, the sources said. The Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government, which is facing a political crisis after rebellion by 19 dissident Congress MLAs, including rebel party leader Sachin Pilot, wants to hold the assembly session to prove the majority. Earlier in the day, the chief minister had said that a letter was forwarded to the governor on Thursday for calling the session but he did not take any decision. Later, a statement from the Raj Bhawan said the governor has sought a clarification on the six points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cabinet-discusses-guvs-six-points-on-assembly-session-865384.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Encounter underway at Ranbirgarh in Srinagar||An encounter between security forces and militants is underway at Ranbirgarh, in the outskirts of Srinagar, according to ANI.  Police and security forces are on the job, said Kashmir Zone Police.  Encounter underway at Ranbirgarh, in outskirts of Srinagar. Police and security forces are on the job: Kashmir Zone Police Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Ranbirgarh area on the outskirts of the city this morning following specific information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting the search, militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter, the official said. He said the exchange of firing is going on and further details were awaited.    (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-underway-at-ranbirgarh-in-srinagar-865389.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Trader's grandson rescued, kidnappers held after encounter||A six-year-old grandson of a trader was rescued and four people who allegedly abducted him were arrested after an encounter in Uttar Pradesh's Gonda district on Saturday, officials said. Some persons, allegedly carrying identity cards of the Health Department, had come to a locality in Colonelganj on Friday afternoon on the pretext of distributing masks, according to police. The grandson of gutkha trader Rajesh Kumar Gupta was standing at a distance when the suspects approached him to give hand sanitiser and pulled him inside the vehicle. Later, the family got a call from a woman for a ransom Rs 4 crore, a police official said. In a joint operation, the special task force (STF) and the police rescued the child and arrested four kidnappers following an encounter, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said. The car used for kidnapping and three weapons have also been recovered, Awasthi said, adding that two of the abductors had also suffered injuries during the encounter. A reward of Rs 2 lakh has been declared for the joint team of the STF and police, which successfully carried out the operation, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/traders-grandson-rescued-kidnappers-held-after-encounter-865434.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh trader's grandson rescued, kidnappers held after encounter||A six-year-old grandson of a trader was rescued and five people who allegedly abducted him were arrested after an encounter in Uttar Pradesh's Gonda district on Saturday, officials said. Some persons, allegedly carrying identity cards of the Health Department, had come to a locality in Colonelganj on Friday afternoon on the pretext of distributing masks, according to police. The grandson of gutkha trader Rajesh Kumar Gupta was standing at a distance when the suspects approached him to give hand sanitiser and pulled him inside the vehicle. Later, the family got a call from a woman for a ransom Rs four crore, a police official said. In a joint operation, the special task force (STF) and the police rescued the child and arrested five kidnappers following an encounter, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said. The car used for kidnapping and three weapons have also been recovered, Awasthi said, adding that two of the abductors had also suffered injuries during the encounter. Those arrested have been identified as Suraj Pandey, Chhavi Pandey, Raj Pandey, Umesh Yadav and Deepu Kashyap, he said. A reward of Rs two lakh has been declared for the joint team of the STF and police, which successfully carried out the operation, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-traders-grandson-rescued-kidnappers-held-after-encounter-865436.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Two militants killed in Srinagar encounter||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Saturday. Reports said the encounter broke out after security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Ranbirgarh area on the outskirts of the city early morning following ‘specific information’ about the presence of militants there. A police official said as the forces were conducting the search, hiding militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated ensuing an encounter, in which two militants were killed, he said. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militants was not known immediately. The area, where today’s encounter was reported falls in Panzinara on the outskirts of Srinagar city bordering north Kashmir’s Bandipora district. This was the fourth encounter in Srinagar since May that comes as a reminder from the militants that its presence has increased in the city, which not long ago was considered as a zero-militancy zone. Even as militants fired gunshots or lobbed grenades at some places, there was no major militant strike for over 18 months in Srinagar till May. The worry for the security agencies is that the latest encounters occurred in the city at a time when militants are on the defensive in south Kashmir, where they have suffered heavy losses in the recent months. Sources said the militants are trying to make new bases in Srinagar as they are on the run from south Kashmir due to relentless operations by security forces. “Though people of Srinagar were not interested in providing logistic support to militancy for the long years, there has been marginal recruitment of militants after August 2019. The militant handlers are trying to encash palpable skepticism, pessimism, and cynicism in the air after the abrogation of Article 370,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-killed-in-srinagar-encounter-865439.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19, financial crunch cast shadow on Kashmir's animal markets ahead of Bakr-Eid||With less than a week to go for Bakr-Eid, the Covid-19 scare and the ensuing liquidity crunch have directly impacted the sacrificial animal market in Kashmir. The three-day festival which begins on August 1 is likely to be a low-key affair like the previous Eid which was celebrated on May 26. On every Bakr-Eid, Muslims across Kashmir sacrifice animals worth Rs 500 crore. This year, however, according to the mutton dealers, the demand for sacrificial animals may shrink by 50% owing to the pandemic and the resultant general trade depression. Usually, sacrificial animals are brought to Srinagar from neighboring districts. Every year, vendors from various parts of Jammu and Kashmir throng with their flock to the Eidgah ground in the old city, here. The spot, however, wears a deserted look this time around with just a minuscule of mutton dealers and customers present ahead of the Eid. The vendors are not sure if this time they would be able to sell the animals due to fresh restrictions imposed by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Iqbal Khatana, who brings sheep from the neighbouring districts every year, said they weren't allowed to enter the city as thousands of residents would come in contact with each other during the trade. “Situation this year is totally different as there is no hustle. In the last four days, I have sold only three sacrificial animals. People are not showing interest in purchasing cattle,” he said. General Secretary, Kashmir Mutton Dealers Association, Mehraj-ud-Din Ganie said they feared the sales will reduce by over 50% as the pandemic has not only broken the back of the economy but also created a fear.  “There is a fear associated with qurbani (the ritual animal sacrifice) as not only would the butcher go home to home and could be a carrier of coronavirus, but also the distribution of the meat will be a problem for people. Families that would sacrifice two or three animals may come down to one animal at the most,” he said. Usually, Ganie said, Kashmir mutton dealers would record sales of sacrificial animals to the tune of Rs 500 crore. But this time, he said, the sales would not touch even Rs 300 crore. The clerics in Kashmir have also appealed to people to give top priority to health and safety while performing qurbani. Everybody must wear masks, carry sanitisers and maintain social distancing, they have suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-financial-crunch-cast-shadow-on-kashmirs-animal-markets-ahead-of-bakr-eid-865456.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh government to employ kin of anganwadi workers who die of Covid-19||State Minister for Woman and Child Development Imarti Devi said a family member of anganwadi workers or assistants, who die of the infection after performing their duties as "corona warriors", would be appointed to the same post. If an anganwadi worker or assistant is on duty under the national or state Disaster Management Act and contracts the infection and dies of it, then her female family member will be appointed to the same post, Devi stated in a release. However, kin of deceased anganwadi workers must fulfil prescribed qualifications to be directly appointed, she said. As on Friday, the Covid-19 case count in Madhya Pradesh reached at 26,210, while the toll went up to 791, a health official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-government-to-employ-kin-of-anganwadi-workers-who-die-of-covid-19-865475.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||UP govt should pay attention to Covid-19 testing: Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Saturday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to pay proper attention on testing and cleanliness in hospitals as the number of coronavirus cases continues to surge. The comments come a day after the state witnessed a record 50 deaths and 2,667 new infections, taking the toll to 1,348 and tally to 60,771. "In view of the daily rise of corona epidemic in the country's largest state Uttar Pradesh, the government should immediately give proper attention to corona testing, facilities in hospitals and cleanliness in Covid-19 centres. This is the demand of the BSP," Mayawati tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-should-pay-attention-to-covid-19-testing-mayawati-865478.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||War memorial to be built in U'khand named 'Pancham Dham'||A grand war memorial named 'Pancham Dham' will be built here to honour martyrs from the state, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Saturday. "A piece of land has already been identified in the city for the purpose. We have not been able to lay its foundation stone due to coronavirus pandemic but it'll be done soon. "The grand war memorial named 'Pancham Dham' will be built in the memory of our martyrs," Rawat told reporters. The name 'Pancham Dham' carries a reference to chardham, the four revered Himalayan temples located in the state. Remembering heroes of the Kargil victory, Rawat said they showed unprecedented valour in the battle fought under extremely difficult conditions.  "The conditions in which India won the Kargil war were extremely difficult but our Army showed unprecedented valour," he said.   Seventy-five jawans from Uttarakhand sacrificed their lives to contribute to the country's victory in the war, Rawat said.  The anniversary of the Kargil war falls on Sunday. The chief minister also said Uttarakhand is the first state to give government jobs to the dependents of not only wartime martyrs but also the kin of that paramilitary personnel who sacrifice their lives during anti-terrorist or anti-insurgency operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/war-memorial-to-be-built-in-ukhand-named-pancham-dham-865493.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 hospitals in Srinagar admit positive cases on referral basis only||With Kashmir witnessing an alarming spike in the number of coronavirus cases, Covid-19 designated hospitals in Srinagar are admitting patients on a referral basis only while those who are asymptomatic are admitted to various Covid care centres. The decision, an official said, was taken to ensure the optimal use of facilities available at the category-A level hospitals and at the same time unburden them in the wake of increased patient load - both symptomatic as well as asymptomatic. On July 18, the Srinagar district administration had released a video stating that hospitals were full. “Hospitals are full. Now there are no beds available for patients. When hospitals run out of space to deal with the pandemic, people have no option but to take care of themselves and exercise precaution,” reads the caption of the video. The number of active positive cases in Srinagar till 24 July was 2088 while the total number of active cases across Kashmir was 5736. The city has only 800 dedicated Covid beds, according to the officials; around 100 beds have ventilator support. Across J&K, 302 deaths related to Covid-19 have been recorded so far. However, Atal Dulloo, Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education Department, said the government is not planning on home isolating the asymptomatic Covid-19 positive cases or those with mild symptoms to decrease the burden on the hospitals, as of now. “There are a total of 340 Covid-19 patients across J&K who are currently undergoing oxygen therapy and only six patients are on ventilators. There are enough beds available as of now and the government is further increasing the capacity in various districts as well as in Srinagar,” he said. About the availability of ventilators, Dulloo said that the government had requisitioned for more and some have already reached Srinagar while some more are on way.  On home quarantine, he pointed out that the possibility has been considered. “The possibility will be considered if a significant percentage of patients will turn asymptomatic. The stage has not come yet," he said. Notwithstanding Health Commissioner’s assurances, a senior medico in Srinagar said the health system was crumbling in Kashmir and non-adherence to the government’s Covid protocol appear to be the biggest hurdles in J&K's battle against coronavirus. Several disturbing videos have surfaced in recent days from Srinagar hospitals showing helplessness of patients amid lack of beds and shortage of medicines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-hospitals-in-srinagar-admit-positive-cases-on-referral-basis-only-865497.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Criminal killed in encounter in UP's Barabanki: Police||An alleged criminal who had 27 cases registered against him was killed in an encounter with police and the special task force (STF) in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district, officials said on Saturday. Kamal Kishore alias Tinku Kapala, who was carrying a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh, was injured in the gunfight on Barabanki road in Satrikh police station area on Friday night. He was rushed to the district hospital where he succumbed to injuries, an officer said. Kapala, 42, was going on a motorcycle with his associate, who managed to escape and a search has been launched to nab him, Superintendent of Police Arvind Chaturvedi said. Kapala had more than 27 cases registered in his name and police were searching for him for a long time. He had killed two people during a dacoity at a jewellery shop in Krishna Nagar area of Lucknow in 2019, according to the SP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/criminal-killed-in-encounter-in-ups-barabanki-police-865505.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Seers want grand Ram Temple ground breaking ceremony; Yogi reviews preparations ahead of PM's visit||With seers in Ayodhya pressing for the Ram Temple ground breaking ceremony on the 5th of August to be organised as a mega event, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday visited the temple town to review the preparations. Prime minister Narendra Modi is likely to lay the foundation stone of the Temple in the presence of a large number of prominent saints, seers, and political dignitaries. Adityanath, during his visit, paid obeisance at the makeshift Ram Temple and held meetings with the seers, office bearers of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust, which would be overseeing the construction work, and the district officials. The chief minister also visited the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) workshop and witnessed the carving of the stones to be used in the construction of the Ram Temple. ''We want the occasion to be a mega event....it will be a historic moment for all of us....it will give a big boost to turn Ayodhya into an international tourist centre,'' a seer associated with the Trust said. Although it was not clear how many people would be invited to attend the ceremony, according to the sources the number could be anywhere between 150 to 200. ''Restrictions on mass gatherings are still in force....we will have to ensure social distancing also at the ceremony,'' said a senior district official in Ayodhya. Sources said that the chief ministers of the states could also be invited to attend the ground breaking ceremony. The ground breaking ceremony would start from the 3rd of August, and end with the laying of the foundation by Modi on the 5th of August, sources said. Trust member Champat Rai said that he expected the Ram Temple to be completed within three to three-and-a-half years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seers-want-grand-ram-temple-ground-breaking-ceremony-yogi-reviews-preparations-ahead-of-pms-visit-865550.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||RSS meet discusses Ram temple, India-China stand-off||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and other office-bearers discussed the ways to make the proposed "bhoomi pujan" of a Ram temple in Ayodhya a big event by complying with Covid-19 protocols, they said. Strengthening the Swadeshi movement to counter Chinese expansionism was also discussed, according to the sources. A member of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust had recently said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the groundbreaking ceremony on August 5. The four-day conclave, which began on July 21, was held at Saraswati Vidya Mandir Residential School in Sharda Vihar area on the outskirts of the Madhya Pradesh capital. The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief also held virtual talks with some functionaries based in Nagpur, Delhi and other places during the conclave, they added. Bhagwat left for Nagpur this morning, a police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-meet-discusses-ram-temple-india-china-stand-off-865555.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||CBI arrests two bank officers for bribery in Madhya Pradesh||The CBI has arrested two officers of Central Bank of India posted in Narsinghpur district of Madhya Pradesh and a private person for alleged bribery to enhance cash credit limit, officials said on Saturday. Anurag Basedia, Manager (Agriculture), and officer Parag Nandanwar, both posted at Gotegaon, Narsinghpur, and Mohan Singh Lodhi were taken into custody by the CBI while exchange was bribe was allegedly taking place, they said. The agency said a case was registered on allegations that the officers were demanding a bribe of Rs 50,000 from the complainant for enhancing the cash credit limit. "It was further alleged that after negotiations, the accused reduced the bribe amount to the tune of Rs 20,000 and directed the complainant to hand over the amount to a private person (Lodhi). CBI laid a trap and caught the said private person while accepting the bribe of Rs 20,000 from the complainant. Both the bank officials have also been arrested," CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said. He said searches were conducted at five places on the premises of the accused at Gotegaon (Shreedham) in Narsinghpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-arrests-two-bank-officers-for-bribery-in-madhya-pradesh-865557.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||67 booked in Uttar Pradesh for offering Friday prayers in a mass||Six-seven people were booked for taking part in congregational prayers at a mosque here on Friday, police said. Amid rising cases of Covid-19, large gatherings are not allowed in the state, they said. People gathered in large numbers at a mosque in Jatara village under Jarwal Road police station area and offered prayers on Friday, Station House Officer (SHO) Harshvardhan Singh said. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, any such gathering is not allowed, he said on Saturday. Appeals have also been issued by religious leaders in this regard. Despite this, Friday prayers were offered collectively at the mosque, he added. An FIR has been registered against 67 people, of which 20 are unidentified, under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease), among others, of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the police said. Uttar Pradesh recorded its biggest single-day jump of 2,667 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state's tally to 60,771, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/67-booked-in-uttar-pradesh-for-offering-friday-prayers-in-a-mass-865559.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Kashmir's saffron gets geographical indication certification||Saffron grown in Kashmir has received the geographical indication (GI) tag, with Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu saying that it is a major historic step in bringing the valley's brand on the global map. The Union government issued a certificate of GI registration for the saffron grown in the Kashmir Valley, an official spokesperson said. Soon after taking over as lieutenant governor, Girish Chander Murmu took a personal interest in ensuring that Kashmir saffron gets GI certification, he said. Pampore, the hub of saffron in Kashmir, is expected to have a bumper crop of the spice this season due to initiatives taken by the National Mission on Saffron (NMS). Under the NMS, a project of Rs 411 crore was approved by the Union government under which an area of 3,715 hectare for saffron was proposed to be rejuvenated. "The GI certification will stop the prevalent adulteration of Kashmir saffron, thereby, authenticated saffron will fetch much better prices," an official said. He said that Kashmir saffron is the only one in the world grown at an altitude of 1600 metres which differentiates it from other varieties due to its unique characteristics like longer and thicker stigma, natural deep-red colour, high aroma, bitter flavor and chemical-free processing. The official said that an area of 2,500 hectares has been rejuvenated so far and a bumper production is expected during the current season. Expressing happiness over the development, the Jammu and Kashmir LG said that this is the first major step to put saffron produced in the Kashmir Valley on the world map. With the GI tag, Kashmir saffron will acquire more prominence in the export market and will help farmers get the best price for it, he said. Murmu said that with the completion and inauguration of the State of Art Spice Park next month, these measures will prove to be a game-changer for Kashmir saffron. Navin K Choudhary, Principal Secretary to Government, Agricultural Production Department said GI certification establishes specific geographical origin and certifies certain unique qualities of the product. He said that on the directions of the LG, sprinkler irrigation systems are being installed on a war footing in saffron fields and are likely to be completed in the next two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmirs-saffron-gets-geographical-indication-certification-865560.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||CRPF sub-inspector kills senior, self in Delhi||A CRPF Sub-Inspector allegedly shot dead his senior using his service weapon before killing himself at a bunglow allotted to the Ministry of Home Affairs in south Delhi, police said on Saturday. According to police, Sub-Inspector Karnail Singh (55) allegedly opened fire at Inspector Dashrath Singh (56) after an argument broke out between them. After firing at the Inspector in their room, Karnail Singh took his own life near the main gate of the bungalow at around 10:30 PM on Friday. Karnail Singh hailed from Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir while Dashrath Singh belonged to Rohtak in Haryana. "The incident at 61, Lodhi Estate is an aberration which seems to have been committed in the spur of the moment. An inquiry has been ordered to establish the facts and will be taken to its logical end," CRPF spokesperson Deputy Inspector General Moses Dhinakaran said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-sub-inspector-kills-senior-self-in-delhi-865565.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Northeast Delhi riots: Court grants more time to police to complete probe against president of Jamia alumni association||A court here has granted one more month to Delhi police to complete its probe in a case against the president of Alumni Association of Jamia Millia Islamia who was arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the riots in northeast Delhi in February. The police told the court that Shifa-Ur-Rehman, being the president of AAJMI, collected huge funds from suspicious and unaccounted sources. “Even funds were received from persons living outside India,” it alleged. Rehman, also a member of Jamia Coordination Committee, was booked for alleged involvement in the riots and was arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police in April. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana on Friday allowed the special cell to complete its probe by August 24, after the agency sought more time claiming that the case was related to a “deep rooted and large scale conspiracy behind the riot incidents” and that its searches in other states were being hindered due to the coronavirus lockdown. Also the probe has been "derailed" as activist Sharjeel Imam, who is presently lodged in Guwahati jail and whose name surfaced in the hatching of the conspiracy of this case, has tested positive for coronavirus, the police said. The police said that the co-conspirators are yet to be arrested and the efforts were being made to identify and apprehend them. “Their apprehension is crucial in finding out the missing links of the larger conspiracy.... In the present case, several layers of conspiracy have surfaced and to unearth the deep rooted conspiracy, interrogation of remaining is important for the purpose to investigate the present case from all possible angles.  “Search of other co-accused persons of this case is going on but due to lockdown Covid-19 period, process of searches in other states is hindered,” the police told the court. The police said that voluminous data, in the form of CDRs, WhatsApp chats, Facebook posts, Twitter accounts and other social media, was collected during the probe. “More than 1,700 call details records were sought from the service providers which are being thoroughly under examination. The analysis of such a huge technical record is going on and will take more time. “The detailed analysis of that data is important for the purpose of filing a fair, effective and impartial charge sheet against the above named accused and his continued detention is needed to confront him with incriminating material so detected,” it said.  Police further said that “suspicious funds to the tune of Rs 7 to 8 lakh which the accused received through office receipts but not dopositod in the MAJMI bank account.” “Moreover, bills were created to manage that suspicious fund. The persons concerned, related to these bills, are being examined but due to pandemic Covid-19, process of getting details and examination of witnesses is slow,” it said. Police told the court that apart from 23 protest sites reporter earlier, two more protest sites have also been identified which were brought up as a part of conspiracy for riots.  “All the sites were managed, controlled and organized by multiple layer teams in a well-structured and systematic manner. Each individual layer team has been assigned role to perform in furtherance of executing the conspiracy.  “The investigation regarding identification of the persons involved in this deep-rooted conspiracy and their role in furtherance of conspiracy is being minutely under investigation," it said. During the course of investigation conducted so far, role of Sharjeel Imam has also surfaced in the hatching of the conspiracy of this case, police said. It told the court that Imam has been declared coronavirus positive, which has also “derailed the investigation to a huge extent”. In the FIR, police have claimed that the communal violence was a 'premeditated conspiracy' which was allegedly hatched by former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and two others. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/northeast-delhi-riots-court-grants-more-time-to-police-to-complete-probe-against-president-of-jamia-alumni-association-865571.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Increase daily Covid-19 testing to 1 lakh, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tells officials||In a meeting with senior officials, the chief minister stressed on the need to increase the number of medical tests being done through RT-PCR and rapid antigen process in a phased manner for which 10 lakh testing kits should be acquired every 10 days, an official release issued here said. Directing the chief secretary R K Tiwari and additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad to undertake spot review of medical services in Kanpur Nagar and Jhansi on Saturday and Prayagraj and Mirzapur on Sunday, the chief minister asked them to submit a report of the review meeting to him. Citing the various points to be taken up during the review meetings, he said that a work plan should be prepared and concerned commissioners should get the suggestions implemented in their areas. Adityanath also issued directives for the special cleanliness and sanitisation campaign being run on every Saturday and Sunday. He directed officials to send proposals for purchasing new ambulances and advanced life support ambulances under the National Health Mission (NHM) to the union government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-daily-covid-19-testing-to-1-lakh-uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-tells-officials-865576.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Streets empty, shops closed as Lucknow observes weekend lockdown||Lucknow streets wore a deserted look on Saturday as most shops and businesses were closed and public transport went off the roads in view of the state's second-weekend lockdown of the month to combat Covid-19. The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to impose a strict lockdown across the state on weekends to stop the spread of the virus. The restrictions will remain in place at least for July, officials had said earlier. Markets were closed in the city and only vehicles carrying essential goods were seen plying on Saturday. The markets in prominent areas of Lucknow such as Hazratganj, Aminabad, Chowk, Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Latouche Road, Alambagh, Hewett Road, Aliganj and Gudumba remained shut. Police personnel were deployed at all prominent intersections of Lucknow and other cities as well. "The weekend lockdown is in place in the district. Sanitisation is being done in the city. District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash took rounds of various places in the city. Scanning of people in the containment zones of the city has gained momentum as most of the people are in their homes," an official of the Lucknow district administration said. He added that screening and sampling had been intensified, and markets were being sanitised. People too are abiding by the lockdown norms, the official said. Meanwhile, with the restrictions in place and almost everything closed, some youngsters spent the afternoon flying kites. Mohammed Shakeel, who runs a bicycle repair shop, was seen flying a kite along with his brother, Raja, on the roof of their Shuturkhana home. "Kite flying is our best way to pass the time as our shop is closed. On other days, we do not get the time for it as we close the shop in the evening," Shakeel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/streets-empty-shops-closed-as-lucknow-observes-weekend-lockdown-865578.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 fight not over yet: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal at Burari hospital inauguration||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the two crore people of the city, his government and the Centre have together attained victory in controlling Covid-19 but the fight is not over yet. Speaking virtually at the inauguration of 450-bed Delhi government hospital in Burari, he said Covid-19-related parameters have improved in Delhi in the last one month. "The two crore Delhi people, Delhi government and the Centre have together attained victory over corona but it would not be correct to say that the fight is over," he said. The chief minister pointed out that in past one month, cases of Covid-19 have gone down, deaths have reduced, recovery rate has increased and positivity ratio has lowered. "This is a result of the hard work of all the people. I want to congratulate all the doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, officials, and whoever has worked hard to achieve this goal."  He said the Burari hospital will increase the number of beds for coronavirus patients in the city. "I am very happy to be inaugurating Burari hospital today. I could not be there due to Covid-19 and various other arrangements. The opening of this hospital will add 450 more beds in the health infrastructure in Delhi," Kejriwal said. Health Minister Satyendar Jain inaugurated the hospital and was joined through video conferencing by the chief minister. The hospital will eventually have a total of 700 beds. Around 125 beds will have oxygen supply and the capacity will be enhanced in the coming days, the Delhi government said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-fight-not-over-yet-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-at-burari-hospital-inauguration-865585.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Home minister Amit Shah to attend CRPF's raising day event at Delhi headquarters on Monday||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will visit the CRPF headquarters here on its 82nd raising day on Monday and address the personnel of the force posted across the country through a video link, officials said. He will also pay homage to martyrs as a wreath will be placed on his behalf at Madhya Pradesh's Neemuch town, where the force's first battalion was raised on July 27, 1939, as the Crown Representative's Police (CRP) under the British. Its name was changed to Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in 1949 under the Indian Union by the country's first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. An inspector general of the CRPF's central training college will lay the wreath at the martyrs memorial in Neemuch on behalf of the home minister, a senior officer said. The headquarters of the country's largest paramilitary force is located at Lodhi Road here. Mega raising day events are not being held this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and physical distancing protocols, he said. An event that involved marching contingents and display of combat skills in an open ground was scheduled on March 19 in Gurgaon but it was postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak in the country.  Shah will also unveil three documentaries prepared by the CRPF depicting the role of its 'corona warriors', environment protectors and troops involved in internal security. The 3.25 lakh personnel strong paramilitary is designated as the lead internal security force of the country with its three main combat theatres being counter-terrorist operations in Kashmir Valley, counter-insurgency in northeastern states and anti-Naxal operations in Left Wing Extremism affected states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/home-minister-amit-shah-to-attend-crpfs-raising-day-event-at-delhi-headquarters-on-monday-865587.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Battle against Covid-19 cannot be fought just by publicity, managing news: Priyanka Gandhi to UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, saying that at a time when there is an "explosive" rise in cases, the state dispensation's "no test is equal to no corona" policy can lead to a "more frightening situation". In a letter to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, the Congress general secretary said that the situation is getting serious and the battle against the pandemic cannot be fought just by publicity and managing news. Priyanka Gandhi said she hopes the chief minister will take "big and effective" steps that will assure people that the government is committed to protect their lives and they will not be left to God for protection. "By showing the fear of coronavirus, corruption is thriving. If this is not reined in, the battle against coronavirus will turn into a disaster," Priyanka Gandhi said. Noting that 2,500 cases of coronavirus were reported in UP on Friday, she said almost all the metros were flooded with Covid-19 cases, but now even the villages were not unaffected by its spread. "Quarantine centres in UP are in a pathetic state. In some places, the situation is so bad, that people are fearing mismanagement more than the coronavirus. Because of such a scenario, they are not stepping out of their homes for getting tested," Priyanka Gandhi said. "This is a major failure of the government," she asserted. The state government by believing in the "no test = no corona" mantra has adopted a low testing policy, she alleged in the letter written in Hindi. "There is an explosive rise in Covid-19 cases. Till testing will not be increased in a transparent manner, the fight against the pandemic will be incomplete and the situation can become more frightening," she said. "Your government claimed that there is provision for 1.5 lakh beds, but with only about 20,000 active infected cases, there is a scampering for beds," she said. If there is a huge crowd in front of the hospitals, then why is the UP government not constructing temporary hospitals on the lines of those set up in Mumbai and Delhi, Priyanka Gandhi asked. Availing medical facility is the fundamental right of every citizen, she asserted. "The prime minister is a Member of Parliament from Varanasi, the defence minister is from Lucknow, many other Union ministers are from UP. Why can't temporary hospitals be opened in Varanasi, Lucknow, Agra etc." Priyanka Gandhi asked. She suggested that temporary hospitals can be operated by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), the Army and the paramilitary, or if need be, the DRDO hospital can be brought to Lucknow. Also, central facilities set up in Delhi can also be used for border districts, Priyanka Gandhi said, adding that their utilisation is not being maximised there. Noting that home isolation was a good step, she said it should not be implemented in haste. Informed decisions should be taken on key matters related to home isolation like what will be the arrangement for monitoring patients, who needs to be informed if the patient's condition worsens and what will the medical facilities cost in home isolation, she said. What will be the arrangement for checking the temperature and oxygen level of the patients in home isolation, she further asked in the letter. The government should do a complete mapping of it and give complete information at the local level to the public, Priyanka Gandhi said. The Congress general secretary said that she realises, that often the state government feels that the Congress' suggestions are given only from a political point of view. "This was evident from the response of your government while we were trying to get buses for UP workers who were walking home," she said. "I want to assure you once again that protecting the health and life of the people of Uttar Pradesh is our biggest sentiment at this time. We are continuously striving with constructive support and a spirit of service," she said in the letter. At this time when the pandemic is growing rapidly, the Congress stands with the people of UP and is ready to give full support to the state government, she said. Tightening its grip over Uttar Pradesh, Covid-19 claimed a record 50 lives in the state on Friday as the deadly virus infected 2,667 people more in the largest single-day spike till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/battle-against-covid-19-cannot-be-fought-just-by-publicity-managing-news-priyanka-gandhi-to-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-865588.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Tihar inmates with yoga knowledge train others inside barracks||With yoga trainers from outside the Tihar unable to visit the prison due to the coronavirus pandemic and inmate instructors either out on bail or parole, authorities have turned to prisoners aware of the exercise regime to train others within the barracks. Tihar, which has over 16,000 inmates across its various jails, had started Project Sanjeevan in association with Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY) in January 2019 to train inmates. "With the help of MDNIY, two sessions of yoga training were conducted last year. The first was from March-June when around 1,000 inmates were trained, including 46 who were trained as trainers. "The second batch was started from September 2019 to January 2020 when another 1,000 inmates were trained, including 31 as trainers," a senior prison official said. The classes were conducted from Monday to Friday every week and around 15 trainers in both the programmes used to come from MDNIY for the yoga sessions. "Due to the ongoing situation, we could not start the programme this year. Once the situation gets normal, we will start it once again. This time, we would like to increase the numbers also,” said Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel. Since outsiders are not allowed and the 77 inmates, who were trained as trainers, have been released on bail or parole, the inmates who know yoga are teaching others inside the barracks, he said. This is not so structured but the jail authorities are trying to keep them in practice which would help them in the regular sessions whenever they are started, the DG said. "It is our endeavour to provide some skill to the inmates so that they can start a new life after being released. We do not want any inmate to come back again after they are released. “Yoga helps in mental and physical health. It can be used as a skill and those who get the certificate can opt it as a career and work as yoga teachers and make a living,” Goel said. Till July 23, 59 inmates tested positive for the novel coronavirus out of which 51 recovered, two died and one released and is currently home quarantined. There are five active cases. On the other hand, 120 prison staff members have been tested positive, out of which 91 recovered, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tihar-inmates-with-yoga-knowledge-train-others-inside-barracks-865591.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Compensate kin of migrant workers who died during lockdown: Trade Unions to President Ram Nath Kovid||Ten central trade unions have petitioned President Ram Nath Kovid demanding adequate compensation to the dependents of those migrant workers, who lost their lives due to "sudden, unplanned" national lockdown, issue smart cards to all workers with countrywide validity to avail social security benefits and put on hold measures to suspend labour laws. The trade unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF, UTUC -- also wanted providing a corpus of Rs 10,000 crore – a revolving annual FUND for the purpose of implementing Social Security Schemes under the provisions of Unorganised Sector Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008. In the joint letter, the trade union leaders said the national lockdown "catastrophically affected” the working people and the migrant workers were worst hit. They demanded that the dependents of migrant labourers who died during lockdown be adequately compensated. They also wanted the government to issue smart cards to workers with Aadhaar Cards which should be useful for social security benefits. The trade unions also claimed that the healthcare system was exposed to be woefully inadequate as the private hospitals either simply refused to cap the rates, as appealed by the government, for treatment of Covid-19 patients, stating they were uneconomical or simply closed doors. "The ventilators, PPEs, sanitizer required were in extreme short supply. Only the public health system-the public hospitals, their doctors, their staff, the health scheme workers(ASHA Workers), Anganwadi workers, the municipal sanitation workers worked tirelessly, risking their own lives including being affected and even lost lives and won everyone's admiration and gratitude. It was the Ordnance Factory workers who swung into action to produce the much-needed ventilators and PPEs.  The much-touted private enterprise failed completely," it said. They were of the view that the government's action to put the wheels of the economy back on rails defied all logic and the past experience as well as the advice of renowned Indian economists. "The economy was already in recession from prior to the onset of the pandemic and was due to the majority of Indian people lacking even the minimum purchasing power. It was necessary to put money in their hands. The sudden lockdown compounded the problem," the letter said. "Agriculture is pushed to corporatization through Ordinances. The Rs.20 lac crore package announced is once again a supply-side move rather than the necessary Demand-side push. Repeated Demands by the entire trade union movement for direct income-support and adequate food-support to all poor and non-income-tax-paying households is being arrogantly ignored...While GDP figures are bandied about as a measure of 'national progress', the question of equitable distribution is plainly ignored," the letter added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/compensate-kin-of-migrant-workers-who-died-during-lockdown-trade-unions-to-president-ram-nath-kovid-865594.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||2,000 women advocates petition Centre for financial assistance||More than 2000 women advocates have filed a representation to the Union government for providing financial assistance to the lawyers, as they suffered due to the nominal functioning of courts on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Even during the current process of ‘unlocking’, the courts are still functioning on nominal basis only and it is the virtual courts which have become the order of the day. Most of the advocates do not have proper infrastructure and electronic gadgets such as laptops, scanners, good wi-fi for better bandwidth and even dedicated spaces in the associations to participate in virtual hearings," they said. They demanded formulation of a uniform policy to provide the practicing advocates loan up to Rs five lakh, payable in 36 equal monthly installments with a moratorium period of one year. The financial assistance can be provided to them under the Disaster Management Act, 2015 on reasonable terms and conditions, they said, demanding improvement in infrastructural facilities of the virtual courts. A copy of the said representation has also been sent to the Prime Minister’s Office, the Law Minister and the Finance Minister, a press note by them stated. The signatories of the representation said they were moved by the plight of several of their colleagues committing suicides or taking up odd jobs during this time. On July 22, a day after women advocates started their signature campaign, the Supreme Court has taken suo motu cognizance of the issue and asked the Union government, Bar Council of India and Registrar Generals of all the High Courts to respond to a proposition of providing financial assistance to the lawyers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2000-women-advocates-petition-centre-for-financial-assistance-865603.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports record 2,971 fresh Covid-19 cases, 39 deaths||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 39 more deaths due to Covid-19 and 2,971 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike in the state. The death toll due to the disease has mounted to 1,387, while the state's caseload has reached 63,742. According to a health bulletin issued by the state government on Saturday, UP reported 2,984 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, but it did not specify the time period. On Friday, the state's Covid-19 tally stood at 60,771 and the death toll at 1,348. Of the 39 new deaths, five each were reported in Kanpur and Varanasi, followed by four in Gorakhpur, two each in Prayagraj, Bareilly, Firozabad and Sultanpur. One death each was reported from Lucknow, Jhansi, Moradabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Sambhal, Hardoi, Sant Kabir Nagar, Rampur, Etawah, Kannauj, Mau, Pilibhit, Rae Bareli, Bhadohi, Bahraich and Balrampur. So far, 39,903 patients have recovered from Covid-19. The state now has 22,452 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-record-2971-fresh-covid-19-cases-39-deaths-865617.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Crisis: We will hold a sit-in outside PM Narendra Modi's house if necessary, says CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday, preparing Congress MLAs supporting him for a long haul, asked them to be ready to stay at the luxury resort for 21 days, the time Governor Kalraj Mishra might take to convene the Assembly session. Congress is set to take the protests against the BJP nationwide on Monday, with Gehlot asserting that he might lay siege to the Rashtrapati Bhavan and the prime minister’s residence if required. Amid the crisis, Congress workers hit the streets across Rajasthan on Saturday, staging protests against BJP’s “conspiracy to murder democracy”, with large number of activists turning up in Dausa, the stronghold of rebel leader Sachin Pilot. “All PCCs will hold protests in front of the Raj Bhawans in their respective states on Monday at 11:00 a.m. demanding to ‘Save Democracy- Save Constitution and exposing the anti-democratic and anti-constitutional actions of the BJP,” AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal said in a statement. Addressing MLAs in Jaipur, Gehlot asked them to remain united and stay strong and at the same time cautioning them that they may have to stay in the hotel for 21 days, the minimum days notice required to convene the Assembly session. “The majority is with us,” the Chief Minister told the MLAs at Hotel Fairmont, where they have been staying since July 12, when Pilot rebelled against Gehlot. A day after Gehlot and MLAs supporting him staged protests on Raj Bhawan lawns, a BJP delegation called on Governor Kalraj Mishra to voice concerns over Gehlot’s remarks that his government will not be responsible if people surround the Raj Bhawan to protest against the delay in convening of the assembly session. “The chief minister is the head of the state and he said that he will not be responsible for a breach in law and order situation. If not him, then who will be responsible? He should tender his resignation for using such language,” Leader of the Opposition in Rajasthan Assembly Gulab Chand Kataria said after meeting the Governor. “This government is headed for a constitutional crisis,” Rajendra Singh Rathore, deputy leader of the BJP in the Rajasthan assembly told reporters after meeting the Governor. Rathore, however, made it clear that the BJP was not seeking a floor test as it did not have the numbers required to form the government. “The government is facing a crisis due to internal differences. You have a chief minister and a deputy chief minister who do not see eye to eye,” Rathore said, seeking to distance the BJP from the political crisis in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-crisis-we-will-hold-a-sit-in-outside-pm-narendra-modis-house-if-necessary-says-cm-ashok-gehlot-865629.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||P Chidambaram quotes 1992 Supreme Court verdict regarding Rajasthan High Court's order on rebel MLAs||A day after Rajasthan High Court ordered status quo on disqualification notices to 19 rebel MLAs, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said a 1992 verdict by the Supreme Court stated that judicial review should not cover any stage prior to a decision by the speaker/chairman. He said it is for the people to judge the verdict themselves as the decision by apex court's five judges was binding on all courts. "To the average citizen who is mystified by the orders of the HC and SC, the following passage in simple English should be easy to understand. "In 1992, the SC ruled: 'Having regard to the constitutional scheme in the Tenth Schedule, judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the Speakers/Chairmen; and no quia timet actions are permissible'. "Those words are simple and clear enough. That statement of the law by 5 judges was binding on all courts, HC or SC. Now, dear average citizen, you be the judge," he said in a series of tweets. The Rajasthan High Court on Friday ordered maintaining status quo on disqualification notice issued by the state assembly speaker to 19 dissident Congress MLAs, including Sachin Pilot. The assembly speaker issued the notice to the MLAs on July 14 after the ruling Congress complained to him that the legislators had defied a whip to attend two legislature party meetings last week. "The writ petition has been admitted and the court has ordered for status quo on the notices dated July 14. The matter will be heard in due course now," a counsel for the speaker said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/p-chidambaram-quotes-1992-supreme-court-verdict-regarding-rajasthan-high-courts-order-on-rebel-mlas-865635.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Jaish-e-Mohammad hideout busted in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama||Security forces on Saturday busted a Jaish-e-Mohammad militant hideout during a cordon and search operation in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district, police said. On a credible input, the forces launched the cordon and search operation in the forests of Chinphadi Machama in Tral area of the south Kashmir district, a police spokesperson said. During the searches in the area, they busted a militant hideout belonging to Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), he said. Police have taken into custody the incriminating material recovered from the hideout, the spokesperson said, adding that a case has been registered and an investigation was taken up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaish-e-mohammad-hideout-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-865636.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab police Inspector General Kaustubh Sharma tests Covid-19 positive||The senior IPS officer, Kaustubh Sharma, has been admitted to a hospital in Faridkot, civil surgeon Rajinder Kumar said. His sample was taken on Friday morning after he had a high fever for the last two-three days, the doctor said, adding that his report came positive in the night. The officer's 30 contacts will be tested for coronavirus, Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-inspector-general-kaustubh-sharma-tests-covid-19-positive-865650.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Jawaharlal Nehru University student investigated for social media comment against Army||Delhi police has begun investigation into a complaint filed against a student of the Jawaharlal Nehru University for allegedly posting offensive comment against the Indian Army, officials said Saturday. Tajinder Yadav, a social worker, filed an FIR at Kapashera police station on July 8, claiming that the JNU student posted on Twitter that the Indian Army operation against terrorists in Kashmir was "wrong and against the country". "The person has termed the action by the Army against terrorists as wrong and against the country. He has also linked this to the RSS and the termed the outfit as anti-national. This is an insult to the Indian Army and the RSS,” said Yadav, who claimed to be associated with the Mehrauli unit of the BJP''s Yuva Morcha. Accordingly, an FIR has been registered against the student under the Indian Penal Code section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and section 153 (persons who indulge in wanton vilification or attacks upon the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language). "We have received a written complaint and registered a case under sections 153 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code," a senior police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jawaharlal-nehru-university-student-investigated-for-social-media-comment-against-army-865655.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Modi govt ensured equitable development of Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government has ensured equitable development of both the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Rejecting the claims of regional discrimination by the opposition, he asked people alleging this to shed the baggage of past and liberate themselves from the cynicism that has plagued their minds for seven decades. Challenging the opposition to prove the alleged discrimination against Jammu, Singh said there is absolutely no evidence of it, particularly during the last one year following the historic Constitutional changes of August 5 and 6, 2019. He said such allegations and propaganda are being manufactured either by certain vested interests who had over the years thrived on receiving benefits from the back door or by certain cynic minds which draw sadist pleasure in raising the bogey of discrimination even when they can not prove it. Speaking to the media here, Singh said, the Modi government has ensured equitable development of both the divisions of the union territory, but the matter of fact is that on account of circumstances prevailing in the Valley, during the last one year the development activities have progressed at a much faster pace in Jammu as compared to Kashmir. Substantiating his point, he said that the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) has become functional in Jammu while there was no IIM in Kashmir and so also was the case with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) which has been established in Jammu but not in Kashmir. Similarly, the minister said that the work on AIIMS has started in Jammu while in Kashmir even the land acquisition is yet to be completed. The construction work on the Ring Road project, the widening of National Highway from Pathankot to Jammu to make it six-lane from four-lane as well as the acquisition of land for the landmark Katra-Delhi Expressway road corridor has started in the Jammu region, said Singh, Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office. He is also the Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur constituency. Taking a dig at the "inherently habitual critics", Singh said, some of them are so obsessed by the thought of discrimination against Jammu that they assume discrimination in everything, and so much so that tomorrow they may even go to the extent of complaining why Kashmir got more number of corona positive cases and why Jammu, according to them, suffered discrimination by getting a lesser number of corona positive cases. Out of seven centrally funded medical colleges, he said that Jammu received four and Kashmir only three. As for recruitment to government jobs is concerned, Singh said that hereafter the selection will be made purely on the basis of written test, without an interview. Those who are raising hue and cry are the ones who had, over the years, learnt to secure government jobs through dubious means or through middlemen, he alleged. Singh said as we complete one year since the historic 5th of August 2019, let us shed the baggage of past and liberate our mindset from the cynicism that had plagued our minds for seven decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-govt-ensured-equitable-development-of-jammu-and-kashmir-ladakh-union-minister-jitendra-singh-865658.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand reports 244 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 5,861||A 70-year-old woman who had tested for Covid-19 died at Doon Medical College. Her death summary, provided by the hospital, mentions that she died due to respiratory failure, a state health department bulletin said. Among the 244 new cases, Dehradun district reported the highest 72 new instances of the infection, Haridwar 61, Nainital 30, Udham Singh Nagar 23, Pithoragarh 18, Uttarkashi 12, Champawat 9, Pauri and Almora six each, Tehri four and Bageshwar three, the bulletin said. So far, 3,495 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the state, 38 have migrated out and 63 have died. The number of active cases stood at 2,365, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-reports-244-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-5861-865670.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab police issues alert on phishing attack linked to Covid-19||The Punjab Police on Saturday cautioned against a phishing attack wherein fake messages assuring Rs 2,000 as Covid-19 relief package from the government are being sent to people with an aim to steal their data. The warning was issued by the Digital Investigation Training and Analysis Centre of the Punjab Police State Cyber Crime Cell. The fraud messages containing a URL (universal resource locator) are being circulated via instant messaging services like SMS and WhatsApp. The cybercriminals ask the users to click on the link to receive the money in their bank accounts and in turn get access to their data, said an official spokesperson. “These kinds of phishing attacks could permit cybercriminals to assume control of your device by logging your keystrokes, or access your own data and money related information, which could lead to emptying your bank account,” the official said. According to the spokesperson, the message reads: “The Government has finally approved and has started giving out free Rs 2,000 Relief Funds to each citizen. Below is how to claim and get yours credit instantly as I have just did now https://covid19-relieffund.com/. You can only claim and get credited once and it's also limited so get your now instantly.” Once someone clicks on the link, a page opens with a congratulatory message, saying: “Get free Rs 7,000 instantly to your bank account. Please complete the survey to avail free lockdown relief funds.” The police urged people to remain extremely cautious and ignore suspicious URL links on social media platforms. “If anyone comes across any such message, through any social media platform, do not forward it to others but delete it immediately. Clicking on such links pose high risks because it could be malware which could redirect you to other fraudulent sites which may lead to financial loss to the user,” the spokesperson cautioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-issues-alert-on-phishing-attack-linked-to-covid-19-865671.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistan again violates ceasefire along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistan troops violated ceasefire for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday by resorting to mortar shelling and firing at forward posts along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, officials said.  The Pakistani troops fired from small arms and shelled mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector this evening, they said. The officials said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly.  This was the fifth day that the Pakistani forces have violated the ceasefire along the LoC. The Pakistani troops had shelled areas along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-again-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-865675.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh hails Canada's move of not recognising 'Referendum 2020'||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday welcomed Canada's decision not to recognise the results of 'Referendum 2020' being organised by the pro-Khalistan group 'Sikhs for Justice (SFJ)'. 'Referendum 2020' is a campaign by the SFJ for a separate Sikh state. He hoped that other countries too would follow Canada's example and reject the "secessionist 'Referendum 2020'", which the SFJ was promoting to divide India on communal lines. Singh was reacting to a media report which quoted a spokesperson of the foreign ministry of Canada, as saying, "Canada respects the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of India, and the Government of Canada will not recognise the referendum." In a statement here, the chief minister said the categorical stand taken by the Justin Trudeau government on the issue is exemplary and other nations and governments should also come out openly against SFJ. The group has been banned by India as a terrorist organisation and its founder Gurpatwant Singh Pannun has been declared a terrorist for actively promoting Pakistan-backed terror activities on Indian soil, he said. Singh said failure to openly oppose the separatist SFJ could set a dangerous precedent for any country as it could be seen as a case of covert support to an organisation that is freely propagating secessionist activities. It was in the interest of global peace and security to reject forces that are bent on spreading terror, he said, adding Sikhs in Punjab had categorically rejected SFJ's pro-Khalistan movement, which the outfit was spreading at the behest of Pakistan's ISI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-hails-canadas-move-of-not-recognising-referendum-2020-865678.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||70,000 ineligible beneficiaries of social security removed: Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the 70,000 odd beneficiaries removed from the ambit of social security were fraudulent cases who were drawing benefits at the cost of genuine ones. Singh further said the Rs 162.35 crore that he had ordered to be recovered from them will now go into raising the amount of financial assistance to the deserving beneficiaries. In fact, his government had added six lakh genuine beneficiaries to the list since taking over the state's reins while weeding out the ineligible ones, who were fraudulently getting social security benefits under the patronage of the erstwhile SAD-BJP government, he said. "These things happen when political parties become selfish and indulge in wrongful acts to promote their own interests," he alleged. Only the undeserving people had been removed from the beneficiary list, he said, adding that the total number of beneficiaries had actually gone up from 19 lakh to 25 lakh in this three-year period. Responding to a question from a Hoshiarpur resident during 'AskCaptain' Facebook Live edition, the chief minister said he was totally committed to transparency in selection of beneficiaries and his government would ensure that no eligible person is left out or deprived of his due share of social benefits. A total of 70,137 fake social security beneficiaries have been weeded out after thorough verification and re-verification exercise conducted by the Social Security and Women and Child Development department, said an official release. Claiming that most of these ineligible beneficiaries were from the constituencies of the Badal clan, the chief minister later lashed out at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders for allegedly "bribing" voters with bogus social security pension in the run-up to the 2017 assembly elections. It was a different matter that these "shameless tactics" failed to serve them any purpose, he said, citing the Akalis' complete rout in the polls. Due to a whopping Rs 162.35 crore losses incurred by the state exchequer as a result of the diversion of the social security benefits, including old age and widow pensions, to these fraudulent beneficiaries, genuine beneficiaries had been deprived of the higher benefits of various government schemes.  The notification to investigate and identify suspected pensioners was issued by the Social Security department in June 2017, on the directions of the chief minister, soon after the Congress government came to power in Punjab. The exercise has revealed that 36,617 people had been taking old age pensions fraudulently despite not fulfilling the age criteria of 58 years for women and 65 for men, the release said. Other categories of fake beneficiaries included widows, destitute women and the disabled, it added. While Sangrur reported the maximum of 12,573 ineligible beneficiaries, deriving benefits worth Rs 26.63 crore, Bathinda -- the parliamentary constituency of Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal -- came a close second with 8,762 fake beneficiaries in Bathinda district and 6,663 in Mansa, causing exchequer losses of Rs 17 crore and Rs 18.87 crore, respectively. In Muktsar, the Badal's so-called bastion, 7,441 ineligible beneficiaries were availing benefits to the extent of Rs 15.70 crore, the release said. In Fazilka, which includes the Jalalabad assembly constituency of former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal and Fazilka segment of the then social security minister Surjit Kumar Jyani, 2,452 ineligible beneficiaries were availing benefits to the extent of Rs 6.14 crore. In Amritsar, the stronghold of the Majithia family, a total of 7,853 ineligible beneficiaries were found to be getting benefits to the tune of Rs 19.95 crore, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/70000-ineligible-beneficiaries-of-social-security-removed-punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-865685.html
25-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire along Line of Control in J&K's Poonch||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday by resorting to mortar shelling and firing at forward posts along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, officials said.  The Pakistani troops fired from small arms and shelled mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector this evening, they said. The officials said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly.  This was the fifth day that the Pakistani forces have violated the ceasefire along the LoC. The Pakistani troops had shelled areas along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-line-of-control-in-jks-poonch-865711.html
25-07-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus lockdown: The economics of new alternative occupations||Many would have noticed a new trend while going through their social media and allied feeds in the past few weeks. Friends and acquaintances are sharing business and hobby ideas initiated by those in their circles during the lockdown. The reasons for this are not too hard to understand. The Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown has had far-reaching implications in terms of pay-cuts and job losses for individuals and poor performances of various small businesses. Individuals, especially in urban areas, are trying to make the best use of their talent and skills and venturing into make-shift “alternative occupations” during this time to keep revenue streams flowing. Social media platforms have facilitated these ventures by allowing them to reach out to a wider audience.  Hard times Before understanding the micro details of these alternative occupations, looking at two macroeconomic numbers will provide the justification for this shift. Firstly, total unemployment rate: According to the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy, unemployment rate increased to nearly 23 per cent in April and May 2020, notably higher than the 7-8 per cent of the pre-Covid period. Though this number has dropped down to close to 10 per cent in June at the aggregate level, the unemployment rate in urban areas continues to be higher at 12 per cent. In June, close to 46 million people were unemployed of which around 16 million were in urban areas.  The second number to be taken into account is 6.4 crore registered micro, small and medium enterprises. A majority of them would have seen a noteworthy fall in revenues. This excludes the enterprises which are running their business at a much smaller scale and are unregistered.  Looking at these two numbers, we can say then that the inevitable lockdown and its consequent impact on businesses and employees have made people initiate temporary ventures to tide over these challenging times and continue till things normalise.  Types of ventures The two most common ventures you will come across and which are an oxymoron are “fitness” and “food”. The content range for fitness videos is massive and encompasses everything from free content to paid versions with a monthly or bi-monthly subscription. Fitness sessions variants include live sessions on Instagram to online personalised training through communication apps.  In case of food, the variants include online tutorial sessions to protocol-based delivery of a specific food items, ranging from home-based baking items to daily consumed meals.  So what is the principle on which these occupations work? Profit maximisation is the foundation of any business idea and here too it is the same. These alternative occupations are either manufacturing a home-based commodity or rendering a service. Manufacturing of a commodity entails some variable costs in the form of raw materials and electricity but other costs like rent, advertisement, employee cost take a back-seat in this business model. In terms of rendering services, like fitness videos or culinary training, it involves a one-time investment of a mobile-stand and a really good internet service provider. The marginal cost of rendering a service is close to nil and the biggest cost is in fact, ‘time’. The minimisation of a number of costs enhances the feasibility of the ventures and drives maximisation of profits.  Conditions of ‘perfect competition’ These alternative occupations, that essentially work through the online model, come close to illustrating a market structure in economics called ‘perfect competition’. This structure has broad characteristics like a large buyers and sellers, ease of entry and exit, no government intervention, complete availability of information to buyers, similar products sold and close to equal market share.  These ventures perfectly fit into the first four assumptions and partially as far as the latter two go. In case of similar products sold, services rendered may be slightly different but not conspicuously so.  Also, the market share for the products is equal and very small for the large number of sellers but some other theoretical foundations of this characteristic are not observed realistically. Therefore, we can say that these alternate occupations satisfy the majority of the assumptions but not all completely. Finally, the sustainability and policy implications of this model need to be tested.  At present, when the lockdown has led to limited business activity or job losses or pay cuts, the opportunity cost of sitting idle at home is high. Utilising this idle time through alternative occupations is helping many individuals manage their households. In normal times, doing multiple remunerative things effectively would have been an onerous task as one of them would have got sidelined.  Therefore, while the shift of many to an alternative occupation during the lockdown looks like a good idea, the long term sustainability and continuation of this in a normalised economy remains a question. Despite the temporal nature of these alternative occupations, the government can tie up with social media platforms for creating a database of these activities. These platforms can be a good step to make household business activities formalised and capture value additions of these activities in the larger informal economy.   (Sushant Hede is an Associate Economist with CARE Ratings Ltd. Views are personal) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-lockdown-the-economics-of-new-alternative-occupations-865522.html
25-07-2020||South||Madras HC suggests law to regulate online games such as Rummy||The Madras High Court on Friday voiced concern that unemployed youth were being lured and made to become addicts by portals offering online games such as Rummy and suggested that the Tamil Nadu government take measures to pass suitable legislation for regulating them through license. A comprehensive regulatory framework by a regulatory body was necessary for online sports and to curb illegal activities as well, Justice B Pugalendi observed while cautioning that if a youngster losing money in the game turned out to be a criminal it would wreak havoc on the society. The court was discussing the issue as a senior state police official had earlier submitted, in response to a court query, that there was no rule to regulate and license the online skill games, he said. Such a regulation would encourage investment in the sector, which could lead to technological advancements as well as generation of revenue and employment, he said while quashing a criminal case filed against a teacher for taking part in card-based gambling. Noting that the social media was attracting the youngsters to play online games by offering prize money, the Judge said those getting addicted to games such as Rummy, a card game, were losing money and getting frustrated. He cautioned that such youngsters who get trapped in such a manner may go to any level to meet their financial loss in the game. The most dangerous for any society was educated criminals. If the knowledgeablepersons who played gambling turned out to be a criminal, it would wreakhavoc on the society. "Keeping all these aspects in mind the government should regulate and monitor such virtualgames, like some states which had amended their prevailing gaming acts, the Judge said. Pointing to the state governments ban on lottery tickets and usury which ruined many families, he said similarly the online games also should be regulated to prevent alarming situations while keeping in mind the law of the land as well as judicial procedures. The government, if it intends to enact a law in this regard, should put on notice all the stakeholdersand get their views before bringing the legislation. In the instant case, the Judge said the teacher, who was booked under the Tamil Nadu Gambling Act, even according to the police had played cards near a thorny bush and the place cannot be termed as a common gaming house. The continuation of the investigation in the case will amount to abuse of process of law, the judge said and quashed the case. CEO, All India Gaming Federation, Roland Landers welcomed a regulatory framework to provide "clarity to the sunrise online gaming industry with a view to encourage investments leading to technological advancements as well as generation of revenue and employment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-suggests-law-to-regulate-online-games-such-as-rummy-865345.html
25-07-2020||South||Covid-19 scare pushes Telangana government official to death||A government official here allegedly committed suicide thinking he had contracted Covid-19, police said on Friday. Mamidala Raja Venkata Ramana (54) was a superintendent in the Education Department in Mancherial which is over 80 km from Karimnagar. He suffered from cough and cold recently, and thought he had been infected with the virus. Hence, he took the extreme step, police said. "On Wednesday night, he arrived at his residence in Karimnagar and hanged himself from a ceiling fan," police said. As Venkata Ramana didn't come back from office, his wife and son enquired with friends and relatives who told her that he had reached his house in Karimnagar. The neighbours informed police and found that the man had ended his life. The police arrived and found a note purportedly written by Ramana saying he was scared of contracting Covid-19 and so decided to take the extreme step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-scare-pushes-telangana-government-official-to-death-865356.html
25-07-2020||South||ABVP president accused of harassing woman in Chennai||A 62-year-old widow, who is living alone in her apartment here, has accused ABVP National President Dr Subbiah Shanmugam of harassing her, including urinating outside her house, following an argument over a parking slot. A complaint against Dr Shanmugam, who is in government service, was filed on July 11 at the Adambakkam Police Station here by the widow’s relative Balaji Vijayaraghavan. However, no action has been taken so far. Dr Shanmugam and the woman were living in the same apartment complex in Nanganallur and an argument broke between them over a parking slot. “He wanted to use our parking lot. We agreed but demanded a nominal charge for using it. He was outraged by our demand and even broke our signboard at the parking lot,” Vijayaraghavan wrote in his complaint. He also alleged that Dr Shanmugam began harassing her by throwing “pieces of chicken” outside her apartment despite knowing she is a vegetarian. Vijayaraghavan also alleged in his two-page written complaint that the ABVP National President had urinated outside the woman’s apartment gate and had been throwing garbage and used masks at her gate. The 62-year-old woman has been living alone in her apartment for the last year following her husband’s death. In his complaint, Vijayaraghavan also said the family was “concerned about her safety”, while asking police to take action against Dr Shanmugam, who he says, “has a bad track record in maintaining rapport with neighbours.” CCTV footage corroborates with the allegations of urinating outside the residence of the widow. However, the ABVP called the incident as a “malicious and derogatory propaganda” by the Congress’ student wing of NSUI. "The video shared by NSUI with an allegation of harassment is tampered with and is being used with mala fide intentions. The two families have discussed this within their housing society and have already concluded that the harassment allegations were caused due to misunderstandings and are untrue,” ABVP National General secretary Nidhi Tripathi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/abvp-president-accused-of-harassing-woman-in-chennai-865415.html
25-07-2020||South||Three women die of coronavirus in Puducherry, 139 new cases reported||Three elderly women succumbed to coronavirus in Puducherry while 139 fresh cases were reported on Saturday, taking the aggregate to 2,654. Of the total number of infections in the Union Territory, 1,055 were active cases, 1,561 patients recovered and discharged. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters here that all the three women who died of the disease were above 70 years. With the three fatalities, the toll rose to 38. The health department identified 139 fresh cases on Saturday at the end of testing of 775 samples of whom 113 were admitted to the government hospital here followed by three admitted to the government hospital in Karaikal and 23 in Yanam. Rao said 78 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours. While 65 were discharged from hospitals in Puducherry, the remaining 13 were discharged from the hospital in Karaikal. The department has so far conducted testing of 34,305 samples and found 31,142 to be negative. Of the total 1,055 active cases, 952 patients were undergoing treatment in hospitals in Puducherry, 42 in Karaikal, 59 in Yanam and two in Mahe. Puducherry now has a 17.9 per cent positive rate while the rate of death was 1.4 per cent, he said. The minister feared that Puducherry would have at least 10,000 cases more in the next 35 days and this was the assessment made by the health authorities including JIPMER. He said the hospitals were fully geared up to rise to any exigency. Already one MLA belonging to the opposition block has tested positive and was admitted to a hospital here last night. "I fear that there is a chance of a few more legislators who had come in contact with the legislator now under treatment and also media persons who had held meetings with him would have contracted the disease. A fresh examination of all those people had been in contact with the legislator would be held in the next two to three days," Rao added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-women-die-of-coronavirus-in-puducherry-139-new-cases-reported-865467.html
25-07-2020||South||Three women die of coronavirus in Puducherry; 139 new cases reported||Of the total number of infections in the Union Territory, 1,055 were active cases, 1,561 patients recovered and discharged. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters here that all the three women who died of the disease were above 70 years. With the three fatalities, the toll rose to 38. The health department identified 139 fresh cases on Saturday at the end of testing of 775 samples of whom 113 were admitted to the government hospital here followed by three admitted to the government hospital in Karaikal and 23 in Yanam. Rao said 78 patients were discharged during last 24 hours. While 65 were discharged from hospitals in Puducherry, the remaining 13 were discharged from the hospital in Karaikal. The department has so far conducted testing of 34,305 samples and found 31,142 to be negative. Of the total 1,055 active cases, 952 patients were undergoing treatment in hospitals in Puducherry, 42 in Karaikal, 59 in Yanam and two in Mahe. Puducherry now has 17.9 per cent positive rate while the rate of death was 1.4 per cent, he said. The minister feared that Puducherry would have at least 10,000 cases more in the next 35 days and this was the assessment made by the health authorities including JIPMER. He said the hospitals were fully geared up to rise to any exigency. Already one MLA belonging to the opposition AINRC has tested positive and was admitted to a hospital here last night. "I fear that there is chance of a few more legislators who had come in contact with the legislator now under treatment and also media persons who had held meetings with him would have contracted the disease. A fresh examination of all those people had been in contact with the legislator would be held in the next two to three days," Rao added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-women-die-of-coronavirus-in-puducherry-139-new-cases-reported-865524.html
25-07-2020||South||Fears of Tirumala becoming a Covid-19 hotspot looms as darshans continue despite rising cases||The stance of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams board to continue the darshans at the Lord Venkateswara temple is raising fears that the sacred hill could become a Covid-19 hotspot.   At least 179 TTD employees have tested positive till now, including about 20 archakas (priests), several Potu (temple kitchen) workers. A few pilgrims who returned from the temple tour have also reportedly tested positive, though TTD authorities contend they would have contracted the virus elsewhere. At the same time, Srisailam, another popular temple in Andhra Pradesh, is closed for over a week now for pilgrims. The management took the decision on 14 July following five temple personnel testing positive. Devotees are still visiting Tirumala, though the number has declined in comparison to last month, when darshans resumed on June 11. While TTD is offering 9000 tokens daily online for the Rs 300 entry, officials said that less than 6000 devotees were appearing for darshan now at a place that used to brim with about 70,000 pilgrims on average every day before the Covid-19 outbreak. The temple town of Tirupati, the gateway to Tirumala, where several prominent temples are located, has over 2000 Covid-19 cases registered and is in lockdown till 5 August. Because of this, TTD has stopped the 3000 free offline tokens that it was offering at Alipiri for the locals. Hindu organizations, apart from the BJP, and former temple administrators, are mystified with the TTD board letting darshans in the midst of a severe pandemic. “Several archakas are affected by Covid-19, which makes kainkaryams (daily elaborate ceremonies) difficult. If darshans are continued, the temple could become a coronavirus hotspot, harming Tirumala’s glorious reputation globally,” said Bhanu Prakash Reddy, Secretary, Andhra Pradesh BJP and a former TTD board member. On behalf of his party, Reddy wrote to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy appealing for the temporary closure of Tirumala and other temples in the state for public darshan and to hold all rituals in ekantam (solitude) like during the March to June lockdown. “Any untoward occurrence would hurt devotee sentiments, besides bringing disrepute to the TTD and the government,” Reddy said in the missive. A senior health official of Chittoor district, where Tirumala and Tirupati are located, opined that darshans should be halted for a few weeks, in public health interest. TTD employees, DH spoke to, also opined the same. IYR Krishna Rao, former Chief Secretary, Andhra Pradesh, who served as the temple’s executive officer earlier, criticized TTD for “disregarding public safety.”  “The temple attracts pilgrims in multitudes and thus could become a source of disease spread. Why unnecessarily allow darshans at this point in time? It is baffling why the TTD is letting it become an issue,” Rao told DH.    A false impression of financial challenges is being created, when in fact the TTD can still thrive even after a year without darshans, Rao says.   Hundi donations are the prime source of TTD income, averaging to about Rs 3.5 crore daily. Speaking to DH earlier this month, TTD board chairman YV Subba Reddy said that the temple is not even earning 10 per cent of this income, against the expenses incurred. Last week, in his defense, Subba Reddy asserted “that no devotees who came for Srivari darshan have reported as Covid-19 positive so far.” But district health officials told DH that tests are being conducted randomly, on only 100 pilgrims daily, while admitting the chances of undetected Covid-19 cases. The chairman, however, stated that darshans would continue at Tirumala in limited numbers, guaranteeing Covid-19 precautions. “No TTD employee was affected because of the devotees (or temple duties). Several of them have recovered, with some back in duties.” Speaking to DH on Saturday, a top TTD official stated the darshans are open in accordance with the Centre’s Covid-19 guidelines for the temples nationally. “Even if the temple is made virus-proof, pilgrims could possibly contract Covid-19 at some time of their journey involving unavoidable interactions. Lord Venkateshwara is the central deity for multitudes in the southern states, and devotees would be enticed to visit despite the lurking danger. Suspension of darshans for some time would be in the best service of the Lord and his followers,” said Prof DAR Subrahmanyam, treasurer, Bharathiya Dharma Parirakshana Vedika, an NGO working for the revival of Hindu dharmic traditions and temples. A list of containment clusters released on 9 July included Tirumala, generating concern. Chittoor collector Dr Bharat Gupta stated it was a mistake, adding that only the 200 meters area around the Andhra Pradesh Special Police barracks, where about 40 guards tested positive, has been marked as a containment zone as per the ICMR guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fears-of-tirumala-becoming-a-covid-19-hotspot-looms-as-darshans-continue-despite-rising-cases-865542.html
25-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu government deposits Rs 67 crore in court for acquisition of Jayalalithaa's residence||Tamil Nadu government has moved in to take possession of the palatial Poes Garden bungalow of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa by depositing Rs 67.9 crore before a civil court here. The Edappadi K Palaniswami-led AIADMK dispensation plans to convert the sprawling mansion spread over 24,322 square feet into a memorial for the late leader. While Rs 36.9 crore would be paid to the Income Tax department in lieu of dues by the late leader, the remaining Rs 31 crore will be shared between Deepa Jayakumar and Deepak Jayakumar, the children of Jayalalithaa’s only brother who were declared as legal heirs by the Madras High Court in May. The government’s move comes even as Deepak had last week approached the court seeking keys of the Poes Garden bungalow, which was bought by Jayalalithaa’s actor-mother Sandhya in the late 1960s. Sources said Deepa and Deepak will be paid compensation under Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 since the government has taken over the property. However, Deepa rejected the government’s move to take possession of her late aunt’s bungalow and declared that she would move the “highest court of the land” against the decision as it was her ancestral property. “They are nobody to do this in the first place. The legal heirs have been appointed by the court and if there are any dues or liabilities, we are there to pay. I am not fighting because it is a high-value bungalow. I would have fought even if it were a hut because that is where our roots are,” Deepa told DH. “We will challenge the order and go to the highest court. My fight will continue. The government has not done the acquisition process in the right manner. We are against the decision,” she added.  The sprawling residence has been at the center of a controversy ever since Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016. The government announced in 2017 that the bungalow will be converted into a memorial for the late leader, but Deepa and Deepak went to the court seeking to be declared as legal heirs. The government’s taking over of the bungalow will also ensure that Jayalalithaa’s long-time aide, V K Sasikala, does not stake claim to the property. The AIADMK leader, who is currently cooling her heels in the Parapana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru, was staying in the Poes Garden residence till she surrendered before the jail authorities in 2017. The amount was deposited on Friday before a court after the land acquisition award was pronounced by S Lakshmi, Land Acquisition Officer (LAO)/Revenue Divisional Officer, South Chennai. Though Deepa’s counsel opposed the move, the official has termed the objections as “routine” and noted that acquisition was for the conversion of the palatial bungalow into a memorial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-deposits-rs-67-crore-in-court-for-acquisition-of-jayalalithaas-residence-865547.html
25-07-2020||South||Bishop Franco Mulakkal moves Supreme Court for discharge in nun rape case||Jalandhar's former Catholic Bishop Franco Mulakkal has approached the Supreme Court seeking discharge in the nun rape case, alleging he has been framed in the case out of feeling of revenge on objecting to financial dealings of the victim. The petition by him was filed in the court on Friday. The Kerala government, as well as the victim, have also filed a plea opposing his petition. Among other grounds, Mulakkal contended there were discrepancies in the nun's version, warranting his discharge in the case. He challenged the Kerala High Court's order rejecting his plea for discharge. He was arrested in September, 2018 in the case on a complaint made by the nun in the Missionaries of Jesus Congregation, alleging he raped her multiple times between 2014 and 2016 in Kottayam. The Kerala police had filed a charge sheet against him. He was released on bail in October, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bishop-franco-mulakkal-moves-supreme-court-for-discharge-in-nun-rape-case-865569.html
25-07-2020||South||Misuse of interfaith special marriage notices prompts Kerala to stop publishing notices online||In view of the misuse of pictures of interfaith couples, Kerala government has decided to do away with the practice of publishing notices for marriages under the Special Marriage Act online. The SMA stipulates that prior notice for marriages under the act should be published at the respective marriage registration offices. As part of the shift to online registration initiatives, the Kerala Registration Department started publishing such notices, which even contains pictures of couples, on the department's website since last year. However, some couples were shocked to see their pictures being circulated on the social media with the tag 'love jihad' as either of them happened to be from the Muslim community, especially the male. Athira Sujatha Radhakrishnan, one of the victims of such a campaign, posted her plight on the social media a few days back. She said that the right to life, privacy and freedom of matrimonial alliances were affected owing to the government's oversight. "How is the government going to protect us from the rampant misuse of such publicly available personal identifiable information?" she asked Kerala registration minister G Sudhakaran by tagging him in the post. The minister swiftly acted and directed the state Inspector General of Registration to look into the issue. As it was found that the notices under SMA were being widely misused even with communal motives, it was decided to do away with the practice of publishing the notices on the website. But the mandatory practice of publishing the notice at the respective registration office will continue. Thanking the minister for the swift action, Athira said that it was a landmark notice that provide a safe ecosystem for interfaith couples to live safely in the state. Athira told DH that she was of the opinion that even the norm that prior notice for getting married under the act should be done away with.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/misuse-of-interfaith-special-marriage-notices-prompts-kerala-to-stop-publishing-notices-online-865570.html
25-07-2020||South||Two child marriages averted in Telangana: Police||Two child marriages were averted in Telangana before they materialised, police said here on Saturday. Both cases were in Medchal district, police said. In the first case, a 17-year-old girl was rescued on Saturday before her marriage, while the other, involving a 16 -year-old girl, was prevented on Friday, a police press release said. Both the cases were prevented by "She Teams" of Kushaiguda Division with the help of district officials of the department concerned and Child Help Line, it said. The officials counselled the parents of both families and stopped the child marriages. Mahesh M Bhagwat, Commissioner of Police, Rachakonda, appreciated the good work done by the Kushaiguda She team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-child-marriages-averted-in-telangana-police-865581.html
25-07-2020||South||Puducherry assembly adjourned sine die post session under neem tree||The budget session of Puducherry Assembly, which began on July 20, adjourned sine die on Saturday after the conduct of proceedings under a neem tree outside the main building here. This is the first time the House held its meeting at an improvised site here, official sources said. The Speaker V P Sivakolundhu who presided over the day's proceedings adjourned the House sine die. The House passed before adjournment the Appropriation Bill earmarking Rs 9000 crores for the government tabled by Chief Minister V Narayanasamy. All the demands for grants to more than 30 government departments for the fiscal 2020-2021 were passed without discussion by the members. The Chief Minister and his ministerial colleagues moved the demands for grants to their respective departments. Earlier, the Speaker and CM were in a virtual hot search for an appropriate alternative venue to hold the day's proceedings after the main hall of House was shut as a precautionary measure. Initially, the committee hall on the top floor of the Assembly's annexe campus was sought to be chosen for the day's meeting. Finding that the space was insufficient to accommodate all the Members and officials, the Speaker finalised the open space available outside the main building for the meeting which began at 1.35 pm and went up to 3.30 pm. Necessary arrangements were made at lightning speed. Except the opposition AINRC legislators, all were present and participated in the deliberations wearing masks and maintaining social distance. The House had witnessed an address by the Lt Governor Kiran Bedi on Friday instead of on the opening day on July 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-assembly-adjourned-sine-die-post-session-under-neem-tree-865583.html
25-07-2020||South||Case filed as 43 get Covid-19 from marriage in Kasargod||About 43 persons got infected with the coronavirus from a marriage ceremony at Chengala in Kasargod district, prompting authorities to file a case. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 cases in Kerala increased by 1,103 on Saturday, while 1,049 recovered from the infection. Six more deaths were reported in the state, taking the toll to 60. The total active cases reached 9,420 by Saturday. The bridegroom and bride were also reported to be among those who got infected from the marriage ceremony organised by the bride's family on July 17 in Chengala near Kasargod town. All those who attended the marriage were directed to remain in quarantine for 14 days. A case was registered against the organisers of the marriage ceremony under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance that can attract up to two year imprisonment and fine of Rs. 10,000. Prohibitory orders were also clamped at Manjeshwar, Kumble, Kasargod, Hosdurg and Nileswaram areas of Kasargod as the district was witnessing a spike in local spread. The total active cases in the district was 584. Two deaths were also reported from the district on Saturday. Meanwhile, of the 1,103 fresh cases in the state, 838 got infected through local contact. State capital Thiruvananthapuram was having the most alarming situation as the number of fresh cases increased by 240 to reach 2,666 by Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-filed-as-43-get-covid-19-from-marriage-in-kasargod-865597.html
25-07-2020||South||ABVP president booked for harassing 62-year-old widow in Chennai||Two weeks after a 62-year-old widow accused him of harassment, including urinating outside her house, the Chennai Police on Saturday registered an FIR against ABVP national president Dr Subbiah Shanmugam. Dr Shanmugam, Professor and HOD, Department of Surgical Oncology, Kilpauk Medical College and Government Royapettah Hospital, has been booked under sections 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 427 (mischief causing damage) under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Tamil Nadu Women Harassment Prevention Act. The FIR was lodged exactly two weeks after the woman’s relative Balaji Vijayaraghavan filed a complaint with the Adambakkam police accusing Dr Shanmugam of harassing his aunt, who is living alone in her apartment following her husband’s death last year, following an argument over a parking slot.  The action came after Vijayaraghavan alleged that the police were not filing an FIR due to the ABVP functionary’s “political connections.” Dr Shanmugam and the woman were living in the same apartment complex in Nanganallur and an argument broke between them over a parking slot. “He wanted to use our parking lot. We agreed but demanded a nominal charge for using it. He was outraged by our demand and even broke our signboard at the parking lot,” Vijayaraghavan wrote in his complaint. He also alleged that Dr Shanmugam began harassing her by throwing “pieces of chicken” outside her apartment despite knowing she is a vegetarian. CCTV footage corroborates with the allegations of urinating outside the residence of the widow. However, the ABVP called the incident as a “malicious and derogatory propaganda” by the Congress’ student wing of NSUI. "The video shared by NSUI with an allegation of harassment is tampered with and is being used with malafide intentions. The two families have discussed this within their housing society and have already concluded that the harassment allegations were caused due to misunderstandings and are untrue,” ABVP National General secretary Nidhi Tripathi said. Vijayaraghavan also alleged in his two-page written complaint that the ABVP national president had urinated outside the woman’s apartment gate and had been throwing garbage and used masks at her gate. In his complaint, Vijayaraghavan also said the family was “concerned about her safety” while asking police to take action against Dr Shanmugam, who he says, “has a bad track record in maintaining rapport with neighbours.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/abvp-president-booked-for-harassing-62-year-old-widow-in-chennai-865627.html
25-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu crosses two lakh-mark with 6,988 fresh infections||Tamil Nadu on Saturday breached the grim milestone of two lakh coronavirus cases with the biggest daily spike of 6,988 fresh infections, pushing the tally to 2,06,737. The death toll climbed to 3,409 with 89 fatalities. The number of those discharged today after recovery was 7,758, taking the recoveries to 1,51,055, a health department bulletin said. Continuing with the aggressive testing, health workers tested 64,315 samples, pushing the aggregate to 22,87,334. Chennai reported 1,329 new cases, and the state capital's tally stood at 93,537.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tamil-nadu-crosses-two-lakh-mark-with-6988-fresh-infections-865628.html
25-07-2020||South||Forest department allowed to kill wild boars, Tamil Nadu government tells Madras High Court||The Madras High Court has been informed by the Tamil Nadu government that it has permitted the state forest department to shoot and kill wild boars that damage agricultural produce in nine districts of the state. The government made the submission on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by A R Gokulakrishnan from Dindigul seeking a direction to the state to immediately take steps to control the wild boar menace as its population had increased manifold in the hilly terrains. Recording the submission, the First Bench of Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy disposed of the plea. According to a report from the government, the order to kill the boars was first issued on July 22, 2017, considering the issue for 12 months. Later, the order was extended on January 25, 2019, to another 12 months based on the recommendation of the forest department. Subsequently, on May 6, the department again suggested extension of the order for a further 12 months. Therefore, the present order has been issued, the report said. According to the petitioner, there were around 10 million boars breeding in the hilly areas. The average life-span of the boars was 8-10 years. One could see them roaming about with piglets destroying cash crops and plantations causing irreparable loss to the already suffering peasant community in almost all the 12,527 panchayats covering all the districts of Tamil Nadu, he said. Since the authorities failed to take any step to check the menace despite his representation, the petitioner moved the High Court. In March 2016, the court recorded the recommendation made by the principal chief conservator to the Home Secretary on measures to be taken and directed the state to implement them. But, the Home Secretary has not passed any order based on the recommendation," the petitioner said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/forest-department-allowed-to-kill-wild-boars-tamil-nadu-government-tells-madras-high-court-865638.html
25-07-2020||South||Kerala reports highest single-day spike of 1,103 Covid-19 cases||State Health Minister K K Shailaja said the state also reported five deaths related to Covid-19 including Ernakulam resident Annie Antony (76), who died on July 24. The results of her sample on Saturday showed that she tested positive for the virus. "Kasargod resident Nabeesa (63), Kozhikoderesidents Ruhiyabi (67), Muhammed Koya (58) and Palakkad resident Anjali Surendran (40) passed away on Saturday taking the total death toll to 60," Shailaja said in a release. Thiruvananthapuram, the capital district, has the highest number of patients -- 240-- on Saturday, followed by Kozhikode with 110. Kasargod district has 105 positive cases while Alappuzha 102. According to the medical bulletin, Kollam has 80 Covid-19 cases, Ernakulam 79, Kottayam 77, Malappuram 68, Kannur 62, Pathanamthitta 52, Idukki 40, Thrissur 36, Palakkad 35 and Wayanad 17. Meanwhile, the health department said 1,049 persons were cured in the state on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,613. "Of the 1,103 new patients, 119 came from abroad, 106 from other states while 838 contracted the disease through their close contacts. Out of this, sources are yet to be identified in 72 cases," Shailaja said. The release said 21 health workers were also among the infected persons. At least 1,54,300 persons are under observation across the state, of which, 8,981 are in isolation wards of various hospitals. The state has tested 22,013 samples in the last 24 hours, the minister said, adding that till now,6,53,982 samples have been sent for testing. As of now, the state has 481 hotspots. As per the latest medical bulletin, Thiruvananthapuram, where the government had declared two regions with community transmission, has 2,666 Covid-19 patients, the highest in the state. Of the 240 new cases in Thiruvananthapuram, 218 are through contacts. Ernakulam has 909 patients, followed by Kollam with 859 positive cases. Meanwhile, the 105 new cases from Kasargod includes a bride and her groom, and 41 others who took part in their wedding ceremony held in the district on July 17. Kasargod has a total of 584 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-1103-covid-19-cases-865641.html
25-07-2020||State||Coronavirus: Where are you Prathap Simha? asks Kodagu DCC||“Mysore-Kodagu MP Prathap Simha is nowhere to be seen. Now, we have to ask - Samsada Elliddiyappa? (MP, where are you?)”, said Kodagu district Congress Committee president K K Manjunath Kumar. Taking a dig at Simha, he said, “MP will visit the district only to set fire and to disrupt peace. He has never responded to the issues of Kodagu district.” Kumar said that the ‘Arogya Abhaya Hasta’ scheme, implemented by the Congress, would be initiated in 104 gram panchayats in the district within a week. He alleged that the BJP government’s mismanagement of Covid-19 situation in the state was quite evident. Funds to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore has been misused. The government has swindled thousands of crores of rupees during the Covid-19 situation. The unscientific containment zone rules are rubbing salt on the wounds of people, he added. “The Covid-19 positive patients are discharged from the hospital after five days of admission and even before they are tested negative for the virus. The patients are not treated properly,” he alleged. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Observer Venkappa Gowda said that the corona cases in the state had increased rapidly. But, instead of controlling the situation, the government is mired in corruption, he added. Madikeri Block Congress president Appu Ravindra, City unit president Abdul Razaq, Social Media Cell Convener Suraj and leader Tennira Maina werepresent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-where-are-you-prathap-simha-asks-kodagu-dcc-865302.html
25-07-2020||State||Karnataka HC slams info gap in release of dam water||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the national executive committee of the National Disaster Management Authority to issue directions to the state governments on informing neighbouring states in advance about release of water from the reservoirs. The bench passed the direction after the Union government failed to place on record a 'simple mechanism' for states to intimate neighbouring states about the release of water from the reservoirs. In the previous hearings on the PIL, the bench had asked the Union government to come out with a specific mechanism to alert the state governments affected by the release of water from reservoirs. During the hearing on Friday, the counsel appearing for the union government submitted that a mechanism is in existence. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice H P Sandesh, observed orally that even after granting five adjournments, "You could not come up with one simple mechanism." The bench passed an order with specific direction to the National Executive Committee to exercise powers under Disaster Management Act. "Considering the fact that the situation of disaster may occur at any time during the current monsoon, we direct the national executive committee of National Disaster Management Authority to consider exercising powers under Section 10 (2) (l) of Disaster Management Act by issuing directions to the state governments and state authorities mandating them to intimate about the release of water from reservoirs or dams so that the states affected by it can take mitigating measures and can also be in the state of preparedness," the bench directed. The court posted the matter to August 7 in order to enable the national executive committee to file a report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-slams-info-gap-in-release-of-dam-water-865323.html
25-07-2020||State||Heavy rain pummels Kalyana Karnataka districts||Torrential rain in the past 48 hours caused havoc on Kalyana Karnataka districts - Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur and Ballari. Two kids were killed and four of a family injured in two separate rain-related incidentson Friday. Ramappa Shivappa (6) and Veeresh Hanumanthraya of Gowrampet in Devadurg taluk, Raichur district, were buried under a heap of mud after a portion of hillock caved in on them. Injured Mounesh Shivaraj had been rushed to RIMS for treatment. All three children were playing close to the hillock when the incident occurred. The Devadurg police have registered a case. In another rain-related incident at Naikal in Yadgir district, four of a family including a new mother and her baby, suffered minor injuries after their house wall, weakened by persistent wet weather, collapsed on them in the early hours ofFriday.  Meanwhile, a petty vendor had a narrow escape while crossing the overflowing Hadalgi stream in Aland taluk of Kalaburagi district. After his bike and 30 pots were swept away by strong undercurrents in stream, he managed to catch hold of a bark of a tree and crossed the bridge after the water level in the stream decreased.  Incessant rain has damaged tur crop on vast tract of land in Aland taluk. Flash floods from the rivulets in Madana Hipparaga, Ningadalli, Hebali, Padasavali, Jeerahalli, Mataki and Theertha and seven villages in Kamalapur taluk has cut connectivity of these villages. With Bhima river getting good inflows, about 15,000 cusecs of water was released from Sonna barrage. The Bennetora dam is full to the brim. Kalaburagi city witnessed intermittent rain on Friday. The Friday morning showers left streams and lakes in spate in Gudekote hobli in Kudligi taluk, Ballari district. The overflowing streams have flooded maize, jowar, groundnut and onion crops on hundreds of acres. A pomegranate farm at Yerrabonahalli sustained extensive damage in the rain. Sandur and parts of taluk also received moderate to heavy showers. S Obalapur lake, spread over 100 acres, has breached following showers in the last few days. Heavy showers have left Hungund town flooded. Several residential areas were inundated with rainwater, causing hardships to the residents and motorists.  Heavy rain on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday has poured misery in the low-lying areas of Tumakuru city. Kannada Bhavan near Amanikere lake was inundated with rainwater. A portion of MG Road in the city caved in due to heavy showers and substandard UGD works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/heavy-rain-pummels-kalyana-karnataka-districts-865324.html
25-07-2020||State||Covid victims have no place to rest in peace in Mandya||Conducting the last rites of Covid victims has become a challenge for the district administration, following the opposition from the people living in the vicinity of burial grounds. With no particular place identified for burial, the special team for performing last rites is finding it difficult to complete its task as per the protocol. So much so that sometimes, the team members are forced to do it secretly, fearing the wrath of the public. Recently, the last rites of a woman who succumbed to Covid, had to be performed in the night using torch light from mobile phones. While the Covid victims are given a deep burial as a precautionary measure, the people are not convinced about the safety. To make the matters worse, even the local leaders,who should have educated the people, are joining the protest against burial. Recently, a team had to complete the procedure in a hurry, before the public got information about it, at Yathagadahalli burial grounds, in the city. However, more than 500 people, who gathered on the spot, took the tahsildar and the team to task and even warned them with dire consequences. In another instance, the body of Covid victim, which was brought to Sugar Town burial grounds had to be shifted to Pandavapura (the native place of the victim) following opposition from local people. The body of a woman was laid to rest secretly, after driving the ambulance to the burial ground after 8 pm, switching off the lights. Later, the last rites were performed with the help of the torchlight and the headlight of a motorbike.  Similar incidents were reported at the burial grounds in Santhemaala, Guthalu, Shankara Nagar, Kallahalli and Halahalli. The team members said, though they volunteered to give a dignified burial to the victim, locals threaten them, and sometimes even attack them, right in the presence of the officials. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said that places for burial have been identified in the taluks and the team had been directed to conduct the last rites of the deceased in their respective taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-victims-have-no-place-to-rest-in-peace-in-mandya-865325.html
25-07-2020||State||Trade unions oppose 'regressive' amendments to labour law||A Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU) has submitted a memorandum to the Labour department to revoke the “regressive, anti-worker Labour Law amendment,” here on Friday. Calling it a ‘unilateral’ move, the committee said that the amendments will be counterproductive and detrimental to the economy. In the memorandum submitted to the Principal Secretary, Labour department, they cited income-guarantee measures initiated by countries across the world to help workers and urged the state government to protect labour rights during the crisis. “... In most countries across the globe, the governments have supported the working class by offering income-guarantee/income-top-up schemes; governments have mandated job security, waived rents, and utility bills for its citizens. However, it is a matter of great concern that our government is only looking at ways and means to enrich the employers’ lobby only by snatching the rights of the workers. This is a deeply flawed approach and has major socio-economic ramifications,” the memorandum by 10 trade unions such as CITU, INTUC, AITUC and others read. The unions sought to know how the government could ensure employment growth by allowing lay-off and closure of industries. The arguments of the government regarding the amendments were bereft of logic, they said, adding that these regressive labour law changes are only meant to keep workers away from legal protection. “In order to revive the economy, the Government of Karnataka should first give up its extremely naive or prejudiced position of conflating the interests of the industry with the interests of the economy. The economy is powered by the consumption expenditure of the bottom 90% of the population,” it said. JCTU will take up programmes of mass agitations in order to secure the rights of the labourers, if the government continues its anti-labour policy, the memorandum added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/trade-unions-oppose-regressive-amendments-to-labour-law-865326.html
25-07-2020||State||Head constable from Ballari dist succumbs to Covid-19||A head constable from Harapanahalli taluk succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital here on Friday. Ravi (45) attached to Arsikere police station in Harapanahalli taluk, Ballari district, was posted on Covid-19 duty at Jindal bypass road in Ballari on June 18. He stayed in quarters with four other colleagues. He tested positive for Covid-19 after he was relieved of duty on June 24.  Later, he was shifted to Covid hospital for treatment. He was also treated in Sanjeevini hospital in Ballari. Following the advice by the doctors, he was discharged on July 10 and sent to home quarantine at his native Goverahalli in Ballari district. On July 23, he was rushed to a private hospital in Davangere after he complained of respiratory problems. He is survived by wife and two sons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/head-constable-from-ballari-dist-succumbs-to-covid-19-865327.html
25-07-2020||State||Amendment to Stone Crushers Act: HC notice to govt||The state government’s ‘controversial’ amendment to the Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crushers Act 2011 (KRSC Act) promulgated by an ordinance during the coronavirus-induced lockdown has reached the Karnataka High Court. A division bench of the high court has issued notice to the state government on a PIL challenging the amendments. The petition is filed by R Anjaneya Reddy, a resident of Patrenahalli in Chikkaballapur taluk. The petition stated that there was no specific public emergency to amend the provisions in the Act during the national lockdown on March 31, 2020. The KRSC Act was introduced by the state government following the orders of the Karnataka High Court on a PIL in the year 1998. The petitioner claimed that the high court had laid down certain conditions and directed the state government to incorporate them in the Act. Whereas, most of the amendments carried out by the state government are against the orders of the high court, the petitioner claimed. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice H P Sandesh ordered the issuance of notice to Department of Law and Parliamentary Affairs and Department of Mines and Geology. The matter has been posted to August 24 for furtherhearing. One of the major contentions in the PIL is with regard to the amendment to Section 5 of the Act. The amendment has allowed granting of license for the period of 20 years. The petition contended that the high court in 1998 had directed the state to issue licenses for one year and renew it every year by charging a license fee. The petitioner contended that the amendment will make the license an absolute property of the licensee. Similarly, the omission of Sub Sections 3 to 7 of the Section 3 forbears the crusher owners from filing a declaration that the crusher is situated in a safer zone. It enables the crusher owner to carry out the business beyond the safer zone. The petitioner also stated that insertion of Section 4 A allows a license holder to transfer the license to any person. The petition submitted that once new licenses are issued under the amended provisions, there is likelihood of licensees taking undue advantage and that it could lead to litigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/amendment-to-stone-crushers-act-hc-notice-to-govt-865328.html
25-07-2020||State||Siddaramaiah calls for social justice in VC appointments||The Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah urged the government to provide social justice in appointment of vice chancellors to various state-run universities. In a letter to the Chief Minister, Governor and Higher Education Minister, he stated that, "The heads of several religious institutions have met me recently and raised concerns over not following social justice in appointment of vice chancellors to universities. Though there are 25 universities in state, except Janapada University, no varsity has vice chancellor belonging to the Scheduled Castes community. It shows that the government is not sticking and following the Section 14(4) of Karnataka State Universities Act." Siddaramaiah demanded the chief minister and the governor to consider candidates belonging to SC and other backward classes communities for the vice chancellors posts, which are vacant in state-run universities||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-calls-for-social-justice-in-vc-appointments-865329.html
25-07-2020||State||State published inflated testing figures for 5 days||The Health Department, in its bulletin on Thursday, blamed a technical problem in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal for the inflated testing figures reported from July 17 to July 21. On Wednesday, DH had reported that for the first time more antigen tests were done than the RTPCR tests in a single day.  According to the Health department’s figures, 24,319 antigen tests were carried out as against 23,256 RTPCR tests on Wednesday. On Thursday, the Health department clarified that only 6,107 antigen and 21,666 RTPCR and other tests were conducted on Wednesday. In all, the state tested 27,773 samples on July 22 (Wednesday) as opposed to its claim in Wednesday’s bulletin of testing 48,140 samples. The bulletin follows a format where under the subhead ‘lab data’, a column with the header ‘today’s’ gives the total number of samples tested and the total samples reported as negative. it also has five other columns for RT-PCR, CBNAAT, TrueNAT, Antigen, and Cumulative.  A senior official of the health department said, “When we say today’s in the bulletin it is samples tested from 12-noon previous day to 12 noon today. So it is essential data from two separate days and not like 5 pm to 5 pm cycle followed for new cases detected.” IAS Officer Arundhati Chandrashekhar, in-charge of lab testing data, did not respond to calls and messages from DH. “Due to technical problem in ICMR portal, the cumulative figure of rapid antigen tests done was given instead of the tests done per day. This discrepancy is seen in the testing details given from July 17 to July 21,” said Thursday’s bulletin. Even Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar tweeted, “So far, we conducted 11,40,647 tests across88 labs.”  But on July 16, the bulletin said the state had conducted cumulative tests of 9,25,477. As per Thursday’s clarification, 1,26,499 tests were conducted from July 17 to 21. On July 22, only 27,773 tests were conducted. This gives a cumulative total of 10,79,749, lesser than the tests claimed by the minister. When DH contacted Sudhakar, he said he will look into it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-published-inflated-testing-figures-for-5-days-865330.html
25-07-2020||State||Public art movement to protest new land reforms law||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has extended his support to a public art fair that is proposed to be held as a protest against the government’s move to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act.  That a public art fair should be held to create awareness on the ill-effects of the amendments, was decided at a meeting Siddaramaiah held with the Dalit groups on Friday.   The government has promulgated an ordinance to amend the Land Reforms Act, removing restrictions on non-agriculturists from buying agriculturalland.  “Farmers groups and Dalit organisations should come together and give some shape to the protest before August 15,” Siddaramaiah opined, according to a statement fromhis office. “This is not just a political issue. This involves the life of rural people, their economy, employment and produce. Also, we must protest the irregularities in procurement of medical equipment and amendments brought to other laws,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/public-art-movement-to-protest-new-land-reforms-law-865331.html
25-07-2020||State||Students in Dakshina Kannada struggle for internet connectivity||Students from remote villages in Dakshina Kannada are struggling to attend online classes due to poor internet connectivity. The students in Kudlur village of Koila in Kadaba taluk trek to hilly areas to get proper signal so that they can attend classes or submit their assignments online. "We don't get signals from any mobile operator in the village," said the students. "In this era of technology, we are unable to have internet connectivity in our village. There is no proper network for voice call as well. After the lockdown, the students have to use the internet to attend online classes. If this situation of poor internet connectivity continues, then our children will remain illiterate," said Maharoof Aathoor, resident of Kudlur village. Residents of Perla, Bandihole, Hosathota, Boodudamakki in Shibaje village have to reach the village to get network, The students trek for half a kilometre from their houses in the hilly areas to attend online classes. Diwakar Hebbar, a resident of Perla said, "Online education has become part of life for the students. They have to trek to hilly areas to get connectivity." Due to lack of internet connectivity, the students of Perla in Shibaje village in Belthangady have erected a tent on the hilly range, to sit and attend the online classes. "To protect themselves from rain, the students have used plastic sheets to erect the tent. To check the mosquito menace, sarees have been tied around the tent. Nine students studying in PU, degree and professional courses sit in the tent to attend the classes. The teacher who has to take online classes has to depend on this tent as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/students-in-dakshina-kannada-struggle-for-internet-connectivity-865552.html
25-07-2020||State||BJP govt to celebrate one year of office in Karnataka on July 27||A series of events have been planned to commemorate the BJP government's one year of office in Karnataka on July 27. The events include the release of a booklet on achievements by the state Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa at Vidhana Soudha, his deputy Dr. C N Ashwath Narayan told reporters here on Saturday. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will release a booklet on the achievements of the government at 11 am at Vidhana Soudha on July 27. He will address the people of the state," Narayan said. Speaking about the achievements of the government, he said many policy decisions were taken and challenges, including the ones posed by coronavirus and floods, were efficiently handled. "Just as the 60 years of work done in just six years by the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, similarly many important policy decisions were taken in one year which were pending for many years," he said. The Deputy Chief Minister said that in the last one year, there were crises such as drought in certain parts of the state and floods in the northern regions. The government launched relief works to the tune of Rs 6,000 crore. Despite the challenges, the BJP government managed to win 12 out of 15 Assembly seats in the by-elections. "After winning the byelections we gave a stable government," Narayan said. He said the Karnataka government was at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19. The state manufactured PPE (personal protective equipment), which were not made earlier, besides set up many Covid-19 laboratories and did relief work to ensure no one goes on an empty stomach. Narayan said the Chief Minister had announced a relief package of Rs 2,500 crore to deal with the slump caused by the coronavirus. According to Narayan, the state effectively contained red-tapism, introduced an amendment to the Karnataka Land Reform Act paving way for anyone to purchase land from the farmers, and gave an impetus to science and technology. He said the state brought out the new industrial policy as well as introduced the Karnataka Digital Economy Vision. The creation of a new university and an IIT in the state were also among the initiatives. Addressing the reporters, state vice-president N Ravi Kumar said the Ministers would hold press conferences in the districts of the state today and Sunday. On July 28, one crore trees would be planted and from July 29-31, pamphlets would be distributed to 50 lakh houses across the state. An online rally, planned for August 1, would be addressed by Yediyurappa, and BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, he said. BJP came to power in the state on July 26, 2019, with Yediyurappa taking oath as the Chief Minister after the fall of the coalition government of Congress and the JD(S) due to the disqualification of 17 MLAs of Congress and the JD(S). The saffron party won the majority in the Assembly by winning 12 out of 15 seats in the by-elections in December of that year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-govt-to-celebrate-one-year-of-office-in-karnataka-on-july-27-865572.html
25-07-2020||State||SC seeks Karnataka's reply on anti-CAA protesters' bail plea||The Supreme Court has asked the Karnataka government to respond to a plea for interim bail by 21 anti-CAA-NPR-NRC protesters on the ground of the Covid-19 pandemic in the case wherein their agitation has resulted in police firing, causing the death of two persons in Mangaluru. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the state government on the application filed by Ashik alias Mohammad Asik and others, seeking its reply within two weeks. The petitioners, led by senior advocate R Basant and Haris Beeran, contended that they were involved in peaceful protests only but the police resorted to the firing leading to the death of two persons. They said they have been in custody for more than seven months since December 22, 2019, and the police have already filed its charge sheet, so they were no more required for investigation. The petitioners were already granted bail by the Karnataka High Court on February 17. However, this order was stayed by the apex court on March 6. In its plea, the petitioners said after the apex court's order of March 6, "the scenario has considerably changed with the fatal spread of Covid-19 pandemic throughout the country and the world." It has, therefore, become necessary not to keep undertrials unnecessarily detained as it would lead to overcrowding of jails and may cause the spread of the virus, they said. Maintaining that they had already suffered police brutality, the petitioners contended that rejecting their plea for interim bail would cause irreparable injury to them and could result in death, not to mention the risk posed to the public at large as a result of further transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-seeks-karnatakas-reply-on-anti-caa-protesters-bail-plea-865613.html
25-07-2020||State||Karnataka govt waives crematorium fees for Covid-19 victims in Bengaluru||"There were reports in the media about difficulties faced in performing the last rites of those who died due to Covid-19 infections. Aimed at resolving those difficulties, certain decisions have been taken," Revenue Minister R Ashoka said. He told reporters here that BBMP had fixed Rs 250 as the cremation fee, Rs 100 for the ash collection pot and Rs 900 for the bier (bamboo stretcher on which the body is carried), all of which have been waived for Covid deaths. "So it will be a waiver of Rs 1,250 per cremation. The BBMP will bear this cost," he added. Ashoka also announced Rs 500 per body incentive for the personnel who conduct the last rites of Covid victims. "This is in recognition of their services at a time when family members of the deceased are not ready to touch the body and not ready to take the body in some cases," he said. Noting that the government has identified 23 acres of land at five places around Bengaluru for burial or cremation of Covid victims, Ashoka locals in all these areas are protesting against it. Appealing to the people for cooperation during these difficult times, he said the government's intention was to ensure respectful burial or cremation for the deceased. "Obstructing it is not right, it is not Indian tradition," he said. Pointing out that it takes almost a day's time for a Covid victim's body to be handed over for burial or cremation, he said "scientifically, according to experts and doctors, the virus will not remain alive for more than three hours. ...Also, bodies are either burnt or buried eight feet below. So there will not be any problem for those living in nearby areas and it will not spread infection. Cooperate with humanity," he said. "These lands identified are for all religions and communities and once the pandemic subsides, can be used for other deaths as well," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-waives-crematorium-fees-for-covid-19-victims-in-bengaluru-865652.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gokak court issues summons to CM B S Yediyurappa over Model Code of Conduct violation||Principal JMFC Court, Gokak has issued summons to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa after taking cognizance of a violation of Model Code of Conduct (MCC) during a byelection for Gokak Assembly Constituency in 2019. During the speech, Yediyurappa had called the Veershaiva Lingayat community to vote for party candidate Ramesh Jarkiholi.  Yediyurappa had addressed election rally for Ramesh Jarkiholi on November 23, 2019, at Gokak wherein he is accused of calling out to the Veershaiva Lingayat community to vote for the party candidate to ensure that their votes did not split. He's accused of attempting to consolidate the Veerashaiva voters in Gokak, where Lingayat Veerashaiva is one of the dominant communities.  "The accused at two occasions in his speech appeals to the general public in particular to the specific community but not to the workers of the party attributing the caste and community for seeking votes in favour of the candidate of the Gokak Constituency," stated the order.  The Investigating Officer into the case from Gokak Town Police Station, where the case against the chief minister was registered had filed, a B-report in the court making an appeal to dismiss the case on the ground that due to mistake of facts and pressure of work and on the wrong assumption first informant has lodged the first information. The court, however, rejected the B-report and summoned the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gokak-court-issues-summons-to-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-over-model-code-of-conduct-violation-865404.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dakshina Kannada Covid-19 death toll crosses 100-mark||Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district reported 8 new Covid-19 deaths in the last two days taking the toll to over 100. The district has recorded 107 Covid-19 deaths till now. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh on Friday said a 44-year-old man from Mangaluru with the symptoms of respiratory failure, ARDS, AKI MODS hypertension, was admitted to a private hospital on July 19 and died on July 22. His throat swab tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Another 56-year-old man from Mangaluru, who died on July 23, was suffering from urinary tract infection, MODS-septic shock, type II diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, systematic hypertension and IHD and had tested positive for Covid-19. Mangaluru saw two more deaths -- a 75-year-old woman suffering from COPD with type 2 respiratory failure and multi-organ dysfunction syndrome with septic shock and a 65-year-old woman, who was suffering from BP and diabetes and admitted to a private hospital on July 13 and died on July 23. A 61-year-old woman from Puttur, who was suffering from diabetes mellitus and hypertension and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, died on July 23. A 67-year-old man from Bhadravathi in Shivamogga, who was admitted to Wenlock Hospital on July 13 and was suffering from pneumonia and respiratory infection, died on July 23. He too tested positive for Covid-19. Some of the other deaths were those of -- a 42-year-old man from Bantwal suffering from type 1 respiratory failure, urosepsis and uncontrolled type 2 diabetes and a 67-year-old man from Bhadravathi suffering from acute myocardial infarction, uncontrolled type 2 diabetes and systematic hypertension, Both died at private hospitals on July 23. 180 fresh cases The Covid-19 graph slightly moved downward with the recording of 180 fresh cases, including four police personnel from Puttur police station. Of the positive cases, 56 are the primary contacts of the infected persons, 68 are suffering from Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 10 with the symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The contacts of 45 persons who tested positive are being traced. One person with international travel history has also tested positive. A total of 125 persons recovered and were discharged from hospitals, thus taking the tally of the total discharges to 1987.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dakshina-kannada-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-100-mark-865412.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's oldest Covid-19 patient dies||The state’s oldest Covid-19 patient, a 105-year-old resident of Basaveshwar Nagar, who was hospitalised on June 20 for Covid-19, has passed away. Dr Prasanna, Managing Director of Pristine Hospital And Research Centre where the patient (74411) was admitted, said that the patient died on Saturday morning at around 9 am. “The patient was initially doing well when he was admitted on Monday. He did not have significant lung changes when he was admitted. On Thursday, however, his blood pressure started to drop so he was put on oxygen in the ICU. On Friday morning, with continued deterioration, he was placed on non-invasive ventilator support,” Dr Prasanna said. “By Friday night, his oxygen saturation levels began to plummet abruptly and we had to intubate him for ventilator support. His condition continued to deteriorate, however. The cause of death was respiratory failure and the onset of sepsis,” he added.  Although earmarked for supplies of Remdesivir by the government, the hospital did not receive the drugs. An appeal to Dr K Sudhakar, Minister of Medical Education by the hospital staff resulted in an assurance that the medication would arrive. “However, in the end, we had to source the medication ourselves on Friday,” medical staff said. The drug Remdesivir is an inhibitor of the viral RNA-dependent, RNA polymerase. It has inhibitory abilities on the earlier SARS-CoV-1 and the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS-CoV) viruses. It was identified early as a promising therapeutic candidate for Covid-19 because of its ability to inhibit the Sars-CoV-2 virus in vitro. In addition, during primate studies, the drug initiated 12 hours after inoculation with the MERs virus reduced lung virus levels and lung damage. Dr Thrilok Chandra, Head, Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU), which oversees the care of critical or vulnerable-aged Covid-19 patients, had said that Patient 74411 had been diagnosed early. “He was identified when the disease was still in the early stages in his body. He only had symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), so the symptoms were not severe,” Dr Chandra had said. The patient is a former government accountant who retired in 1973. He is the oldest known Covid-19 patient in the state so far. “It’s very sad. We were rooting for him to pull through. He had no comorbidities at all. He had been bed-ridden for the last year, but he was healthy. His only potential comorbidity was his advanced age,” Dr Prasanna said. According to government data, 34% of Covid-19 fatalities in India are aged between 60 and 74 years of age. 14 per cent are aged above 74.  Many members of the patient's family are said to be infected and are hospitalised at various facilities. The funeral will be overseen by two uninfected family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-oldest-covid-19-patient-dies-865430.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covaxin trials to begin in Belagavi hospital next week||Jeevan Rekha Hospital here, selected by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for clinical trials of indigenous Covaxin vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, will commence both phase-1 and phase-2 of the trials next week. The vaccine will be administered to the volunteers after swab sample results of their Covid-19 tests come in. “Screening of the volunteers is under progress and their swab samples have been sent for tests. Those who test negative for Covid-19 will be shortlisted for tests,” Dr Amit Bhate, the director of the hospital, said. The hospital has registered 200 volunteers for the clinical trials for the vaccine, both men and women of different age groups.   After the vaccine is administered to the volunteers, antibodies will be tested as per the ICMR protocols, norms and period earmarked. Volunteers will not be admitted to the hospital during the trial period. They will have to report to the hospital on a regular basis and the hospital too will remain in touch with them to avail information about the progress, he said. Dr Bhate told DH that both phase-1 and phase-2 trials for Covaxin will be conducted from next week after the swab sample results of volunteers selected for Covid-19 are available. Volunteers have been selected as per the norms of the ICMR.  Jeevan Rekha Hospital has been conducting vaccine trials for the ICMR for the last three years. It’s the only facility in Karnataka selected for the clinical trials of the ambitious Covaxin for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covaxin-trials-to-begin-in-belagavi-hospital-next-week-865463.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt waives crematorium fee for Covid-19||Karnataka on Saturday announced a full waiver of crematorium fees for those who succumb to the Covid-19 infection in Bengaluru.   Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the family of Covid-19 patients need not pay any fees that was fixed by the BBMP at the city’s 12 electric crematoriums.  “The BBMP had fixed ₹250 as the cremation fee, ₹100 for the ash pot and ₹900 for the bamboo stretcher (bier) on which the body is carried. All the fees have been waived for Covid-19 patients,” Ashoka said. “The BBMP will bear these costs.”  The minister also announced a ₹500 per body incentive for the personnel who conduct the last rites. Speaking about the shortage of land for Covid-19 patients to be buried or cremated, Ashoka said the government had identified spaces, but locals were protesting. “I appeal to them to show humanity. Protesting this isn’t the right culture. Scientifically, there’s evidence that the virus can’t survive beyond three hours (in a dead body). Either bodies are burnt or buried 8 feet below,” he said.  The government, he said, has newly identified 23 acres of land across the city to cremate Covid-19 patients and non-Covid, too, once the pandemic subsided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-waives-crematorium-fee-for-covid-19-865506.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's first plasma bank takes measures to prevent touts like in Delhi||The plasma bank at HCG Hospital that was inaugurated on Tuesday has put in special safeguards to avoid a Delhi-like situation where touts and middlemen exploited patients who needed plasma for money. An online registry to place requests for plasma transfusion has been created that will prioritise critical and severe patients so that no black market is created, wherein touts get involved. Dr Vishal Rao who is handling the operations of the plasma bank told DH, "The government is connecting us with potential plasma donors via the BBMP. The Palike themselves are contacting recovered patients saying whoever are interested can come forward and donate. Every single communication has to be vetted by the state government because we know what happened in Delhi. There was black marketing, data leak and it was a mess." In such a setting, the precautions to be taken for data confidentiality is having a proper SOP in place. "A secure server is maintained with very limited access and each of the three volunteers contacting the patient currently signs a non-disclosure agreement. We have set up a Karnataka Plasma Council, which is a core group of clinicians who would replicate this across all institutes," he said. "There is no chance for middlemen to get into the system as it is a fully locked closed system. There are 40 blood banks in the state that have plasmapheresis machines but only four have licence to do plasmapheresis. From storing to freezing plasma, everything has a protocol," he added. As on Friday, 611 patients are recuperating in the ICUs of the state, with 362 from Bengaluru alone. The city now has 10,072 total recoveries and the state 31,347. "Plasma is an orphan child. There is no pharma company backing plasma therapy like the life-saving drug Remdesvir is backed by pharma companies. We are setting up a war room to give it to patients who need it on a real-time basis. We have got requests from Shifa Hospital, Excelcare Hospital, Sakra Hospital, and Fortis Hospital. But we need a blood group match between the patient and the donor. Even a person from Hyderabad was all set to airlift the plasma but finally got it in his city itself," he said. As on July 23, there were 130 donors registered and 15 had donated plasma. Out of 15 units of plasma, eight have been administered to patients and five have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-first-plasma-bank-takes-measures-to-prevent-touts-like-in-delhi-865620.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka identifies 1,989 villages as vulnerable to floods; asks 19 districts to be vigilant about rains||The government has identified 1,989 villages covering a population of 51 lakh as vulnerable to flooding even as 19 districts have been asked to be vigilant due to the likelihood of heavy rainfall in the days to come.  “This is as per a preliminary assessment. As a temporary arrangement for those who will be affected by floods, we have identified 1,747 relief centres - they are schools, anganwadi centres, community centres among others,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka said after a video conference with the deputy commissioners of the 19 districts to review their preparedness.  “The month of August is crucial,” Ashoka said, pointing out that it was in the same month that large parts of north Karnataka were flooded last year. “The rainfall forecast is normal like in the past 50 years. But four districts - Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Kodagu and Chikmagalur - may receive deficit rainfall,” he said.  The August 2019 floods smashed 103 taluks across 22 districts, killing over 60 people and displacing nearly 7 lakh persons.  DCs of the vulnerable districts have been asked to coordinate with their counterparts in Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa. “Outflow from the dams of these states is affecting us. We have asked DCs to ensure they are made known of outflows at least a week in advance,” Ashoka said.  The government has accorded approval for DCs to procure whatever they require to tackle rainfall-related damages. “They have Rs 1,140 crore in their accounts. After being used, the equipment will be handed over to the Fire department for maintenance,” Ashoka said.  Landslides have been predicted in Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Mangaluru, Chikmagalur, Kodagu and Hassan districts. “These are districts where landslides happened last year, especially Kodagu where a survey has indicated the possibility of more landslides,” Ashoka said.  As part of its flood preparedness, 10-member village teams are being constituted for the first time. “The teams will get trained for a week on creating awareness, rehabilitation etc. Even the National Disaster Management Authority has asked us for details on this,” the minister said.  In Yadgir, Raichur, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Haveri, Kodagu and Chikmagalur districts, the DCs have been asked to set up multi-purpose buildings that can be used for flood-related operations and other public utility purposes. “Each such building will cost about Rs 5 crore,” Ashoka said. “We want to build permanent infrastructure. For example, in schools that will be used as relief centres, I’ve asked officials to construct permanent toilets that can be used by children in the long run,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-identifies-1989-villages-as-vulnerable-to-floods-asks-19-districts-to-be-vigilant-about-rains-865632.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Manipal Hospital to start clinical trial for ventilator developed by NAL||SwasthVayu, a non-invasive ventilator has been developed by the National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL), in collaboration with Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, HOD, Pulmonology, at Manipal Hospitals and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research - Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. The clinical trials will begin shortly at the hospital. SwasthVayu is equipped with advanced features like Bi-level mode (BiPAP), Continuous Positive Airway Mode (CPAP), spontaneous modes and 3D-printed HEPA-T filter adapter connected directly to the non-ventilated mask. The device also has a special provision to connect to the oxygen concentrator externally. NAL, in a statement, said that the device has been subjected to trials on artificial lung models and has successfully passed stringent electrical safety, performance, calibration, and biocompatibility tests. The number of people who would require ventilators is expected to increase with a surge in cases. Apart from Covid patients, these ventilators could also benefit and support patients suffering from other respiratory disorders like complex sleep-disordered breathing such as obstructive sleep apnea, central sleep apnea and heart failure. Dr CM Ananda, Chief Scientist and Head, Electronics Division of NAL, in a statement, said that the device is registered with the Central Drug Research Institute and Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. The device is ideal to treat patients with respiratory failure in both Covid and non-Covid situations, either in the ICU or non-intensive medical conditions. Further, this provides an opportunity for scarce ICU beds not to be overburdened and to be used for severely affected patients. The ethics committee and the scientific committee at Manipal Hospitals has scrutinised and approved the device for clinical trials under Dr Satyanarayana as the Principal Investigator. He also specialises in sleep medicine and is a lung transplant physician. Dr Satyanarayana, in a statement said, "The device will also be a bonanza post-pandemic for treating sleep-disordered breathing including Obstructive Sleep Apnea and other sleep apnea. The clinical trials will begin shortly."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/manipal-hospital-to-start-clinical-trial-for-ventilator-developed-by-nal-865634.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports highest one-day spike of 5,072 Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Saturday reported the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases so far, according to the health department. Over 5,072 cases and 72 related fatalities were recorded, taking the total number of infections to 90,942 and deaths to 1,796. The day also saw 2,403 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 5,072 fresh cases, 2,036 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. The previous single-day spike recorded was on July 23 with 5,030 cases. As of the evening of July 25, a total of 90,942 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed. They included 1,796 deaths and 33,750 discharges, the health department said. It said that out of 55,388 active cases, 54,777 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 611 are in the ICU (intensive care unit). A total of 29 out of the 72 deaths reported were from Bengaluru urban followed by eight each from Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru, five in Belagavi, four each from Kalaburagi and Dharwad, two each from Hassan, Chikkaballapura, Havri, Shivamogga and Koppal, and one each from Davangere, Yadgir, Gadag and Tumakuru. Most of the dead are either with a history of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,036 followed by Belagavi 341, Ballari 222, Dakshina Kannada 218, Mysuru 187, Kalaburagi and Dharwad 183, Udupi 182, Vijayapura 175, Uttara Kannada 155, Bengaluru Rural 154, Hassan 151, Chikkaballapura 101. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases with a total of 43,503 infections followed by Dakshina Kannada 4,607 and Kalaburagi 3,712. Among the discharged patients, Bengaluru urban tops with 10,758 followed by Kalabuagi 2,066 and Udupi 1,997. Out of 11,43,262 samples tested so far, 32,765 were tested on Saturday alone. A total of 11,256 out of the 32,765 samples tested during the day were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-highest-one-day-spike-of-5072-covid-19-cases-865656.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt waives crematorium fee for Covid-19 victims||The state government on Saturday announced a full waiver of crematorium fees for those who succumb to the Covid-19 infection in Bengaluru. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the family of Covid-19 patients need not pay any fees that was fixed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike at the city’s 12 electric crematoriums. “The BBMP had fixed Rs 250 as the cremation fee, Rs 100 for the ash pot and Rs 900 for the bamboo stretcher (bier) on which the body is carried. All the fees have been waived for Covid-19 patients,” Ashoka said. “The BBMP will bear these costs.” The minister also announced a Rs 500 per body incentive for the personnel who conduct the last rites. Speaking about the shortage of land for Covid-19 patients to be buried or cremated, Ashoka said the government had identified spaces, but local people were protesting. “I appeal to them to show humanity. Protesting this isn’t the right culture. Scientifically, there’s evidence that the virus can’t survive beyond three hours (in a dead body). Either bodies are burnt or buried 8 feet below,” he said. The government, he said, has newly identified 23 acres of land across the city to cremate Covid-19 patients and non-Covid, too, once the pandemic subsided. Some of the new locations are Dasanapura, Uttarahalli, Jigani, Sarjapura, Jala, Marenahalli and so on. “This will be for people of all religions,” Ashoka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-waives-crematorium-fee-for-covid-19-victims-865677.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Pond Man' Kamegowda recovering: DC||"Pond man" Kalmane Kamegowda, who tested positive for Covid-19, is recovering and responding to treatment, said Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh. Kamegowda of Dasanadoddi village in Malavalli taluk, was under treatment for an injury in his right leg for the past 15 days. He got admitted at the district hospital for a day, last week. He refused to stay in the hospital and returned home. He was subject to Covid test and the result was negative earlier. However, the reports were positive during second test.  As his condition was little worrisome, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakara contacted Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences  Director and asked him to take care of Kamegowda. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy also inquired the health of Kamegowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pond-man-kamegowda-recovering-dc-865679.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC seeks state's reply on bail plea by anti-CAA protesters||The Supreme Court has asked the Karnataka government to respond to a plea for interim bail by 21 anti-CAA protesters on the ground of Covid-19 pandemic. They were arrested in connection with violence during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Mangaluru. Two people lost their lives after the police opened fire in Mangaluru as the anti-CAA protest turned violent.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the state government on the application filed by Ashik alias Mohammad Asik and others, seeking its reply within two weeks. The petitioners, led by senior advocate R Basant and Haris Beeran, contended that they were involved in peaceful protests but the police resorted to the firing leading to death of two persons. They said they have been in custody for more than seven months since December 22, 2019 and the police have already filed charge sheet and hence they were no more required for investigation. The petitioners were already granted bail by the Karnataka High Court on February 17. However, this order was stayed by the apex court on March 6. In their plea, the petitioners said after the apex court’s order of March 6, “the scenario has considerably changed with the fatal spread of Covid-19 pandemic throughout the country and the world.” It has, therefore, become necessary not to keep undertrials unnecessarily detained as it would lead to overcrowding of jails and may cause spread of the virus, they said. Maintaining that they had already suffered police brutality, the petitioners contended that rejecting their plea for interim bail would cause irreparable injury to them and could result in death, not to mention the risk posed to the public at large as a result of further transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-seeks-states-reply-on-bail-plea-by-anti-caa-protesters-865680.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar commissions study on farmers’ woes||KPCC president D K Shivakumar has commissioned a study on the difficulties faced by farmers and agricultural labourers due to “unscientific” policies of the BJP government. Shivakumar has asked Karnataka Kisan Congress president Sachin Meega to submit a report before August 30 after consulting farmers and farmer leaders.  “There are indications that farmers will face difficulties because of amendments to the land reforms and APMC laws, coupled with unscientific policies during the Covid-19 pandemic,” Shivakumar said in a letter to Meega.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-commissions-study-on-farmers-woes-865681.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Downpour leaves a trail of destruction in Hosapete||Heavy showers in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday have left behind a trail of woes and destruction in Ballari district.Hosapete town and surroundings including the UNESCO World Heritage site Hampi, took a maximum hit. The skies opened up on Friday night and it continued to pour till the early hours of Saturday. Many streams and tanks breached, inundating the low-lying areas flooded. More than 80 huts of Budga Jangama nomads and thatched houses at Azad Nagar and nearby areas were damaged following a breach in Jambunatha Gudda stream. Venugopal Swamy and Maremma temples were flooded with rainwater. With drains overflowing, sewage mixed with rainwater gushed into many houses at Basaveshwara Layout, Chittawadgi, Chapparadahalli and Patel Nagar. According to the weather department, Hosapete recorded 82 mm of rain in less than 12 hours. Several monuments in Hampi were flooded following the incessant rain. As many as 36 houses in Sandur taluk have suffered partial damage in the Friday night rain. A banana plantation at Bommalagunda has suffered an extensive damage in the rain. Bommaghatta lake has breached while Nari Halla and several other streams in the taluk have regained their old glory. Standing crops over hundreds of acres in the district were damaged in the Friday night rain. Meanwhile, there was no let-up in rain in Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Koppal and Raichur districts. Maski reservoir in Raichur district is full to the brim. On Satrday, 400 cusecs of water was released to Maski Halla. Parts of Ron taluk in Gadag district experienced heavy showers on Friday night with Maadalageri village bearing the maximum brunt. The village turned into an island following the downpour. With rainwater gushing into the homes, many residents have lost foodgrains and household utensils. Chitradurga district witnessed intermittent rain between Friday night and Saturday morning. Many streams, rivulets, lakes and Kalyanis in the district are full to the brim owing to copious rain in the last few days. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy showers, accompanied by thunder activity in several districts of north and south interior Karnataka for Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/downpour-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-in-hosapete-865683.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt preps for flood danger in 1,989 villages; vigil up in 19 dists||The government has identified 1,989 villages covering a population of 51 lakh as vulnerable to floods even as 19 districts have been asked to be vigilant due to the likelihood of heavy rainfall in the days to come.  “This is as per a preliminary assessment. As a temporary arrangement for those who will be affected by floods, we have identified 1,747 relief centres - they are schools, anganwadi centres, community centres among others,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka said after a video conference with the deputy commissioners of the 19 districts to review their preparedness.  “The month of August is crucial,” Ashoka said, pointing out that it was in the same month that large parts of north Karnataka were flooded last year. “The rainfall forecast is normal like in the past 50 years. But four districts - Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru - may receive deficit rainfall,” he said.  The August 2019 floods smashed 103 taluks across 22 districts, killing over 60 people and displacing nearly 7 lakh persons.  Eye on dam outflows The DCs of the vulnerable districts have been asked to coordinate with their counterparts in Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa. “Outflow from the dams of these states is affecting us. We have asked DCs to ensure they are made known of outflows at least a week in advance,” Ashoka said.  DCs get free hand The government has accorded approval for DCs to procure whatever they require to tackle rainfall-related damages. “They have Rs 1,140 crore in their accounts. After use, the equipment will be handed over to the Fire department for maintenance,” Ashoka said.  Landslides have been predicted in Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Mangaluru, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu and Hassan districts. “These are districts where landslides happened last year, especially Kodagu, where a survey has indicated the possibility of more landslides,” Ashoka said.  As part of flood preparedness, 10-member village teams are being constituted for the first time. “The teams will get trained for a week on creating awareness, rehabilitation, etc. Even the National Disaster Management Authority has asked us for details on this,” the minister said. Multi-utility infrastructure  In Yadgir, Raichur, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Haveri, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru districts, the DCs have been asked to set up multi-purpose buildings that can be used for flood-related operations and other public utility purposes. “Each such building will cost about Rs 5 crore,” Ashoka said. “We want to build permanent infrastructure. For example, in schools that will be used as relief centres, I’ve asked officials to construct permanent toilets that can be used by children going forward,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-preps-for-flood-danger-in-1989-villages-vigil-up-in-19-dists-865684.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PU classes on YouTube a big hit with 1L subscribers||The online classes for II PU students launched by the department of pre-university education through YouTube channel has received tremendous response with over seven lakh views in three days and over one lakh subscribers.  Following the uncertainty over the commencement of classes for the 2020-21 academic year due to Covid-19 pandemic, the department has started playing recorded classes through the YouTube channel in association with the Dakshina Kannada Principals Association and subjects forum oflecturers. “As the number of subjects and combinations at the PU level is vast, we cannot conduct classes through the DD Chandana TV channel. So, we are providing recorded classes for the benefit of students and it has received good response,” said Kanagavalli, director, department of PU education. The classes resumed on July 23. To attend the classes, students can log on to: https://www.youtube.com/c/dpuedkpucpa||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pu-classes-on-youtube-a-big-hit-with-1l-subscribers-865686.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covaxin trials to begin in Belagavi hospital next week||Jeevan Rekha Hospital here, selected by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for clinical trials of indigenous Covaxin vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, will commence both phase-1 and phase-2 trials next week. The vaccine will be administered to the volunteers after the swab sample results of their Covid-19 tests were available. Jeevan Rekha Hospital has been conducting vaccine trials for ICMR since three years. It’s the only facility in the state selected for clinical trials of the ambitious Covaxin for treatment of Covid-19. The hospital has registered 200 volunteers for the clinical trials for the ambitious vaccine and it includes both men and women of different age groups.  “Screening of volunteers to be administered the vaccine is under progress and their swab samples have been sent for tests. Those who test negative for Covid-19 will be shortlisted for tests,” said hospital director Dr Amit Bhate. Bhate told DH that both phase-1 and phase-2 trials for Covaxin will be conducted from next week after the swab sample results of volunteers selected for Covid-19 are available. Volunteers have been selected as per the norms of ICMR. After injecting vaccine among the volunteers, antibodies will be tested as per the ICMR protocols, norms and period earmarked. Volunteers will not be admitted in the hospital during the trial period. “They will have to report to the hospital on regular basis and we too will remain in touch with them to avail information about the progress,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covaxin-trials-to-begin-in-belagavi-hospital-next-week-865687.html
25-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Davangere mayor, wife, son test positive||Davangere Mayor B G Ajaykumar tested positive for Covid-19 here on Saturday. He was in home quarantine for the past some days after he complained of cough and bodyache. He underwent rapid antigen test and the results confirmed that he was infected by Covid-19. His wife Mangala and son Bharath also tested positive. But his daughter Neha has tested negative.  Speaking to DH, Ajaykumar said Covid is not a deadly disease. So, people need not worry about it. But they have to follow guidelines of the government such as wearing face mask and using hand sanitiser. They must not step out of their homes without any valid reason. Ajaykumar said as mayor, he has to visit all 45 wards of the corporation. He had taken all preventive measures. Yet, he tested positive for Covid. So, people must take utmost care, the mayor said. On his birthday celebrations being held in his office without people wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing, he said he had come to office as usual that day. But the staff greeted him on his birthday. Besides, it was done 25 days ago. So, it must not be linked with Covid-19, the mayor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/davangere-mayor-wife-son-test-positive-865689.html
25-07-2020||West||Indian Navy chopper helps in recovery of body||An ALH helicopter of the Indian Navy from Naval Air Station INS Hansa assisted in locating and recovery a body from Cape Rama on Friday.  The request for assistance from the State Government was received at Headquarters Goa Naval Area, following which the ALH helicopter along with a Navy Microlight aircraft were deployed to aid in the search operation.  The body of the deceased was located on the coast in a rocky area inaccessible by vehicles. With the help of local citizens, the body was secured in a recovery basket attached to the rescue hoist of the helicopter and shifted to a nearby cliff to be handed over to local authorities. Air Traffic Control at INS Hansa coordinated the communication between the aircraft and locals on the ground during the operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-chopper-helps-in-recovery-of-body-865413.html
25-07-2020||West||Three activists of Pathalgadi movement arrested for conspiracy to wage war against govt in Gujarat||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad arrested three activists, including a woman, associated with the "Pathalgadi movement" from tribal-populated areas of south and central Gujarat and booked them under stringent Indian penal codes including "conspiring" to "wage war against the nation," "sedition" and "promoting enmity between two groups" with the help of followers of Satipati community." The accused have been identified as Samu and Birsa Oreya, originally from Khunti district in Jharkhand, from Vyara in Tapi district in south Gujarat while third accused Babita Kachhap, who hails from Ranchi, was apprehended from Santrampur taluka of Mahisagar district on Friday. ATS officials said that the operation was based on "inputs" that three persons living in Tapi and Mahisagar districts are activists of "Pathalgadi movement" who were conspiring to instigate followers of Satipati community in the localities for violent uprising against the state government. Two of the suspects-Birsa and Babita- are said to be absconding in similar offences registered in their native state of Jharkhand. The FIR stated that an intelligence input was received from reliable sources that "Babita Kachhap is involved in instigating the followers of Satipati cult to violent means in pursuit of their objectives. The intelligence input further indicated that her area of activity is Kevadia (seat of Statue of Unity), Dahod and Chhota-Udepur.” Samu and Birsa Oreya were active in Vyara." It further alleged that “They are instigating the followers of Satipati cult by wrong interpretation of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution of India and Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996 (PESA)…" This act provides for the rights to territorial integrity to tribal panchayats whose permission is required for any development on the land. This law prevents land transfer to non-tribals but there have been several instances of misuse of the law in the state. ATS officials said that they had kept a phone number belonging to Samu under surveillance which reportedly revealed that he was propagating  that “only tribals will live in India and no-one else…The work has started from 2020, still a lot is to be done.” These tapped conversations reportedly indicate “advocating violent means to achieve their end.” The FIR quotes the suspects as conversing on phone that “our fight has started in each village, and we will be able to remove camps of police and CRPF….we should deposit all the ration cards, Aadhar cards etc from the villagers and those who oppose it should be finished. Villagers have to follow our traditions/customs and they will have to join our party. Only this behaviour will take us to our objective and then only we will be able to counter-attack, and no one will be able to raise his voice against us.” The 11-page FIR written in English also mentions “claims” made the accused to instigate the “naïve and innocent tribal followers of Satipati cult" as "preposterous and bizarre such as in one call they claim that again British government will come and the Britishers will rule over the present government and then we will be independent." In one of the conversations, the caller is allegedly demanding weapons, who is replied by an unidentified caller that "once you are able to prove yourself, then you will receive weapons." The tapped conversations also claim that the accused activists "urged locals not to allow doctors to enter the village for checking coronavirus patients." It is widely believed that Pathalgadi movement is "inspired" from Gujarat's Satipati movement that denounces the government of India and doesn't believe in its laws. Satipati followers believe that they have the sovereign right over the forest and other natural resources. They are known for boycotting votes and government benefits, among others. However, the Satipati movement has remained non-violent in the state, which originated from Vyara in Tapi district by Kunwar Keshri Singh. The Pathalgadi movement, which also seeks Adivasi rights over the resources by self-rule and prohibits outsiders, has gone violent on many occasions. Pathalgadhi is said to have originated from Khunti district, the birthplace of tribal icon Birsa Munda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-activists-of-pathalgadi-movement-arrested-for-conspiracy-to-wage-war-against-govt-in-gujarat-865431.html
25-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Local trains, vada pav will be available but let's not rush, says Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray||The suburban trains in Mumbai would be open for the general public and vada pav would be available on streets but let us not rush through, Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena head Uddhav Thackeray said. The suburban trains are considered to be the lifeline of Mumbai and they are currently available only for people engaged in essential services.  Similarly, Mumbai's iconic street food vada pav that keeps the city going is not available as streetside stalls are mostly shut. Over the last few weeks, the chatter around the demand to open up Mumbai and end the Covid-19 lockdown has been growing. “Trains will start, vada pav will be available…we would not be doing anything in haste. Before doing anything, let us remember that families after families are falling ill…people are dying. What happens after that kind of a lockdown in homes…who will open the lock?” Thackeray asked in the first part of the interview to Shiv Sena mouthpieces – Marathi daily broadsheet 'Saamana' and its Hindi tabloid 'Dophar ka Saamana'. The interview was taken by Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha member and Saamana's executive editor Sanjay Raut in the run-up to Thackeray's 60th birthday. During the course of the interview, Thackeray repeatedly said that he and his government are exercising caution and asked people too to follow the same. Thackeray admitted that restarting suburban services is very important but he has to balance both the ends. “I am not (US president) Donald Trump….I can’t see people dying in front of me,” he said, referring to the American and New York experience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-local-trains-vada-pav-will-be-available-but-lets-not-rush-says-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-865444.html
25-07-2020||West||Jobless due to lockdown, man sells possessions to feed family||Having lost their livelihood due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, a couple in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city has resorted to selling few valuable possessions they have to buy ration. With no source of income, Motikaranja resident Mohammed Haroon and wife are trying to sell their induction cooktop, which they had purchased to save on LPG expenses just six months ago. The 37-year-old, who worked as a helper at a company in Shendra industrial area, lost his job in the initial period of the lockdown. "I bought groceries four months ago and later some relatives helped us out. Now as we are running out of ration, we have to find our own way," Haroon said. A Class 12 pass out, Haroon's wife would give tuitions to children from Urdu medium schools. However, once the viral outbreak began, children stopped coming. "We used to earn Rs 15,000 per month before the lockdown, but now we are left with no income," said the father of two. After selling his wife's jewellery to pay house rent, Haroon is now trying to sell the induction cooktop, which he had prudently purchased to save money on LPG cylinders. "We brought the induction cooktop some six to seven months ago. It is the only valuable possession we have left and I will have to sell it to feed my family for the next couple of months," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jobless-due-to-lockdown-man-sells-possessions-to-feed-family-865446.html
25-07-2020||West||Goa govt to construct new Raj Bhavan building||The Goa government has decided to construct a new Raj Bhavan building in the state and tenders for the works like identification of land and its design could be tendered before April next year, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has announced. The decision to construct the new Raj Bhavan complex was announced by Sawant after the existing 16th-century colonial structure was declared a 'heritage building' by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), a government spokesperson said in a statement. The chief minister made this announcement during a meeting with officials at his residence in Panaji on Friday to review the ongoing maintenance work of the Raj Bhavan and its restoration. The Raj Bhavan is currently located at Dona Paula near Panaji. "The chief minister announced the decision to construct new premises for Raj Bhavan and suggested to carry on the procedures like identifying of land, its design, work of which could be tendered before April 2021," the spokesperson said. "The CM said that the existing centuries-old building has been declared a heritage site by the ASI. He stressed on the need to sustain the originality and uniqueness of the existing building," he added. During the meeting, state Chief Secretary Parimal Rai suggested that the new complex should have sufficient land for the landing of three helicopters. Known as 'Palacio de Cabo', the existing Raj Bhavan is operating from a sprawling 88 acres of land located on a cape overlooking the Arabian sea. The building was a seat of power even during the Portuguese rule and residence of governors that ruled the colony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-to-construct-new-raj-bhavan-building-865450.html
25-07-2020||West||Pondy AINRC MLA tests positive for coronavirus||Opposition AINRC legislator in Puducherry, N S J Jayabal has tested positive for Covid-19, becoming the first MLA in the union territory to contract the virus. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar told PTI on Saturday that Jayabal was admitted to a private hospital after he tested positive for the infection last night. Jayabal, elected to the territorial Assembly from Kadirkamam constituency, was attending the ongoing budget session of the Assembly since the sitting began on July 20, except on Friday. A spokesman of the Assembly secretariat said all the legislators of the territorial Assembly would be screened as a precautionary measure today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pondy-ainrc-mla-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-865459.html
25-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Pending formalities delay plasma therapy in Goa||Despite having the infrastructure in place, the Goa government is yet to begin plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients, as there are some formalities left to be completed, a senior official has said. At least 15 to 20 recovered Covid-19 patients have already donated their plasma, state health secretary Neela Mohanan told reporters on Friday. However, the state government is yet to start plasma therapy, as there are a few more procedures left to be completed, she said. Convalescent plasma therapy is an experimental procedure where plasma from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient. State health Minister Vishwajit Rane had set a deadline of last week to begin plasma therapy in the state and the Goa Medical College and Hospital had also procured apheresis machine needed for the procedure. Meanwhile, the health secretary agreed that swab samples for testing are piling up every passing day. According to the official data on Friday, over 5,000 samples were yet to be tested. As Covid-19 cases are on a rise and more containment zones are being marked, the number of samples drawn has also increased, Mohanan said. "We are taking all necessary measures to ensure that government-run labs are operating 24x7. The health department is fully on the job," she said. Despite the rise in cases, there was no need for additional Covid-19 hospitals besides the existing one in Margao, she said, adding that the occupancy at ESI Hospital is below 50 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pending-formalities-delay-plasma-therapy-in-goa-865462.html
25-07-2020||West||Agency for Maharashtra assembly poll ads hired by DGIPR says Chief Electoral Officer||Amid allegations that an agency owned by a BJP leader was hired for election-related online ads during the 2019 Maharashtra assembly polls, the state Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) said that the selection of the firm was done by the state Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR). In a statement, it also said that it was "misleading and incorrect" to suggest that the CEO Maharashtra had engaged any agency on political considerations. Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan had on Friday alleged that an advertising and social media company owned by a BJP office-bearer was hired by the CEO Maharashtra to issue election-related online ads during the 2019 assembly polls. On Thursday, activist Saket Gokhale had also made this allegation in a tweet. "It is misleading and incorrect to suggest that the office of Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) has engaged any agency on political considerations. As per the standard practice, electoral awareness campaign is launched through an agency engaged by the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR) of the Maharashtra government," the CEO said in the statement. "They (DGIPR), in turn follow rules in force and a laid-down procedure for selecting an appropriate agency for public awareness and it is not (done) by the CEO Office," the statement said. "In as far as for the specific imputation made in the tweet of Saket Gokhale, an interim reply of facts has been sent to the Election Commission of India (ECI)," it added. "Meanwhile, some other representations on the matter have been received from some public representatives, which are also being addressed and a detailed response in this regard shall be sent to the commission soon," the CEO's statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/agency-for-maharashtra-assembly-poll-ads-hired-by-dgipr-says-chief-electoral-officer-865494.html
25-07-2020||West||Indian Navy helps recover drowning victim's body off Goa coast||The Indian Navy's Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) helped the Goa police locate and recover the body of a 43-year-old man who had drowned off South Goa coast, an official said on Saturday. The operation was initiated on Friday, after the man who had allegedly gone for a swim in the sea drowned and his body was stuck on rocks off Cab de Rame Fort at Betul, 70 km south of Panaji, an Indian Navy spokesperson said. Following the state government's request for assistance, the ALH and a Navy microlight aircraft were deployed to aid in the search operation, he said. The body was stuck in a rocky area, which was inaccessible by vehicles, the official said. Locals helped place and secure the body in a recovery basket and the body was lifted to a nearby cliff and handed over to the authorities, he said. The Air Traffic Control at INS Hansa coordinated the communication between the aircraft and locals on ground during the operation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-helps-recover-drowning-victims-body-off-goa-coast-865499.html
25-07-2020||West||Teaching and non-teaching staff allowed to work from home in Goa||Teaching and non-teaching staff of various schools and educational institutes in Goa have now been allowed to work from home, the state government has said. A circular issued by Goa education director Suresh Amonkar stated schools, education and coaching institutions in the state will remain closed until July 31. To let them work from home has been a long-pending demand of staffers at schools and educational institutes in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. The number of cases in Goa rose to 4,540 as on July 24. As per government data, four teachers and a peon have been tested positive for the viral infection so far. Meanwhile, the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) has asked schools to explore the possibility of starting online admission for students of class 11, after July 28 when results of class 10 would be announced. "Teaching and non-teaching staff etc shall as far as possible will work from home and they should not be called to school/institutions unnecessarily. "During this period, teachers have been asked to make full use of the online training undergone by them to prepare original videos, notes, feedback forms, questionnaire, assignments using different OERs (Open Educational Resources)," the circular said. Online classes will not be allowed to behold for more than two hours a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/teaching-and-non-teaching-staff-allowed-to-work-from-home-in-goa-865507.html
25-07-2020||West||Won't lift coronavirus lockdown just to address economic concerns: Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that he was not in favour of complete lifting of the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the state only to address the economic concerns. He said there was a need to strike a balance between the issues related to health and economy considering the challenge posed by the pandemic. "I will never say that the lockdown will be lifted completely. But I have started reopening a few things gradually. Once reopened, it shouldn't be shut again. Hence, I prefer taking steps in phases. You can't just think about the economy or health. There needs to be a balance between the two," he said. Thackeray made this statement in an interview published in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Saturday. The ongoing lockdown in the state will continue till July 31. From June onwards, the government had started lifting the restrictions in a phase-wise manner under its 'Mission Begin Again' initiative. "This pandemic is a global war. It has affected the entire world. Those countries which had lifted the lockdown in haste thinking that it was over, were again forced to impose it to curb the spread. In Australia, they had to rope in the Army," he said. "Many people are opposing lockdown. They say that lockdown is affecting the economy. To such people, I would say that I am ready to lift the lockdown, but if people die due to it, would you take the responsibility?... Even we are concerned about the economy," he said. On the restarting of the suburban railway network in Mumbai, he said, "What if families fall ill and their houses are sealed? Therefore, everything would be done step-by-step." Speaking about his government which has completed six months in office, Thackeray said that he was leading a three-party alliance government supported by some independents. "This is not just Thackeray sarkar, but everybody's sarkar, especially that of the citizens of the state, who have accepted this experiment," he added. After the assembly polls last year, the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress came together to form the government in the state. Thackeray said the six-month period has been full of challenges like the coronavirus pandemic and Nisarga cyclone, which hit the coastal parts of the state on June 3. "I am not bothered about the political challenges. People have faith in me," he said. Talking about the coronavirus situation in Mumbai, he said, "There was never a need to call the Army in Mumbai. I am proud of the administration which rose to the challenge and set up jumbo field hospitals for treatment of coronavirus patients in the city." Speaking about the criticism that he has not been to the Mantralaya, the state secretariat, during the pandemic, the chief minister said that technology helps people in doing all the work and there was no need to travel. "I can be at home and cover the entire state with help of technology and take quick decisions. I am not saying one shouldn't move out. But when you go out, you are at one place only while through video-conference you can go everywhere," he said. "I am not bothered what critics say till people trust me. I am honest with my work," he added. On starting the academic year during the pandemic, Thackeray said e-learning was the only option. When asked about Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis's recent visit to Delhi, Thackeray said sarcastically that he might have gone there to take stock of the coronavirus situation in the national capital. "He goes to Delhi and speaks about Maharashtra's COVID-19 situation since he has given his MLA funds in Delhi," the CM said in an apparent reference to BJP MLAs donating to PM Cares Fund and not to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. "Recently, a survey listed Maharashtra chief minister as the best CM in the country. This caused stomach pain to many," he said. "Coronavirus has many symptoms. Stomach ache may be one of them. Loss of taste is also a symptom," he said sarcastically when he was asked if life has become tasteless for some since the MVA government came to power. Thackeray also rejected the criticism that his government had hidden the number of coronavirus victims. "The WHO and Washington Post have taken note of the state government's efforts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wont-lift-coronavirus-lockdown-just-to-address-economic-concerns-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-865535.html
25-07-2020||West||Over 8,200 cops got infected, 93 succumbed to Covid-19 in Maharashtra||As per official data, more than 8,200 personnel tested positive for coronavirus while implementing prohibitory orders, of which 6,314 recovered from the infection. A total of 1,1611 infected personnel, including 214 officers, are currently recuperating at various hospitals, the official said. Of the 93 deaths reported in the department, Mumbai police alone accounted for more than 52 fatalities, he said. At least 2,07,543 offences have been registered in Maharashtra since the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed on March 22 to contain the viral spread, the official said. The police have arrested 31,671 persons for violation of lockdown norms during the period, he said. Apart from this, fines to the tune of Rs 16.87 crore were collected from lockdown violators, till date, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-8200-cops-got-infected-93-succumbed-to-covid-19-in-maharashtra-865538.html
25-07-2020||West||Maharashtra government cuts syllabus for classes 1 to 12 by 25%||The Maharashtra Government on Saturday announced that syllabus for Classes 1 to 12 will be reduced by 25 percent so as to reduce the burden on students amid the coronavirus pandemic. School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said details of which lessons from textbooks have been omitted will be uploaded on the website of the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT). Since schools have not reopened physically, the government wants to ease the burden on students, so the syllabus will be reduced by 25 percent for the academic year 2020-21, she said in a statement. While schools remain closed, the academic year has started from June 15 and various alternative methods of learning are being adopted, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-cuts-syllabus-for-classes-1-to-12-by-25-865563.html
25-07-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray inaugurates Covid Care Centres at Kalyan, Dombivli||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday inaugurated Covid Care Centers at Kalyan and Dombivli in Thane district through video link. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said the state government was committed to providing all necessary facilities to fight the pandemic. Local authorities should ensure proper patient care, medical treatment and adequate oxygen supply at hospitals where coronavirus patients are being treated, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-inaugurates-covid-care-centres-at-kalyan-dombivli-865575.html
25-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Resort in Palghar raided, 23 held for gambling||Palghar police in Maharashtra raided a resort in Talasari in the early hours of Saturday and arrested 23 people, several of them from neighbouring Gujarat, for gambling, an official said. They have been charged under IPC, Gambling Act, Mumbai Prohibition Act and various FDA provisions, said Palghar Superintendent of Police Dattatraya Shinde. "We have also seized Rs 73,000 cash, and liquor, all totaling Rs 1.31 lakh in the raid on Green Park Resort. Several of those arrested are from Gujarat. The owner of the resort is on the run," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-resort-in-palghar-raided-23-held-for-gambling-865610.html
25-07-2020||West||Teen girl found dead in Pune, murder case registered||The naked body of a 17-year-old girl bludgeoned to death was found in Chakan area of Pune district, police said on Saturday. Her body was found on Friday evening and her family has told police they suspect three people from their village, including one who had allegedly molesting the teen two-and-half years ago, a Chakan police station official said. "Her family has said she went out to buy groceries on Friday, and they mounted a search after she did not return. Her body was found in a secluded area amid thick vegetation," he said. "Her post mortem report is awaited and only that would confirm if she was sexually assaulted. We have registered a murder case for now. The three people named by her family are being questioned. No arrest has been made so far," the official added. The molestation incident that allegedly took place two-and-half years ago was settled mutually and was not brought before the police, he said. "The girl's kin has told us family members of the man who allegedly molested her were angry that the accusation had spoiled their reputation. We are probing all these angles," the official informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/teen-girl-found-dead-in-pune-murder-case-registered-865639.html
25-07-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Goa schools to be shut till July 31; teaching via phone, online encouraged||With schools and other educational institutions continuing to be shut down in Goa, in wake of a sustained spike in Covid-19 cases, a directive from the state Education Department has urged teachers to mentor students and encourage education online or via mobile phones.  A circular issued by the state Education Department has also said that schools in the state will continue to be closed till July 31, even as Chief Minister Pramod Sawant assured earlier this week that the government is in the process of taking a final decision vis a vis re-opening of schools in the coastal state. Sawant holds the Education Ministry portfolio.  “Teachers should act as mentors to a child. It is expected that teachers shall remain in contact with a child on phone to know their difficulties or in case the students do not have android devices," reads the circular issued by Santosh Amonkar, Director of Goa government’s Education Department.  Poor network coverage especially in the state’s hilly-terrained hinterland has prevented the Goa government from actively pursuing online education as a teaching medium, especially in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The circular has also advised teachers and non-teaching staff at schools and other educational institutions to keep away from schools, adding that the Education Department was working on a teaching module with the help of stakeholders involved. “The work shall be allotted by head of institutions in consultation with other stakeholders such as parent teachers association, school management committee and educated youths in the vicinity," the circular also said.  "All the heads of Higher Secondary Schools under the jurisdiction of this Directorate are hereby informed to explore the possibility of online admission process as far as possible to avoid the students visiting the schools," it also said.  Covid-19 cases in Goa have been on a sustained increase over the last few weeks, with the tally of active cases nearing 1,500.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-goa-schools-to-be-shut-till-july-31-teaching-via-phone-online-encouraged-865646.html
25-07-2020||West||Maharashtra reports 9,251 new Covid-19 cases; records 7,227 recoveries, 257 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday added 9,251 new Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative count in the state to 3,66,368, the State Health Department said. With 257 more people succumbing to the infection, the toll mounted to 13,389, it said. A record number of 7,227 patients were discharged in the day, taking the count of recovered cases to 2,07,194. Maharashtra now has 1,45,785 active cases. A total of 18,36,920 people have been tested so far for Covid-19, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-9251-new-covid-19-cases-records-7227-recoveries-257-deaths-865657.html
25-07-2020||West||Record 1,081 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, 22 deaths||The death toll in the state rose to 2,305 with 22 more Covid-19 patients succumbing, it said. 782 patients were discharged from various hospitals in Gujarat, raising the recovered cases in the state to 39,612. 13,944 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, officials said. The total number of samples tested so far in Gujarat stands at 6,20,662, which translates into 214.52 tests per day per million population, they said. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 54,712, new cases 1,081, deaths 2,305, discharged 39,612, active cases 12,795 and people tested so far 6,20,662.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/record-1081-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-22-deaths-865663.html
25-07-2020||West||Ashok Gehlot government wants assembly session on July 31, drafts new proposal for Governor||The Ashok Gehlot Cabinet on Saturday cleared a revised proposal to be sent to the Governor, asking that a session of the assembly should be called on July 31, sources said. Governor Kalraj Mishra had sought Friday clarifications on six points from the state government, after Congress MLAs held a five-hour dharna on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan pressing for a Vidhan Sabha session. The dharna was called off, according to the Congress, after Mishra said he will abide by the Constitution but not act under any pressure. The Governor asked Gehlot to submit again, with the clarifications, his recommendation for calling a session. A statement from the Governor included queries on the free movement of MLAs and the reason why the session needed to be called urgently. After a late-night sitting, the Cabinet met again at Gehlot's home on Saturday, approving the new draft. Gehlot was expected to meet the Governor and submit the note to him, but the meeting was yet to take place till late in the day. The Congress government, which is facing a political crisis after a rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident MLAs, says it wants to hold the session so its majority can be proved. The Governor on Friday asked the government why it wanted to call an Assembly session to prove its majority if it already has one. In his note to the state government, Governor Mishra said “no one is above Constitutional dignity and no pressure politics should be resorted to.” He said no date had been mentioned in the Cabinet note, annexed with the government's request. The government had also not given any reason for calling the session at such short notice or proposed any agenda for it, the governor had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ashok-gehlot-government-wants-assembly-session-on-july-31-drafts-new-proposal-for-governor-865667.html
