26-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||One more Covid-19 fatality in Karnataka's Kodagu||One more Covid-19 death was reported in Kodagu district after a 46-year-old man from Mogaragalli succumbed to the virus on Sunday. The total deaths reported in the district is six. According to DC Annies Kanmani Joy, he was suffering from fever and was admitted to taluk hospital in Virajpet. He was found suffering from typhoid during a test in a private lab at Virajpet. His throat swab was collected on Saturday and was sent to the lab for testing. On Sunday morning, he developed breathlessness and was rushed to Covid-19 hospital in Madikeri. However, he died en route to the hospital in the ambulance. His throat swab was tested using an antigen kit and was tested positive for Covid-19, said the DC. The final rites of the deceased will be conducted as per the government guidelines. 1 more positive A 43-year-old man from Stewart Hill in Madikeri was tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. With this, the total positive cases in the district has risen to 343. The district administration has declared Stewert Hill Road as a containment zone. On the other hand, 14 containment zones—Bychanahalli in Kushalnagar, Cherala in Srimanagala, Gopalapura in Somwarpet, Hebbale Ambedkar Nagar 1, Hebbale Ambedkar Nagar 2, Karekoppa in Somwarpet, Ayyappa Swamy Temple Road in Kushalnagar, Konemaramma Temple in Kushalnagar, Parisbane in Madikeri, Chamaraj Bungalow in Putaninagara in Madikeri, Shivaramkaranth Badavane in Kushalnagar, Behind Suntikoppa PHC, Thora in Virajpet and Vijayanagara Badavane in Gonikoppa have been denotified after no fresh cases were reported. The total containment zones in the district now stands at 97.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-more-covid-19-fatality-in-karnatakas-kodagu-865840.html
26-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Forest Minister Anand SIngh tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka forest minister Anand Singh tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.   Minister's son-in-law Sandeep Singh confirmed it and said he has been home-quarantined and the doctors are treating him at home. It is not known who have contracted the virus from him, he told.   A few days back, the car driver of the minister had tested positive for Covid-19. Old house of the minister located at Ranipet here was sealed down and he was quarantined at his bungalow off the ring road.  A week ago, the minister held a meeting which was attended by doctors, hotel owners, the officials and journalists. Hence, they have been advised to undergo Covid-19 test, said a Government hospital doctor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-forest-minister-anand-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-865844.html
26-07-2020||Main Article||Aggravating Covid-19 fallout: Dilution of environmental standards||The World Health Organization (WHO) has been warning for years that habitat destruction is changing the pattern of infectious diseases. We have faced growing number of zoonotic diseases like rabies, ebola, severe acute respiratory syndrome, Middle East respiratory syndrome and Covid-19 spreading from animals to humans.  To control the outbreak, human-wildlife interface needs be minimised. More effort be made by international communities to check wildlife trafficking. Even civil societies should drive people to reduce consumer demand for wildlife species. These species are consumed by the people and the body parts are used for preparing traditional medicines and manufacturing goods for human use. In trade markets, wildlife species are warehoused in unsanitary conditions and some of them are stored in ice blocks.  Water from ice-melting carries virus through the passage where traders walk. Such high-risk wildlife markets are needed to be shutdown especially in high-density human areas. The emergence of any virus anywhere can impact people everywhere.  After the lockdown, economic stimuli are in place. Granting forest and environment clearances to boost the economy is a matter of concern. First, the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) of Ministry of Environment and Forests & Climate Change (MoEF&CC), to overcome the impact of lockdown, recommended automatic extension of validity of forest clearance for government-owned mines, whose lease period is extended by 20 years.  This means that without assessing the impact, forest diversion is approved for 20 years or at least till the expiry of the lease.  Second, mining operation was classified as essential service during lockdown; MoEF&CC, during March 2020, extended the validity of environmental clearances till June 30. This was done without studying the impact and without monitoring the compliance of stipulated conditions. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification is newly drafted to allow post facto approval of projects without environmental clearance, reduces time for public notice to raise concerns about the project and removes requirement of public hearing in some cases.  Third, the standing committee of National Board for Wildlife headed by Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar met through video conferencing and cleared 31 proposals, 16 of which are for allowing highways, transmission lines and railway lines projects through national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger corridors.  Among those projects cleared include: 168 hectares (ha) forest land for a railway line through tiger corridor in Telangana, highway up-gradation through Gangotri National Park, highway expansion through Mollem Wildlife Sanctuary in Goa, 768 ha forest land for Lakwar Vyasi hydroelectric power project close to Binog Wildlife Sanctuary in Uttarakhand, expansion of National Highway through Mahaveer Sanctuary Goa etc are important ones.   The Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary is adjoining Kali tiger reserve in Karnataka. A few months earlier, a tigress with three cubs were poisoned there. Approval of the national highway expansion in the sanctuary is detrimental to tiger conservation.  Fourth, a sub-committee of FAC on April 23 recommended clearance of 3,097 MW Etalin hydroelectric project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley district, based on a report of a field study by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII). The location of the project is 12 km from Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary and is proposed at the cost of Rs 25,000 crore.  It would require felling of 2,78,038 trees over 11.65 sq km high-quality sub-tropical evergreen broad-leaved forests comprising of rare and endangered flora and fauna. The FAC had considered this project four times since 2015. In the fourth sitting in February 2017, it sought a “multiple seasonal replicate study” to assess the abundance of wildlife, which was entrusted to WII at Rs 1.70 crore. The cost of study was borne by the project developer.  Fifth, the Union government has asked each mineral state to identify at least five new mining projects for auction with pre-embedded forests and environment clearances. A Project Monitoring Unit in each of the states will move the Indian Bureau of Mines for approval of mining plans in 15 days and will also obtain environment clearance and stage I clearance under Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 before the auction.  The eastern states of Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are identifying open caste mining of iron ore and manganese in areas having luxuriant natural forests. New blocks in Ballari (Karnataka) will also be exposed and destruction of vegetation is inevitable.  Commercial mining Sixth, 41 coal blocks are being auctioned for commercial mining at a time when the cost of production of power from non-conventional sources is the cheapest. Coal reserves are again in areas with luxuriant tree growth, which will have to be sacrificed for mining.  In the economic stimulus during corona pandemics announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Rs 50,000 crore is earmarked for infrastructure development for the coal sector. Forests will have to be sacrificed for rail siding, roads and other coal infrastructure.   The seventh point is the clarification of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on June 30 that compensatory afforestation (CA) over non-forest land is substituted by CA on double the degraded forest land in lieu of forest land diverted for road projects of Government of India. The policy is anti-conservation as it leads to a reduction in tree cover. Forests close to villages are degraded owing to anthropogenic pressure, and it is difficult to halt degradation in such cases.   At a time when coronavirus pandemic has taken control over the life of the people, their mobility and livelihood, it is necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emission and achieve carbon sink targets set in the Paris Accord. India must preserve its natural forests and in addition, it must comply with its commitment to grow trees for 2.5 to 3 billion tonne of carbon sequestration.  The UN has indefinitely postponed Conference of Parties (COP26) scheduled in Glasgow by this year-end. If negotiations are not happening, the momentum and action will slow down. However, the chances of climate negotiation will be brighter if Joe Biden wins the US presidency.  (The writer is retired Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/aggravating-covid-19-fallout-dilution-of-environmental-standards-866032.html
26-07-2020||National||Darshans continue in Tirumala temple despite rising Covid-19 cases||Fears are rising that the famous Lord Venkateshwara temple in Tirupati could become a Covid-19 hotspot, as at least 179 Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) employees have tested positive till now, including about 20 priests and several temple kitchen workers. The TTD board’s decision to keep the temple open has baffled many considering the fact that Tirupati town, the gateway to Tirumala, has over 2,000 Covid-19 cases and is in lockdown till 5 August. Srisailam, another popular temple in Andhra Pradesh, has been closed for over a week now for pilgrims after five temple staff tested positive. Devotees are still visiting Tirumala, though in fewer numbers compared to last month, when darshans resumed on June 11. While the TTD is offering 9,000 tokens daily online for the Rs 300 entry, officials said that less than 6,000 devotees are appearing for darshan now at the sacred hill, which received about 70,000 pilgrims on average every day before Covid-19 hit. The BJP, Hindu organisations, and former temple administrators are mystified with the TTD board for letting darshans continue in the midst of a severe pandemic. “Several priests are affected by Covid-19, which makes daily elaborate ceremonies difficult. If darshans are continued, the temple could become a coronavirus hotspot, harming Tirumala’s glorious reputation globally,” said Bhanu Prakash Reddy, secretary, Andhra Pradesh BJP, and a former TTD board member. On behalf of his party, Reddy wrote to CM Jaganmohan Reddy appealing for temporary closure of Tirumala and other temples in the state for public darshan.  A senior health official of Chittoor district, where Tirumala-Tirupati are located, said that darshans should be halted for a few weeks in public health interest. TTD employees DH spoke to also feltthe same.        IYR Krishna Rao, former Chief Secretary, Andhra Pradesh, who served as the temple’s executive officer earlier, criticised TTD for “disregarding publicsafety”. “The temple attracts pilgrims in multitudes and thus could become a source of disease spread. Why unnecessarily allow darshans at this point of time? It is baffling why TTD is letting it become an issue,” Rao told DH. Last week, TTD board chairman Y V Subba Reddy said “that no devotees who came for Srivari darshan have been reported as Covid-19 positive so far”. But district health officials told DH that tests are being conducted randomly, on only 100 pilgrims daily, while admitting the chances of undetected Covid-19 cases. The chairman, however, stated that darshans will continue at Tirumala in limited numbers, guaranteeing Covid-19 precautions.  Speaking to DH on Saturday, a top TTD official stated the darshans are open in accordance with the Centre’s Covid-19 guidelines. “Even if the temple is made virus proof, pilgrims could possibly contract Covid-19 at some time of their journey involving unavoidable interactions,” said Prof DAR Subrahmanyam, treasurer, Bharathiya Dharma Parirakshana Vedika, an NGO working for revival of Hindu dharmic traditions and temples. “Suspension of darshans for some time would be in the best service of the Lord and his followers,” said Subrahmanyam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/darshans-continue-in-tirumala-temple-despite-rising-covid-19-cases-865719.html
26-07-2020||National||India, China likely to hold fifth round of Corps Commander-level talks next week||India and China are set to hold a fresh round of high-level military talks next week to work out modalities for withdrawal of Chinese troops from Pangong Tso area in eastern Ladakh, government sources said on Saturday. So far, senior military commanders of the two armies have held four rounds of talks on disengagement of troops from the friction points in eastern Ladakh with an aim to restore peace and tranquillity in the region. The sources said the ongoing engagement and dialogue at military and diplomatic levels have resulted in complete disengagement of troops at patrolling point 14, 15 and 17 A in eastern Ladakh. "A meeting between senior military commanders of the two armies is expected in the coming week to further work out modalities of Pangong Tso lake area," said a source. People familiar with the developments said Chinese military has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward from Finger 5 to Finger 8 in Pangong Tso area as demanded by India. On Friday, the two sides held another round of diplomatic talks on the border issue. After the talks, the Ministry of External Affairs said both sides agreed that an early and complete disengagement of the troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols was essential for overall development of bilateral relations. The people familiar with the developments said India conveyed a firm message to the Chinese side that it has to implement the disengagement process as agreed to during the four rounds of Corps Commander-level talks between the two militaries. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held a nearly two-hour-long telephonic conversation on July 5 to bring down tension in the region. Both sides commenced the disengagement process from July 6 following talks between Doval and Wang who are Special Representatives for the boundary question. After the fourth round of Corps Commander-level talks, the Army said both sides are committed to "complete disengagement" of troops, adding the process is "intricate" and it requires "constant verification". During a visit to eastern Ladakh last week, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said progress has been made in the ongoing talks with China to find a solution to the border standoff but he cannot guarantee to what extent it would be resolved. The tension in eastern Ladakh escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. After the last round of military talks, government sources said the Indian side conveyed a "very clear" message to the Chinese army that status quo ante must be restored in eastern Ladakh and it will have to follow all mutually agreed protocols for border management to bring back peace and tranquillity. Government sources said India is keeping a hawk eye vigil on all areas along the LAC in Ladakh and will maintain a high-level of alertness to deal with any eventualities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-likely-to-hold-fifth-round-of-corps-commander-level-talks-next-week-865759.html
26-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 26||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 13.87 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 14,33,443 as of July 26 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 32,758 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 8,85,577 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-26-865763.html
26-07-2020||National||Coronavirus: CPI(M) uses own video tool for CC meet, CPI leaders meets on Zoom||The Covid-19 might have put a full stop to party meetings but the communist parties in the country are now increasingly using technology to reach out as well as hold internal meetings using virtual platforms. On Saturday, the CPI(M) Central Committee, the highest decision-making body of the party, met in the virtual world through a video conferencing tool developed using free software by IT experts aligned with the party while the CPI national leadership held a meeting through the video app 'Zoom'. This was the first meeting of the CPI(M) Central Committee after the Covid-19 national lockdown. It was decided that central committee members of a particular state would converge in the state committee offices for the virtual meeting. CPI(M) leaders said the online video conferencing tool was developed two months ago for internal party meetings. Two Polit Bureau meetings were held using the in-house tool during the lockdown. They said the tool developed by the CPI(M) for internal use is secure and has robust privacy settings. The two-day meeting, which will end on Sunday, is discussing the national political situation, the government's handling of Covid-19 and other developments. Separately, the National Secretariat of the CPI held a meeting on popular video app 'Zoom' to discuss the constitutional and political crisis in Rajasthan. Earlier, the Congress Working Committee held meetings on Zoom. While the CPI(M) Sitaram Yechury held press conferences using Facebook, the Congress was holding regular press briefings using Zoom. Yechury and other CPI(M) leaders also participated in webinars as well as digital public addresses on several occasions. BJP President J P Nadda also regularly held meetings with party workers through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cpim-uses-own-video-tool-for-cc-meet-cpi-leaders-meets-on-zoom-865739.html
26-07-2020||National||President Kovind, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh pay tributes to martyrs, commemorate 21st Kargil Vijay Diwas||Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-years-of-kargil-nation-commemorates-indias-victory-749856.html July 26, 2020 marks 21 years of India's victory over arch-rival Pakistan in the Kargil War. President Ram Nath Kovind, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP President JP Nadda, MoS Defence Shripad Naik paid their tributes saluting the sacrifices and valour of the fallen heroes in recapturing several mountain heights seized by Pakistani intruders in Kashmir. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh paid tributes at the National War Memorial on Sunday on the occasion of the 21st anniversary of the country's victory over Pakistan in the Kargil war. With #IndianArmy trending on Twitter today, Netizens — including retired army officers and politicians — celebrated the Kargil Vijay Diwas 2020. Here is how the Indian Twitterati commemorated the day: President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted remembering the soldiers who 'laid down their lives to defend Bharat Mata.' Kargil Vijay Diwas is symbol of fearless determination & exceptional valour of our Armed Forces. I salute the soldiers who fought the enemy and laid down their life to defend Bharat Mata. The nation is forever grateful to them and their families. "Kargil Vijay Diwas is a symbol of India's valour and steadfast leadership. I bow to the soldiers who, with their indomitable courage, drove the enemy from the inaccessible hills of Kargil and waved the tricolour there again. The country is proud of the heroes of India dedicated to protecting the motherland," Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted in Hindi. Defence Minister of India, Rajnath Singh, paid tribute to the 'unwavering courage and patriotism' of the armed forces. Kargil Vijay Diwas is indeed the celebration of India’s proud tradition of outstanding Military service, exemplary valour and sacrifice. The unwavering courage and patriotism of our Armed Forces has ensured that India is safe and secure. Retired Major Gaurav Arya wished India 'Happy Kargil Vijay Diwas' Today is Kargil Vijay Diwas. Let us celebrate the memory of our brothers who fought bravely on those icy heights and brought glory to the nation and the uniform. Their sacrifice will not be forgotten. Happy Kargil Vijay Diwas, India. BJP President Jagat Prakash Nadda tweeted, "The battle of Kargil symbolises the valour of the heroic sons of Mother India. I offer my heartfelt admiration for the indomitable courage, valour and dedication of Indian soldiers." कारगिल की लड़ाई मां भारती के वीर सपूतों के शौर्य का प्रतीक है। भारतीय सैनिकों के अदम्य साहस, शौर्य और समर्पण का मैं हृदय से वंदन करता हूं। Indian film director Priyadarshan saluted the valour of the soldiers. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-pay-tributes-to-martyrs-commemorate-21st-kargil-vijay-diwas-865788.html
26-07-2020||National||21 years of Kargil Vijay Diwas: How the Indian army defeated enemies||India on Sunday commemorated 21 years of its victory over arch-rival Pakistan in the Kargil War, saluting the supreme sacrifices and valour of the fallen heroes in recapturing several mountain heights seized by Pakistani intruders in Kashmir. It was on July 26, 1999, Indian Army had declared successful culmination of 'Operation Vijay', declaring a victory after a nearly three-month-long battle in the icy heights of Kargil. India lost about 500 soldiers in the war. The unwavering courage and the supreme sacrifice of the Indian soldiers will never be forgotten. But how did the Indian Army respond to the invasion by the Pakistani army with 'Operation Vijay', and win the battle? The Kargil war initially began with the infiltration of Pakistani troops into the Indian territory of Kargil. The war took place between May and July in 1999 along the Line of Control (LoC). The Pakistani infiltrators who crossed the LoC had taken strategic positions in Kargil before an all-out battle between the two armies began. However, Indian army soldiers spotted the infiltrators from information by local shepherds. The army was able to spot the incursion points. By June 30, Indian forces were prepared for an attack against the Pakistani troops. By then, India had moved 5 infantry divisions, 5 independent brigades and 44 battalions of paramilitary troops in Kashmir and mobilised over 2,00,000 Indian troops. Indian Army sought the help of Air Force who oined the operation with  'Operation Safed Sagar' under which, the IAF for the first time used high-precision bombs to target the enemy. The Mirage-2000 aircraft played a crucial role in the battles fought during the war and also hit enemy targets bunkered at the Tiger Hill, besides tasting success at Muntho Dhalo in June 1999. "Mirage-2000 was the game-changer in the Kargil War. It skewed the asymmetry of the military assets in our favour," senior IAF officer, Gp Capt Anupam Banerjee told PTI. On the other hand, the Indian Navy was put on full alert as the Army didn't want Pakistan to escalate the conflict into a full-scale war. Under 'Operation Talwar', the Eastern Fleet joined the Western Naval Fleet and blocked the Arabian Sea routes of Pakistan.  The war resulted in the loss of life on both sides. Over 1000 soldiers lost their lives. The 60-day war finally came to an end with India recapturing the previously held territory by the neighbouring country on July 26, 1999. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/21-years-of-kargil-vijay-diwas-how-the-indian-army-defeated-enemies-865790.html
26-07-2020||National||Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalls valour of Indian soldiers on 21st Kargil Vijay Diwas||Amid the stand-off with China and facing stringent Opposition criticism for his government’s handling of the border dispute, the Central government on Sunday tried to highlight India’s victory in Kargil war against Pakistan that occurred during the rule of first NDA government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee. On the occasion of Kargil Vijay Diwas, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’ said India can never forget the circumstances under which the battle of Kargil took place. He recalled how Pakistan had embarked upon a misadventure, “nursing delusions of encroaching upon Indian soil” to distract attention from its internal strife. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, along with Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and three service chiefs, paid obeisance to army soldiers who laid down their lives in the war. "On Kargil Vijay Diwas, we remember the courage and determination of our armed forces, who steadfastly protected our nation in 1999. Their valour continues to inspire generations," he had tweeted earlier On Kargil Vijay Diwas, we remember the courage and determination of our armed forces, who steadfastly protected our nation in 1999. Their valour continues to inspire generations. Quoting the then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Singh termed Kargil victory “not only a symbol of national pride but also a big step taken against injustice” and that it proved India will not bow down to external pressures. “Whatever steps we take with respect to national security, it is always in self-defence and not to attack anyone. If an enemy attacks our country, then we have proven we will give it a response as shown in Kargil. Friends, this sentiment today is as strong as it was 21 years ago,” Singh said adding that while India is a peace-loving country, “at a time of crisis, we are ready to take any big step required”. In his address, Modi said that while India was then in the process of making efforts to foster good relations with Pakistan, “to the wicked, enmity with one and all for no reason comes naturally. People with such a disposition keep thinking of harming even their well-wishers… that is why when India extended a hand of friendship, Pakistan tried to respond, stabbing in the back.” “Come, let us listen to the sentiment in the very voice of Atalji- Let us understand it… the time has come to accept it,” he said. The Prime Minister said these days, battles are fought not just on borders, they are fought within the country too, on many fronts simultaneously and every countryman has to decide his or her role in it. He also cautioned people against the overzeal of forwarding all kinds of messages on social media. In Dehradun, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced plan to build a grand war memorial named 'Pancham Dham' to honour martyrs from the state while Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said Haryana is a land of patriots and even before the Kargil War, during the wars of 1962, 1965 and 1971 the soldiers from the state had fought the enemy with valour and courage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-narendra-modi-recalls-valour-of-indian-soldiers-on-21st-kargil-vijay-diwas-865795.html
26-07-2020||National||Kargil Vijay Diwas: When former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee announced Kargil victory even before Vijay Diwas||A war ensued between India and Pakistan in the Kargil district of Kashmir and other parts along the Line of Control (LoC) in the summer of 1999. Pakistani Infiltration was first reported in the region by local shepherds in early days May which then escalated into a six-week-long full-blown conflict between the two nations resulting in the deaths of about 1,000 combatants on both sides.   By May-end that year, the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had hinted that a ‘war-like’ situation was building up in the high-altitude region. The Army with its ‘Operation Vijay’ and the Air Force with its ‘Operation Safed Sagar’ had joined forces to weed out the infiltrators, a valiant battle fought 18,000 feet above sea level. One peculiar thing about the end of the war was that the poet prime minister had declared the success of the operation on July 14, days before it was formally closed. The Operation officially drew to a close on July 26.   The war had raged on for over a month with no clear resolution in sight as the first meet between India’s foreign minister Jaswant Singh and his Pakistani counterpart Sartaj Aziz in Delhi ended in a deadlock on June 12. It was only after former US President Bill Clinton stepped in and asked then Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to pull out of the region that Sharif on July 12, after over a month of conflict, in a televised address announced the withdrawal of Pakistani troops. While the battle of political diplomacy was being played out, the battlefield was blazing hot throughout with the re-capturing of various points like Tiger Hill  Jubar Heights, peaks in Batalik, among others by the Indian troops. On paper, Pakistan had pulled out of the region but the conclusion of the entire operation was a gradual one that ended on July 26 – the Kargil Vijay Diwas. The bus trip and the hug that wasn't enough In February 1999, to thaw the tensions between the two countries, Vajpayee had also taken a bus ride to Lahore during a peace initiative and started the Delhi-Lahore Bus Service. On his trip to Lahore, a hug that was shared between him and his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif become a symbol of bonhomie. The Lahore Declaration was signed during this trip.  "I bring the goodwill and hope of my fellow Indians who seek abiding peace and harmony with Pakistan... I am conscious that this is a defining moment in South Asian history and I hope we will be able to rise to the challenge," Vajpayee had said upon arrival at Lahore to a rousing welcome. The Kargil war, however, ensued less than three months after this visit. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kargil-vijay-diwas-when-former-pm-atal-bihari-vajpayee-announced-kargil-victory-even-before-vijay-diwas-865796.html
26-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally climbs to 13,85,522||With 48,661 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 13,85,522 on Sunday, while the recoveries mounted to 8,85,576, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The Covid-19 death toll in the country rose to 32,063 with 705 fatalities being recorded in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 4,67,882 active cases of coronavirus infection presently in the country.Thus, around 63.92 per cent people have recovered so far. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. This is the fourth consecutive day when Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 45,000.  The number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has crossed the 16-million mark in the country. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,62,91,331 samples have been tested up to July 25 with 4,42,263 samples being tested on Saturday, the highest in a day.  Of the 705 deaths reported, 257 are from Maharashtra, 89 from Tamil Nadu, 72 from Karnataka, 52 from Andhra Pradesh, 42 from West Bengal, 39 from Uttar Pradesh, 29 from Delhi, 22 from Gujarat, 14 from Bihar, 12 from Jharkhand, 11 from Rajasthan and 10 from Odisha. Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir have reported nine fatalities each followed by Madhya Pradesh with eight deaths, Haryana seven, Kerela five, Goa four, Chhattisgarh, Puducherry, Uttarakhand and Nagaland  three each, while Assam and Ladakh have registered a fatality each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-1385522-865808.html
26-07-2020||National||Gujarat: Lesbian police couple knocks HC seeking safety from family||A lesbian police couple has knocked on Gujarat High Court's door seeking protection for their lives from none other than their own family members. The couple had to move court after local police stations didn't respond to written representations made by them seeking the safety of their lives. To their relief, the high court passed an order directing the police head of the district to ensure their safety. According to the petition, the lesbian couple is living together in Mahisagar district in central Gujarat for nearly three years and are in "love." They are posted at the same police station and live together in the police quarters. On July 10, they also executed a live-in relationship agreement "on their own will and volition without any threat or pressure,” read the petition. However, due to same-sex relationship, the petition states, "their family members have refused their relationship and want them back home. The petition says that “both the petitioners are of same-sex, and therefore, their relationship is not acceptable to the society and their family and communities, thus, they are facing threats from their own family members…” The petitioners' lawyer Panthil Majumdar said that "since they live in a police line, there is no issue of their safety as of now. And, since the court has ordered the district superintendent of police to look into it, we believe that arrangements will be made soon." Last week, justice A J Desai passed an order on Thursday stating, "District Superintendent of Police, Lunawada, District Mahisagar is hereby directed to look into the matter and shall take immediate steps and if required, the petitioners shall be provided with the police protection."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-lesbian-police-couple-knocks-hc-seeking-safety-from-family-865815.html
26-07-2020||National||Covid-19: SC judges panel decides against resumption of physical court hearings||A committee of seven judges has decided against the resumption of the physical court hearings in the Supreme Court, in view of current Covid-19 situation here for a period at least two weeks for now. "In view of unanimous medical opinion that while there is a marginal dip in the reported cases of Covid-19 cases in the past couple of days, the status quo needs to be maintained at least for a period of two weeks, the committee of judges decided to review the situation after two weeks," an official statement said. The committee, led by a second senior-most judge, Justice N V Ramana also resolved that for the present, the court functioning will continue through video conferencing in order to obviate the risk of spread of infection in the premises. The committee held a discussion through video conference on July 21, with the president of SC Bar Association Dushyant Dave, president SCAoRA Shivaji M Jadhav and BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra wherein opinions from medical experts were considered with regard to present status of Covid-19 pandemic. As the Bar leaders apprised the committee of difficulties faced by the lawyers, the committee said it was fully "conscious and deeply concerned of their difficulties".  It was anxious to gradually restore normalcy in the physical functioning of the court, still, the decision will have to be guided by a holistic assessment of the situation on the basis of medical advise and also considering the safety and wellness of lawyers, litigants, Registry staff and lastly of judges also, it added. The committee also asked the representatives of Bar to meet the Secretary-General and the concerned Registrar for remedial measures with regard to difficulties faced by the lawyers relating to E-filing and video conferencing. Since March, the top court has restricted the number of courts which have been conducting hearing of cases through video conferencing only. As on July 25, Delhi recorded 1142 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total numbers of affected people to 129531||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-judges-panel-decides-against-resumption-of-physical-court-hearings-865818.html
26-07-2020||National||Pledge for 'freedom from the virus' this Independence Day, says PM Modi in 67th Mann Ki Baat address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the 67th edition of his monthly radio talk show 'Mann Ki Baat' on July 26 at 11 am. In his address, he talked about a range of issues — the coronavirus pandemic, India's ties with Suriname, Atmanirbhar Bharat — among others. As India celebrates the 21st Kargil Vijay Diwas today, remembering former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, he also talked about the 1999 Kargil war. Here are some of the key things he mentioned: **People with such a disposition keep thinking of harming even their well-wishers… that is why when India extended a hand of friendship, Pakistan tried to respond, stabbing in the back. But after that, when our gallant Army displayed deeds of valour when India demonstrated her might the whole world watched it. **On social media, they are saluting their brave heart heroes and paying tributes to those martyred with the #CourageinKargil hashtag. Today, I, on behalf of all countrymen salute the brave soldiers….and along with them I also salute the brave mothers who gave rise to the real heroes, sons of Mother India.  **Going beyond Gandhi Ji’s thought, Atal Ji had said that the Kargil war has given us another Mantra- And the Mantra was – before taking any important decision, we should think whether our step, our endeavour is befitting to the honour of the soldier who laid down his life in those remote mountains. Come, let us listen to the sentiment in the very voice of Atal ji- Let us understand it…the time to has come to accept it. ** Today, India's Covid-19 recovery rate is better than other countries. Our fatality rate is much less than most other countries. We have been able to save the lives of lakhs of people, but the threat of coronavirus is not over yet. It is spreading fast in many areas, we need to remain vigilant. **The correct approach, a positive approach always goes a long way in transforming distressing times into opportunities, adversities into triggers of development & progress. **I am noticing that many people and institutions are campaigning to celebrate Rakshabandhan this time in a different manner. And many people are linking the festival with Vocal for Local, and this is true too. In society, if the business of a person near our home increases on account of our festivals and thus, in turn, his festival becomes merrier, then the joy of the festival increases manifold.  **There was a time when whether in sports or other sectors, most people were either from big cities or from famous families or from well-known schools or colleges. Now, the country is changing. Our youth are coming forward from villages, from small towns and from ordinary families. **On the seventh of August is the National Handloom Day. The Handloom of India and our Handicrafts encompass a glorious history of hundreds of years. It should be an endeavour on part of all of us to use Indian Handloom and Handicrafts as much as possible and also communicate to more and more people about them. The more the world knows about the richness and diversity of Indian handloom and handicrafts, the greater our local artisans and weavers will benefit. **I urge the youth, the people of my country to take a pledge of freedom from the pandemic this Independence day. Take a resolve for a self-reliant India, a resolve to learn and teach something new and a resolve to earnestly carry out our duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pledge-for-freedom-from-the-virus-this-independence-day-says-pm-modi-in-67th-mann-ki-baat-address-865820.html
26-07-2020||National||My son always led from the front: Martyred Kargil hero Vikram Batra’s father||21 years ago, Captain Vikram Batra, made the supreme sacrifice while fighting Pakistani forces in the Kargil War. It was a July day in 1999 and Batra was only 24.  The Pakistani forces had occupied Kargil’s outposts In May 1999. In the ensuing ‘Operation Vijay’, Captain Batra killed five Pakistani soldiers in a hand-to hand combat. Even while he was injured, he continued to fight the enemy. On July 9, he took a bullet on his chest and attained martyrdom. The highest wartime gallantry award Param Vir Chakra was awarded to him, posthumously.  As the nation observes the 21st Kargil Vijay Diwas on Sunday, July 26, to celebrate ‘Operation Vijay’ and to honour Kargil heroes, Captain Vikram Batra's father Giridhar Lal Batra, a former government school principal, spoke to Deccan Herald about his brave son who was often called ‘Shershah’. “We are proud of him and feel good that people are paying their respects to martyrs like Vikram on this day. Vikram was an outstanding and extraordinary boy, very diligent and brilliant. As a father, I knew he was much ahead of ordinary people. He was given the name ‘Shershah’ because he was very brave,” he says with pride his voice choking with emotion.  “During the Kargil War, he forced his junior man to go back and took his place, and that makes him no ordinary person. He had seen deaths before him during combats but he was never afraid to go all out and fight. He always led from the front,” says the father. Vikram, who has two elder sisters and a twin brother, grew up in Palampur, Himachal Pradesh. He went to DAV Public School and later to Central School. “Even in school, he was excellent in studies, sports as well other extracurricular activities. He represented the school in table tennis at the KVS Nationals. Besides, he also held a green belt in karate, remembers Batra. “His leadership skills were evident, starting from school.” While studying at DAV College in Chandigarh, he joined the Air Wing of NCC. Accolades followed him all the way, including the best air wing NCC cadet honour. “He was selected for a 40-day para trooping training. Later, he got the C certificate in NCC and became Senior Under Officer in his NCC unit,” recollects Batra.  Vikram was always interested in the Army. “His maternal grandfather and a few of my forefathers were in the Army. Besides, he was studying in Central School which was located in the military area. He was very impressed with the disciplined life of the Army officers. All this triggered in him an interest in joining the Army,” says Batra. When he graduated from Chandigarh, he was also in the airwing of the NCC. Around the same time, he was selected for merchant navy. “But two days before leaving for the training, he told his mother that he doesn’t want to be in merchant navy. My wife told him that it was a lucrative job. But he told her ‘Money is not everything, I want to become something in life’”. And he dropped the idea. “After graduating, my son took admission for MA English at Punjab University in Chandigarh. He did that so that he could prepare for the Combined Defence Services Exam in Chandigarh.  Vikram passed out from IMA in 1997 and was commissioned as a lieutenant into 13 JAK RIF. “His first posting was in Sopore. He also went for commando training in Karnataka which he enjoyed. He had never seen failure,” says Batra. “When the war-like situation began in May 1999, he called us and told that his unit is going to Dras sector in Kargil. When you hear the word war, any parent like me will be perturbed but I asked him to perform his duty,” says Batra.  “He went on to the Dras sector and from there, he was sent to Point 5140 which the Pakistani forces had occupied. It was 17,000 to 18000 ft high and even in summer, it is covered with snow. But Vikram didn’t give in to the challenges. He recaptured the peak and messaged his commander, Col Joshi – ‘Yeh Dil Maange More’. He wanted to fight more and recapture more peaks,” the father adds. Vikram came back next morning to the base camp. “He was suffering from fever, had pain in the chest and his eyes were red. On Point 4875, there were already two companies. But they wanted more reinforcement there and Vikram volunteered to go. The soldiers wanted Vikram as they felt if he was there, they would be safe. He used to tell them, “Don’t fear, come behind me, if something happens, it will happen to me”.  “It was a very crucial peak, there was a tough fight and a lot of casualties on our side. One of his junior officer Naveen Nagappa suffered serious injuries after a hand grenade blast. In the midnight, he was crying in pain. Subedar Raghunath volunteered to go in his place. But Vikram said ‘You will not go, I will go. You have a family’. He continued at the same post and continued the fight,” the father chokes as he recollects his son’s final moments. “He killed five Pakistani soldiers all alone. An enemy soldier, who was hiding somewhere shot Vikram and the bullet hit him in the chest. That was his last moment,” Batra says  “Earlier, when he recaptured Point 5140, he was recommended ‘Mahaveer Chakra’. But he wanted to do more.”  “When I went to Kargil 10 years ago, Lt General Joshi told me he was beyond any awards. If he is a role model for the country today, I would say this is reason for that,” he adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-son-always-led-from-the-front-martyred-kargil-hero-vikram-batra-s-father-865824.html
26-07-2020||National||India is proud of heroes dedicated to protecting the country, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the country is proud of the heroes who are dedicated to protecting it and who drove away the enemy from the arduous hills of Kargil. On the 21st anniversary of the country's victory over Pakistan in the Kargil war, Shah said the "Kargil Vijay Diwas" is a symbol of India's self-respect, amazing valour and steadfast leadership. "I bow to the Bravehearts, who, with their indomitable courage, drove the enemy from the difficult hills of Kargil and waved the tricolour there again. The country is proud of the heroes of India who are dedicated to protecting the motherland," he said in a tweet in Hindi. On July 26, 1999, the Indian Army had announced the successful culmination of "Operation Vijay", declaring victory over Pakistan after the nearly three-month-long battles in the icy heights of Kargil. The country lost more than 500 soldiers in the war.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-proud-of-heroes-dedicated-to-protecting-the-country-says-amit-shah-865825.html
26-07-2020||National||Ram temple 'bhoomi pujan' can be done via video link, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said the ground-breaking ceremony for the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya can be conducted through video-conference in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Thackeray, who is also president of the Shiv Sena, said he can go to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh for the ceremony, but asked if lakhs of "Ram bhakts" can be stopped from going there. According to members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for the "bhoomi pujan" ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram temple. "An e-bhoomi pujan can be done. The ground-breaking ceremony can be held through video-conference. This is an event of joy, and lakhs of people would be interested in attending the ceremony. Will we allow the spread of coronavirus?" Thackeray said in an interview published in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Sunday. He said the Ram temple issue has a background of struggle. "This is not an ordinary temple. Today, we are fighting the coronavirus pandemic and religious gatherings are prohibited. I can go to Ayodhya for the ceremony, but what about lakhs of Ram bhakts. Will you stop them? You can do e-bhoomi pujan through video-conference," he suggested. Thackeray recalled that the last time when he had gone to Ayodhya, he was stopped from performing 'aarti' at the Saryu river there since the COVID-19 pandemic spread had just started. "Before that I had seen huge crowds on the river banks. Ram Mandir is a matter of faith. How can you stop people from going there?" he asked. Thackeray visited Ayodhya in March to commemorate 100 days in office. He assumed office as the chief minister of the Sena- led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on November 28 last year, after his party joined hands with the NCP and the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-can-be-done-via-video-link-says-uddhav-thackeray-865842.html
26-07-2020||National||'Whitening' creams undergo a makeover but colourism persists||The world's biggest cosmetics companies have been selling a fairy tale that often goes something like this: If your husband's lost interest in you, if your colleagues dismiss you at work, if your talents are ignored, whiten your skin to turn your love life around, boost your career and command center stage. No company has had greater success peddling this message across Asia, Africa and the Middle East than Unilever's Fair & Lovely brand, which sells millions of tubes of skin lightening cream annually for less than Rs 200 in India. The 45-year-old brand earns the Anglo-Dutch conglomerate Unilever more than $500 million in yearly revenue in India alone, according to Jefferies financial analysts. Following decades of pervasive advertising promoting the power of lighter skin, a re-branding is hitting shelves globally. But it's unlikely that fresh marketing by the world's biggest brands in beauty will reverse deeply rooted prejudices around “colourism,” the idea that fair skin is better than dark skin. Unilever said it is removing words like “fair”, “white” and “light” from its marketing and packaging, explaining the decision as a move toward “a more inclusive vision of beauty.” Unilever's Indian subsidiary, Hindustan Unilever Limited, said the Fair & Lovely brand will instead be known as “Glow & Lovely.” French cosmetics giant L'Oreal followed suit, saying it too would remove similar wording from its products. Johnson & Johnson said it will stop selling Neutrogena's fairness and skin-whitening lines altogether. The makeover is happening in the wake of mass protests against racial injustice following the death of George Floyd, a black man pinned to the ground by a white police officer in the US. It's the latest in a series of changes as companies rethink their policies amid Black Lives Matter protests, which have spread around the world and reignited conversations about race. Activists around the world have long sought to counter Unilever's aggressive marketing of Fair & Lovely, with the brand's advertisements criticized by women's groups from Egypt to Malaysia. Kavitha Emmanuel founded the “Dark is Beautiful” campaign in India more than a decade ago to counter perceptions that lighter skin is more beautiful than naturally darker skin. She said multinational companies like Unilever did not initiate skin tone bias, but have capitalized on it. “Endorsing such a belief for 45 years is definitely quite damaging,” Emmanuel said, adding that it has eroded the self-worth of many young women across India. For women raised on these fixed standards of beauty, the market is awash in products and services that can both brighten pigmentation from skin damage and outright lighten skin. At the Skin and Body International beauty clinic in South Africa, owner Tabby Kara said she sees a lot of people inquiring about going one or two shades lighter. “It's a general demand in Africa,” she said. “People do want to be a bit fairer simply because society expects or is more interested in the fairness of a person.” Historically, throughout North Africa and Asia, darker skin has been associated with poor labourers who work in the sun — unlike in Western cultures, where tanned skin is often a sign of time for leisure and beauty. India's cultural fixation with lighter skin is embedded in daily matrimonial ads, which frequently note the skin tone of brides and grooms as “fair” or “wheatish” alongside their height, age and education. The ancient Hindu caste system has helped uphold some of the bias, with darker-skinned people often seen as “untouchables” and relegated to the dirtiest jobs, such as cleaning sewage. The power of whiter, fairer skin in many countries was further reinforced by European rule, and later by Hollywood and Bollywood film stars who've featured in skin lightening ads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whitening-creams-undergo-a-makeover-but-colourism-persists-865854.html
26-07-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind donates Rs 20 lakh to Army hospital to buy equipment to combat Covid-19||As a tribute to soldiers who fought in the Kargil war, President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday donated Rs 20 lakh to the Army hospital here to buy equipment that will help doctors and paramedics combat Covid-19 effectively. The contribution from the president will be used to procure units of PAPR (powered air purifying respirator), which are state-of-the-art equipment to enable medical professionals breathe during surgeries and protect them from infection, an official communique said. This will serve the larger cause of patients' care and protection to those warriors who are fighting an invisible enemy, it said. "As a tribute to soldiers who fought valiantly and made supreme sacrifice in the Kargil war, the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, today presented a cheque of Rs 20 lakh to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral), Delhi, to buy equipment that will help doctors and paramedics to combat the Covid-19 pandemic effectively," the statement said. Sunday was the 21st anniversary of India's victory over Pakistan in the Kargil war. The day is observed as 'Kargil Vijay Diwas'. The president's contribution to the Army hospital has been made possible due to an exercise to economise expenditure at the Rashtrapati Bhavan, the communique said. The president had earlier issued directions to reduce expenses by initiating a slew of measures. "As a sequel to this initiative, he had earlier deferred the proposal to buy a limousine which was to be used for ceremonial occasions," the statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. In his role as the supreme commander of the armed forces, the president's gesture will boost the morale of the frontline Covid warriors of the Army hospital, it said. "It will go a long way in providing a safe, conducive environment to them so that they can perform to the best of their ability. It is also hoped that the gesture will inspire other people and organisations to economise expenditure and utilise the savings to aid and support our Covid warriors," the statement said. The Army Hospital (Research and Referral) is the apex medical care centre for the armed forces of India. Officiating commandant Major General Sarat Chandra Dash was also a participant in "OP VIJAY" for which he was awarded the Yudh Seva Medal, it said. On July 26, 1999, the Indian Army had announced the successful culmination of "Operation Vijay", declaring victory over Pakistan after the nearly three-month-long battles in the icy heights of Kargil. The country lost more than 500 soldiers in the war. "In the prevailing situation, its doctors, nurses and paramedical staff are tirelessly working round the clock and providing the highest quality of medical care at great risk to their own lives," the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-donates-rs-20-lakh-to-army-hospital-to-buy-equipment-to-combat-covid-19-865879.html
26-07-2020||National||Donations from all faiths to be accepted for Ram temple construction: Trust member||Donations for building the Ram temple at Ayodhya would be accepted from all communities, and not from Hindus only, a member of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust mandated by the central government to oversee its construction said on Sunday. Vishwaprasanna Teertha Swami, head of Udupi-based Pejawar Mutt in Karnataka, who attended a recent virtual meeting of the trust, said it was suggested a sum of Rs ten per head be collected and Rs 100 from household as part of the resource mobilisation efforts. "It's just a suggestion, it's not like tax. It's kind of a road-map for people who are desirous of participating in the construction of the Mandir," the seer told PTI. "We will accept donations from whoever has devotion towards and faith in Lord Ram," he said when asked if contributions would be accepted from all communities and not limited to Hindus only. "Whoever has devotion and respect towards and faith in Lord Ram... there is nothing like they should be from this community... or they should not be from this community... that's left for them," the Pejawar Swamiji said. He also said Rs 10 per head and Rs 100 per household is a suggested contribution, adding, the trust would accept any amount it could be Re 1 or Rs 1 crore. The trust proposed to raise additional financial requirements from corporate social responsibility funds of companies, he added. According to him, the temple construction, the ground- breaking ceremony for which is slated for next week, would cost an estimated Rs 300 crore, and another sum of around Rs 1,000 crore would be required for development of surrounding areas for temple-related activities. An extensive month-long funds mobilisation campaign would be held from around November 25, the pontiff added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/donations-from-all-faiths-to-be-accepted-for-ram-temple-construction-trust-member-865882.html
26-07-2020||National||Day after testing positive for virus, MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan says virus not to be feared, seen without mask||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, expressed gratitude to health workers, lauding them for saving lives by risking themselves. The minister also said that coronavirus was not to be feared, urging people to get treated if they were showing symptoms. However in the video in his tweet, Chouhan was not wearing a mask. "I express gratitude to all Corona warriors who are saving lives by risking their own. No need to fear Corona. As soon as you see symptoms, get tested and don't hide it so treatment can begin. Major weapons against Corona are masks&6 ft distance. Should use them"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/day-after-testing-positive-for-virus-mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-says-virus-not-to-be-feared-seen-without-mask-865891.html
26-07-2020||National||FATF review of India's anti-money laundering regime pushed to 2021 due to Covid-19||The much-awaited Financial Action Task Force (FATF) mutual evaluation of India's anti-money laundering regime and legal measures framed to check financial crimes, scheduled for this year, has been postponed till early next year in view of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. They said the on-site review to be conducted by experts of the global body was scheduled to begin in September-October but the FATF secretariat in Paris has conveyed to India that the review is being tentatively pushed to January-February next year. The FATF is a global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog that sets international standards to prevent illegal activities in the economic and financial channels of a country and its inter-connected linkages across the world. It conducts "peer reviews of each member on an ongoing basis to assess levels of implementation of the FATF recommendations and provides an in-depth description and analysis of each country's system for preventing criminal abuse of the financial system." The review of India's anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regime was scheduled for this year as part of a regular review cycle after 10 years. The last such review was done in June 2010, a senior officer in an anti-money laundering agency said. The FATF, post this review, had said in 2013 that "India had made significant progress in addressing deficiencies identified in its mutual evaluation report and (the FATF) decided that the country should be removed from the regular follow-up process." India has set up a joint working group comprising 22 central investigation, intelligence gathering and regulatory agencies to make presentations and brief the FATF experts, drawn from various countries, this time. Some of the prominent agencies in this grouping supervised by the Department of Revenue under the finance ministry include the CBI, ED, Income Tax Department, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU), Customs, market regulator SEBI, banking regulator RBI and insurance regulator IRDAI. The Union government had also deputed Rahul Navin, a 1993-batch Indian Revenue Service officer of the Income Tax Department, to work as an officer on special duty (OSD) with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to take these processes forward. Navin has authored a book, 'Information Exchange and Tax Transparency: Tackling Global Tax Evasion and Avoidance', and served in the international taxation wing of the tax department and worked closely with the OECD, another reputed global economic body. The ED is the nodal agency to undertake investigations under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the country. A senior Union finance ministry official said all preparations to brief the FATF reviewing group were nearing completion when the Covid-19 outbreak happened. "We have been informed by the FATF that it has postponed the mutual evaluation of many jurisdictions scheduled this year including that of India due to the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions. It is expected that the new dates will be for early next year," the officer told PTI. The FATF too made a public declaration in this context. "The gravity of the Covid-19 situation globally and the consequent Covid-19 related measures that countries have adopted, such as confinement and travel restrictions, are making it impossible for assessed jurisdictions and assessors alike to conduct on-site visits and in-person meetings. This situation has significantly impacted countries' ability to actively participate in mutual evaluation and related follow-up processes." "The FATF Plenary has therefore agreed to temporarily postpone all remaining FATF mutual evaluations and follow-up deadlines," the FATF said. It said India's possible on-site period is "tbc (to be considered)". During the visit of FATF evaluators, the finance ministry officer said, India has prepared to present multiple dossiers of the action undertaken by it under the anti-money laundering law, criminal tax evasion probes and for strengthening the CFT (combating financing of terrorism) regime by the financial intelligence unit (FIU) and other agencies. The enactment of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act in 2018, the anti-black money Act of 2015, amendments brought in the PMLA over the years, curbing tax evasion under indirect taxes by bringing in the GST (goods and services tax), new protocols to better regulate suspect transactions in banks and financial intermediaries and the 2016 demonetisation of two large currencies are part of the Indian presentation, another officer in a probe agency said. The high number of domestic and international attachment of assets under the PMLA and charge sheets filed by various probe agencies under criminal sections of the law against financial crimes and terror funding are also part of India's presentation to the FATF review team, he said. The new compliance regime brought in by the FIU for banks and other financial institutions to report suspect cash and counterfeit transactions will also be part of the presentation, he said. The review takes about a year to finish and if all timelines are adhered to, the FATF will discuss the Indian legal system against financial crimes at its Plenary meeting in February, 2022 and subsequently issue a statement and recommendations about the country, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fatf-review-of-indias-anti-money-laundering-regime-pushed-to-2021-due-to-covid-19-865901.html
26-07-2020||National||Army commemorates 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas||The Army on Sunday commemorated 21 years of its victory over Pakistan in the Kargil war of 1999 as it joined the nation in remembering the heroes of "Operation Vijay", officials said. “A grateful nation today remembered the heroes of Operation Vijay, on the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas, which is celebrated every year on 26 July,” Srinagar-based defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said. He said the occasion commemorates the glorious victory of the Indian armed forces against the Pakistan Army intruders in the Kargil, Drass and Batalik sectors in 1999. Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding of the Leh-based Fire and Fury Corps laid a wreath at the iconic Kargil War Memorial in Drass on behalf of the nation and paid tribute to the gallant heroes, Col Kalia said. Meanwhile, Srinagar-based Chinar Corps joined the nation in remembering the gallant soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice, serving soldiers and veterans on this occasion, an Army spokesman said here. He said GOC Chinar Corps, Lt Gen B S Raju, on behalf of all ranks of the Corps paid homage to the Kargil War heroes in a solemn ceremony at the War Memorial in Badami Bagh Cantonment here. The proceedings included a brief narration of the Kargil War highlighting the saga of courage and valour of the soldiers who lost their lives in battle, prayers by religious teachers and laying of wreath in proud remembrance of the valiant heroes who participated in the operations, the spokesman said. The solemn function at Badami Bagh Cantonment is a part of celebrations held across the Kashmir valley to commemorate the occasion, he said, adding that the events rekindle the pride and valour of the soldiers who took part in "Operation Vijay" and honour their exemplary courage and sacrifices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-commemorates-21st-anniversary-of-kargil-vijay-diwas-865902.html
26-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to launch Covid-19 testing facilities in Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch on Monday "high throughput" Covid-19 testing facilities in Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata, which will ramp up testing capacity and help strengthen early detection and treatment in the country, the Prime Minister's Office said. The virtual launch event will be attended by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and the chief ministers of Maharashtra, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh -- Uddhav Thackeray, Mamata Banerjee and Yogi Adityanath respectively. The three high throughput testing facilities have been set up strategically at ICMR institutions -- National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research in Noida, National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health in Mumbai and National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases in Kolkata. These will be able to test over 10,000 samples in a day, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office said. These labs will also reduce turnaround time and exposure of lab personnel to infectious clinical materials. The labs are enabled to test diseases other than Covid-19 as well, and post the pandemic, will be able to test for Hepatitis B and C, HIV, mycobacterium tuberculosis, cytomegalovirus, chlamydia, neisseria and dengue, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-launch-covid-19-testing-facilities-in-noida-mumbai-and-kolkata-on-monday-865903.html
26-07-2020||National||Man arrested for duping women on matrimonial sites||A 34-year-old man has been arrested for reportedly duping several women, especially widows and divorcees, whom he met through matrimonial sites on the pretext of marriage, police said on Sunday. According to the police, the accused Anchit Chawla posed as a businessman and duped the women of several lakh rupees. He changed his name and location many times to prevent the police from catching him. The matter came to light after a woman filed a complaint at Ashok Vihar Police Station alleging she was duped by a man named Mudit Chawla, who approached her in December 2018, through a popular matrimonial site. She alleged that Chawla claimed to own a bed sheet factory in southwest Delhi's Palam and that he dealt in renting luxury cars to tour and travel agencies. He started interacting with her through e-mails, calls and WhatsApp. He used to demand small amounts from her which he duly repaid to win her confidence. He later convinced her to take personal loans from different banks to recover his business losses, police said. The accused duped the woman of Rs 17 lakh till December 2019 on the pretext of marriage. When she insisted on marriage, he started avoiding her, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northwest) Vijayanta Arya said based on the information provided by the complainant, intelligence was gathered and required details were collected from the matrimonial website. The accused used many profiles with different names to prevent the police from catching him, he said. "With the help of technical surveillance, our team managed to trace the accused from Palam Vihar Extension in Gurgaon on Friday," the officer said. During investigation, he was found to be previously involved in four other cases of a similar nature, the DCP said. The police said Chawla had in the past posed as security chief of the Special Protection Group in PMO and duped a doctor of Rs 15 lakh on the pretext of getting him a government job. While in another case, he claimed to be the personal security officer (PSO) of a political leader and duped many jewellers, police said. A laptop, two mobile phones, car and Aadhaar cards have been seized from his possession, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-arrested-for-duping-women-on-matrimonial-sites-865904.html
26-07-2020||National||As foodies await dining-out, restaurants reinvent themselves in keeping with Covid-19||“One cannot think well, love well, sleep well, if one has not dined well,” wrote Virginia Woolf in another time and another context. Decades later, as Covid-19 continues its spread, the words echo the wistful longing of those itching to get back to one aspect of normalcy -- a nice restaurant, convivial company and great food. That vision of ‘dining out’ had receded into the past for many of India’s urban elite, but it’s time finally to press the reset button as the industry gets into high gear to welcome back diners after four months. As the country grapples with the coronavirus crisis, the F&B industry is reinventing itself in keeping with the times. In a slow, incremental process of pulling themselves out of a slump, several businesses have started with online deliveries and many are also trying to reestablish dining-in with the help of digital solutions. Social distancing, open kitchens, meticulous sanitising, minimal contact with restaurant staff and digital menus are some steps being taken to instil customer confidence.   Tired of sitting at home since March, when the nation went on a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, Shobha Mishra is one of those who has started going back to her favourite haunt for coffee, cookies maybe – and some quiet me time away from home. The extra care for hygiene and social distancing at Blue Tokai, one of her regular haunts in south Delhi, reassured the media professional. While the new rules of distancing were a given in the current situation, QR codes at her table caught her eye.   "The cafe wasn't crowded at all, great relief. In addition, they have put these QR codes at each table. You can simply scan the code with your phone and access the entire menu," Mishra said.   Gurgaon-based HR manager Ankita Verma is still iffy about going out but has been ordering in.   “More than eating out, I miss the experience of going out to eat,” Verma told PTI, adding that she is keen to overcome her fears but is still reluctant.   Restaurant owners are going the extra mile to satisfy both Mishra and Verma as they struggle to get back to business on the twin tracks of online deliveries and luring back dine-in customers. But it’s a tough ride.   Umesh Trivedi, shift manager at Blue Tokai, told PTI that digital solutions have been implemented ever since the store opened for dining-in in June.   “Although we have hardly received any crowds at the cafe since we opened, the QR codes are a better option just in case there is a queue. The customers can check the menu, order from their seats by scanning the code,” Trivedi said.   While Blue Tokai’s digital menu is an in-house solution, new tech entrants such as My Menu and Fastor that offer their clients the knowhow of contactless, self-ordering QR codes are also gaining pace in the Indian service market. The owners believe adapting to change is the only way to sustain business in the current scenario. By scanning a computer-generated code on each table, a customer is directed to a digital menu on his smartphone. The menu allows them to order from the comfort of their seats and even checkout after the meal, leading to minimum interaction with the restaurant staff. “Restaurateurs are already adapting to the new normal as they want their businesses to recoup whereas consumers are eager to venture out and dine safely. We are getting requests from not just five-stars but from mid-level restaurants too as they want to opt for solutions that will instil the trust in the consumer to dine at their place,” Neeren Tiwari, country head of My Menu India, told PTI in an email conversation.   My Menu, which launched in India in March, has worked with 600 restaurants, including Taj Hotels, Radisson, Novotel, Ibis, Mercure, Shiro, and Biryani Batuta.    Fastor, another tech start-up, is offering similar services.   “When people come to know that a certain restaurant is taking care of minimum touch points and giving the same service then they will want to come and eat. So self checkout platforms like Fastor are the need of the hour for the hospitality industry,” said Karan Sood, co-founder, Fastor. Digital menu and ordering are features that reassure Apoorva Sharma, a Delhi-based PR professional.   “I would like to go out but only if it is a renowned restaurant and they are following all sanitary practices in the kitchen. It also makes me more comfortable about dining out if I don’t have to interact with restaurant staff… using digital menus to order at a restaurant is more like ordering through Zomato or Swiggy. You are just eating in a different setting,” Sharma said.   The other strategy is for food outlets to reinforce online delivery systems and expand business with cloud kitchens instead of dining outlets.   In a cloud kitchen model, a business only offers online delivery of food, restricting staff and customer interaction to the minimum. After venturing into the Indian F&B industry in 2017 and with five outlets in Delhi and Gurgaon, Malaysian quick-service restaurant (QSR) brand Momo King has decided to expand into cloud kitchens in the current situation.   “Due to minimal physical interaction of the consumers with the outside world, the food and beverage industry is currently observing a surge in online orders. This has further inspired us to initiate cloud kitchens and cater to the patrons with our delivery-only model,” Shyam Narayan Thakur, Momo King founder, said in an email interaction.   The food chain has opened five cloud kitchens in Delhi-NCR and plans to expand to 20-25 such kitchens by the year-end.   “The idea behind these kitchens is to eliminate the traditional dine-in experience and focus exclusively on online food deliveries as it would help us in minimising personal interaction between the staff and the customers,” Thakur added.   Harjas, the owner Capri Wings that dishes out Italian food, said the pandemic has hit the hospitality industry the worst with sales down to “20-30 per cent of the pre-Covid numbers”.   Harjas said they have been providing in house accommodation to the chefs in their Noida kitchen “to absolutely reduce contact with outside personnel”.    “Since we are a delivery only kitchen, and no dine-in is offered currently, we are working on safety and hygiene aspects of our kitchen and employees… all measures are taken to ensure limited proximity to people,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-foodies-await-dining-out-restaurants-reinvent-themselves-in-keeping-with-covid-19-865912.html
26-07-2020||National||Supreme Court judges panel decides against resumption of physical courts||A committee of seven judges has decided against the resumption of physical courts hearing in the Supreme Court for a period of at least two weeks for now, in view of current Covid-19 situation here. "In view of unanimous medical opinion that while there is a marginal dip in the reported cases of Covid 19 in past couple of days, the status quo need to be maintained at least for a period of two weeks, the committee of judges decided to review the situation after two weeks," an official statement said. The committee, led by second senior most judge, Justice N V Ramana, also resolved that for the present, the court functioning will continue through video conference in order to obviate the risk of spread of infection in the premises. The committee held a discussion through video conferencing on July 21, with president of SC Bar Association Dushyant Dave, president SCAoRA Shivaji M Jadhav and BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra wherein opinions from medical experts were considered with regard to present status of Covid 19 pandemic. As the Bar leaders apprised the committee of difficulties faced by the lawyers, the committee said it was fully "conscious and deeply concerned of their difficulties". It was anxious to gradually restore normalcy in the physical functioning of the court, still the decision will have to be guided by a holistic assessment of situation on the basis of medical advise and also considering the safety and wellness of lawyers, litigants, registry staff and lastly of judges also, it added. The committee also asked the representatives of Bar to meet the Secretary General and the concerned Registrar for remedial measures with regard to difficulties faced by the lawyers relating to E-filing and video conferencing. Since March, the top court has restricted the number of courts which have been conducting hearing of cases through video conferencing only. As on July 26, Delhi recorded 1075 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total numbers of affected people to 1,30,606.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-judges-panel-decides-against-resumption-of-physical-courts-865915.html
26-07-2020||National||Covid-19 ties raksha bandhan celebrations to post, video call||Nidhi Rawat has got a sweet tooth and her brother, who lives in Mumbai, brings her 'Bombay halwa' on Raksha Bandhan every year. This year, he won't come home. Pummy Saini sent a rakhi and a letter to his Ahmedabad-based elder brother and nephew. She says the restrictions made her realise how much she loves them. Like Rawat and Saini, many women will not be able to tie rakhi to their brothers due to the coronavirus-induced travel restrictions. Most of them have opted to send rakhi -- some hand-made or in the shape of masks -- through post or e-commerce firms. "He is my younger brother and he knows I have got a sweet tooth," Rawat said. "He brings me Bombay halwa every time." The Delhi-based banker says she talks to him over video call everyday, but expressed sadness that she "won't be able to hug him" on Raksha Bandhan on August 3. The woman visited the post office twice, but returned seeing the long queues as more and more people have been sending rakhis through post. "So, I decided to send rakhi through an e-commerce website," she said. "I also had the option to send a gift along with it." Having lost her father early, Delhi-based teacher Saini recalls that her brother, who is eight years older, took care of her since she was a child. "He left the city when he got a job in Ahmedabad. He last came home in December," she said. "The restrictions due to the pandemic have made me realise how much I love him." Nisha Yadav's brother, who has been living in Rohtak, Haryana, for the past 10 years, used to make sure he brings her a gift on the festival. "I sent him a handmade rakhi through post. I know he will love it," Yadav said. Rashmi Gupta, a resident of Mayur Vihar, knew his brother won't be able to travel from Coimbatore to Delhi. So, she made a mask-shaped rakhi and sent it through speed post 10 days ago so that it reaches him in time. "He comes every year.... The Tamil Nadu government has stricter quarantine rules for interstate travellers. So, it's 100 per cent not possible," she rued. Gupta feels it is wise for people to wait out this period, and cause no harm to themselves and others. The brothers, too, have been feeling nostalgic. Vikas Tripathi says travelling to his sister's place in Allahabad is not possible due to the pandemic. "Also, her family got affected by the virus and are under quarantine. So, I will wish her over a video call," the media professional said. Rohit Mishra, a resident of Noida, says his sister sent him rakhi through speed post. "It's difficult not to follow a ritual one has been following for years," he said. "But it's in everybody's interest to avoid travel during these times."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ties-raksha-bandhan-celebrations-to-post-video-call-865923.html
26-07-2020||National||NGT directs UP Pollution Control Board to rework its environment restoration fund||The National Green Tribunal has asked the UP Pollution Control Board to rework its environment restoration fund within two months. It said the fund should be spent on strengthening the vigilance mechanism, setting up laboratories, monitoring the environment, hiring experts and consultants, undertaking remediation and study of contaminated sites. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the environment restoration fund should be spent as per plan to be approved by the National Campa Advisory Council (NCAC) and not for government functions. “We direct the state pollution control board to revisit its plan. Central Pollution Control Board may oversee the preparation of such an action plan. The chairman and member- secretary may have a meeting (physical or online) with the chairman and member-secretary of the state PCB within one month. The plan may be finalised, with the approval of CPCB, within two months," the bench said. All other state pollution control boards may also prepare similar action plans for the restoration of the environment and implementation of District Environment Plans in coordination with CPCB, it said. "CPCB may also prepare such plan for utilisation of funds available with it. CPCB may file compliance report to this effect within four months by e-mail,” the bench said and posted the matter for hearing on October 15. The tribunal was hearing a petition filed by UP resident Ashish Kumar Dixit, who sought action against the illegal operation of marriage halls, nursing homes, clinics, hospitals, commercial complexes, hotels and other commercial establishments without prior consent from the UPPCB in Banda, Mahoba and Chitrakoot districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-up-pollution-control-board-to-rework-its-environment-restoration-fund-865927.html
26-07-2020||National||Fear of irrelevance amidst Covid-19 may prompt terrorist groups to launch attacks: UN report||Terrorists groups are using the Covid-19 pandemic to advance propaganda and fundraising, a UN report has said warning that the "fear of irrelevance" with terrorism going out of the news cycle could lead to outfits planning attacks once restrictions are eased. Should the pandemic lead to a severe global recession, it said the international community "may be faced with further headwinds" in countering terrorism and extremist narratives. With the Islamic State managing to have a "captive audience" during the lockdown in several countries and if it has "successfully" used it for planning and recruitment, the report said that the easing of restrictions on movement could witness a spike in attacks in non-conflict zones. Also, it said, the "fear of irrelevance" with the Covid-19 largely eclipsing terrorism from news cycle could also add to the terrorist outfits' desperation to launch attacks. The 26th report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team concerning ISIS, al-Qaeda and associated entities has said that the impact of the pandemic has varied between conflict zones and non-conflict zones. It said the terrorists are taking advantage of the situation that the attention of security forces is diverted elsewhere, a United Nations (UN) report has said.  The report noted that authorities cannot impose meaningful restrictions in conflict zones for public health reasons and in general, the short-term terrorist threat has risen in conflict zones and fallen in non-conflict zones.  "Where access to health care is limited, especially in conflict zones, the feeling of vulnerability may fuel extremism, as may economic distress caused by the pandemic. Even where the short-term threat is lower, the long-term impact of Covid-19 may increase it," the report said.  According to the report, the Islamic State's (IS) propaganda and media output have been "largely unaffected" by Covid-19. It has called for attacks on its "enemies while they are weakened and distracted" while presenting the pandemic as a "divine punishment of the West and a cause for celebration". The IS has also recognised that the virus could be "weaponised" but no countries have reported that there was no attempts to do so. The UN report said that there have been no indications that the IS is "systematically attempting" to weaponise" the virus. "The Monitoring Team has seen reports of some preliminary thinking along these lines and other terrorist groups have looked at the option more seriously, which may itself prompt IS and/or Al-Qaida to do so because terrorists take an interest in each other’s propaganda and tactics. This is a potential threat that needs to be kept under review." the report, however, warned. Analysing the situation, the report said the Covid-19 curfews and restrictions in countries have limited movement of people and could lead to disruption in terrorist planning. "Restrictions on international travel significantly constrain terrorist mobility, networking and finance related activity. The same restrictions have reduced the number of potential targets available globally. Travel to tourist destinations has dried up and tourists already abroad have been repatriated. With public gatherings discouraged and venues closed, there are few targets available to terrorists looking to undertake IS-inspired attacks,” it said. “This highlights the operational limitations of IS since it gave up its external operational capability. Member States believe that the group has increased the urgency with which it is seeking to reconstitute that capability, although there is no evidence that it has succeeded as yet," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fear-of-irrelevance-amidst-covid-19-may-prompt-terrorist-groups-to-launch-attacks-un-report-865928.html
26-07-2020||National||Isha Foundation accredited to UN Environment Assembly||The United Nations Environment Programme has accredited the Isha Foundation with Observer status to the United Nations Environment Assembly and its subsidiary bodies. Accreditation offers several advantages for NGOs, including participation in meetings of global groups, interaction with representatives of governments and a platform to influence policy formulation, an Isha press release said here on Sunday. Isha previously partnered with the UNEP for the World Environment Day hosted by India in 2018, it said. The Foundation was accredited by the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) to its Convention of Parties (COP) at New Delhi in September last year. The Foundation has held Special Consultative Status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) since 2007, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isha-foundation-accredited-to-un-environment-assembly-865936.html
26-07-2020||National||Tehelka expose: Jaya Jaitly, 2 others convicted in corruption case||A Delhi court has convicted former Samata Party president Jaya Jaitly and two others in a corruption case of year 2000, arising out a sting operation by Tehelka news portal. Special CBI judge Virender Bhat held Jaitly, her former party colleague Gopal Pacherwal and Major General (retired) S P Murgai guilty of corruption and criminal conspiracy. The sting, 'Operation Westend', was aired by Tehelka in January 2001 in which the accused purportedly accepted bribe from reporters of the portal, who posed as representatives of a fictitious company, for supply orders for hand held thermal imagers from the army. The meetings took place in the official residence of the then defence minister George Fernandes. In its July 21 order, the court observed that while Jaitly accepted illegal gratification of Rs 2 lakh from Mathew Samuel, a representative of the fictitious company Westend International, Murgai received Rs 20,000. The three accused, along with Surender Kumar Surekha who later turned an approver, were a party to the criminal conspiracy, the court held. All the three accused - Jaitly, Pacherwal and Murgai - were convicted of the offence of conspiracy (Section 120-B IPC) read with Section 9 (Taking gratification, for exercise of personal influence with public servant) of Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act. The court is scheduled to hear arguments on quantum of sentence on July 29. The court held that “from the evidence lead by the prosecution it is proved beyond doubt that in the meeting in the hotel room on December 25, 2000 Surekha and Murgai assured their assistance to Samuel in procuring letter of evaluation for the product of his company from the Ministry of Defence and also to arrange a meeting between him and accused Jaya Jaitly who would provide political cover to them in this regard.” It was agreed that Samuel would pay a sum of Rs. 1 lakh each to Surekha and Murgai and a sum of Rs 2 lakh to accused Jaitly in this regard, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tehelka-expose-jaya-jaitly-2-others-convicted-in-corruption-case-865937.html
26-07-2020||National||Piyush Goyal pitches for local vendors, increased focus on 'Make in India' in railways' procurement process||Days after the Centre amended the General Financial Rules, 2017, imposing restrictions on public procurement from bidders of countries that share a land border with India, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal strongly pitched for Indian Railways to purchase 'Made in India' products. With railways purchasing around  Rs 70,000 crore worth goods and services annually, Goyal stressed the need to increase the participation of local vendors in procurement. The Minister, who held meeting with top railway officials to promote 'Make in India' products on the national transporter, also asked officers to interact with the industry to ensure increased participation of Indian manufacturers. In the meeting, it was also decided to introduce a clause for promoting local content in its procurement process so that it gets more bids from local vendors/suppliers. Active support of DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade ) to make suitable policy revisions, if required, said a statement from railways. In the meeting, which was attended by Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi and top railways offficials, the Railway Board Member (materials management), made a presentation to enhance Make in India and steps being taken to procure through Government e-Marketplace (GeM) along with the progress made. Goyal emphasised on the need for railways' goods and services procurement of approximately Rs 70,000 crore on GeM platform to open up the market to industry even at remote places, and specially MSMEs. It was decided that the railways would work more towards having a user-friendly single-step vendor web-based interface for all its procurements. The railways ministry decision came days after the Ministry of Finance amended General Finance Rules which will bar all government agencies to procure goods and services from bordering countries such as China and Pakistan, citing defence and national security. Earlier, the Indian Railways scrapped tender for procure thermal cameras after Indian firms alleged that the tender specifications favoured a Chinese company. The national transporter also cancelled Western Dedicated Freight Corridor signalling contract given to a Chinese firm due to slow progress of work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piyush-goyal-pitches-for-local-vendors-increased-focus-on-make-in-india-in-railways-procurement-process-865942.html
26-07-2020||National||Orphanage caregivers share stories of being parents to the parentless||"I tried my best to give them everything that a mother would. When I look back, I know I have done my part in making their lives better," says 87-year-old Sudha (name changed) as she fondly recalls her younger days spent caring for children at an orphanage. Sudha said she always wanted to do something meaningful in her life but after her mother passed away, she found herself bogged down by familial responsibilities. Next came the pressure from her family to get married. However, instead of marrying someone and starting a family, she chose to become a family for those who didn't have one. She started working with SOS Children's Village, Faridabad at the age of 31. "In the past 50 years, I have been a parent to around 30 children," the proud mother told PTI on Sunday on the occasion of Parents' Day. Sukriti Sharma, 64, who has worked with various childcare homes across the country, is another such parent. She started working with an orphanage after her mother passed away. Taking care of children was not only a way to help them but herself too. "After suddenly losing my mother, I became very depressed and wanted to help those who did not have parents. I decided to become a caregiver to orphaned children. Living my life around children gave me a bigger purpose," she said. Having looked after around 15 children at a childcare home in Delhi over the past 20 years, Sharma said they are her real family now. "Some of these children had come from very difficult situations. It is particularly difficult to deal with older children. They remember their families and also the trauma they suffered. In that case, we first become their friends, make them feel safe and then gradually take the role of a parent," she said. Working with childcare homes for two decades now, 53-year-old Padma Rawat has looked after 24 children, seven of whom are now married. After her family did not approve of the man she wanted to marry, Rawat decided not to marry anyone else and devote her life to caring for children who do not have anyone to look after them. "Today my family has more than 35 members with sons-in-law, daughters-in-law and grandchildren," she said. For 67-year-old Mariam (name changed), a domestic violence survivor who has been working with orphanages for 15 years, the children have given her the love of a family. After her husband remarried and threw her out of their house, she had nowhere to go. She found shelter at a government home and trained to take care of parentless children. "After 15 years now, I am finally content. I have taken care of around 26 children who are now more than my family. I have not been in touch with anyone from my biological family. It is these children who helped me get back on my feet," Mariam said. "We are connected not by blood but love," she sums up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/orphanage-caregivers-share-stories-of-being-parents-to-the-parentless-865946.html
26-07-2020||National||Centre looks to flatten Chambal badlands for farming||Once synonymous with dacoits, the rugged ravines of Chambal in Madhya Pradesh may turn to a food bowl for the country. The Centre has revived a project for reclaiming the ravines spread across three lakh hectares in the Gwalior-Chambal region and bringing it under cultivation. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who represents Gwalior in the Lok Sabha, held a meeting with World Bank representatives to reclaim the ravines, which are a result of soil erosion. “If this area is improved, then this will help in the integrated development of the ravines area in Gwalior–Chambal region,” Tomar said. He said the proposed reforms in this project will not only help to improve agricultural development and the environment, but it will also create employment opportunities for the people and lead to substantive development of this region. The project to develop the ravines has been on the agenda for several years, but progress has been slow owing to high costs involved. The Centre is not trying to rope in the World Bank to fund the project and a preliminary report on it is expected to be submitted in a month. The project would involve leveling of the ravines, building percolation tanks and creating bunds to prevent erosion of soil in the largely arid region. All the aspects related to technology, infrastructure, capital cost, investment etc. will be taken into consideration prior to initiating the work of the proposed project with minimum budget allocation, Vivek Agarwal, Joint Secretary, in the Agriculture Ministry said. Centre also has plans to build the Chambal Expressway which is expected to contribute to the development of the region. Ravines are spread across 3.97 million hectares of land spanning Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat. The plan to reclaim the ravines has been on the discussion table since 1971 and has met with little success, mostly in attempts to level them. There have been individual success stories where farmers have leveled the ravines for cultivation, but costs to maintain them remain high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-looks-to-flatten-chambal-badlands-for-farming-865948.html
26-07-2020||National||Organ donation, transplant hit hard in Indore amid coronavirus outbreak||Life-saving organ transplant procedures have come to a standstill in Indore district in Madhya Pradesh with not a single donation taking place since March 24 when the first set of Covid-19 cases were detected here, a senior health official said on Sunday. No organ donation has taken place in the district since March 24, though a liver transplant from a living donor took place in a private hospital here on July 17, said Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College Dean Jyoti Bindal. According to officials, organs like heart, liver, kidney from 39 brain dead people have given a new lease of life to over 220 persons in the past four years before March 24. These people belong to Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Maharashtra etc, they added. Indore currently has 6,858 Covid-19 cases, including 304 deaths and 4,660 having been discharged after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/organ-donation-transplant-hit-hard-in-indore-amid-coronavirus-outbreak-865954.html
26-07-2020||National||'Your sacrifices will be remembered': Bollywood salutes soldiers on Kargil Vijay Diwas||Several Bollywood personalities, including Anushka Sharma, Madhuri Dixit Nene, Taapsee Pannu, on Sunday paid tributes to armed forces to mark the 21st anniversary of India's victory over Pakistan in the Kargil war. The Kargil war was declared over on July 26, 1999, after Indian soldiers pushed back Pakistani troops, a bulk of them drawn from the neighbouring country's Northern Light Infantry, from the captured peaks in Kargil. The day is observed as 'Kargil Vijay Diwas' to commemorate India's victory. Anushka posted a story on Instagram to honour the bravery of soldiers. "A salute to the courage of our soldiers who protected our nation and its people. Your sacrifices will be remembered forever," the actor-producer wrote. Sharing an image on Twitter, Madhuri said the sacrifices of soldiers for the country victory will never be forgotten. "Saluting our brave soldiers & remembering the selfless sacrifice of the martyrs, today and forever, Jai hind!" she said. Taapsee recalled memories of staying glued in front of her TV screen to get the latest updates in those testing times. "21 years and the memories are clear. Sitting in front of TV for hours to know if it's all over or no, if we have our soldiers safe or no, if we have redeemed our land or no. What followed was victory for our country and irreparable loss for the families of martyrs #KargilVijayDiwas," Taapsee said. Actor Sidharth Malhotra, who will be play the role of Kargil hero Captain Vikram Batra in his biopic, said the day is a reminder of the selflessness of Indian troops. "Today on #KargilVijayDiwas, I salute all our bravehearts for their constant and selfless sacrifices till date and PVC Captain #VikramBatra for laying down his life to protect our nation. Jai Hind," he tweeted. Sharing a picture with Indian soldiers, actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui said the day should serve as an occasion for the country to unite, remember and salute "the pure display of bravery by our true heroes, Indian Army". Actor Varun Dhawan shared an old picture of his and Kunal Kemmu from the Kargil War memorial on his Instagram Story.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/your-sacrifices-will-be-remembered-bollywood-salutes-soldiers-on-kargil-vijay-diwas-865962.html
26-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: PM Narendra Modi hails war heroes on Kargil Vijay Diwas||In today’s episode, BBMP makes it must for all admissions and discharges of Covid-19 patients to be done through the Covid-19 Hospital Bed Management System; Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked people to speak and act keeping in mind the morale of soldiers, and Farooq Abdullah calls for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood.  Transcript: Here is the top news of today, Sunday: July 26, 2020: Faced with a litany of complaints from Covid-19 patients and their families who are unable to secure beds in hospitals, the BBMP has moved to streamline how beds are allocated. In a new circular, BBMP Special Commissioner D Randeep has made it mandatory for all admissions and discharges of Covid-19 patients to be done through the Covid-19 Hospital Bed Management System, set up by the Palike and the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST).  This applies to both Covid-19 patients referred under the government quota of beds and for private beds administered by Private Medical Establishments. The new system does away with the previous method of issuing physical admission slips or referral letters by BBMP zonal commissioners, which had come severe criticism for being unregulated and arbitrary. Hailing the valour of the armed forces during the Kargil war, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked people to speak and act keeping in mind the morale of soldiers and asserted that wars are fought not just on borders but on many fronts within the country too. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio address, which coincided with the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas, the prime minister also hit out at Pakistan for the conflict and said Islamabad responded to New Delhi's hand of friendship by stabbing it in the back. Modi said that People must remember that their conduct and remarks should boost the morale and respect of soldiers. He urged everyone to do everything to further national unity. As the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status is set to complete one year on August 5, former chief minister Farooq Abdullah has called for restoration of its statehood and hoped the Supreme Court would render justice by striking down the repeal of Article 370 provisions. In his first media interview after the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that ended the erstwhile state's special status, Abdullah, 82, told PTI that his party would continue to contest the changes through all democratic means. He said that these changes were a "betrayal" of the trust reposed by the people of Jammu and Kashmir when the State acceded to the Union of India A lesbian police couple has knocked on Gujarat High Court's door seeking protection for their lives from their family members. The couple had to move court after local police stations didn't respond to written representations made by them seeking safety of their lives. To their relief, the high court passed an order directing the police head of the district to ensure their safety. According to the petition, the lesbian couple are living together in Mahisagar district in central Gujarat for nearly three years and are in "love." They are posted at the same police station and live together in the police quarters.  The petition read that on July 10, they also executed a live-in relationship agreement "on their own will and volition without any threat or pressure. However, due to same sex relationship, the petition states, "their family members have refused their relationship and want them back home. The petition says that “both the petitioners are of same sex, and therefore, their relationship is not acceptable to the society and their family and communities, thus, they are facing threats from their own family members…” Source: DHNS/ PTI Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-narendra-modi-hails-war-heroes-on-kargil-vijay-diwas-865969.html
26-07-2020||National||Delhi's Covid-19 recovery rate nearly 88%; CM Arvind Kejriwal says active cases 'steadily' going down||Delhi's Covid-19 recovery rate reached nearly 88 per cent on Sunday, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying the national capital is now in the 10th position among states and union territories as the number of active cases are "steadily" going down. The number of active cases is 11,904 now, against 12,657 on Saturday, 13,681 on Friday, 14,554 on Thursday and 14,954 on Wednesday, according to health department bulletins. The recovery rate in the national capital has climbed to 87.95 per cent from Saturday's figure of 87.29 per cent, while the positivity rate increased to 6.13 per cent from 5.56 per cent on Saturday, the department said in its latest bulletin in Sunday. The death toll from the coronavirus infection has risen to 3,827 in the national capital with 21 fresh fatalities and the total number of cases has climbed to 1,30,606 after 1,075 people tested positive in the last 24 hours, it said. In the last 24 hours, 1,807 patients have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out of the city, according to the latest bulletin. "Today, Delhi reaches 10th position. People are recovering and No of active cases are steadily going down," the chief minister tweeted sharing a list of the states with the number of active coronavirus cases. Delhi was eighth on the list on Saturday and second a few days back. From July 11-19, the number of fresh cases were being reported in the range of 1,000 to 2,000 consecutively. The number of fresh cases reported on July 19 stood at 1,211. On July 20, the fresh case count dipped to 954, but it increased the next day to 1,349. Since Tuesday, the number of fresh cases have been recorded in excess of 1,000 again. On July 22, the number of fresh cases was 1,227 and the following day, it dipped to 1,041. July 24 saw a marginal decline in cases to 1,025 and on the next day, the figure rose to 1,142. Till now, as many as 1,14,875 patients have either recovered, migrated or have been discharged. On June 23, the national capital had reported its highest single-day spike, till date, at 3,947. Delhi has conducted a total of 9,46,777 tests till date, which means 49,830 tests per million, according to the bulletin. It stated that as many as 17,533 tests have been carried out in the last 24 hours, which include 12,501 rapid antigen tests and 5032 RT-PCR tests. Out of the 15,475 beds available in private and government hospitals, only 2,856 are occupied, the bulletin said, adding that a total of 6,976 patients are recovering in home isolation. The bulletin also said that 3,202 of the total 9,444 beds at various Covid care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including those who returned under the Vande Bharat Mission and on Bubble flights. The number of containment zones has climbed to 714 in the national capital, it said. On Saturday, the national capital had recorded 1,142 fresh cases of Covid-19. The total number of cases stood at 1,29,531 while the death toll was 3,806.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-covid-19-recovery-rate-nearly-88-cm-arvind-kejriwal-says-active-cases-steadily-going-down-865971.html
26-07-2020||National||If enemy attacks us, we will give befitting response as shown in Kargil: Rajnath Singh||If an enemy attacks India, it will give a befitting response as shown in Kargil, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said on the 21st anniversary of the country's victory over Pakistan in the Kargil War. He also said India is a peace-loving country but "we are ready to take any big step that is required to defend its national unity and sovereignty". Singh's remarks come in the backdrop of the ongoing standoff with China along the Ladakh borders. After paying tributes at the National War Memorial here on Sunday morning, he told reporters, "I congratulate all Indian citizens on the occasion of Kargil Vijay Diwas. The sacrifices made by soldiers, which helped us win the Kargil War, will always be a source of inspiration for the armed forces." Along with the defence minister, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Army Chief General M M Naravane, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria and Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh also paid tributes at the Amar Jawan Jyoti at the memorial. On July 26, 1999, the Indian Army had announced the successful culmination of "Operation Vijay", declaring victory after the nearly three-month-long battles in the icy heights of Kargil. The country lost more than 500 soldiers in the war. Later during the day, Rajnath Singh said on Twitter that Kargil Vijay Diwas is a celebration of courage and valour of the Indian armed forces who fought the enemy under the most challenging conditions that the world had witnessed in recent history. "Kargil is not only a symbol of national pride but also a big step that was taken against injustice. I would like to mention the views of the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on national security. He said we have proved we will not bow down in front of any external pressures," Singh mentioned. "He (Vajpayee) said we have also proved we are a responsible country. Whatever steps we take with respect to national security, it is always in self-defense and not to attack anyone. If an enemy attacks our country, then we have proven we will give it a befitting response as shown in Kargil. Friends, this sentiment today is as strong as it was 21 years ago," he added. On this day, we urge the countrymen to follow the same principles of duty and integrity like our soldiers, the minister noted. "If our soldiers are keeping this country safe at the borders, then it is our responsibility for the unity, diversity and brotherhood of our country. If we maintain peace and brotherhood among ourselves and we keep moving forward on this path of development, then this would be the biggest tribute to our brave soldiers," he said. Singh said he recently got the opportunity to visit Leh, Ladakh and pay my respects to these brave men. "I observed that despite the unfavourable and tough conditions, our brave soldiers had kept their patience and gave befitting reply to the enemies," the minister said. Before this, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also visited Ladakh and he had a lively interaction with brave soldiers posted there, he stated. Emmanuel Lenain, French Ambassador to India, on Twitter said that France pays tribute to the Indian armed forces on Kargil Vijay Diwas and it always stands alongside India. "Mirage 2000 in 1999 to Rafale in 2020: our partnership touches soaring heights," Lenain noted. Mirage 2000 aircraft played a major role during the Kargil operations of the Indian Air Force. The Kargil War was declared over on July 26, 1999, after Indian soldiers pushed back the Pakistani troops, a bulk of them drawn from the neighbouring country's Northern Light Infantry, from the captured peaks. The day is observed as "Kargil Vijay Diwas" to commemorate India's victory in the war. On Sunday, the Indian Army posted the following message from the Army Chief on Twitter, "On the solemn occasion of the 21st Kargil Vijay Diwas, we salute and pay homage to the Courage, Valour and Sacrifice of our fallen Heroes. We also pledge to rededicate ourselves to uphold the highest traditions in service of the Nation." The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff at multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last 10 weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed by the Chinese troops in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties, but is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-enemy-attacks-us-we-will-give-befitting-response-as-shown-in-kargil-rajnath-singh-865972.html
26-07-2020||National||AAP chalking out plan to revive Delhi economy; CM Arvind Kejriwal likely to announce measures soon||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to announce a series of initiatives in the next few days as the AAP government is chalking out a detailed plan to revive the city's lockdown-hit economy, officials said on Sunday. The chief minister has received several suggestions from economists and representatives from trade and industry for economic revival of the national capital, an official said. The official said as the Covid-19 situation is improving in Delhi, focus will now be on getting the economy and people's livelihood back on track. Earlier in the day, Labour and Employment Minister Gopal Rai said the AAP government will launch a special programme to generate more employment opportunities in the city. Rai also said as part of the special programme, CM Kejriwal will also launch a job portal in the next few days, where the companies looking to hire people and job seekers can register themselves. Recently, the city government had formed a 12-member expert panel to explore measures for economic reform in order to help businesses recover from the impact of Covid-19. The panel is carrying out a comprehensive analysis and putting forward suggestions regarding measures that should be initiated by various departments, autonomous bodies, local bodies and the municipal corporations to help people and businesses during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-chalking-out-plan-to-revive-delhi-economy-cm-arvind-kejriwal-likely-to-announce-measures-soon-865983.html
26-07-2020||National||LK Advani, Mohan Bhagwat among invitees to Ram temple 'bhoomi pujan', will be aired live by Doordarshan: Trustees||Veteran BJP leaders LK Advani, MM Joshi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are among those being invited to the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, which will be shown live by Doordarshan, trustees of the temple said on Sunday. Besides them, there is also a view to invite spiritual leaders from all faiths, Anil Mishra, a member of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, told PTI. He said that in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and restrictions of social distancing, there will be a limited gathering of up to 200 people at the event. The list is yet to be finalised, he said. Invitations are being extended to several people who have been part of this temple movement including BJP leaders LK Advani, Murali Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti, Mishra said. Kameshwar Chaupal, another trustee of the temple, said top leaders of the RSS including its chief Mohan Bhagwat and general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi are also being invited for the event along with VHP's working president Alok Kumar. According to the Trust members, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya for the ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram temple. Chaupal also said soil is being collected from all major places of worship including gurudwaras and Buddhist and Jain temples for 'bhoomi pujan'. Underlining that it will be the “most important” event in the history of independent India, Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai said it will be shown live by Doordarshan and other channels. He also appealed to devotees of Lord Ram to celebrate this occasion in their respective homes or by gathering at nearby temples, instead of coming to Ayodhya. Alok Kumar, the working president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) which is coordinating the soil collection programme for the event, said that soil from various religious places including Jain temples, Balmiki temples and Gurudwara Sis Ganj in Delhi has been sent to Ayodhya. "As and when this pandemic will allow, VHP will launch a country-wide drive to raise funds for the construction of the temple and will reach out to ten crore families," he said. Describing it as a "once in a century moment", Kumar hoped that the groundbreaking ceremony will be a grand event. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court had on November 9 last year paved the way for the construction of a Ram Temple by a Trust at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative 5-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lk-advani-mohan-bhagwat-among-invitees-to-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-will-be-aired-live-by-doordarshan-trustees-865985.html
26-07-2020||National||Supreme Court rejects interim bail plea by Church blasts convicts||The Supreme Court has rejected interim bail plea by two life term convicts in a case related to a series of blasts at various churches in Bengaluru, Hubbali and Kalaburgi in year 2000. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose said though the detention period has been fairly long, it was not possible to release them due to nature of offences against them. In case of some special circumstances arising, the appellants are permitted to revive the prayer for bail, the court added. In his plea, Syed Shamshuzama contended he has been behind the bars for 19 years, the appeal filed by him and others was unlikely to come up for hearing in near future. He also pointed out that he was a permanent resident of Andhra Pradesh and all his family members were residing at the same address. He also said he will not violate or breach any of the conditions as imposed while granting bail. In his bail plea, mother of convict Sheik Fardeen Valli alias Fareed submitted that he has been in custody since July 16, 2000. She sought interim bail for him on humane ground as his father was on death bed and suffered from 86 per cent permanent disability. The petitioners were represented by advocate Kamini Jaiswal and the state government by advocate V N Raghupathy. The convicts, being members of Deendar-Anjuman organisation, were alleged to have conspired and carried out the blasts at different churches in the city of Bengaluru, Hubbali and Kalaburgi, among others. They challenged the December 14, 2014 order of the Karnataka HC's order that upheld their conviction in the case. The HC had commuted the death penalty awarded to them by the trial court to life term. On 8 June, 2000, two consecutive blasts took place at St Ann's Catholic Church, Wadi, Chittapur Taluk, Kalaburgi district in three hours. The second blast took place on 8 July, 2000 at St Luthern Church in Hubbali between 3:30 and 4:30 AM. The third bomb blast was carried out on 9 July, 2000 at 10:15 AM. at St Peter and Paul Church on J J Nagar Main Road, Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-rejects-interim-bail-plea-by-church-blasts-convicts-865986.html
26-07-2020||National||Rajasthan Congress calls off its Monday protest in front of Raj Bhawan||The Rajasthan Congress called off its Monday protest in front of the Raj Bhawan, hours after the party gave a nationwide call for agitation to protect the Constitution and democracy. State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasara said in a tweet, "Tomorrow, Congress workers will protest in front of Raj Bhawans as part of 'Save Democracy-Save Constitution' agitation call. But, in Rajasthan we will not do anything like that." Earlier in the day, Congress leader Ajay Maken said in a show of solidarity with the Rajasthan government, led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, and for the protection of the Constitution and democracy, Congress workers will stage protests in a "Gandhian way" in front of Raj Bhawans across the country on Monday. The Congress government in Rajasthan is facing a political crisis after a rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs. Dotasara said, "We have sent a revised note of the state cabinet to the Governor and hope that he will soon give approval to call a session of the Assembly." The Congress government says it wants to hold the session so its majority can be proved. On Friday, Governor Kalraj Mishra had sought clarifications on six points from the state government, after Congress MLAs held a five-hour dharna on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan pressing for an Assembly session. The dharna was called off, according to the Congress, after Mishra said he would abide by the Constitution and not act under any pressure. The Governor asked Gehlot to submit again, with the clarifications, his recommendation for calling a session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-congress-calls-off-its-monday-protest-in-front-of-raj-bhawan-865988.html
26-07-2020||National||Bengaluru, Pune Covid-19 situations on downward spiral; Mumbai, Delhi show promise||While the national and financial capitals, Delhi and Mumbai are reporting remarkable recoveries, the Covid-19 situations in Bengaluru, Pune and Guwahati are on a downward spiral, with these cities reporting more active cases than recoveries. Of the total 45,453 confirmed cases in Bengaluru Urban, as many as 72.94% or 33,156 patients are under active medical supervision against the 11,405 or 25.09% who have recovered and have been discharged from healthcare facilities. In Pune, which has emerged as a new hotspot in Maharashtra, 63% of the total 73,007 patients were under active medical supervision, while in Guwahati that comes under the Kamrup Metropolitan area, 57.8% of the total 14,308 cases were receiving treatment for the disease. On the other hand, cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai had shown remarkable recovery. In Delhi, which reported more than 2,500 cases every day in June, only 9.8% patients of the total 1.29 lakh cases were under active medical supervision, while 87.3% patients had recovered till Saturday. The recovery rate for Chennai and Mumbai was 83% and 73% respectively. Kolkata had a recovery rate of 61.7% for the total 17,553 confirmed cases, while in Thane adjoining Mumbai, 54.1% patients of the total 84,851 had staged a recovery. India continued to add new cases at an alarming pace – almost 50,000 new patients every day – and had crossed the 14 lakh mark on Sunday. India added 1.46 lakh cases on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, and had added 32,991 new cases by 7:30 pm on Sunday. “The hazards of corona are far from being over. At many places, it is spreading fast. We need to be extra vigilant. We have to bear in mind that Corona is as fatal today as it was in the beginning – that is why we have to be fully cautious,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address on Sunday. India is all set to further ramp up testing by adding three high-throughput Covid-19 testing facilities in Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata, each having a capacity to test 10,000 samples every day. Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the testing facilities at ICMR-National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research, Noida; ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Mumbai; and ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases, Kolkata through video-conferencing on Monday evening. “These labs will also reduce turn-around-time and exposure of lab personnel to infectious clinical materials,” a PMO statement said. It added that the labs were enabled to test diseases other than Covid-19 and post the pandemic, will be able to test for Hepatitis B and C, HIV, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Cytomegalovirus, Chlamydia, Neisseria, Dengue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-pune-covid-19-situations-on-downward-spiral-mumbai-delhi-show-promise-865992.html
26-07-2020||National||Next India-China army commanders’ meet to focus on Pangong Tso, Depsang 'Y' Junction||India will ask China to expeditiously and completely withdraw troops from the face-off scenes on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake and the Depsang Y Junction in eastern Ladakh when the senior military commanders of the two sides will meet within the next few days. Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, will soon hold a meeting with his counterpart Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Chushul-Moldo point on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – soon. This will be the fifth meeting between the senior military commanders of India and China after the Chinese PLA’s unilateral move to alter the status quo along the LAC and the Indian Army’s response resulted in a military stand-off between the two neighbouring nations in early May. They earlier held four meetings on June 6, June 22, June 30 and July 14 to resolve the stand-off.   New Delhi wants the next meeting between Lt Gen Singh and Maj Gen Liu to focus primarily on withdrawal of the Chinese PLA troops from the areas like Pangong Tso (lake) and the Depsang Y Junction, sources aware of India-China engagement to defuse tension along the LAC told the DH. The Chinese PLA has not yet shown sign of withdrawing from the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake, where it deployed its soldiers and built structures at the “Finger 4” area, thus denying access to the Indian Army to an eight-kilometre-long stretch up to its earlier patrolling limit – the “Finger 8”. The PLA not only built several bunkers and observation posts on the bank of the Pangong Tso over the past few weeks but also occupied ridges overlooking the “fingers” or the mountain spurs jutting towards the lake – thus effectively taking under its control an area of nearly 30 sq km. Sources told the DH in New Delhi that the Indian Army would continue to insist on restoring the status quo ante that prevailed on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake before the May 5 skirmish. Lt Gen Singh is also expected to ask Maj Gen Liu Lin to withdraw troops from the Depsang Y Junction, where the Chinese PLA had effectively taken over a vast swathe of land – in an apparent bid to alter the status quo along the LAC in the area and to move its position and deploy its soldiers closer not only to the key Doulat Beg Oldie military base of India but also to a new strategic road linking the base with Leh via Darbuk and Shyok villages. The June 30 meeting between Lt. Gen. Singh and Maj. Gen. Liu resulted in the beginning of “disengagement” of troops. But even as more than three weeks passed since both sides started withdrawing troops from the face-off scenes, the Chinese PLA has not yet pulled back troops from several areas along the disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh. The latest military stand-off took New Delhi’s relations with Beijing to a new low, particularly after the violent clash between the Indian and Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the violent face-off. New Delhi has been dismissing Beijing’s new claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley ever since the latest stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA started in eastern Ladakh. The process of “disengagement” in Galwan Valley started early this month. After the Chinese PLA pulled back its troops from the scene of the June 15 clash, the Indian Army too withdrew troops 1.5 kilometers away from the spot, in keeping with the disengagement understanding reached between the senior military officials of the two nations. The “disengagement” process has also been completed in the scenes of the face-offs at Hot Springs and at Gogra and Kongka La areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-india-china-army-commanders-meet-to-focus-on-pangong-tso-depsang-y-junction-865998.html
26-07-2020||National||Assam floods: Rhinos move out of sanctuaries and into people's homes||Due to the ongoing crisis severe floods in Assam, Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary, home to primarily rhinos, was also almost submerged. As a result, rhinos have begun foraging for food near people’s homes in the state. The Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary is located on the southern banks of the Brahmaputra river, which floods every year. This year, the region has been badly affected by the Assam floods, which have impacted over 40 lakh lives.  Due to the food supply being affected, the animals have had no choice but to venture out, in search of grass and dry land. Since then, they have been spotted near people’s homes, foraging for grass and vegetation.  Pobitora’s range office was visited by two such stray rhinos on Friday. Not only did the range officer leave the gates open, for them to enter freely, but also arranged for stacks of cut grass to be kept outside for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-floods-rhinos-move-out-of-sanctuaries-and-into-peoples-homes-866019.html
26-07-2020||National||India facilitates 'return' of 11 Afghan Hindus and Sikhs||The Government on Sunday started facilitating travel of minority Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan to India, beginning with a group of 11, including Nidan Singh Sachdeva, who was recently kidnapped from a Gurdwara in the conflict-torn country. New Delhi’s move came nearly four months after the terrorists stormed a Gurdwara in Kabul and killed 25 people.   Within hours, the Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the attack. Those killed included a child whose body was brought to a Kabul hospital, the emergency services and the hospital said. At least 15 people were injured. The government granted “appropriate” visas to the 11 Afghan Hindus and Sikhs and facilitated the group’s travel to India, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement issued in New Delhi. The group travelled onboard a Kam Air aircraft from Kabul to New Delhi on Sunday.   Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the MEA, said that the Government was “facilitating return of Hindu and Sikh community members seeking permanent residency and citizenship in India”. New Delhi lauded the efforts of the Government of Afghanistan extending necessary support for the safe “return” of the Afghan Hindus and Sikhs. One of the 11 Afghans, who flew to New Delhi on Sunday, was Nidan Singh Sachdeva, a community leader, who was abducted by terrorists from a Gurdwara at Paktia in Afghanistan on June 22 and was released on July 18 following intervention by the local elders. It was after his kidnapping and release, New Delhi announced its decision to facilitate the “return” of Afghan Hindus and Sikhs, who, according to the MEA, were facing security threats in Afghanistan. to India. “The targeting and persecution of minority community members by terrorists (in Afghanistan) at the behest of their external supporters remains a matter of grave concern,” Srivastava had said after Sachdeva had been released on July 18. New Delhi and Kabul have since long been echoing each other in blaming Pakistan for terrorism in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-facilitates-return-of-11-afghan-hindus-and-sikhs-866042.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Pragya Thakur says recite Hanuman Chalisa 5 times a day to eradicate coronavirus||BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur on Saturday appealed people to recite the Hanuman Chalisa five times a day till August 5, which she believes will rid the world of the coronavirus pandemic. `Bhoomi pujan' or the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya is to take place on August 5. "Let us all of us together make a spiritual effort to wish people good health and end the coronavirus epidemic. Recite 'Hanuman Chalisa' five times a day at your home from July 25 to August 5," the Bhopal MP tweeted. "Conclude this ritual by lighting lamps on August 5 and offering 'aarti' to Lord Ram at home," she added. She also shared a video on Twitter, in which she said the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh is making efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus by imposing lockdown in Bhopal till August 4. "Though the lockdown will be over on August 4, this ritual (recitation of the Hanuman Chalisa, a hymn in praise of Lord Hanuman) will end on August 5, when 'bhoomi pujan' for Ram temple in Ayodhya will be performed. We will celebrate that day like Diwali," she added. "When people... Hindus from across the country recite the 'Hanuman Chalisa' in one voice, it will definitely work and we will be free from coronavirus...This is your prayer to Lord Ram," said Thakur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pragya-thakur-says-recite-hanuman-chalisa-5-times-a-day-to-eradicate-coronavirus-865721.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Congress to run nationwide digital campaign 'Speak Up For Democracy'||The Congress has decided will run a nationwide digital campaign -- 'Speak Up For Democracy' -- on Sunday against the BJP's "attempts to violate constitutional and democratic values and tradition", a party leader said. All India Congress Committee (AICC) General Secretary Avinash Pande said the campaign will start at 10 am on Sunday. He alleged that the BJP has been "constantly striking at constitutional institutions and values". Attempts were being made to topple elected state governments one after another, Pande alleged. In a video message on Saturday night, he said the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh government was toppled by the BJP and now it was "conspiring to do the same in Rajasthan" "The chief minister of Rajasthan requested the governor to call an Assembly session. But ignoring the request shows that the Central government is misusing constitutional institutions and playing with democratic values and traditions," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-run-nationwide-digital-campaign-speak-up-for-democracy-865745.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: CPI(M) uses own video tool for CC meet, CPI leaders meets on Zoom||The Covid-19 might have put a full stop to party meetings but the communist parties in the country are now increasingly using technology to reach out as well as hold internal meetings using virtual platforms. On Saturday, the CPI(M) Central Committee, the highest decision-making body of the party, met in the virtual world through a video conferencing tool developed using free software by IT experts aligned with the party while the CPI national leadership held a meeting through the video app 'Zoom'. This was the first meeting of the CPI(M) Central Committee after the Covid-19 national lockdown. It was decided that central committee members of a particular state would converge in the state committee offices for the virtual meeting. CPI(M) leaders said the online video conferencing tool was developed two months ago for internal party meetings. Two Polit Bureau meetings were held using the in-house tool during the lockdown. They said the tool developed by the CPI(M) for internal use is secure and has robust privacy settings. The two-day meeting, which will end on Sunday, is discussing the national political situation, the government's handling of Covid-19 and other developments. Separately, the National Secretariat of the CPI held a meeting on popular video app 'Zoom' to discuss the constitutional and political crisis in Rajasthan. Earlier, the Congress Working Committee held meetings on Zoom. While the CPI(M) Sitaram Yechury held press conferences using Facebook, the Congress was holding regular press briefings using Zoom. Yechury and other CPI(M) leaders also participated in webinars as well as digital public addresses on several occasions. BJP President J P Nadda also regularly held meetings with party workers through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-cpim-uses-own-video-tool-for-cc-meet-cpi-leaders-meets-on-zoom-865738.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Congress launches digital campaign, accuses BJP of violating democratic traditions||The Congress launched its nationwide digital campaign, "#SpeakUpForDemocracy", on Sunday and hit out at the BJP for its "attempts to violate constitutional and democratic traditions". Congress leaders also accused the saffron party of trying to destabilise the Rajasthan government during a health emergency. "The Congress government in Rajasthan is trying its best to control the Covid-19 pandemic, which has also been appreciated globally. At such a time, the BJP is trying to destabilise the elected government in the state," Congress general secretary and the party's Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande said. State Congress Chief Govind Singh Dotasara alleged that the BJP government at the Centre and the leaders of the saffron party are working to topple the Rajasthan government. "The Congress government is working effectively to battle against the pandemic. Even the prime minister has lauded its efforts. Then why is the BJP working towards bringing down the government? I want to say that democracy will win and the BJP's conspiracy will fail," he said. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, who is camping here with party leaders, said, "The BJP's conspiracy to kill democracy in broad daylight in Madhya Pradesh and now in Rajasthan has been exposed." "Is democracy a slave of the Delhi Durbar? Is the majority a puppet in Delhi's hands? Doesn't the rule of vote matter? If not, then raise your voice," he added. Reacting to the allegations, state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Satish Poonia used a Hindi proverb to take a dig at the Congress -- a cat going on a pilgrimage after eating 900 mice. "The Congress is responsible for the political crisis in Rajasthan. It violated democratic values and insulted the Constitution for years. Will old sins be washed away through this 'SpeakUpForDemocracy' hypocrisy?" he asked. The Congress government in Rajasthan, led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, is facing a threat after Gehlot's former deputy Sachin Pilot rebelled against the party. Eighteen other MLAs have also defied the party whip to attend CLP meetings. Including the 19 dissidents, the Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly and the BJP 72.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-launches-digital-campaign-accuses-bjp-of-violating-democratic-traditions-865870.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Farooq Abdullah calls for restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, pins hopes on SC||As the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status is set to complete one year on August 5, former Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah on Sunday called for restoration of its statehood and hoped the Supreme Court would render justice by striking down the repeal of Article 370 provisions. In his first media interview after the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that ended the erstwhile state's special status, Abdullah, 82, told PTI that his party would continue to contest the changes through all democratic means. These changes were a "betrayal" of the trust reposed by the people of Jammu and Kashmir when the State acceded to the Union of India, he said. The Centre had abrogated the special status on August 5 last year, saying Article 370 had stalled the development of Jammu and Kashmir, prevented proper education, health care and growth of industries besides not helping in curbing terrorism. The National Conference (NC), of which Abdullah is the President, has mounted a legal challenge in the Supreme Court to the abrogation of Article 370 and carving out of two union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh from the erstwhile state. The legislation passed by Parliament and the subsequent orders issued by the President were "unconstitutional", it has submitted in the apex court which has set up a five-member bench to hear the matter. "As a political party it is but natural that we will keep the people informed about what we are doing to get justice. We are very clear that we do not accept the changes forced on us and will continue to oppose them," said the veteran leader who was arrested hours before Article 370 provisions were scrapped on August 5 and spent over seven months in detention. Abdullah, who has served three terms as the border state's chief minister, said, "We will fight for our rights, campaign for our rights within democratic means. We have never used guns, we have never used methods which are not constitutional. We are a democratic mainstream party and will use all democratic means at our disposal." Describing the changes as "vishwasghat" (betrayal of trust) reposed by people of Jammu and Kashmir at the time of accession, he said, "The trust we had reposed in Delhi has come to nought." "There is a loss of trust and Delhi has to rebuild the trust. That trust will come only when the statehood is restored and other changes are reversed. That has to be done," Abdullah, a sitting member of Lok Sabha, said. "What happened is unfortunate. They (Centre) said J and K will progress once this thing (Article 370) is removed, militancy will disappear. I would like to ask those people, has militancy disappeared? It has increased rather than decreased. Any development? Zero development. Whatever we had we have lost even that," he said. Explaining his party's decision to move the Supreme Court, Abdullah said, "We are seeking justice from the highest court of the land because of our faith in the judiciary. We are hopeful that justice will be rendered to us." He emphasised that full statehood should be restored to Jammu and Kashmir and that all other changes should be reversed. "We are looking up to the Supreme Court." Abdullah said people of Jammu and Kashmir had suffered for decades due to militancy before the "trauma of August 5", followed by the Covid-19 pandemic. "We desperately need peace but also restoration of our honour and dignity taken away without consulting the people most affected by the drastic changes," he added. Asked if his party would participate in elections to the Assembly likely to be held next year, the NC president said it was not for him to decide but the call would be taken by the party's working committee. "When the situation comes, we will sit together and see what is happening." Abdullah was sharply critical of the new domicile laws for Jammu and Kashmir, and said the NC had always feared there would be attempts to change its demography. "Now our fears are coming true. We are going to fight it," he added. About the delimitation commission set up recently to re-draw the Assembly constituencies, Abdullah said the NC had boycotted it alleging that the intentions of the BJP-led government at the Centre were not good. "The delimitation exercise was to be done in 2026 along with the rest of the country. What was the necessity of doing it now? This is where we fear that their intentions are not good," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farooq-abdullah-calls-for-restoration-of-statehood-to-jammu-and-kashmir-pins-hopes-on-sc-865881.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||India's democracy will function in accordance with Constitution, echo voice of the people: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said democracy in the country will function in accordance with the Constitution and echo the voice of the people, who will reject the BJP's "conspiracy of deceit and deception". He was participating in the Congress's "Speak Up For Democracy" online campaign to expose what it called the designs of the BJP to topple the Ashok Gehlot dispensation in Rajasthan and other state governments run by opposition parties. A large number of party leaders participated in the digital campaign. "India's democracy will function in accordance with the Constitution and echo the voice of the people. The people of the country will protect democracy and the Constitution by rejecting the BJP's conspiracy of deceit and deception," he said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress government in Rajasthan is facing a threat after Gehlot's former deputy Sachin Pilot rebelled against the party. Eighteen other MLAs are backing Pilot. The Congress has accused the BJP of being behind the revolt, a charge denied by the saffron party. The Congress will on Monday stage demonstrations outside all Raj Bhawans to lodge their protest against the Rajasthan Governor's action. The Congress has accused the Rajasthan Governor of delaying a session of the Rajasthan Assembly. It also alleged misuse of the powers of Governors in toppling opposition governments. "Indian democracy will follow the Constitution and echo the voice of the people. Indian people will reject BJP's deceit and conspiracies and protect Indian democracy and the Constitution," Rahul Gandhi said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indias-democracy-will-function-in-accordance-with-constitution-echo-voice-of-the-people-rahul-gandhi-865914.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Congress alleges Rajasthan Governor stalling Assembly session at the behest of Centre||The Congress on Sunday accused the Rajasthan Governor of resorting to the "worst kind of obstruction of democracy" by raising "superficial and motivated" queries on Ashok Gehlot government's demand for convening a session of the state Assembly. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said his party wants a floor test in the state Assembly and is "begging" for it, but the governor is not convening the House and "delaying" the trust vote allegedly at the behest of the central government. He also cited Supreme Court judgements and several precedents including those of Rajasthan Assembly with regard to the convening of the Assembly session to assert that the Governor cannot act of his own and can only do so with the advice of the Cabinet. "Such superficial, clearly motivated, digressive and extraneous queries establish beyond doubt that they are coming from the highest authorities of the central government and being parroted without change as His Master's Voice from Raj Bhawan, Jaipur. "We all know who that Master is. But, it decimates the lustre and dignity of the Governor's constitutional position," Singhvi said at a virtual press conference. Governor Kalraj Mishra had on Friday sought clarifications on six points from the state government, after Congress MLAs held a five-hour dharna on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan in Jaipur pressing for the convening of the Assembly. The governor asked Chief Minister Asok Gehlot to submit again, with the clarifications, his recommendation for calling a session. A statement from the governor included queries on the free movement of MLAs and the reason why the session needed to be called urgently. The governor on Saturday night received a revised proposal from the state cabinet requesting that a session of the Assembly be called on July 31, Raj Bhawan sources said on Sunday. Asked if the party would challenge the Rajasthan High Court judgement, Singhvi said the fight was not in the courtroom but in the state Assembly where a floor test would determine who has the numbers. At the same time, the Congress spokesperson questioned the high court ruling, pointing out that the apex court has clearly stated in the past that judicial review is not permissible at any stage prior to the making of a decision by the Speaker "If somebody is begging (for the Assembly to be convened) ... and still 4-5 days have passed and now it is going to be seven days if 31st is the date be here. Then, I think this is the worst kind of obstruction of democracy, which is happening under your nose," Singhvi noted. Taking on the prime minister, Singh asked, "Why are those, ensconced in the highest executive post of the country, who invented jibes like 'Mauni Baba' for others, not introspecting on their eloquent silence in not reminding constitutional authorities like the Governor of their Rajdharma? Or is their eloquence reserved only for jumlas." Citing a 1992 SC judgement, Singhvi quoted a five-judge judge as saying: "Having regard to the constitutional scheme in the Tenth Schedule, judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the Speakers/ Chairman; and no quia timet (ie interim interventions) are permissible".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-alleges-rajasthan-governor-stalling-assembly-session-at-the-behest-of-centre-865938.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Amid Rajasthan crisis, Congress attacks BJP with 'Speak Up For Democracy' campaign on Twitter||India's democracy will function according to Constitution and echo the voice of the people, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday while participating in his party's online campaign to "expose" the "BJP's designs to violate" constitutional and democratic norms. He also said that people will reject the saffron party's "conspiracy of deceit and deception". The party on Sunday carried out the "Speak Up For Democracy" online campaign that seeks to "expose" what it called the saffron party's "designs" to topple the Ashok Gehlot dispensation in Rajasthan and other state governments run by non-BJP parties. A large number of Congress leaders participated in the digital campaign. "India's democracy will function in accordance with the Constitution and echo the voice of the people. The people of the country will protect democracy and the Constitution by rejecting the BJP's conspiracy of deceit and deception," he said in a tweet in Hindi. संकट के समय नेतृत्व की पहचान होती है। कोरोना के राष्ट्रीय संकट में देश को जनहित में काम करने वाले नेतृत्व की जरूरत है। मगर केंद्र की भाजपा सरकार ने जनता द्वारा चुनी गई सरकारों को गिराने की कोशिश कर अपनी मंशा और अपना चरित्र साफ कर दिया है। Gandhi also put out a video that accused the BJP of "ripping up the constitution and demolishing democracy" even as the whole country was in the middle of the pandemic. "It had done the same in Madhya Pradesh. We demand to immediately convene an assembly session, which is within our constitutional rights," it was demanded in the video. AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal claimed that the campaign was a success and it exposed the "dissolute political actions of the BJP" at a time the entire nation was reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress government in Rajasthan is facing a threat after Gehlot's former deputy Sachin Pilot rebelled against the party. Eighteen other MLAs are backing Pilot. The Congress has accused the BJP of being behind the revolt, a charge denied by the saffron party. The Congress will on Monday stage demonstrations outside all Raj Bhawans at 11 am to lodge their protest against the Rajasthan Governor's action. However, the Rajasthan state unit will not do so outside the Raj Bhawan in Jaipur. The ruling party in Rajasthan has accused the governor of delaying a session of the state Assembly. It also alleged "misuse" of the powers of governors in toppling governments run by non-NDA parties. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reminded that, "Leadership is recognised in times of crisis. In Covid-19 national crisis, the country needs a leadership that works in the public interest." "But the BJP government at the centre has made its intention and its character clear by trying to topple the governments elected by the people. The people will answer," she said. Venugopal said the online campaign ran from 10 am with people posting videos asking the Rajasthan governor and the Narendra Modi government to show accountability. "It resonated with the people and the trend remained at top (on social media) across India and was number five worldwide with more than 3,00,000 tweets till about 5 pm," he claimed in a statement. CWC members, chief ministers, senior party leaders, MPs, MLAs, Congress state unit presidents, party office bearers and ordinary workers participated in the campaign demanding that the Rajasthan governor convene the Assembly Session as recommended by the state Cabinet. The Congress' state units will on July 27 hold protests in front of the Raj Bahwans demanding 'Save Democracy- Save Constitution' and "exposing the anti-democratic and anti-constitutional actions of the BJP". The protest gatherings will be held by strictly adhering to the social distancing protocols required by the health and civic authorities, Venugopal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amid-rajasthan-crisis-congress-attacks-bjp-with-speak-up-for-democracy-campaign-on-twitter-865940.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Scandals happened during UPA, defence sector focus of Modi government: BJP President J P Nadda||On the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas, BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday took aim at the Congress, saying "scandals" marred the UPA government that lacked "political will" in dealing with India's security challenges, whereas the defence sector has always been the focus of the Narendra Modi dispensation. Addressing an event attended by veterans, Nadda hailed the armed forces, saying they combined inspiration and strategy with valour to vanquish Pakistan during the Kargil war despite facing adverse circumstances. He said India will forever remember the sacrifices made by its soldiers to secure the country's borders. Nadda also stressed the BJP's commitment to the welfare of armed forces, saying the defence sector has always received Prime Minister Narendra Modi's special focus. The Modi government implemented 'one rank, one pension' scheme and cleared all dues with payment of Rs 33,000 crore, he said, adding that 72 border projects are now near completion while work on them was not done during the UPA government. "Scandals after scandals happened but (defence) purchase was not made. It lacked political will and acumen," the BJP president said of the UPA government, which was in power during 2004-14. As many as 36 Rafale fighter aircraft, 28 Apache and 15 Chinook helicopters have been acquired under the Modi government, he said. During the 2008-14 period, 3,610 km of road in border regions was constructed, whereas 4,764 km of road was built during 2014-20, he said. Nadda also noted Modi's visit to Ladakh recently during the standoff with China and said that the prime minister spends every Diwali with the armed forces. Modi has maintained the policy of "zero tolerance" to any intrusion, he said. Hailing the armed forces, he said Pakistan was in an "advantageous" position during the Kargil war after occupying mountain heights but Indian soldiers drew inspiration from the challenge and fought with valour and strategy to attain victory. "It was the toughest battle on highest mountains," he said, asserting that India will remain indebted to the brave soldiers forever. During the Kargil war, Nadda said, the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee fought with Pakistan in the international arena as well and resisted any pressure. Vajpayee made it clear that India will not declare ceasefire until it secures its border by defeating Pakistan, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/scandals-happened-during-upa-defence-sector-focus-of-modi-government-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-865945.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||'MyGov' initiative completes 6 years, PM calls it a forum celebrating participatory governance||MyGov platform, aimed at empowering people to connect with the government, marked six years on Sunday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that it has emerged as a noteworthy forum that "celebrates participative governance". MyGov platform is a unique, path-breaking initiative in participatory governance involving the common citizen at large. The first-of-its-kind platform was launched on July 26, 2014, by Prime Minister Modi. The idea of MyGov brings the government closer to the common people by the use of online platform creating an interface for a healthy exchange of ideas and views involving the common citizen and experts with the ultimate goal to contribute to the social and economic transformation of India. "Today, as we mark #6YearsofMyGov, I appreciate all those across India who have enriched @mygovindia by their active participation," Prime Minister Modi tweeted. "MyGov has emerged as a noteworthy forum that celebrates participative governance. Do keep contributing!" he said. MyGov has emerged as a noteworthy forum that celebrates participative governance. In its short span of existence till date, MyGov platform has been more than successful in keeping the citizens engaged on important policy issues and governance, be it Clean Ganga, Girl Child Education, Skill Development and Healthy India to name a few, the MyGov portal says. There is no doubt that this platform has made inroads in diminishing the gap which has traditionally existed between the citizen and the government, it says. MyGov platform has become a key part of the policy and decision-making process of the country. There are 1,22,79,631 registered members of MyGov platform till now, according to its portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mygov-initiative-completes-6-years-pm-calls-it-a-forum-celebrating-participatory-governance-865956.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||BJP MLA takes aim at Rajasthan Speaker over his petition seeking disqualification of BSP legislators||Amidst a political crisis in Rajasthan, BJP MLA Madan Dilawar on Sunday took aim at Assembly Speaker C P Joshi, saying he did not take any action on a petition seeking disqualification of six BSP legislators for their merger with the Congress. "As per the 10th Schedule of the Constitution, I had filed a petition before the Assembly Speaker on March 16 (for disqualification of the BSP MLAs) and gave a reminder on July 17 for quick decision (on it), but no action was taken," Dilawar said in a statement. Dilawar said he was surprised that his petition was cancelled without a hearing and without even giving any notice to the BSP legislators, but the Speaker issued notices to 19 rebel Congress MLAs on July 14 and demanded reply by July 17. Lat week, Dilawar filed a petition in the Rajasthan High Court for quashing the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress and challenging the “inaction” of the Speaker in not deciding on his plea. The petition will be heard by a single-judge bench of the high court on Monday. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets. They applied for merger as a group with the Congress on September 16 last year. The Speaker passed an order two days later declaring that the six MLAs will be treated as an integral part of the Congress. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the Congress tally increased to 107 in a House of 200. The Congress government is facing a political crisis after a rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mla-takes-aim-at-rajasthan-speaker-over-his-petition-seeking-disqualification-of-bsp-legislators-865982.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Apprehension prevails in Congress after Sachin Pilot's rebellion; all eyes on 'Rahul brigade'||After rebellions by Jyotiraditya Scindia in Madhya Pradesh and Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan, the focus is now on Rahul Gandhi's "youth brigade" and those whom he had given key responsibilities when he was Congress president. There is apprehension prevailing in the rank and file of the Congress after the happenings in Rajasthan, where Pilot has declared open rebellion against the Ashok Gehlot government, sources said. Almost everyone in the party has just one question on their mind, "who next", they said. "Obviously we are forced to think that when leaders who have been given a lot of responsibilities in a short span of time and whose capabilities the party was confident of using going forward, are not satisfied, then definitely something is wrong," a member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) told 'PTI-Bhasha' on the condition of anonymity. The CWC is the highest decision making body of the Congress. Pilot and Scindia are the latest additions to the list of leaders who have raised the flag of rebellion. In the Congress, they were earlier known as members of the "Rahul brigade", the sources said. Other leaders who were part of this brigade included former Congress Haryana unit president Ashok Tanwar, former Madhya Pradesh unit chief Arun Yadav, former Mumbai chiefs Milind Deora and Sanjay Nirupam, former Punjab Congress president Pratap Singh Bajwa, former Jharkhand unit president Ajoy Kumar and former Karnataka chief Dinesh Gundu Rao, they said. The sources said Madhusudhan Mistry, who has been the in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, former Uttar Pradesh unit president Raj Babbar and AICC general secretary in-charge Rajasthan Avinash Pande, Mohan Prakash and Deepak Babaria, are also part of the group which was seen as having the backing of Rahul Gandhi. The Congress admitted that resentment had increased with the "Rahul brigade" getting more importance in the party, they said. The sources said most of them showed rebellious attitude on losing their posts and alleged that most of them did not live up to the responsibility given to them and continued to encourage factionalism in the party. Another senior Congress leader told PTI Bhasha, "Leaders who are going against the party after getting a lot in the Congress are cheating themselves. Everyone should understand that this is the time to not ask from the party, but to give back to it." However, former Haryana Congress chief Tanwar said that the argument that leaders whom Gandhi gave responsibilities did not live up to expectations, does not hold. "It is because of Pilot, a young leader, that in the Rajasthan assembly elections, the Congress managed to reach 100 seats from 21. The hardwork of the youth team in Haryana resulted in more than 30 seats. If the young leaders would have been given proper opportunity, the party's situation would have been different," he said. However, a political expert said that the "generational conflict" in the Congress was also a major reason that leaders of Gandhi's choice could not assert themselves in the party and some of them revolted. Director Centre for the Study of Developing Societies Sanjay Kumar said, "There has been a raging generational conflict within the Congress in the last few years. While older leaders are trying to retain their place, younger leaders, especially those considered close to Rahul, insist on change and find themselves neglected in the current system. This is the reason for rebellion in some places. " However, 72-year-old Harish Rawat, Congress general secretary and former Uttarakhand chief minister, refused to believe that there is any generational conflict within the party. "The situation which is seen is due to the attack on democracy by the BJP. Sadly, due to their ambition, some people of ours got caught in their trap. It would have been better that if such leaders wanted any justice, they should have tried for it within the party itself," he said. Rahul Gandhi resigned as Congress president after the party's 2019 Lok Sabha poll debacle and Sonia Gandhi was installed as interim chief on August 10 by the CWC, the party's highest decision-making body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/apprehension-prevails-in-congress-after-sachin-pilots-rebellion-all-eyes-on-rahul-brigade-865990.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Ashok Gehlot asks Rajasthan Govenor to convene Assembly session on July 31; Congress steps up protests||After facing setbacks in courts, Congress has decided to take its fight to save the Rajasthan government from the “expansionist” BJP to the people by staging sit-in protests at Raj Bhavans across the country. Congress also stepped up attack on Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra for delays in calling the session of the state Assembly and accused him of working at the behest of the Modi government. Mishra had sought clarification on six counts on the proposal sent by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to seek a trust vote amid a rebellion by his former deputy Sachin Pilot. Gehlot on Sunday made a fresh recommendation to the Governor to call a session of the state Assembly citing Covid-19 outbreak as the agenda and July 31 as the date for convening the session. The chief minister has made no reference to seeking a trust vote in the communication to the Governor. “Such superficial, clearly motivated, digressive and extraneous queries establish beyond doubt that they are coming from the highest authorities of the central government and being parroted without change as His Master’s Voice from Raj Bhavan in Jaipur,” Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singhvi told reporters here. Ahead of the street protests on Monday, Congress leaders raised a Twitter storm by posting short videos decrying the BJP attempts to topple Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s government. “The test of leadership is done during a crisis. In times of the national crisis of corona, the country needs a leadership that works in public interest. But the BJP government at the Centre has made its intentions clear and displayed their true character by trying to topple elected governments,” AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said. Rajasthan unit of the Congress announced that it would not stage any protest at the Raj Bhavan on Monday as part of the ‘Save Democracy-Save Constitution’ nation-wide protests called by the AICC. Gehlot and MLAs supporting him had staged protests on the Raj Bhavan lawns on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ashok-gehlot-asks-rajasthan-govenor-to-convene-assembly-session-on-july-31-congress-steps-up-protests-865999.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Instead of fighting Covid-19 and China, Centre conspiring to topple Congress governments: Ajay Maken||He also said to protect the Constitution and democracy, Congress workers will stage protests in front of the Raj Bhavans across the country on Monday. The Rajasthan unit of the Congress, however, announced that it would not take part in the nationwide call for protests in front of Raj Bhavans. Addressing a press conference here, the former Union minister alleged that the Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have launched an attack on democracy and the Constitution. "The country is battling against the coronavirus pandemic. The countrymen are facing a severe economic crisis. More than 14 crore jobs have been lost according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). "Small businesses are on the verge of closure. China has taken over our territory. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi, instead of fighting the coronavirus, the economic crisis and China, is conspiring to topple Congress governments," he said. "The reality is that the Modi government and the BJP have launched an attack on democracy and the Constitution," Maken added. He said it is clear from the BJP's "conspiracy" to topple the Rajasthan government that these "disruptive forces" want to make democracy a slave of the "Delhi Durbar" and a puppet in their hands. The majority verdict is being murdered in Rajasthan and the public mandate crushed, the Congress leader said. He said the most worrying aspect is that the Constitution and established constitutional traditions are being ruthlessly trampled by the BJP. Maken also said it appears that the hope for justice from the judiciary is diminishing and people occupying constitutional posts such as governors are seen as helpless and unable to protect the Constitution. He said the people of the country have to ask the BJP government at the Centre whether the mandate given by the people of Rajasthan will be respected or decided by money and the power of the rulers in Delhi. "Can the prime minister and the Centre trample the Constitution and established constitutional traditions for grabbing power?" Maken asked. He also wondered whether a governor can refuse to call an Assembly session, as proposed by an elected government, and if the judiciary can unconstitutionally interfere with the jurisdiction of the legislature. Maken said in a show of solidarity with the Rajasthan government, led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, and for the protection of the Constitution and democracy, Congressmen will stage protests in a "Gandhian way" in front of Raj Bhavans across the country on Monday. Hours after the announcement, Rajasthan Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasara said in a tweet, "Tomorrow, Congress workers will protest in front of Raj Bhavans as part of 'Save Democracy-Save Constitution' agitation call. But, in Rajasthan, we will not do anything like that." Meanwhile, Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma alleged that the Centre was using various agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Income Tax Department, to bring down the Rajasthan government.  "Isn't it a conspiracy to weaken democracy in the country by misusing constitutional bodies one by one... When constitutional institutions and democracy are in danger, then the country will move towards dictatorship," he said. Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that the Governor is a constitutional head and not a party worker. "Governor Kalraj Mishra is not a BJP worker.... It is the legal right of the Cabinet to send the proposal to the Governor for convening the session of the Legislative Assembly. The Governor is not bigger than the Constitution," he said.  During the day, National Students' Union of India (NSUI) state president Abhishek Chaudhary gave red roses to the family members of the dissident Congress MLAs at their residences to appeal to them to return to the Congress family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/instead-of-fighting-covid-19-and-china-centre-conspiring-to-topple-congress-governments-ajay-maken-866022.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||People no longer trust BJP govt in Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh Yadav||The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, as far as policy, intention and leadership are concerned, is "crippled" and the people no longer trust it, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Sunday. In a statement issued here, he said the willpower, which should be in a government, to discharge its responsibility, "cannot be seen in the BJP". "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath after taking the oath, made a number of big promises. It was also said that in a span of six months roads of the state will become pot-hole free. But, the duration of this work only increased, and the result is zero," Yadav said. "The BJP is an expert and specialist in keeping people in the dark and not fulfilling promises made to the people," he said. The people of Uttar Pradesh "no longer trust the BJP government, which is crippled as far as policy, intention and leadership are concerned", the former chief minister said in the statement. Yadav alleged that the BJP instead of working wants to create a "record of loot".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-no-longer-trust-bjp-govt-in-uttar-pradesh-akhilesh-yadav-866025.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||I am with BJP, reports of my differences with leadership 'malicious and misleading': Mukul Roy||Senior leader Mukul Roy said on Sunday that he is with the BJP and will remain with it, terming reports of his differences with the party leadership "malicious and misleading". Addressing a press conference, Roy said he was hurt by the speculations. "I am with BJP, I was with BJP and I will remain with BJP," Roy said, scotching speculations of him returning to the Trinamool Congress which he had left in 2017. "I was given complete responsibility by the BJP to oversee the party's campaign in the panchayat and Lok Sabha elections in West Bengal. The central leadership has given me all respect and recognition. Why should I be disappointed?" Roy told reporters here. Replying to a question, he said he does not have any differences with the BJP's state president Dilip Ghosh. In a party like the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) everyone works for the organisation, and people have their own space but with a common and shared objective. "BJP is not like a media house having differences between editor and deputy editor. In a political party like ours, we all work in our domain, in our space. But we work in cohesion with the common aim," he said. Asked if he had any grievance on not getting a ministerial berth even after a year of the Lok Sabha success in Bengal, Roy said he wants to work for strengthening the party's organisation. "Getting a ministerial berth is not at all important for me. Being an organisational man, I want to work for the organisation, to strengthen the party," he said. Roy's clarification comes amid speculations in a section of the press that he might quit the BJP, which was triggered by him missing most part of a key meeting in Delhi on the Assembly elections in the state due in April-May next year. His continued absence from public life, besides missing in action during several party programmes, fuelled the speculations. Roy said he went to the national capital on July 22 to attend the meeting but could not stay back when the programme was extended as he has an appointment for eye treatment on July 27 here, which could not be rescheduled. "Nothing else should be read into it," said Roy, once the second-in-command in Trinamool Congress after its supremo Mamata Banerjee. He said he has been absent from public events and political programmes of the BJP because of the COVID-19 pandemic. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, who is in charge of the party's affairs in West Bengal, described the speculations as "baseless rumours". "These are rumours being spread by the TMC. There is not an iota of truth in it. Mukul Roy is an important leader of our party," he told PTI. The Trinamool Congress, however, declined to comment on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-am-with-bjp-reports-of-my-differences-with-leadership-malicious-and-misleading-mukul-roy-866026.html
26-07-2020||National Politics||Digvijaya Singh urges Rajasthan Governor to call special Assembly session||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Sunday urged Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra to accept the state cabinet's "constitutional" demand for convening a special session of the Legislative Assembly. Releasing a video as part of the "Speak up for Democracy" campaign of the Congress, Singh said, "I request the governor to accept the constitutional demand of the state government (in Rajasthan) to call the session. The governor has also taken the oath in the name of constitution". Singh said the Congress was opposing conspiracies of the BJP, which he alleged was "trying to buy a popular mandate". The Rajasthan government, fighting for survival after Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's now sacked deputy Sachin Pilot staged a rebellion with 18 other MLAs following a bitter and prolonged feud, has been pushing the governor for an opportunity to prove its numbers on the floor of the house. The Gehlot-led cabinet has sent the governor a revised proposal for an assembly session on July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/digvijaya-singh-urges-rajasthan-governor-to-call-special-assembly-session-866053.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Lalu Prasad's swab samples taken for Covid-19 test as precautionary measure||The swab samples of jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad, currently admitted in a Ranchi hospital, were taken for Covid-19 test on Saturday, a senior doctor of the facility said. He said that the test report is expected to come on Sunday. Prasad's samples were taken as a precautionary measure as Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), where he is admitted, is a Covid-19 designated hospital, Dr Umesh Prasad said. The former Bihar chief minister, who is serving jail sentences in cases of multi-crore fodder scam, has been under treatment at RIMS for multiple-ailments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lalu-prasads-swab-samples-taken-for-covid-19-test-as-precautionary-measure-865743.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi at 8th position in terms of number of active Covid-19 cases, says CM Kejriwal||Delhi has improved its position in the number of active Covid-19 cases and is currently at the eighth spot among states and union territories in the country, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. Sharing a list of the states with the number of active coronavirus cases on Twitter, he said the situation was "bad" and Delhi was on the second spot a few days back.  He also said despite the improvement there was no room for complacency and urged people to take precautions. "Delhi has reached 8th position in terms of number of active cases. Situation was bad till a few days back. We were at 2nd position. However, there is no room for complacency. Take precautions and stay safe," the chief minister tweeted.  Delhi has reached 8th position in terms of no of active cases. Situation was bad till a few days back. We were at 2nd position. Earlier in the day, during an inauguration of a Delhi government hospital, Kejriwal said in the last one month, the number of cases, positivity ratio, and death ratio have gone down, and the recovery rate has increased in Delhi.  "This is the result of the hardwork of all the people. I want to congratulate all the doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, officials, and whoever has worked hard to achieve this goal," he said. The two crore people of Delhi along with the central and the city government have attained victory over Covid-19, but it would not be correct to say that the fight is over, he stated. As per the Delhi government's health bulletin on Saturday, the total number of Covid-19 cases stood at 1,29,531. It included 1,13,068 people who have recovered from the deadly virus and 3,806 who died. The number of active cases was 12,657.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-at-8th-position-in-terms-of-number-of-active-covid-19-cases-says-cm-kejriwal-865747.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Amway India to invest additional Rs 100 cr in two years to fund growth plans: CEO||Direct selling FMCG firm Amway India is looking to invest an additional Rs 100 crore over the next two years to fuel its future growth plans in the country, a top company official has said. Sensing growth opportunities in online sales due to changing consumer behaviour amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the company is working on boosting its supply chain and home delivery network to meet customer requirements. "We will be making an additional investment of Rs 100 crore to boost manufacturing automation and digital initiatives over the next two years. These will play an important role in our next phase of growth in the market," Amway India CEO Anshu Budhraja told PTI. Amway has committed an investment of Rs 1,000 crore in India, which includes an investment of Rs 600 crore to set up its manufacturing facility in Nilakotai, Tamil Nadu. Budhraja said the current global health crisis has fundamentally altered consumer outlook and preference, with people increasingly migrating online for shopping Amway India has also witnessed a significant shift in the behaviour of its direct sellers and their customers, resulting in a spike in online sales, he said.  "We have seen significant growth in our online orders from 33.6 per cent in February to 70 per cent in June 2020. We expect online sales growth to remain consistent... We are bolstering our supply chain and home delivery network to fulfil the growing demand for online ordering," he added. Budhraja said Indian consumers are increasingly becoming more conscious about nutrition and this has resulted in a surge in demand for its immunity, health and wellness product portfolio with a preference for herbal products. Amway India expects this category to grow to 65 per cent in three years. "Nutrition and wellness is the largest business category for us globally and in India, and this category contributes more than Rs 1,000 crore to Amway's total revenue in India. We are further strengthening the category with special focus on immunity supporting products," he said. Going by the current trend and the rise in demand, the company foresees the nutrition category to grow faster with the current contribution of 56 to 65 per cent to overall business in the next three years, Budhraja said. He said that driven by growing demand for nutrition and hygiene products and owing to a significant shift in online sales, Amway's business has almost come back to the pre-COVID-19 level.  "We further expect consistent recovery and growth in the business through the rest of the year," he added.   Budhraja said Amway India's future strategy will entail both offline and online platforms with an increased focus on online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amway-india-to-invest-additional-rs-100-cr-in-two-years-to-fund-growth-plans-ceo-865834.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Shripad Naik pays tributes to soldiers on Kargil Divas||Union Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik on Sunday paid tributes to slain soldiers on the 21st anniversary of India's victory over Pakistan in the Kargil war. On July 26, 1999, the Indian Army announced the successful culmination of "Operation Vijay", declaring victory over Pakistan after the nearly three-month-long battle in the icy heights of Kargil. The country lost more than 500 soldiers in the war. The day is observed as 'Kargil Vijay Diwas' to commemorate India's victory. "On the occasion of Kargil Vijay Diwas I bow to all warriors, who have sacrificed their life and have devoted their life for protection of our country," Naik tweeted in Hindi. My message to our brave soldiers is that we can't measure the sacrifice you and your family made, but at the same time we aim and expect that with the help of research, innovation and technology we become supreme power in defence, the BJP Lok Sabha member from North Goa added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shripad-naik-pays-tributes-to-soldiers-on-kargil-divas-865836.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to launch special programme to generate more employment opportunities: Gopal Rai||Delhi minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said the AAP government will launch a special programme to generate more employment opportunities in the city, a move aimed at reviving the capital's economy, which was affected due to the lockdown. The labour and employment minister told PTI that as part of the special programme, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will launch a job portal in the next few days, where the companies looking to hire and job seekers can register themselves. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will soon come out with a slew of reforms to revive the national capital's economy, which has been adversely affected due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, he said, adding that many migrant workers have moved out of Delhi and several people have lost their jobs due to the shutdown. "We have decided to aggressively run a special programme to generate more employment opportunities. "In the next few days, the government will launch a job portal, which will act as a common platform for both employers and job seekers," Rai said. He said after the lockdown, many people are facing difficulties in finding jobs and the portal, where they can post their details and requirements in accordance with their qualification, will be very helpful for them. "We have managed to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi. Now there is a need to bring the city's economy back on the fast track. "After the launch of the portal, people will not need to apply for jobs at several places. The government will ensure that maximum applicants get employment," the minister said. Earlier this month, the city government had formed a 12-member expert committee to explore economic reform measures in order to help businesses recover from the impact of Covid-19. The panel is carrying out a comprehensive analysis and putting forward suggestions regarding measures that should be initiated by various departments, autonomous bodies, local bodies and the MCDs to help people and businesses during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-launch-special-programme-to-generate-more-employment-opportunities-gopal-rai-865872.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Fresh proposal requesting Rajasthan Assembly session on July 31 received by Governor: Report||The Rajasthan governor has received a revised proposal from the state cabinet led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot requesting that a session of the assembly be called on July 31, Raj Bhawan sources said on Sunday. The proposal was received late on Saturday night, they said. Governor Kalraj Mishra had on Friday sought clarifications on six points from the state government, after Congress MLAs held a five-hour dharna on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan pressing for a Vidhan Sabha session. The dharna was called off, according to the Congress, after Mishra said he will abide by the Constitution but not act under any pressure. The governor asked Gehlot to submit again, with the clarifications, his recommendation for calling a session. A statement from the governor included queries on the free movement of MLAs and the reason why the session needed to be called urgently. After a late-night sitting, the Cabinet met again at Gehlot's home on Saturday, approving the new draft. The Congress government, which is facing a political crisis after a rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident MLAs, says it wants to hold the session so its majority can be proved. The governor had on Friday asked the government why it wanted to call an assembly session to prove its majority if it already has one. In his note to the state government, Governor Mishra said, "no one is above Constitutional dignity and no pressure politics should be resorted to". He said no date had been mentioned in the Cabinet note, annexed with the government's request. The government had also not given any reason for calling the session at such short notice, the governor had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-proposal-requesting-rajasthan-assembly-session-on-july-31-received-by-governor-report-865875.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police to intensify patrolling, conduct verification drive ahead of Independence Day||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava has directed officers to conduct a thorough verification drive across the city ahead of Independence Day, police said here on Sunday. The police chief reviewed the security arrangement across the 15 police districts in the city in a meeting held via video-conferencing on Saturday, they said. In view of the forthcoming Independence day, all the district DCPs have been asked to intensify patrolling in their areas and conduct door-to-door verification to ensure safety and security across the national capital to avoid any untoward incident, they police said. Shrivastava laid emphasis on increasing police presence, intensive and coordinated checking at vulnerable points, verification of tenants and servants, sensitisation of cyber cafe owners, security guards, second-hand car dealers and mobile dealers among others in order to strengthen counter-terrorism measures, they said. Even though hotels and guest houses aren't operational due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the officers have been asked to stay vigilant. "In view of forthcoming Independence day, security arrangements across all the 15 police districts in the city were reviewed via video-conferencing. We have also collected intelligence inputs and are working on it accordingly. A thorough verification drive is being conducted at all places across the city to ensure the safety and security ahead of the big day," a senior police officer said. Besides, Independence Day security arrangements, issues concerning cybercrime were reviewed and redressal of public grievances was also discussed in the meeting, he said. Shrivastava also rewarded personnel from West, Outer and Dwarka districts in recognition of exemplary outstanding work performed by them during the last few days. Unlike every year, the Centre has asked all states to avoid large congregation, ensure social distancing and webcast Independence Day events as the novel coronavirus cases continue to spiral unabated. Gearing up for Independence Day arrangements, a senior officer from the north district said police personnel have already been deployed and weapons training for over thousands of staff concluded. The staff deputed in checking and frisking teams, which consist of 200 police personnel, have been strictly advised to ensure social distancing in the wake of ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The staff will wear personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and use sanitisers after every checking and frisking, he said. More electronic devices are being installed to avoid close contact during frisking. Over 300 CCTV cameras have been installed in and around the Red Fort, where the Independence Day event is held every year, the officer added. The event this year will consist of a guard of honour by the armed forces and the Delhi Police to the prime minister, unfurling of the national flag, the 21-gun salute, speech by the prime minister, singing of the national anthem and release of tricoloured balloons at the end. In its advisory, the Home Ministry said it was imperative to follow certain preventive measures while organising various programmes or activities for the Independence Day celebrations amid the pandemic. The measures include maintaining social distancing, wearing of masks, proper sanitisation, avoiding large congregations, protecting vulnerable persons and follow all COVID-19 guidelines issued by the ministries of health and home, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-to-intensify-patrolling-conduct-verification-drive-ahead-of-independence-day-865877.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||MP: Leaders who met CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan recently quarantine themselves||A day after Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said he has tested coronavirus positive, some state ministers and BJP leaders who recently met him have quarantined themselves at their homes and are undergoing tests for the disease. On Saturday, Chouhan, 61, said on Twitter that he has tested positive for coronavirus and appealed to all colleagues who come in contact with him to get tested for the disease. He was admitted to a Covid-19 designated private hospital in Bhopal, a BJP leader later said. Chouhan had chaired a cabinet meeting on Wednesday. He also had one-on-one meetings with23 ministers in Bhopal on Wednesday and Thursday, an official in the Chief Minister's Office said. After Chouhan shared the news about testing positive for coronavirus on Saturday, state Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel shifted from Harda town and quarantined himself at his home in Baranga village, some 22 km from the district headquarters, an aide of the minister told PTI on Sunday. Patel also underwent a test for coronavirus and his report came out negative on Saturday night, the aide said. State BJP MLA Ajay Vishnoi also said he and his family members underwent tests for coronavirus on Sunday morning. "I am waiting for the results. I had met Shivrajji on in Bhopal on July 21," the former state minister said. The MP council of ministers has 34 members, including Chouhan. On Thursday evening, Chouhan attended a function at the BJP state office in the state capital where Congress MLA Naryaran Patel joined the BJP after resigning as member of the Legislative Assembly. On Tuesday, Chouhan along with his cabinet colleague Arvind Bhadoriya and two top BJP office-bearers from the state went to Lucknow to pay his last respects to Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon, who died earlier that day. Bhadoriya, who is the state co-operatives minister, on Thursday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. The two BJP office-bearers who accompanied Chouhan to Lucknow have tested negative for coronavirus, a party office- bearer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-leaders-who-met-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-recently-quarantine-themselves-865880.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 1,075 fresh coronavirus cases; tally rises to 1,30,606||Twenty-one fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the health department's bulletin. The death toll from the coronavirus infection has risen to 3,827 in the national capital and the total number of cases has climbed to 1,30,606, it said. From July 11-19, the number of fresh cases were being reported in the range of 1,000 to 2,000 consecutively. The number of fresh cases reported on July 19 stood at 1,211. On June 20, the fresh case count dipped to 954, but it increased the next day to 1,349. Since Tuesday, the number of fresh cases have been recorded in excess of 1,000 again. However, the number of active cases on Saturday was 11,904, down from 12,657 on the previous day. On June 23, the national capital had reported its highest single-day spike, till date, at 3,947.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-1075-fresh-coronavirus-cases-tally-rises-to-130606-865897.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||No resident of Srinagar in active militancy after Ishfaq Rashid Khan's encounter: Jammu and Kashmir police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday said that no Srinagar resident was active in militancy after the killing of Lashker-e-Taiba commander Ishfaq Rashid Khan. "After killing of LeT militant Ishfaq Rashid Khan yesterday, no resident of Srinagar district in militant ranks now: IGP Kashmir @JmuKmrPolice,” JK police tweeted. However, the police said, Srinagar can't be militancy free as ultras from other areas do visit the city for treatment. LeT commander Khan was killed in an encounter with security forces in the Ranbirgarh area on the outskirts of the city on Saturday. Khan was active since 2018 and wanted in many militancy related cases. Earlier, this month Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, had said that Srinagar can never be free of militants till militancy is there. “They (militants) keep on coming to the city for several purposes. At times they come for medical treatment, meeting with each other and sometimes to receive funds,” he said. Since May security forces killed nine militants in four encounters in Srinagar  which comes as a reminder from the militants that its presence has increased in the city, which was not long ago was considered as a zero-militancy zone. Even as militants fired gunshots or lobbed grenades at some places, there was no major militant strike for over 18 months in Srinagar till May. The worry for the security agencies is that the latest encounters occurred in the city at a time when militants are on the defensive in south Kashmir, where they have suffered heavy losses in the recent months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-resident-of-srinagar-in-active-militancy-after-ishfaq-rashid-khans-encounter-jammu-and-kashmir-police-865922.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Ministry of Health decides against including Itolizumab for Covid-19 treatment||The National Task Force on Covid-19 has decided against including Itolizumab drug in clinical management protocols for treating the disease even though the DCGI has approved its "restricted emergency use" in infected patients, official sources said. Considering the unmet medical needs in Covid-19, Itolizumab, an already approved drug of Biocon, used for treating psoriasis -- a skin condition -- was approved for "restricted emergency use" in the treatment of coronavirus by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) recently. The permission to market the drug was granted for the treatment of cytokine release syndrome in 'moderate' to 'severe' Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome patients due to Covid-19. "The issue of including the drug in the clinical protocols was discussed in a meeting held on Friday. A majority of the members of the task force opined that there was not enough evidence currently to get the drug included in the clinical management protocols for Covid-19," said an official source. A domestic biopharmaceutical company, Biocon, has been manufacturing and marketing Itolizumab, a monoclonal antibody, for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis since 2013, under the brand name ALZUMAb, the Union health ministry had earlier said. However, a Biocon spokesperson said, "The National Covid Task Force needs to see more evidence and we will provide them large real-world data to enable the committee to reconsider its decision on inclusion of Itolizumab in the protocol." "Nearly 1,000 patients have used the drug across the country with good outcome data," the company spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ministry-of-health-decides-against-including-itolizumab-for-covid-19-treatment-865926.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Police recover huge cache of drugs, arms in Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir Police Sunday said it recovered a big haul of drugs and arms from three persons arrested in north Kashmir’s frontier district. The trio was arrested during a checking by a team of Army and police and two vehicles were also seized from them. “10 Kg's Of brownsugar Ak47 rifle, 02 pistols, 20 Grenades & other ammunition recovered by joint team of Army & @KashmirPolice during checking from #Sadhna top #Kupwara in North Kashmir. 03 persons arrested, 02 vehicles seized.Some more arrests are expected,” J&K police tweeted. The J&K Police had on June 11 busted a huge narcotics-terror module and arrested three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) associates in Handwara town of Kupwara district. The police had recovered 21 kg heroin and Rs 1.33 crore Indian currency, total worth over Rs 200 crore, from the possession of those arrested. The case was handed over to the NIA on June 23 for further investigations. In the last 18 months, more than 80% of drugs seized in Jammu and Kashmir were reportedly smuggled in from Pakistan while 20% was being smuggled from neighboring Punjab. A police officer said militant groups were using infiltration routes along the Line of Control and International Border in J&K with the backing of Pakistan's ISI and Army to finance militancy in Kashmir. “Drug menace in J&K has increased manifold compared to the previous years, which was evident from the seizure of a huge quantity of narcotic substances and arrest of drug peddlers in the recent months,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-recover-huge-cache-of-drugs-arms-in-kashmir-865929.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro casts first pier under Phase-4 work||The Delhi Metro has reached a major milestone in the Phase-4 work as it cast its first pier on the under-construction Janakpuri West-R K Ashram Marg corridor, officials said on Sunday. The pier was cast at Keshopur on the elevated stretch between Keshopur and Mukarba Chowk on Saturday night. "The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation took another important step forward in its Phase-4 construction work as the first pier of this phase of Metro expansion was cast on the Janakpuri West-R K Ashram Marg Metro corridor," the DMRC said in a statement. This "major construction milestone" has been achieved, despite severe shortage of manpower and other logistical challenges because of the pandemic, officials said. The average height of piers on this corridor is 10m. However, piers will be 20m high at Madhuban Chowk (crossing with Line 1) and 25m at Haiderpur Badli Mor where this line will cross Line 2. At Haiderpur Badli Mor, the viaduct level is going to be at 28m, the highest in the history of Delhi Metro, the statement said. Presently, the highest point is at Dhaula Kuan, where the Line 7 viaduct passes at a height of 23.6m. Piers, in terms of civil engineering, are vertical loadbearing structures which act as an intermediate support for adjacent ends of two spans. They form the vertical support structures on which the elevated metro viaducts stand. Metro piers today dot innumerable road medians in Delhi through which elevated Metro corridors run. Pier numbers are now important landmarks for addresses across the Delhi-NCR. The 28.92-km-long Janakpuri West-R K Ashram Marg corridor is an extension of Magenta Line and will come up with 22 stations. While 21.18 km of this corridor will be elevated, 7.74 km will be underground. Construction work on this particular section had started in December last year. On July 17, the work on the underground section of this corridor was commenced with the beginning of D Wall construction work at the Krishna Park Extension Metro station. On 24th June, DMRC had started the casting work of u-girders which would be installed on the elevated section of this corridor. Under Phase-4, 61.679 km of new metro lines shall be constructed across three different corridors comprising 45 metro stations. These new sections shall provide interconnectivity among the already operational sections of Delhi Metro. Out of this, 22.35 km will be underground while rest will be elevated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-casts-first-pier-under-phase-4-work-865932.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||NGT directs IOCL's Panipat refinery to pay Rs 25 crore for failing to take effective steps to curb pollution||The National Green Tribunal has said the Indian Oil Corporation Limited's Panipat refinery in Haryana has failed to take effective and adequate steps for pollution control and directed it to submit Rs 25 crore for restoration of the environment. The green panel noted the report filed by a committee which said there was no progress towards the restoration of the environment by the refinery.   A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said a PSU has to be a model for compliance of environmental norms, which, unfortunately, is found lacking in the present case. It noted that the timelines for compliance were going up to March 2022 to remedy stormwater contamination and other long timelines even after two years of directions and monitoring by the tribunal. The tribunal said the stand of the IOCL showed lack of sensitiveness to the fundamental rights of the inhabitants to a clean environment.  "The IOCL is either denying its responsibility or delaying performance of its obligation," it said. "IOCL has failed to take effective and adequate steps even during long interval available after the last hearing though such action was expected," the bench said. The tribunal directed the IOCL to take initiative on a day-to-day basis and comply with all the observations of the joint committee positively within six months. "This will not debar the state PCB from initiating prosecution for violation of a provision of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 against the company and its senior officers who failed to prevent the commission of a crime, as per statutory mandate," the bench said. While directing the IOCL to pay Rs 25 crore, the green panel said the amount deposited can be spent on restoration of the environment and public health by making a restoration plan. "Such a plan may be prepared within three months and the same may be duly executed. The deposit of the amount by the IOCL may be made within one month from today with the CPCB. "Issue of final liability for compensation will be decided on next date in the light of progress in performance by IOCL," the bench said. The NGT had earlier slapped an interim penalty of Rs 17.31 crore on Indian Oil Corporation Limited's Panipat refinery for violation of environmental norms after perusing a report filed by a committee comprising the Central Pollution Control Board and the state pollution control board. The refinery, however, opposed the report and said it was unwarranted as the impact of other industries in the vicinity had not been considered and it did not get a notice from the committee. Proceedings in the matter were initiated on receipt of a letter by Satpal Singh, sarpanch, gram panchayat, Singhpura Sithna village, Panipat, alleging that IOCL's Panipat refinery is creating air and water pollution around Bohli, Dadlana and Sithana villages. The letter also alleged that air pollution by the refinery has spread diseases, affecting a large number of people, and the analysers to measure carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide and carbon dioxide etc have been non-functional since 2010, due to which such values are not being recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-iocls-panipat-refinery-to-pay-rs-25-crore-for-failing-to-take-effective-steps-to-curb-pollution-865934.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||UP records single-day spike of 3,246 new Covid-19 cases; 39 deaths reported||Of the new fatalities, eight were registered in Kanpur, six in Ballia, three each from Ayodhya, Bareilly and Gorakhpur, two each from Jhansi, Sultanpur and Varanasi, and one death each was reported from Baghpat, Basti, Bulandshahr, Chandauli, Deoria, Jalaun, Jaunpur, Lucknow, Meerut and Allahabad, a state Health department bulletin said. The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 23,921, while 41,641 patients have recovered and have been discharged, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-records-single-day-spike-of-3246-new-covid-19-cases-39-deaths-reported-865941.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath surveys flood-hit areas in Gorakhpur||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath conducted an aerial survey of the areas inundated by heavy rainfall in Gorakhpur district on Sunday. Officials said one 50-bed ward for coronavirus patients is being set up in AIIMS-Gorakhpur. After inspecting the water level, he asked flood and irrigation department officials to constantly monitor and ensure all dams remain safe. He directed the district administration to ensure adequate deployment of boats in the flood-affected areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-surveys-flood-hit-areas-in-gorakhpur-865951.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||615 new Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir; state tally at 17,920||As many as 615 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, taking the cumulative number in the Union Territory (UT) to 17,920. For the past three days, J&K has been recording a drop in Covid-19 cases. While on July 20, the number of cases stood at 751, barring July 22, the daily cases have been over 600 on most days. On Friday, 353 Covid-19 cases were reported, while today, although higher than Friday’s number of cases, was a drop from the cases recorded in the previous week. Of the new positive cases on Sunday, 775 are from Kashmir and 136 from the Jammu division. Among these, 145 patients have a travel history. Officials said seven more people succumbed to the virus on Sunday taking the total toll in the Union Territory to 312. While 289 deaths have been reported from Kashmir valley, 23 who died due to the Covid-19 were from Jammu region. The UT, particularly Kashmir valley, is witnessing an increase in death toll and daily-new-cases in July. 211 persons have died in the first 26 days of July alone.  Active cases in the UT stand at 7,680 with 5939 from Kashmir and 1,741 from Jammu. The number of people who have recovered since the first case was reported on March 9 has reached 9,928, taking the recovery rate to 55.40%. From 63% on July 1, the recovery rate has consistently gone down as the new cases have been showing more increase than the number of recovered. In Kashmir, the highest jump in cases was witnessed in Srinagar district where 209 more people tested positive followed by Budgam at 88 and Bandipora at 41. In Jammu division, the highest number of 90 cases each was reported in Jammu district with37 cases followed by Rajouri with 33. A health official said that the quantum of testing had increased in J&K in the previous week due to the high influx of labourers coming in. “We have had over 20000 laborers arriving in the week gone by. They have been tested and that increased the number of tests we carried out,” he said. The official added that 15,000 more laborers were expected to arrive and they too would be tested, although among other groups, the number of samples taken and tested would remain the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/615-new-covid-19-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-state-tally-at-17920-865963.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports 44% decline in Covid-19 deaths in early July compared to June||The city recorded 605 deaths due to the viral disease between July 1 and 12 as against 1,089 fatalities during the same period in June, according to an analysis carried out by the Health Department. The Delhi government's Covid-19 hospitals saw a 58 percent reduction in death – from 361 in early June to 154 in early July, it said. Central government Covid-19 hospitals saw a 55 percent reduction in the number of deaths, while private Covid-19 hospitals witnessed a 25 percent decline. Hospital-wise analysis of data revealed that total deaths vis-à-vis total admissions in the central government's RML Hospital dropped from 81 percent in June to 58 percent in July, according to the Delhi health department. In Safdarjung Hospital -- another central government facility -- the number of deaths vis-a-vis total admissions dropped from 40 percent in June to 31 percent in July. In LNJP Hospital -- the Delhi government's largest Covid-19 hospital -- the rate dropped from 28 percent in early June to 16 percent in early July, it said. The city government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital turned out to be among the best Covid-19 facility in the national capital in terms of deaths -- 6 percent in early June and 7 percent in early July. The analysis also revealed that a large number of coronavirus-infected people admitted to hospitals in early June arrived in a critical condition and passed away within four days, many within 24 hours. Sixty-seven percent of the deaths during June 1-12 took place within four days of admission, the analysis showed. During July 1-12, around 35 percent of the deaths occurred within four days of admission. "This turnaround was possible due to the single-minded focus of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on initiatives that would directly help prevent deaths, as well his daily monitoring of the status of critical patients," a statement said. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said, "CM Kejriwal has been personally monitoring the daily status of critical patients and deaths due to Covid-19 from the beginning. "His emphasis on timely implementation of crucial initiatives to prevent deaths has helped turnaround the situation, and restore public confidence in the Delhi government's hospitals," Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-44-decline-in-covid-19-deaths-in-early-july-compared-to-june-865996.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Chandigarh, the city of gardens, may soon be swarmed with butterflies ||Chandigarh is short of receiving the expected rainfall for this year. However, this has not deterred the city’s butterfly population from thriving. According to city-based experts, activities like laying eggs and mud-pudding (they get some nutrition, including salts from such water) are going rampant across the city. Common Mormon, Common Immigrant, Mottled Immigrant are the species that are currently laying eggs. The city of Chandigarh is located at the foothills of the Shivaliks and was planned by French architect Le Corbusier. The city is famous for its parks, gardens, and overall presence of greenery, among other things. Chandigarh is expecting heavy rainfall towards the end of this month and the beginning of June. While butterfly enthusiasts are ecstatic over these activities, they are disappointed that many parks, where they could earlier watch these insects from, are now closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chandigarh-the-city-of-gardens-may-soon-be-swarmed-with-butterflies-865997.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulates Panipat girl in radio address Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday lauded Panipat girl Kritika Nandal, in his 'Mann ki Baat' radio address, for passing the class 12 Board examination with flying colours. In his monthly radio address, the prime minister interacted with students who had scored well in their Board exams. Kritika (17), who hails from Mehrana village in Haryana’s Panipat district, secured over 96 percent marks. Modi talked about how the country is changing and youngsters from villages and small towns are coming forward and attaining new heights of success. “Friends, especially my young friends, the country is changing. How is it changing? How fast is it changing? In what areas is it changing? If we look at this with a positive mindset, we will be amazed,” he said. The prime minister said there was a time when in sports and other sectors, most of the achievers came from big cities, eminent families or renowned schools and colleges. “Now, young people from villages, small towns and ordinary families are coming forward. They are attaining new heights of success,” he said, adding that they are moving ahead and fulfilling their dreams despite facing several odds. “Something similar is evident in this year's Board exam results. In today's Mann ki Baat, we will talk to some of these talented children. One such talented daughter is Kritika Nandal. She hails from Panipat, Haryana,” Modi said. Panipat is also the place from where the prime minister launched the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign in 2015. Modi congratulated Kritika for scoring well in the examination. He told her that she may be tired of receiving many congratulatory calls and asked her how she felt. In response, she said, “Sir, it feels very good.” Kritika told the prime minister that her mother is her biggest inspiration in life. She said her mother is bold and strong despite facing many difficulties in her life. Her father passed away last year. The top scorer wishes to become a doctor. Modi told the girl that a doctor's job is tough as his/her life is dedicated to the service of people 24x7 for 365 days in a year. “You will get the degree as you are very bright. But life of a doctor is dedicated to society. Doctors do not even get sound sleep,” he said, adding that doctors have to rush to attend to patients at odd hours. Modi also told Kritika how doctors discharge their duties despite facing danger like in the times of a pandemic. "It is the happiest moment of my life… every word he (Modi) speaks is a big inspiration for us," Kritika said. Kritika’s mother Saroj, who stitches clothes for a living said, “It is our great fortune that Modi ji himself called up to congratulate my girl. His blessings mean a lot." Talking to media at their home in Panipat, Saroj said, "My daughter studied hard and it is her hard work which has brought her to this stage.” “She has made the entire nation proud today and got appreciation from none other than the prime minister,” she added. The prime minister also praised Haryana for being the country's powerhouse in the field of sports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prime-minister-narendra-modi-congratulates-panipat-girl-in-radio-address-mann-ki-baat-866012.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Organisations seek Madhya Pradesh government help for Bhopal gas tragedy victims||In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, these organisations claimed the condition of about 5,000 widowed victims has become pathetic, as they have been deprived of the monthly pension (of Rs 1,000) since December 2019. The letter has been written jointly by Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Udyog Sanghathan (BGPMUS) convener Hamida Bi and ND Jayaprakash, co-convener of the Bhopal Gas Peedith Sangharsh Sahayog Samiti (BGPSSS). Jayaprakash said BGPSSS was an umbrella body of 30 NGOs working for the gas victims. "Gas victims are being forced to live in terrible conditions when thousands of crores of rupees are still due to them by the way of compensation," stated the letter, copies of which have been distributed to media persons. "By the Government of India's own submission in the curative petitions, currently pending before the Supreme Court, it has sought Rs 7,728 crores (which is a gross underestimation) as additional compensation from Union Carbide Corporation and its present owners, the Dow Chemical Company," it said. There is absolutely no justification for continuing to delay the granting of additional compensation to the gas victims, the organisations said. "It may be recalled that Rs 200 was paid as an interim relief per person/per month to 500,000 residents of 36 gas-affected wards of Bhopal during 1990-1996 by the Central government due to delay in the payment of compensation. The organisations have demanded an interim relief of Rs 3,000 per victim per month and of Rs 5,000 to each widow or orphan per month until disbursement of additional compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/organisations-seek-madhya-pradesh-government-help-for-bhopal-gas-tragedy-victims-866017.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Rapid antigen tests strengthen fight against Covid-19, say experts||The experts feel that the rapid antigen test has changed the script for the national capital due to its affordability, quicker result and its ability to serve as a fast diagnostic tool. The rapid antigen tests started in Delhi from June 18. The total number of tests conducted in the national capital stands at 9,46,777 till date, which means 49,830 tests per million. As many as 17,533 tests have been carried out in the last 24 hours, which include 12,501 rapid antigen tests and 5,032 RT-PCR tests. Between March 4 and June 4, Delhi conducted 2,36,506 Covid-19 tests. Going by the numbers, it means, that post-June 4, the national capital conducted nearly seven lakh tests. Testing figures have risen since June 18, when the testing began in the city using the rapid antigen kits. Delhi has 56 labs -- 22 government and 34 private -- which are carrying out RT-PCR tests to detect Covid-19. Labs across the city and health experts credit the rapid antigen test for reducing the burden on RT-PCR tests, helping in quicker identification of cases and reducing the risk of spread of infection. Dr Sumit Sharma, Dean of Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, said testing has played a significant role in checking the spread of cases. "Asymptomatic patients are being detected and isolated now, and symptomatic patients are being isolated earlier than previously when testing was limited. Early treatment has reduced the infection," he opined. Rattan Gurnani, senior manager operations and corporate, City X-Ray and Scan Clinic, said the government has been very aggressive in testing and is ensuring that tests are conducted across all the containment zones. "They have given a target to all the districts, so more the tests, better the diagnosis and quicker the isolation and results. The number of RT-PCR tests has gone down from 700-800 earlier to 400 to 500 per day," he said. The situation is similar in other labs and facilities. At the Genestrings lab, 1,000 to 1,200 tests were being conducted on a daily basis before the rapid antigen test started, but now it has reduced to 200 tests per day. According to Chetan Kohli, COO, Seeds of Innocence and Genestrings Lab, rapid antigen tests have also helped the labs process the samples faster. "Earlier, the time taken to process the samples would be anywhere between 24 and 48 hours but now it is 24 hours," he said. Dr Rakesh Pandit, Senior Consultant and HOD, internal medicine, Akash Hospital said earlier the medical facility was conducting 90 RT-PCR tests per day, out of which 25 would test positive. Now the hospital is conducting 50 to 60 tests per day and only six or seven people are testing positive. "Earlier the labs were so overloaded. The waiting time was more and there were a limited number of facilities. Then there were constraints like one RT-PCR machine cannot do more than 100 tests. But now more people are being covered," Pandit said. The number of rapid antigen tests being conducted on a daily basis is more than double of the RT-PCR tests. According to the health bulletin on July 24, 5,328 RT-PCR tests were conducted within 24 hours, while over 13,000 antigen tests were conducted during the same time. Talking about the advantages of the rapid antigen tests, Kohli said the results of the test come within 15-20 minutes, and people are getting easy accessibility to them owing to the government's efforts and the presence of more than 160 centres where people can avail them free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rapid-antigen-tests-strengthen-fight-against-covid-19-say-experts-866018.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Don't give money to beggars, they could be 'corona spreaders': Adviser to Chandigarh Administrator||The Adviser to the Chandigarh Administrator on Sunday appealed to city residents not to give money to beggars, saying they could be "corona spreaders". Adviser Manoj Parida said beggars could not be jailed as begging is not a crime. "Appeal to Chandigarh residents not to give money to beggars who rush to you at traffic points. They could be corona spreaders.... We can't jail them since beggary is not a crime. When put in shelter homes they run away to make money from streets. So simply say NO," Parida tweeted. The Union Territory of Chandigarh has witnessed a surge in coronavirus infections. It has so far reported 887 Covid-19 cases with 13 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-give-money-to-beggars-they-could-be-corona-spreaders-adviser-to-chandigarh-administrator-866028.html
26-07-2020||North and Central||Record spike of 874 cases takes Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 count to 27,800||The death toll rose by 12 during the day to reach 811, with four being reported from Bhopal, two from Raisen and one each from Indore, Sagar, Mandsaur, Dhar, Betul and Datia, he added. "Of the new cases, Bhopal led with 205, followed by 149 in Indore and 33 in Jabalpur. A total of 644 persons were discharged after recovery on Sunday," he said. Indore now has 6,858 cases, including 304 deaths, Bhopal has 5,314 with 158 deaths, while the caseload is 1,005 in Jabalpur, officials said. No new case was reported from six districts since Saturday evening, though all 52 MP districts have active cases. There are 2,994 active containment zones in the state. In July so far, 14,207 coronavirus cases (about 50 per cent of total) and 239 deaths (over 28 per cent of all deaths) were recorded in the state. On June 30, the number of cases stood at 13,593, while the death toll was 572. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 27,800, active cases 7,857, new cases 874, death toll 811, recovered 19,132, total number of people tested 6,98,171.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/record-spike-of-874-cases-takes-madhya-pradeshs-covid-19-count-to-27800-866046.html
26-07-2020||Opinion||Death by populism||Every generation believes that its hardships are the worst, but hear out my case on behalf of those of us alive today. After the era of hope which ran through the 1990s and the 2000s, apocalypse has befallen us: world trade is at its lowest in decades, global immigration is all but dead, and a pandemic is wreaking havoc for the first time in a century. But these aren’t even the worst of it; to deal with these historic challenges, countries around the world have now conjured together the most dangerous class of world leaders in generations. Take a look at what’s been happening around the world over the last few weeks. Trump’s new policy is baffling because, if anything, it merely acts as a policy incentive for universities to reopen their in-person classes. If they move online, they risk losing international students in a financially difficult year (the coronavirus couldn’t have written a better policy for itself, even if it had tried). Later, Trump also threatened to cut funding for public schools if state governors did not reopen them soon. In Brazil, President Jair Bolsonaro has proven equally catastrophic. Last year, Bolsonaro nearly burnt down the Amazon forests, by encouraging reckless human activity. This year, his dismissal of Covid-19 as a “fantasy” has taken Brazil to the second spot behind America. The president himself has tested positive three times so far. When he first came out to announce his diagnosis early this month, he daringly took his mask off right in front of journalists, asking them to “look at my face”. For some leaders, the pandemic has been an opportunity. China’s Xi Jinping and Russia’s Vladimir Putin have been exploiting the chaos and noise for their own merriment. While Xi has hardly left any neighbour’s territory unoccupied, Putin has been busy laying the foundations for unaccountable and life-long rule in Russia. In early July, the Russian president temporarily raised social distancing restrictions in order to hold a vote on constitutional changes. He is now all set to reign till 2036. But there is some good news. In Britain, the virus has done the unthinkable: It has transformed Boris Johnson – the poster boy of populism. Johnson initially refused to take the virus seriously, arguing that ‘herd immunity’ will kick in and keep Britons safe if everyone is allowed to get infected. But in March, Johnson himself contracted the virus that forced him all the way to that near-death experience called the intensive care unit. When he came out, Johnson became an altogether different prime minister. He launched a war on obesity, which he held responsible for his brush with death (he had previously opposed taxes on junk food). He decided to relax immigration rules for international students, allowing them to stay on for longer after they graduate. He even announced a $446 million funding package for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, after having pooh-poohed climate change not too long ago. Populism is not a habit that dies easily, and nobody knows how long Johnson is going to take to fall back into his old ways. But one hopes that his fellow populists elsewhere would serve as a cautionary tale.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/death-by-populism-865749.html
26-07-2020||Opinion||The sandwiches that spurred a cooking revolution||Three months into the eternal Mumbai lockdown, I hit the proverbial wall. Preparing a full Indian meal for lunch daily in the heat and humidity, while trying to write and meet deadlines, and not knowing when our cook would be able to return, drained all my motivation. I had a mini meltdown. Until that point, I was one of those annoying people who posted photos of all the fabulous new dishes they were making on social media. People thought I was passionate about cooking. I almost convinced myself that I was. After all, I believe that if I have to do something, I should do it well and learn from it. Truth is, I don’t enjoy cooking. I never have. It exhausts me and I find it stressful. Initially, it was satisfying to serve health bhi, taste bhi meals every day. Eventually, I came to view it as a test of endurance. In the end, I realised I couldn’t keep up the domestic goddess act while working. Something had to give. So, I spoke the unspeakable. I told my (Indian) husband he’d be getting sandwiches for lunch. Much to my surprise, it was the incentive needed for transformative things to happen in the kitchen. My husband started cooking. Within a few days, the guy who couldn’t even boil an egg when I met him was churning out delicious Indian food with more finesse than me. All it took was a couple of demonstrations, the assistance of YouTube videos, and the hardest bit -- me to relinquish control of the kitchen. Though I’ve always considered myself to be independent and equal to men, paradoxically I regarded cooking as my responsibility. After all, I was more experienced and competent. It made sense that I should do it. Since I came from a traditional household where my mum excelled at being a homemaker, I thought I could emulate her. Moreover, I also doubted my husband’s culinary abilities. He was helpful at cutting vegetables but how could he possibly cope with complicated masala combinations and various preparation techniques? Lockdown has, unfortunately, heaped household responsibilities onto women. This recently prompted one overwhelmed Indian wife to petition Prime Minister Modi to encourage men to do an equal share of the housework. The petition has apparently gathered almost 70,000 signatures so far, confirming the magnitude of the issue. Yet, the harsh reality is that uncooperative men aren’t always the problem. There are women who aren’t comfortable asking for support, or who are empowered by being indispensible (husbands, you should feel lucky to have us, unlike those poor bachelors left to fend for themselves), or who think only they are capable of doing a good enough job. As it turned out, my husband coped just fine in the kitchen, despite my misgivings. He made mistakes, as expected, but displayed impressive patience and creativity. On the one hand, I’m extremely grateful. On the other hand, I grapple with misplaced sensations of failure and inadequacy, though achieving domestic greatness has never been one of my aspirations. I imagine it would be worse for women whose self-worth is tied to the performance of domestic duties. This gives rise to a conundrum -- there’s a perception that men are ashamed of cooking. Likewise, there are women who are ashamed to let them cook. There’s another perception that cooking isn’t “manly”. Likewise, there are women who assume men are too “manly” to be able to cook properly.   I’m glad I gave my husband a chance to shine. He feels good about himself for easing my burden and gaining a new skill. His mother is thrilled at his progress as well. I’m left questioning my usefulness, but unlike the threat of sandwiches, it’s not compelling enough to get me back into the kitchen full-time!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-sandwiches-that-spurred-a-cooking-revolution-865750.html
26-07-2020||Opinion||In the online class, the teacher is under test||A grandma sits on a narrow bench, all focus, taking notes from a teacher seen speaking on a laptop screen, while a little boy’s legs rest next to her, his head joyfully dangling upside down. This image, to me, is a symbol of all things we have known that the lockdown has turned upside down. And so, around April, schooling itself had to ‘get out of the class’. Instead of running, sleepwalking into school, chatting and yakking with your best friend, you the kid had to now open the computer, or your parents’ phone, and see your teacher. Or if you were the teacher, you could see all your children in little boxes on your screen. Or not see them, as the kids could mute video, until you heard a ‘Yes Misss’ remotely after you had called out the roll number thrice, urhm politely.  That little brat that gave the teacher a hard time, that shy girl who would simply not open her mouth while Sir’s vocal cords popped out yelling at the class -- all those kids were now at home, dragged to sit before the screens by struggling, yelling, cajoling parents. Homework, projects, morning assembly, PT classes, PT (parent-teacher) meetings and SUPW (Socially Useful Productive Work that we did at school, as I learnt much after) – all things that made a school a school changed overnight. Remote learning brought problems that neither the schools nor the parents were equipped to deal with. For starters, the glaring gap between smartphone-haves and have-nots. In a survey that Karnataka’s Department of Public Instruction did in May, only 58% children in Class 1-5 had internet connections or smartphones. Among students in Class 6-8, this number was 56%; 64% for those in Class 9-10. In other words, for almost over half the students of the state, no gadget has meant no school thus far. Then, there are the good-old teacher troubles. The training to use new learning tools and technology to make education fun; optimising the teacher-student ratio, freeing up their workload – these issues weren’t even resolved when Covid-19 came and pushed teachers into the deep-end, to an online world in zero time, to teach the same syllabus to children who would receive them in unequal environments. A friend shared on a WhatsApp group her primary school teacher-mother’s struggle to get on to a video call on her mobile for the very first time, making herself presentable, keeping lessons ready, handling a bunch of frequently disappearing kids -- while being kind and gentle. And wait for ‘feedback’. Some schools insisted that the teachers take screenshots every few minutes as proof of attendance. Some of them paid the teachers a pittance instead of regular salaries, while continuing to charge parents the usual or higher fee. The sacred space that a teacher and students have had with jokes and scolding seemed gone for good, but another small problem came up. Mrs Janaki, the central character in a Tamil animation series that went viral, said angrily how the fathers go around in ‘small small’ shorts while she was trying to take a class. Parents had to now house the ‘school’ inside their compact homes. For the working mother, that meant setting up her own workspace, her kids’, her partner’s, while also ensuring place, time and attention for the in-laws and other relatives. This, plus the cry for food from forever-hungry little monsters. The pressure of parents of children with special needs, that is another story altogether. Fears of bad backs (like no kid was ever bent by those massive school bags!) and effects on young minds – all these factors forced the government to ban online classes for tots up to class 5. But pro-online education parents cried foul; the courts decreed that the government had no right to ban; so online classes were back. On his stay with us, I saw my nephew of 8 watch his cartoon, munching on the dosa he had not finished, while his teacher recited the 13-table loudly. In the next 20 minutes, he broke into a jig to Daler Mehndi’s Ta ra ra ra…it was time for online Dance Class.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-the-online-class-the-teacher-is-under-test-865751.html
26-07-2020||Opinion||Whose natural resources are they anyway?||Amid debates over fundamental rights and federalism, other parts of the Constitution tend to occasionally get short shrift. Not because they are no longer relevant, but because there’s a sort of selective, collective amnesia that lawyers and academics (not to mention politicians and the public) tend to suffer from. I am, of course, referring to the Directive Principles of State Policy -- one of the most problematic parts of the Constitution but also one of its most meaningful. Specifically, I want to focus on the directive principle which talks about natural resources -- Article 39, in specific, clauses (b) and (c) of this Article. Clause (b) says that the State’s policies should ensure that “ownership and control of the material resources” get distributed “to subserve the common good”. Clause (c) says that the State’s policies should make sure that the working of the economy does not cause the “concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment.” The importance of these two clauses was highlighted in the Constituent Assembly by Purnima Banerjee in her speech on November 24, 1949: “By the inclusion of these clauses, I personally feel that this Constitution has provided us with the means for changing the structure of society. It will all depend on us whether we are able to establish that sovereign democratic republic, not for the hollow benefit of registering one’s vote and passing legislation, not a democracy which will simply maintain the status quo or which will take upon itself the policy of laissez-faire, but a democracy which will combine with it the healthy principle that the government governs best which governs least, with the principle that it should encourage the active citizenship of the country.” Banerjee also calls these two clauses the “cornerstone of the Constitution” -- a prescient verdict given the controversies in the years that have followed over the distribution and use of natural resources. Clauses (b) and (c) have been relied on by governments in the past to push through socialist policies that provided for land redistribution, ceilings on land ownership, controlling monopolies, among other things. There’s a whole book waiting to be written on the litigation battles between governments citing these clauses and citizens citing fundamental rights over radical policies that tried to reduce inequalities and nationalised industries. With neo-liberal economic ideas being in vogue, however, one could argue that these clauses are socialist relics of old and might as well be ignored. Not quite. The relationship between fundamental rights and directive principles are not always antagonistic -- they’re supposed to be complementary. Although fundamental rights are enforceable and directive principles are not, courts since the 1980s have held that directive principles can be read into the fundamental rights to make them more meaningful and expansive. One of the interesting ways fundamental rights and directive principles have been read together is when Article 14 (which guarantees equality) was read together with Article 39(b) in the context of natural resources. The distribution of natural resources by governments have become among the most contentious issues that courts have been called to decide upon, whether it is coal or spectrum. One of the most famous of these (one in which I was involved in professionally) was the dispute between the Ambani brothers over claims to natural gas deposits found offshore in the Krishna-Godavari basin, which later dragged the government into it. Eventually, the Supreme Court in 2010 held that the natural gas belonged to the people of India and that it would be the government (and not the Ambani brothers) who would decide how it would be used. In his judgement in the case, Justice Sudershan Reddy had something caustic and perceptive to say: “The concept of equality, a necessary condition for the achievement of justice, is inherent in the concept of national development that we have adopted as a nation. India was never meant to be a mere land in which the desires and the actions of the rich and the mighty take precedence over the needs of the people.” Have governments subsequently taken this message to heart? The news of the last few years suggests otherwise. It’s not always well understood but what our Constitution tells us is that natural resources are not the personal property of whoever can make a claim over them. They are not even the property of governments to dispose of as they please. They are the collective property of the citizens of the country. Governments only hold and use them as trustees on our behalf. It’s up to us, as citizens, to hold the government accountable for the way our natural resources are used for our benefit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/whose-natural-resources-are-they-anyway-865752.html
26-07-2020||Opinion||Rajasthan crisis: Governor, a partisan player||What started as a rebellion against the Congress government of Ashok Gehlot by the then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators some weeks ago has taken legal and constitutional dimensions and expanded beyond the state. The Congress MLAs are protesting the conduct of Governor Kalraj Mishra, who has refused to call a session of the assembly as sought by the chief minister, and the party is planning to extend its protests to Delhi and the state capitals. The state government and the Congress feel aggrieved and threatened because they sense a clear political plan being followed by the BJP to dislodge the government, with Sachin Pilot as a link in the plan and the Governor being used to implement it. They are also disappointed because the government did not get any relief from the judiciary even though it went to the highest court. A series of events have happened after Pilot and his band raised the banner of revolt, with the group tellingly ensconced in Manesar in the BJP-ruled Haryana, and Gehlot hurrying to protect his folk and managing to secure the support of two MLAs of a small party. Charges of sale and purchase of MLAs have been raised with tapes of conversions involving a Central minister being aired in public, inviting counter-charges of illegal tapping and the threat of a CBI investigation. The Speaker’s disqualification notices to Pilot and his supporters assumed importance in the fluid situation because their disqualification would take the government beyond any immediate threat. That is why the Pilot camp questioned the Speaker’s disqualification powers in the high court. But the court’s order preventing disqualification of the MLAs and for the continuation of the status quo was unexpected and unprecedented, in view of the Supreme Court’s orders in the past which clearly laid down that "judicial review should not cover any stage prior to the making of a decision by the Speaker’’ with respect to disqualification under the anti-defection law. The Supreme Court has not given a verdict in the matter now, though the state government appealed against the high court order.  While the Pilot camp has tried to get a judicial order in their favour or to prolong the situation with the hope that more MLAs can be enticed, it is clear that the matter can resolved only on the floor of the House. Gehlot sought the convening of an Assembly session for a trial of strength on Monday, but the Governor has most unreasonably rejected the demand. The Governor is bound to act on the advice of the chief minister, and his rejection of the demand makes him a partisan player in the plot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rajasthan-crisis-governor-a-partisan-player-866030.html
26-07-2020||Opinion||Digital diplomacy, the new normal||Covid-19 has triggered a new era of digital diplomacy the world over.  It has emerged as one of the tools in the furtherance of foreign policy, and is also referred to as e-diplomacy, cyber diplomacy, diplomacy 2.0 and twiplomacy. On receiving the first telegraph message in the 1880s, then British foreign secretary Lord Palmerston said, “My God, this is the end of diplomacy”. Harold Nicolson, in his writings, laments that telephone was initially perceived as a ‘dangerous little instrument’ to convey information.    Digital diplomacy does not signify the end of diplomacy, rather it is re-discovery of diplomacy. Perhaps for the first time since the 17th century, because of the coronavirus, diplomats can engage/negotiate without necessarily meeting face-to-face.  Digital diplomacy is now perceived as a medium of public diplomacy and involves use of a variety of digital platforms and tools of communication for negotiations. Diplomacy is now emerging as a social institution. The use of digital media in the world of diplomacy is a fact of life as it provides spaces for more intense interaction and engagement.  We have seen how in countries like Egypt, Tunisia and Yemen, social media aided the Arab Spring movement. The US State Department today has an office of e-diplomacy with 150 full-time social media employees.  The pandemic has disrupted all diplomatic calendars. Even multilateral negotiations are now happening virtually. The next UN General Assembly session is likely to take place virtually for the first time. Many summit meetings like the extraordinary G-20 meeting, took place through various digital platforms.  For many, twitter has now become the channel of choice for digital diplomacy. Twitter as a crisis response mechanism has become a useful helpline for many distressed Indians stranded abroad. Late foreign minister Sushma Swaraj had launched Twitter Seva Service in 2016.  Twitter can also be used for image enhancement as President Trump has so often done.   World leaders have even resorted to a war of words on twitter. Trump once tweeted about North Korean leader Kim Jong Un “North Korea has just launched another missile. Does this guy have anything better to do with his life?”  The role of the digital media in the world of diplomacy is critical. Before the Covid spread, digital media almost inevitably meant social media. Covid-19 however has created a scenario for countries around the world to seize the moment to pursue foreign policy through websites, blogs and a variety of social media platforms and beyond.  Yet, there is much to learn about how digital diplomacy actually works.  In fact, many universities are even introducing digital diplomacy courses.   Indian diplomacy went digital especially since 2010. Ambassador Navdeep Puri’s initiative in digitising the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is well-recognised.  He headed the newly created Public Diplomacy Division within the MEA.  During the civil war in Libya, this Division effectively used twitter to reach out to the large number of Indians who were evacuated at that point of time.   Indian diplomacy is clearly seeing a shift from physical conferencing to virtual conferencing. The advantage of digital platforms is that one can reach out in real time. Its effectiveness tends to be largely contextual. Significant leap Foreign Minister Jaishankar has had 65 virtual diplomatic engagements with his counterparts in other countries since the pandemic spread. Even MEA officials assert that virtual diplomacy will be the new norm. Present High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Gopal Bagley became the first diplomat to present his credentials virtually. Also, in a first for Rashtrapathi Bhavan, seven foreign diplomats presented their credentials to President Kovind via video-conferencing, signifying a significant leap in digital diplomacy.   Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called upon diplomats to shed old mindsets and embrace the new digital platforms. India needs to seize the moment. In the age of pandemics, India’s digital diplomacy has largely revolved around the following issues: offering consular assistance to Indians stranded abroad, fostering joint collaboration among scientists working on the vaccine to counter the virus and engaging other countries for medical equipment, ventilators and  doctors’ protective gear.  Virtual meetings have become the dominant mode of diplomatic engagement now, according to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla. For the first time, even a bilateral summit was held virtually between prime ministers of India and Australia. Countries have to work with each other rather than against one another, especially because of the link between digital diplomacy and the digital economy.  Digital diplomacy is not without risks like the possibility of information leak, hacking and maintaining the anonymity of internet users. Diplomats have to find new ways of collaborative engagement.  Covid-19 has disrupted almost all aspects of life. Diplomacy is no exception. Today, digital diplomacy has become the standard practice.  It has not replaced traditional diplomacy but complements it and thereby rings in huge dividends. We see the integration of offline and online platforms and environments. Digital diplomacy is characterised by hybridity and breaks through the limitations of traditional diplomacy.  Indian diplomats have to effectively leverage the advantages of digital diplomacy. Today this has become the new normal in global diplomacy and India would have to fast adopt and adapt to these irreversible changes. Given the multiple challenges the coronavirus poses, high-level diplomacy will largely be conducted through virtual means. Digital diplomacy is fast emerging as the new normal and an arrow in the quiver. However, only time will tell whether it will become the norm in the long-term.   (The writer is Professor (retd) of Political Science and former Dean (Arts), Bangalore University, Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/digital-diplomacy-the-new-normal-866031.html
26-07-2020||Opinion||US-China relations headed toward a point of no return||By Edward Wong and Steven Lee Myers Step by step, blow by blow, the United States and China are dismantling decades of political, economic and social engagement, setting the stage for a new era of confrontation shaped by the views of the most hawkish voices on both sides. With President Donald Trump trailing badly in the polls as the election nears, his national security officials have intensified their attack on China in recent weeks, targeting its officials, diplomats and executives. While the strategy has reinforced a key campaign message, some American officials, worried Trump will lose, are also trying to engineer irreversible changes, according to people familiar with the thinking. China’s leader, Xi Jinping, has inflamed the fight, brushing aside international concern about the country’s rising authoritarianism to consolidate his own political power and to crack down on basic freedoms, from Xinjiang to Hong Kong. By doing so, he has hardened attitudes in Washington, fueling a clash that at least some in China believe could be dangerous to the country’s interests. The combined effect could prove to be Trump’s most consequential foreign policy legacy, even if it’s not one he has consistently pursued: the entrenchment of a fundamental strategic and ideological confrontation between the world’s two largest economies. A state of broad and intense competition is the end goal of the president’s hawkish advisers. In their view, confrontation and coercion, aggression and antagonism should be the status quo with the Chinese Communist Party, no matter who is leading the United States next year. They call it “reciprocity.” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo declared in a speech Thursday that the relationship should be based on the principle of “distrust and verify,” saying that the diplomatic opening orchestrated by President Richard Nixon nearly half a century ago had ultimately undermined American interests. “We must admit a hard truth that should guide us in the years and decades to come: that if we want to have a free 21st century, and not the Chinese century of which Xi Jinping dreams, the old paradigm of blind engagement with China simply won’t get it done,” Pompeo said. “We must not continue it and we must not return to it.” The events of the last week brought relations to yet another low, accelerating the downward spiral. On Tuesday, the State Department ordered China to shut down its Houston consulate, prompting diplomats there to burn documents in a courtyard. On Friday, in retaliation, China ordered the United States to close its consulate in the southwestern city of Chengdu. The Chinese Foreign Ministry the next day denounced what it called “forced entry” into the Houston consulate by U.S. law enforcement officers Friday afternoon. In between, the Department of Justice announced criminal charges against four members of the People’s Liberation Army for lying about their status in order to operate as undercover intelligence operatives in the United States. All four have been arrested. One, Tang Juan, who was studying at the University of California, Davis, ignited a diplomatic standoff when she sought refuge in the Chinese consulate in San Francisco, but was taken into custody Thursday night. This comes on top of a month in which the administration announced sanctions on senior Chinese officials, including a member of the ruling Politburo, over the mass internment of Muslims; revoked the special status of Hong Kong in diplomatic and trade relations; and declared that China’s vast maritime claims in the South China Sea were illegal. The administration has also imposed a travel ban on Chinese students at graduate level or higher with ties to military institutions in China. Officials are discussing whether to do the same to members of the Communist Party and their families, a sweeping move that could put 270 million people on a blacklist. “Below the president, Secretary Pompeo and other members of the administration appear to have broader goals,” said Ryan Hass, a China director on President Barack Obama’s National Security Council who is now at the Brookings Institution. “They want to reorient the US-China relationship toward an all-encompassing systemic rivalry that cannot be reversed by the outcome of the upcoming U.S. election,” he said. “They believe this reorientation is needed to put the United States on a competitive footing against its 21st-century geostrategic rival.” From the start, Trump has vowed to change the relationship with China, but mainly when it comes to trade. Early this year, the negotiated truce in the countries’ trade war was hailed by some aides as a signature accomplishment. That deal is still in effect, though hanging by a thread, overshadowed by the broader fight. Beyond China, few of the administration’s foreign policy goals have been fully achieved. Trump’s personal diplomacy with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, has done nothing to end the country’s nuclear weapons program. His withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal has further alienated allies and made that country’s leaders even more belligerent. His effort to change the government in Venezuela failed. His promised withdrawal of all American troops from Afghanistan has yet to occur. In Beijing, some officials and analysts have publicly dismissed many of the Trump administration’s moves as campaign politics, accusing Pompeo and others of promoting a Cold War mentality to score points for an uphill reelection fight. There is a growing recognition, though, that the conflict’s roots run deeper. The breadth of the administration’s campaign has vindicated those in China — and possibly Xi himself — who have long suspected that the United States will never accept the country’s growing economic and military might, or its authoritarian political system. “It’s not just electoral considerations,” said Cheng Xiaohe, an associate professor at the School of International Studies at Renmin University in Beijing. “It is also a natural escalation and a result of the inherent contradictions between China and the United States.” Already reeling from the coronavirus pandemic, some Chinese officials have sought to avoid open conflict with the United States. They have urged the Trump administration to reconsider each of its actions and called for cooperation, not confrontation, albeit without offering significant concessions of their own. “With global anti-China sentiment at its highest level in decades, Chinese officials have indicated an interest in exploring potential offramps to the current death spiral in U.S.-China relations,” said Jessica Chen Weiss, a political scientist at Cornell University who studies Chinese foreign policy and public opinion. “Beijing isn’t spoiling for an all-out fight with the United States,” she said, “but at a minimum the Chinese government will retaliate to show the world — and a prospective Biden administration — that China won’t be intimidated or pushed around.” Trump whipsaws in his language on China. He has called Xi “a very, very good friend” and even privately encouraged him to keep building mass internment camps for Muslims and handle the Hong Kong pro-democracy protesters his way, according to a new book by John R. Bolton, the former national security adviser. When he last spoke with Xi, he expressed “much respect!” on Twitter. With the election looming, Trump’s tone has changed. He has returned to bashing China, as he did in 2016, blaming Beijing for the pandemic and even referring to the coronavirus with a racist phrase, “Kung Flu.” His campaign aides have made aggressive rhetoric on China a pillar of their strategy, believing it could help energize voters. The heated language, combined with the administration’s policy actions, could actually be having a galvanizing effect on Chinese citizens, some analysts and political figures in Beijing say. “I strongly urge American people to reelect Trump because his team has many crazy members like Pompeo,” Hu Xijin, the editor of the nationalist newspaper Global Times, wrote on Twitter on Friday. “They help China strengthen solidarity and cohesion in a special way.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/us-china-relations-headed-toward-a-point-of-no-return-866036.html
26-07-2020||Opinion||Off The Record - June 27, 2020||Overconfidence Kerala government’s decision to conduct pending SSLC and higher secondary examinations at the end of May had faced stiff objections, mainly from the Opposition, owing to Covid-19. But the government went ahead with the decision and luckily no student was infected. It was this confidence that enabled the government to conduct the Kerala Engineering Architecture and Medical entrance examination on July 16, despite the alarming increase in Covid-19 cases. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was also accused of being adamant. This time luck did not favour the state as four students and a parent are already infected and many are under the risk of exposure. The government’s overconfidence has now caused embarrassment.   Saving a tree Maharashtra Tourism and Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray, has managed to save a four-century-old banyan tree from getting chopped in Sangli district for development projects. Thackeray had written to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar. The massive banyan tree with a shady spread of over 400 sq mts stands beside the famed Yellamma Temple in Bhose village, Sangli district and was threatened by the expansion of the Solapur-Sangli-Kolhapur-Ratnagiri Expressway. The tree is not only historical but also a natural home for many rare birds, mammals, monkeys and insects.   New welcome  On July 22, when newly-elected Rajya Sabha MPs were taking the oath, all eyes were on one leader– BJP’s Jyotiraditya Scindia, who caused the collapse of Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. His every move was under observation by MPs sitting in the Rajya Sabha chamber and their guests in the galleries. Scindia walked over to Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and his arch-rival Digvijay Singh and greeted them soon after he took oath. He also greeted Mallikarjun Kharge. Scindia later told the leaders, including KC Venugopal, “I may have changed the party, it doesn’t mean that you are out of my hearts. You all still have a place in my heart.” To this, a leader told him, “we had placed you so high in our hearts but you let us down and left us sad.”   Plasma donation Ever since Covid-19 pandemic began, there has been a race among some officials in Kashmir to remain active on twitter and increase the followers. After some failed hashtags, few among them along with their cheerleaders are now banking on pleas for a donation of plasma from recovered coronavirus patients. People are of the opinion that it’s good to make pleas and save lives, but the officials try to hide their failures on the ground and turn humanitarian action into some kind of a sarkaar-sponsored mela. People of Kashmir generous enough that even an SOS on blood donation is enough to draw beelines at the places of need. Who knows the meaning of life more than a common Kashmiri?   Poaching halted Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is undergoing treatment in a private hospital after being tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. His sudden illness has halted the BJP drive to poach Congress MLAs. So far, the BJP has succeeded in buying over three Congress MLAs to its side in the last two weeks. The ruling party was planning to engineer more defections. Other senior BJP leaders are in self-quarantine following the detection of infection in their leader. In the previous three defections of the Congress MLAs since July 2, a fixed pattern was followed. The MLAs first met the Speaker individually in the Assembly to tender resignation from membership of the house and then proceeded to the state BJP headquarters to announce their induction to the BJP in presence of the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-june-27-2020-866037.html
26-07-2020||Panorama||Reclaiming education during a pandemic||A virus may be apolitical but our response to it reveals biases and inequities in our systems. As we all adapt to the new “normal”, it is critical that we look at the stated and unstated assumptions, and implicit and explicit changes being made to our social welfare systems, which impact people differently.  Millions of children have been out of school and anganwadis since March, at a great risk of falling behind on nutritional, immunisation and educational goals; many pushed into child labour and early marriages.   The response of the education system so far is largely focused on conduct of exams and online education. However, there is an urgent need to look at this issue from the standpoints of access, inclusion and equity. What are the contexts of different schools and children? What kind of learning experiences are appropriate? What should the curriculum be? What is the role of a school?  What support do teachers need?  What resources are needed? Schools are community institutions, playing an important part in the socialising of the young. For a vast majority of children, schools are also a safe space – physically and emotionally; millions also depend on schools for their nutritional needs. Shutting schools invisibilises the contexts of these children, leaving them and their families with no recourse. The public health benefits of school closures, therefore, need to be balanced with the larger social costs they entail. Schools need to be envisioned as places of community education.  Awareness about prevention, early identification, support for the elderly, quarantined, sick and infected, seeking accountability from the public health system are critical pieces of community education, essential for meeting this or any other public health challenge.  This is not the time to substitute classroom lectures with video lectures and downloaded digital content. Isolation at home with limited physical activities is developmentally inappropriate for children to begin with. For students from an impoverished background, self-learning possibilities are even more limited.   Building collaborative learning experiences that allow children to learn with one another, with the adults in their community and with the teacher, should be the way to go with age-appropriate and meaningful integration of digital tools. The current context requires us to bring into school education a discussion on the underlying causes of the pandemic including the trajectories of our economic models, lifestyles, environmental degradation and their disproportionate impact on the living conditions of the majority.  Ignoring disruptions in the students’ lives brought on by the social and economic impact of the pandemic while focusing on a given syllabus with reductions in “portions”, would be as insensitive as it is meaningless.   A project-based approach can allow a meaningful combination of content-based learning and skill-based, contextually relevant activities.  The school becomes more relevant and the curriculum more alive when it addresses the real-life challenges of students.  Teacher interaction is essential and can be in the form of videos, small group interactions through online forums and in small groups when schools reopen.  Reinforcing foundational literacy and numeracy will be a high priority and can be taken up with support from facilitators from the local community.  Such a hybrid model of physical and digital learning, text-based and activity-based learning can also provide a more flexible approach to address potentially iterative school closures and re-openings, responding to public health challenges, as they emerge.  Developing modules for internet safety is a high priority, along with mandatory limits on screen time.   The travails of the teacher in an online environment have become the butt of many jokes, adding to the negative image of a teacher as a technician. How else can one explain the sanction of “pay-by-class” method adopted by some schools, destroying the very nature of teacher-student relationship, the core of any meaningful learning experience?  Teachers must be supported in ways of re-looking at curriculum and in the acquisition of new skills, including felicity with digital tools and processes. Teacher agency and autonomy are critical for this.  They must also be equipped to respond to the emotional and psychological needs of the students.  School administrators must use this opportunity to explore fundamental ideas in education and invest in teacher capacity-building.  E-content delivery Education is a fundamental right; shifting to e-content delivery does not count. With patchy infrastructure availability, this will leave out many children exacerbating further the systemic inequities. Designing inclusive learning environments is non-negotiable. Digital infrastructure must be seen as an essential public utility, similar to public education or health.   Provisioning for working computers, stable internet, television and radio in schools, alongside convergence of the digital infrastructure at the community level - with the panchayat, libraries, local knowledge centres or other community spaces – is essential for equitable access.  Proprietary digital platforms eroding teacher and student privacy and compromising teacher curricular agency must be replaced with publicly funded open source alternatives and open digital content. Schools need to resume. If we can devise safe opening for temples and malls, we can surely do the same for schools.  Strategies for safe re-opening could include staggering classes, regrouping into smaller cohorts, facilitating transport for teachers, combining in-school and out-of-school activities, support from community facilitators, clear guidelines for physical distancing, hygiene and infection control and community education. Re-imagining content and teaching is inevitable as is an enhanced focus on infrastructure access.    The pandemic is merely a proximate trigger for the re-imagining of education, long hidden in our policy and curricular documents. Education is the making of society, and we need to rise to the occasion and respond with approaches that are equitable, flexible and resilient.  (Kasinathan is  Director, IT for Change, and works in school and teacher education for a just digital society; Sriranjani is Director, Foundation for Education, Ecology and Livelihood, and works in school education and sustainable models of rural development)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/reclaiming-education-during-a-pandemic-866035.html
26-07-2020||Right in the Middle||A code?||Recently, doctors at the King George’s Medical University in Lucknow have been asked to write prescriptions in capital letters to make it legible for patients. “All doctors have legendary bad handwriting and it strangely becomes all the worse when it comes to prescribing medicines,” said the great doctor and former CM of West Bengal Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose own handwriting was surprisingly beautiful. There’re so many macabre jokes on doctors and their proverbial bad penmanship, deciphered only by the chemists. And how only chemists understand doctors’ illegible handwriting is a matter of serious research! The million-dollar question is-- why do doctors across the world write so illegibly and scribble it away? It has a scientific explanation advanced by the Neurology Department of McGill University, Montreal, Canada. A team of clinical graphologists and neuro-scientists delved into this phenomenon for eleven years and concluded in 2015 that it’s due to doctors holding the pen very lightly. Their grip on a pen is always very light because of their training in holding the scalpels and injections in a light manner for deft and highly sophisticated surgical tasks. ‘Deft-handling phenomenon’ or ‘a feather-touch handling’ in medical parlance results in holding everything in a light manner and when a pen is held lightly, the handwriting is often crabbed and difficult to decipher. Though doctors are condemned for bad handwriting, seldom do we get to read or hear about the judges’ equally shabby handwriting. They too are accused of bad handwriting. So much so that even lawyers can’t decipher the handwritten verdicts of most of the judges. Famous Urdu poet and judge, Justice Anand Narayan Mulla, whose own handwriting was execrable, justified this phenomenon, “Doctors and judges have to be unemotional and matter-of-fact and a practical individual has no time for khuskhatnaweesi (calligraphic handwriting).” Finally, always remember the famous words of Dr Anton Chekhov, the Russian great who also happened to be a doctor, “The competence of a medico is measured by the degree of his (bad) handwriting.” Quite true. By the way, Dr Arthur Conan Doyle had such bad penmanship that even his wife, let alone patients, could not understand what he wrote. His compounder typed the manuscripts as the creator of Sherlock Holmes didn’t know how to type.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-code-866034.html
26-07-2020||Second Edit||Closer alignment, not formal alliance||China’s increasingly aggressive moves to establish its regional dominance and hegemony has forced all of its neighbours to sit up, take notice, resist and, in some cases, seek to thwart its designs. For India, China’s mounting bid to snatch strategically-important territory along our Himalayan borders has come as the proverbial last straw on the back of a foreign policy that sought to play in a space between the existing superpower, America, and the rising challenger, China. This was a foreign policy that worked so long as China was still in its ‘peaceful rise’ phase and the power differential between India and China – economic, military and technological – was manageable and narrowing, as India’s own economy and military capability grew. But a Beijing increasingly aware of the widening power gap with a Delhi beset with economic woes and a divided polity and society, both mainly self-inflicted, is seeking to shock and awe India into submission with blatant aggression. This calls for a reworking of India’s foreign and strategic policies. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s recent statement that the “era of non-alignment is over” must be seen in this light.         India’s non-alignment policy was not ideological dogma but a pragmatic position that allowed Delhi space between the Cold War antagonists even as it sought economic, development and military assistance from both sides. Nehru sought American military assistance during the 1962 war with China, and Indira Gandhi aligned with the Soviet Union ahead of the 1971 war with Pakistan. In the post-Cold War world, Delhi sought and sewed up multiple strategic partnerships, calling it ‘multi-alignment’. But with the intensifying US-China rivalry and India’s own position declining vis-à-vis China’s rising power in the last few years, Delhi’s space for manouevre has shrunk. Jaishankar’s comment has signalled that India is finally ready to align closely with America. Delhi and Washington have had a long courtship, especially ever since the George HW Bush administration declared in 2005 that the US is “ready to assist India’s rise to major power status.” Yet, Jaishankar has ruled out, and rightly so, the possibility of India being part of a formal alliance system. A traditional military alliance system will not work in a post-Cold War, nuclearised, globalised order in which the major and rising powers have both cooperative and competitive interests with each other. The best way forward for India and the US still remains the Bush and Obama-era understanding that a militarily and economically strengthened India will be a natural bulwark against China even without India being part of a formal US-led alliance system. Delhi and Washington must both work towards intensifying their relationship within this ambit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/closer-alignment-not-formal-alliance-866029.html
26-07-2020||South||In a first, Puducherry Assembly holds proceedings under a tree after MLA tests Covid-19 positive||In an unprecedented sitting prompted after a legislator tested positive for coronavirus, the Puducherry Assembly on Saturday held its Budget session under a tree and later adjourned sine die after approving budgetary allocations to the tune of Rs 9,000 crore without discussion. The House had its session under a neem tree as the main hall was shut for sanitisation following opposition AINRC MLA N S J Jayabal testing positive for the virus and being hospitalised on Friday night. Hours after the Appropiration Bill was adopted, the Lt Governor Kiran Bedi in her capacity as Administrator gave her assent to the Bill, a Raj Nivas communication said. It was sent to the Lt Governor for her assent as per statutory procedure. With the assent being given, decks are cleared for government departments to go ahead with implementation of various schemes envisaged in the budget and also to disburse salaries and allowances and also pensions by the departments. The session, which began on July 20, already had been an eventful one with Lt Governor Kiran Bedi staying away from delivering her customary address to the House to mark the session, in the backdrop of her running feud with Chief Minister V Narayanasamy. She had said the budget did not have her approval, but the Chief Minister presented it the same day, after the House kept her address at abeyance. However, she addressed the members on Friday in the midst of an ongoing session, another unprecedented development, even as Health Minister Malladi Rao and three ruling Congress MLAs boycotted it for Bedi pulling up senior doctors and health staff over Covid-19 management in the union territory recently. On Saturday, official sources said this was the first time the House held its meeting at an improvised site. The House passed before adjournment, the Appropriation Bill earmarking Rs 9,000 crore for the government tabled by Narayanasamy. All the demands for grants to more than 30 government departments for the fiscal 2020-2021 were passed without discussion by the members. The Chief Minister and his cabinet colleagues moved the demands for grants to their respective departments. The Speaker V P Sivakolundhu, who presided over the day's proceedings, later adjourned the House sine die. Earlier, the Speaker and the CM were in a virtual hot search for an appropriate alternative venue to hold the day's proceedings after the main hall of the House was shut as a precautionary measure following a legislator testing positive for coronavirus. Initially, the committee hall on the top floor of the Assembly's annexe campus was sought to be chosen for the day's meeting. However, the Speaker found the space insufficient to accommodate all the Members and officials, and finalised the open space available outside the main building for the two hour meeting, which ended at 3.35 pm. Necessary arrangements were made at quick pace. Barring opposition AINRC legislators, all others were present and participated in the deliberations wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Normally a full-fledged budget would be adopted on the floor of the House before end of March every year. But since recently the government had been passing Vote on Account (Appropriation) Bill earmarking funds for the first few months of the new financial year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-a-first-puducherry-assembly-holds-proceedings-under-a-tree-after-mla-tests-covid-19-positive-865737.html
26-07-2020||South||Kerala fixes rates for Covid-19 treatment, lays down norms||As the coronavirus cases are on the rise in the state, the Kerala government on Saturday issued an order fixing rates for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals and laying down guidelines in this regard. State Health Minister K K Shailaja said the order has been issued to all the private hospitals empanelled under Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP) and the government- referred patients in private healthcare institutions which are not under the KSAP. The State HealthAgency (SHA), which implements the KSAP, has issued the guidelines. "Patients can seek medical care from any government or private hospitals. Both the sectors have come together to fight the pandemic COVID-19," the Minister said. The state government had already set up 28 government hospitals to treat the patients alone, Shailaja said in a press release. As per the order, the general ward rates would be Rs 2,300 per day while the high dependency unit (HDU) would cost Rs 3,300. The ICU rates would be Rs 6,500 but with ventilator, it wouldbe Rs 11,500. The RTPCRtest would cost Rs 2,750, antigen test Rs 625, expert NAT Rs 3,000, Truenat step-one and step-two tests Rs 1,500 each. KASP was launched by the LDF government on April 1, last year. Families which have enrolled in KASP would get an annualinsurance coverage worth Rs five lakh. Meanwhile, the state reported 1,103 new active COVID-19 cases and discharged 1,049 patients. Of the cases detected during the day, 838 are of local transmission and the source of contact of 72 patients was unknown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-fixes-rates-for-covid-19-treatment-lays-down-norms-865758.html
26-07-2020||South||Two patients succumb to Covid-19, overall tally at 2,787 cases in Puducherry||The tally of Covid-19 cases in the union territory rose to 2,787 on Sunday with 131 people testing positive while two fresh deaths took the toll to 40. Total active cases stood at 1,102 while 1,645 patients had been discharged from various hospitals so far, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release. The positivity rate in the UT was 20.9 per cent while the rate of fatality was 1,4 per cent, the release said. In the last 24 hours ended at 10 AM, as many as 131 fresh cases were identified after examination of 624 samples. The overall Covid-19 cases in the UT stood at 2,787, including two patients transferred to neighbouring Tamil Nadu, it said. As many as 82 patients were discharged during the period. Two men, aged 58 and 57 and having comorbidities, died at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College hospital and at the government General Hospital here on Saturday as the toll due to the disease mounted to 40. A total of 35,080 samples had been sent for tests so far and results awaited for over 300||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-patients-succumb-to-covid-19-overall-tally-at-2787-cases-in-puducherry-865837.html
26-07-2020||South||Coast Guard rescues nine fishermen as boat sinks in sea after mishap off Rameswaram||The Indian Coast Guard rescued nine Tamil Nadu fishermen who were struggling in the sea off nearby Pamban after their boat hit a rock and sank on Sunday, a senior official said. The fishermen from Tharuvaikulam in Tuticorin district attempted to cross the century-old cantilever Pamban railway bridge when their vessel veered off the path and hit a rock, Mandapam Coast Guard station Commander M Venkatesh said. The boat, on its way to Nagapattinam, suffered damage, capsized and later sank. Some fishermen passing by the spot alerted the Marine police on seeing the nine struggling in the waters. A team of Coast Guard personnel from Mandapam base and local Marine police coordinated the rescue operation and brought the fishermen to shore in a hovercraft, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coast-guard-rescues-nine-fishermen-as-boat-sinks-in-sea-after-mishap-off-rameswaram-865846.html
26-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu on pause mode on last Sunday lockdown in July||On the last Sunday of intense lockdown this month, Tamil Nadu came to a virtual standstill with the operation of only milk supply and health care services while people stayed indoors and roads wore a deserted look. On the last Sunday of intense lockdown this month, Tamil Nadu came to a virtual standstill with the operation of only milk supply and health care services while people stayed indoors and roads wore a deserted look. To check violations and effectively implement the complete shutdown, being enforced to contain spread of coronavirus, checkposts were set up at key intersections and district borders with nearly 200 of them in the city, police said. Health care services were open, sanitary workers continued their clean up work, and personnel of civic bodies conducted door-to-door surveys to detect people with flu-like symptoms and fever camps were also held. Similarly, state-run low cost eateries "Amma Canteens" and community kitchens to cater to the destitute and elderly worked as usual. Shops selling essential commodities, fuel pumps and markets were closed as part of measures to help fight Covid- 19 and officials inspected their jurisdictional localities to check violations. Vehiclesbarring cargo trucks were off the roads and roads were deserted but for the presence of security and civic personnel who carried out disinfection work. Already, three Sundays this month witnessed full curbs without usual relaxations. On Saturday, people thronged vegetable and fish markets and meat outlets to stock up for Sunday. Also, tipplers flocked state-run TASMAC liquor outlets and bought their choicest spirits across the state barring Chennai where the sales remained suspended since March 24, Be it markets or liquor stores, anti-Covid norms like social distancing were often breached by the people. Tamil Nadu continued to reel under the coronavirus with the state breaching the grim milestone of two lakh cases on Saturday while the death toll stood at 3,409. To check violations and effectively implement the complete shutdown, being enforced to contain spread of coronavirus, checkposts were set up at key intersections and district borders with nearly 200 of them in the city, police said. Health care services were open, sanitary workers continued their clean up work, and personnel of civic bodies conducted door-to-door surveys to detect people with flu like symptoms and fever camps were also held. Similarly, state-run low cost eateries "Amma Canteens" and community kitchens to cater to the destitute and elderly worked as usual. Shops selling essential commodities, fuel pumps and markets were closed as part of measures to help fight Covid- 19 and officials inspected their jurisdictional localities to check violations. Vehiclesbarring cargo trucks were off the roads and roads were deserted but for the presence of security and civic personnel who carried out disinfection work. Already, three Sundays this month witnessed full curbs without usual relaxations. On Saturday, people thronged vegetable and fish markets and meat outlets to stock up for Sunday. Also, tipplers flocked state-run TASMAC liquor outlets and bought their choicest spirits across the state barring Chennai where the sales remained suspended since March 24, Be it markets or liquor stores, anti-COVID norms like social distancing were often breached by the people. Tamil Nadu continued to reel under the coronavirus with the state breaching the grim milestone of two lakh cases on Saturday while the death toll stood at 3,409.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-on-pause-mode-on-last-sunday-lockdown-in-july-865898.html
26-07-2020||South||Over 30 staff of nationalised bank test Covid-19 positive in Tamil Nadu branch||According to the officials, the customers who visited the bank have also been advised to voluntarily appear for coronavirus tests. Earlier, a senior official of the branch who was suffering from other complications had succumbed to the contagion. The positive cases came to light after a mass medical screening camp was held at the bank recently, the officials said. The bank is frequented by customers including pensioners and loan applicants. Senior bank officials said the disinfection process had been completed today and indicated the bank might resume operations from Monday. Corporation health officials were in touch with the customers who visited the bank recently. Tamil Nadu, with the highest virus caseloads in the country after Maharashtra, has reported an overall 2,06,737 positive cases of the virus as of Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-30-staff-of-nationalised-bank-test-covid-19-positive-in-tamil-nadu-branch-865906.html
26-07-2020||South||Panchayat with 200 varieties of mango trees in Kerala declared Indigenous Mango Heritage Area||An initiative by a group of mango lovers to protect a 200 year old mango tree a few years back has led the way to the declaration of Kannapuram, a panchayat about 15 kilometres from Kannur town, as Indigenous Mango Heritage Area owing to the presence of over 200 varieties of mango trees in the locality. 'Nattu Manchottil', a group of mango lovers of the locality, has made the declaration possible, which is said to be the first of its type in the country. As many as 107 varieties of mango trees were spotted among the 372 mango trees in just 20 out of the 61 houses in the heritage area and a mapping of the trees has been done. Over 200 varieties were found in the entire panchayat, said Shyju Machathi, a local farmer who has been coordinating these initiatives. The Kerala State Biodiversity Board identified the area as heritage zone in coordination with the Kannapuram grama panchayat. Local MLA T V Rajesh made the declaration on July 22, the national mango day. A Heritage Walk in association with the state responsible tourism mission connecting ten spots and spreading indigenous mango trees to more parts of the state in association with the Haritha Kerala Mission of the state are in the offing. A study on medical values of each variety is also being planned in the long run. Shyju said that though mango trees were common in the locality traditionally, efforts to trace the varieties started around five years back after a 200 year old mango tree of 'Vellathan' variety was cut by the landlord. A group of mango lovers collected the pieces of the tree and grafted it to retain the variety. That triggered identification of different varieties in the locality. Specimen of 102 varieties were already given to the National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources for documentation purpose. Names of the mangoes were given by the local people based on is features like taste, shape and size.  Annual mango fests are also being organised. The local farmers were not having much commercial interest in mango as most of them were involved in other types of cultivation. A major chuck of the yield was used for personal consumption. As part of the heritage area declaration, nurseries would be set up at each household for selling the sapling of the varieties available at the house hold, said Shyju, who is personal securuty officer of Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panchayat-with-200-varieties-of-mango-trees-in-kerala-declared-indigenous-mango-heritage-area-865930.html
26-07-2020||South||Hyderabad Mayor Bonthu Rammohan tests positive for Covid-19||Rammohan and his family took the test here on Saturday, a press release from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) said. His family members have tested negative for the virus. Rammohan said he has isolated himself and had to hold a meeting with civic officials through video-conference to review developmental and welfare measures taken up by the GHMC. He said he would again undergo tests and that he would donate plasma after recovery. In June, the Mayor said, he took the tests twice and the results were negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-mayor-bonthu-rammohan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-865952.html
26-07-2020||South||Kerala reports 927 fresh Covid-19 cases; tally crosses 18,000||The state capital reported 175 cases, followed by Kasaragod 107, Pathnamthitta 91 and Kollam 74, Health minister K K Shailaja said. With two more deaths, the coronavirus toll in the state climbed to 61. Two 71-year-old men from Thrissur and Malappuram, who had tested positive and were under treatment, succumbed to the disease, the minister said in a press release. Of the positive cases, 76 had come from abroad and 91 from other states, while 733 were infected through contact. The source of infection of 67 people is not yet known. Presently, 9,655 are undergoing treatment for the infection, while 9,302 have recovered so far, including 689 discharged on Sunday. As many as 1.56 lakh people are under observation in various districts, of whom 1.47 lakh are in home or institutional quarantine and 8,980 in hospitals, including 1,277 admitted today, the release said. In the last 24 hours, 20,626 samples have been sent for testing. Sofar 6.72 lakh samples have been tested and 7,492 results are awaited. The total hotspots as of today are 494. Thiruvananthapuram, which is the worst affected district, has 2,788 patients under treatment, followed by Ernakulam 863 and Kollam 856.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-927-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-18000-865979.html
26-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Local spread unabated in Kerala, state reports 927 new cases in 24 hours||Local spread of Covid-19 continues unabated in Kerala as 733 of the 927 new coronavirus cases reported in the state on Sunday were due to local transmission. What is more alarming is that source of the other 67 cases could not be traced, which increases the risk of more infected persons remain untraced. While two more Covid-19 deaths in the state were confirmed by the government, at least five more deaths were pending confirmation. The total death toll reached 61. Kerala's capital, Thiruvananthapuram, continues to witness the highest spike of 175, of which 164 were due to local transmission, taking the total number of infected to 2,788 in the city. At Kasargod, 105 of the 107 fresh cases reported on Sunday were via local transmission. The total active cases in the district reached 658. Ten Covid-19 clusters were also confirmed in the district. Kerala had managed to keep the local transmission of the coronavirus at a very low rate till June end. But thereafter, the number of local transmission started witnessing a huge spike with around 75 percent of the fresh cases reported daily. Increased number of Covid-19 tests done daily is also considered to be a reason for detecting more cases. While the state was testing only around 5,000 daily till June end, now around 20,000 tests were being done daily.   Of the 19,025 so far infected in the state, 9,655 were still under active.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-local-spread-unabated-in-kerala-state-reports-927-new-cases-in-24-hours-865980.html
26-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh records 7,627 fresh cases; tally inches closer to 1 lakh-mark||The Covid-19 toll crossed the 1,000-mark, reaching 1,041 after 56 fresh casualties were reported in the last 24 hours. The latest government bulletin said 3,041 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the overall discharges to 46,301. The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 48,956. Kurnool registered the highest number of 1,213 new cases in a day, pushing the district tally to 11,570. Guntur district also crossed the 10,000-mark in the total number of coronavirus cases. East Godavari district continued to show a rapid increasing trend, reporting 1,095 fresh cases, taking its gross to 13,486. East Godavari, Kurnool and Guntur districts now have over 10,000 cases each while Anantapuramu is very close behind with 9,723 and West Godavari with 8,412. East Godavari is also reporting more deaths daily as its total toll mounted to 122 with nine fatalities in the last 24 hours. A 101-year-old woman P Mangamma of Tirupati came out triumphant in her battle against Covid-19. She was admitted to the state Covid hospital in Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences a few days ago and was discharged on Saturday evening after he recovered fully, hospital medical superintendent Dr Ram said in a release. "She was very bold all through her stay in the isolation ward in the hospital and successfully battled the pandemic. She should be an inspiration for others on how to remain brave in the fight against the pandemic," the medical superintendent said. According to statistics released by the government here, 16.43 lakh samples were tested in the state so far at the rate of 30,774 per million population. The infection positivity rate climbed further up to 5.86 percent following the spurt in cases and the recovery rate fell to 48.08 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-records-7627-fresh-cases-tally-inches-closer-to-1-lakh-mark-865991.html
26-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 6,986 fresh coronavirus cases, 85 fatalities||Of the newly identified people with Covid-19, seven were from abroad and 68 from other states, a health department bulletin said. While Chennai reported 1,155 cases, the combined new infections in three neighbouring districts of Chengelpet (501), Kancheepuram (363) and Tiruvallur (480) overshot the state capital's count by recording 1,344 positive cases. Chennai accounted for 94,695 of the state tally of 2,13,723 cases. The deceased include a 37-day-old baby boy from Tiruvannamalai with low birth weight, a 15-year-old girl and a 28-year-old man. In total, 75 had co-morbidities and 10 none. Of the 3,494 fatalities, Chennai's share was 2,011. As many as 64,129 samples were tested today and till date, 23,51,463 specimens have been examined. With the recent approval for a private lab in Coimbatore, there are 116 Covid-19 testing centres (58 government labs and an equal number in private facilities) in Tamil Nadu. Active cases stood at 53,703 with 5,471 people getting discharged from various hospitals A total of 1,56,526 patients have recovered. On July 25, the state reported its highest number of cases (6,988), deaths (89) and recoveries (7,758). The tally breached the two lakh mark and total cases mounted to 2,06,737.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-6986-fresh-coronavirus-cases-85-fatalities-865995.html
26-07-2020||South||Chennai-based company 'Access Healthcare' donates Rs 2.1 crore to Tirumala shrine||A sum of Rs 2.1 crore has been donated to the Lord Venkateswara's shrine in Tirumala, near here, by a Chennai-based company, an official of the temple said on Sunday. The donation was made on behalf of the company Access Healthcare by its vice-chairman Vardhman Jain who is a devotee of the Lord. The devotee and his family, after offering worship at the temple, handed over a cheque for the amount to A V Dharma Reddy, additional executive officer of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that governs the ancient shrine. The company has requested the TTD to use the money for the development of the TTD-run TV channel Sri Venkateswara Bhakthi Channel (SVBC), the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-based-company-access-healthcare-donates-rs-21-crore-to-tirumala-shrine-866049.html
26-07-2020||State||Karnataka’s oldest Covid-19 patient dies at 105||The 105-year-old resident of Basaveshwara Nagar, Karnataka’s oldest Covid patient who was admitted to hospital on June 20, has died. Dr Prasanna, managing director of Pristine Hospital And Research Centre, where the patient (P74411) was admitted, said he died on Saturday morning at 9 am. “The patient was initially doing well when he was admitted on Monday,” he said. “He didn’t have significant lung changes when he was admitted. His blood pressure started to drop on Thursday, and he was put on oxygen in the ICU. With his continued deterioration on Friday morning, he was put on non-invasive ventilator.” His oxygen saturation levels began to plummet abruptly by Friday night and the patient had to be intubated for ventilator support. The deterioration of his condition continued. “The cause of death was respiratory failure and the onset of sepsis,” Dr Prasanna added. Although earmarked for supplies of Remdesivir by the government, the hospital did not receive the drugs. An appeal to Dr K Sudhakar, Minister of Medical Education, by the hospital staff resulted in an assurance that the medication would arrive. “However, in the end, we had to source the medication ourselves on Friday,” a staffer said. Remdesivir is an inhibitor of the viral RNA-dependent, RNA polymerase. It has inhibitory abilities on the earlier SARS-CoV-1 and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) viruses. It was identified early as a promising therapeutic candidate for Covid-19 because of its ability to inhibit the SARS-CoV-2 virus in vitro. The patient was a former government accountant who retired in 1973. He was the oldest known Covid-19 patient in the state so far. Many members of his family are said to be infected and are hospitalised at various facilities. The funeral was overseen by two uninfected family members. Advanced age a factor  “It is very sad. We were rooting for him to pull through. He had no comorbidities at all. He had been bed-ridden for the last one year, but he was healthy. His only potential comorbidity was his advanced age,” Dr Prasanna said. According to government data, 34% of Covid-19 fatalities in India are aged between 60 and 74. Fourteen percent are aged above 74.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-s-oldest-covid-19-patient-dies-at-105-865723.html
26-07-2020||State||8 more fatalities, 218 new Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada||Covid-19 deaths continue to rise in the Dakshina Kannada district, with eight more fatalities taking the number of deaths to 115. The remaining included a 78-year-old man, an 88-year-old man, a 75-year old man -- all suffering from refractory hypoxemia/ ARDS, two 68-year-old men, a 76-year-old woman and a 53-year old woman. The 78-year-old man from Mangaluru with refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, bacterial infection was admitted to a private hospital on July 18 and died on July 23. He too was  Covid-19 positive. The 88-year-old man suffering from refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, renal failure admitted to a hospital on July 10, died on July 23 of the deadly virus. A 68-year-old man from Mangaluru also suffering from ARDS, an acute coronary event along with Covid-19, died on July 23. Another 68-year-old man who was suffering from septic shock was admitted to a hospital on July 7 and died on July 23 due to coronavirus. A 75-year-old man with symptoms of refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, respiratory distress was admitted to a private hospital on July 14 and died on Saturday. A 76-year-old woman with refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, viral pneumonia, Type II Diabetes mellitus, hypertension admitted to hospital on July 21 died on Saturday. A 53-year-old woman from Manjeshwara in Kasargod suffering from sepsis with multiorgan dysfunction, cardiogenic shock, hypertension, diabetes, peripheral vascular disease, diabetic foot on right side LRTI too succumbed to the virus on Saturday. 218 new cases Covid-19 cases continued to rise with 218 fresh cases in the district. Sindhu B Rupesh said that among the positive cases, 46 were primary contacts of infected persons, 87 had symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 15 had symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The contact tracing of 70 infected people is underway in the district. On a positive note, 140 infected have recovered and were discharged from the hospital, taking the tally of the total discharged to 2,127. The number of active cases in the district is 2,370. A total of 32,822 samples have been tested so far in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/8-more-fatalities-218-new-covid-19-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-865781.html
26-07-2020||State||Bantakal students develop foot operated wash basin||Final year Mechanical Engineering students at Shri Madhwa Vadiraja Institute of Technology and Management (SMVITM), Bantakal have developed a “foot-operated washbasin”. The project was carried out by Rakshith N, Shreyas Poojary, Swasthik B Acharya and Vignesh Nayak under the guidance of Kiran N Bhat, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering.Considering the increase in the spreading of Covid-19 pandemic, the students of SMVITM have developed a new design of washbasin, which can be used in hotels, restaurants, hospitals, schools and colleges, said Principal Dr Thirumaleshwara Bhat. The aim of this work is to avoid touching the water tap and to avoid the spread of coronavirus. In this machine, one has to apply pressure on the ram, which is there at the bottom of the machine using the foot. Once the pressure is applied, the water will spill out from the tap and the hand can be washed using water. Hence the direct contact between hand and water tap can be avoided. This machine does not require any electric power for its operation and is completely made of mechanical components. Hence the durability and reliability of this machine is higher compared to electronic/sensor-based washbasins. The flow of water can be regulated by the foot itself hence wastage of water can be avoided. Also, this machine is fabricated at a very affordable cost, said the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bantakal-students-develop-foot-operated-wash-basin-865809.html
26-07-2020||State||Sons arrested on charge of attempting to kill father||The Subrahmanya police arrested two persons on the charges of attempting to kill their father by mixing poison to the food, at Anjeri in Nalkooru village near Guthigaru. According to the police, the arrested are Deviprasad (33) and Lokesh (35). The duo had attempted to murder their father Honnappa Naika Anjeri, by mixing poison to pork curry. When Honnappa Naik consumed it, he started vomiting and was shifted to hospital. Based on the complaint by Honnappa's wife Savitha, the police arrested the duo. It was said that there was a property dispute between father and sons. The police have booked the duo under IPC Sections 307 and 34.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sons-arrested-on-charge-of-attempting-to-kill-father-865811.html
26-07-2020||State||Covid-19: Tata Marcopolo in Dharwad to suspend operation for 8 days||The Tata Marcopolo administration has taken a decision to shut down the plant located at Belur Industrial Area on the outskirts of Dharwad for eight days from Sunday after 34 of its staff tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A decision to this effect was taken during the meeting held with the district administration. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that the administrative board of Tata Marcopolo has voluntarily taken the decision to close down the plant for eight days beginning from Sunday up to August 3.  In the last two days, 34 staff here have tested positive and they are shifted to KIMS for treatment. The company has said that the entire premises of the industry would be sanitised and all safety precautions to contain the spread of infection will be taken. This apart intensive testing of the factory staff through rapid antigen testing kits is underway. The health officials have been asked to assist the company in adopting safety norms to protect the health of the staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-tata-marcopolo-in-dharwad-to-suspend-operation-for-8-days-865813.html
26-07-2020||State||Applications invited for IIMB's women startup programme||Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore’s startup and innovation hub, NSRCEL, has invited applications to its third cohort of the Women Startup Program. The programme aims to support women entrepreneurs by enabling them to transform their idea into a business venture.  Early-stage ideas startups (not more than 12 months’ old) will be shortlisted for the first phase. The program will commence with a five-week training through the Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) to be offered on Swayam platform. In the second and third phases, the selected entrepreneurs will undergo a two-month virtual launchpad program followed by a six-month incubation programme designed by NSRCEL and its partner institutes. They will then present their product/prototype and pitch to a screening committee. To apply, visit https://www.nsrcel.org/ women-startup-program.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/applications-invited-for-iimbs-women-startup-programme-866000.html
26-07-2020||State||Rescued elephant fashions tools to perform routine tasks at Bannerghatta Biological Park||Officials at the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) watched with surprise when a 20-year-old rescued elephant Sundar used 'tools' to carry out a few tasks. As debates and researchers go on about the behavioural aspects of animals, watching the elephant stretching its trunk for a tool often raises questions if animals are on a similar learning curve as pre-historic humans who began using tools for their daily tasks. BBP officials have been watching the elephant since 2014 and Sundar’s penchant for tools is notably absent in 23 other pachyderms at Bannerghatta. Vanashree Vipin Singh, Chief Conservator of Forests and Executive Director of BBP, reasoned that other animals have a high level of cognition like humans. “It is normal for elephants to rub their bodies against a tree trunk or branch to dust off or chase away mites,” she told DH. But Sundar uses a twig like a toothbrush to scratch his mouth and his ears, she added. His companion Menaka was also seen showing similar behaviour, as she scratches the underside of her neck and belly with a twig. BBP’s education officer Amla Anil noted that the use of tools by elephants is not unique, though the level of complexity varies with individual animals. “A 2001 study by Hart and others demonstrated how elephants use and modify branches to repel flies in the Rajiv Gandhi National Park at Nagarahole, indicating that the cerebral cortex in the brain and body ratio is greater than that of any primate species,” he said. In Sundar’s case, officials have been observing this behaviour more closely for the past two months, Anil said. A BBP staff explained that elephants have a similar cognitive ability to great apes such as chimpanzees to hew and use tools. “Even crows, dolphins, octopus, and monkeys show the ability to use tools to handle complex tasks,” he said. Suresh, an elephant supervisor at BBP, said Sundar was rescued by PETA in 2014 from a temple in Maharashtra and has been rehabilitated at Bannerghatta since. “But, it is only in recent times that he has been using tools, often to perform some tasks,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rescued-elephant-fashions-tools-to-perform-routine-tasks-at-bannerghatta-biological-park-866001.html
26-07-2020||State||Unrelenting rain ravage Hampi monument||Weakened by the copious rain in the recent past, Shiva-Durga temple at Lokapavani behind the Virupaksha Temple at the UNESCO World heritage site has started crumbling. Two stone pillars of the temple had crumbled and the structure was leaning precariously. Hampi has been experiencing heavy showers for the past four to five days. Two pillars of the stone have collapsed. Since it is a small temple, no puja/rituals are taken up. Also, not many tourists visit the site, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials told DH. The ASI officials said, “Renovation of several monuments in Hampi will be done in phases. The rain-hit Shiva-Durga temple will soon be repaired and renovated.” On Saturday, many monuments in the erstwhile capital of the Vijayanagara Empire were flooded following the downpour between Friday night and Saturday morning. Uddana Veerabhadra temple and the Kudure Gombe Mantap among other structures were inundated with rainwater.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/unrelenting-rain-ravage-hampi-monument-866003.html
26-07-2020||State||Belagavi hospital rampage: 11 accused test Covid-19 positive||Eleven of the 15 people arrested in connection with setting an ambulance on fire at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) have tested positive for Covid-19. “Eleven of the accused have tested positive. But they are asymptomatic. Therefore, they will be provided treatment by isolating them in the prison,” a senior official of Bims said. The relatives of a patient, who died of respiratory problem, went on rampage at Bims on Wednesday night and set an ambulance on fire. The APMC Police in the city arrested 15 people in this connection and they had been remanded in judicial custody. The throat swabs of the accused were extracted for Covid-19 test before shifting them to Hindalaga prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/belagavi-hospital-rampage-11-accused-test-covid-19-positive-866005.html
26-07-2020||State||Is Covid-19 scam to help settle the loans taken for Operation Kamala, ask H D Kumaraswamy's posers||Having been silent on the political mud-slinging over the alleged irregularities in tackling Covid-19 thus far, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday posed questions to both the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress. “Was the scam to help settle the loans taken for Operation Kamala?” the former CM said, taking a dig at the ruling BJP. While it is unfortunate for the state that allegations of corruption have surfaced regarding Covid-19 management, the Opposition Congress too is leveraging the issue for mere publicity and has not filed any official complaint, hesaid. The first of his five questions to the Congress was why the grand old party hadn’t filed any complaint, while the second was whether the allegations were merely for publicity. “Do you have any precise plans to take these allegations forward?,” he said, asking whether the Congress had lost faith in the Anti-Corruption Bureau formed during Siddaramaiah’s tenure as CM.  His posers to the ruling BJP sought to know why the government was carrying the burden of allegations by not agreeing to a probe. “Why were no resignations sought (by the CM) even when allegations were levelled against a specific minister?,” Kumaraswamy said. Expressing surprise that the government had not acted even against officials, he asked whether it was encouraging these officials to destroy evidence. He advised the BJP to take appropriate measures to rid itself of the serious allegations during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/is-covid-19-scam-to-help-settle-the-loans-taken-for-operation-kamala-ask-h-d-kumaraswamys-posers-866006.html
26-07-2020||State||Touts 'don't stand a chance' in state's first plasma bank||Karnataka’s first plasma bank at HCG Hospital has put in place safeguards to avoid a Delhi-like situation where touts exploited patients needing plasma therapy. The bank has created an online registry to place requests for plasma transfusion that will prioritise critical and serious patients so that no black market is created. Dr Vishal Rao, who is handling the operations of the plasma bank, said the state government was connecting them to potential plasma donors. The BBMP contacts cured patients, urging interested plasma donors to come forward. “Every single communication has to be vetted by the government because we know what happened in Delhi. There was black marketing and data leak. It was a mess,” he told DH. An SOP has also been put in place to ensure data confidentiality. “We maintain a secure server that has very limited access. All the three volunteers contacting the patient sign a non-disclosure agreement,” Dr Rao said. There is also a Karnataka Plasma Council, comprising clinicians, who would replicate this across all institutes, he added. Dr Rao claimed there is no chance for middlemen to get into the system, which is “fully locked and closed”. Out of the 40 blood banks in the state that have plasmapheresis machines, only four have the licence to do plasmapheresis (the process of separating the plasma from the blood cells). “From storing to freezing plasma, everything has a protocol,” he explained. Plasma therapy, considered a stopgap treatment for Covid-19, has become crucial in Karnataka, which currently has 611 patients in the ICU, 339 of them in Bengaluru alone. The city now has 10,758 total recoveries and the state 33,750. “Plasma therapy is an orphan. Unlike Remdesivir, no drug maker is backing it. We are setting up a war room on a real-time basis to give it to patients who need it. We have got requests from Shifa Hospital, Excelcare Hospitals, Sakra Hospital and Fortis Hospital,” Dr Rao said. The first prerequisite for plasma therapy is a match of the blood group between the patient and the donor. Out of the 130 plasma donors registered currently, only 15 have donated it. Eight patients received plasma and five have recovered, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/touts-dont-stand-a-chance-in-states-first-plasma-bank-866007.html
26-07-2020||State||Kalyana K'taka ahead of Mumbai-K'taka in Covid tally||The number of Covid positive cases is now higher in Kalyana-Karnataka than Mumbai-Karnataka. Kalyana-Karnataka, with six districts, together accounted for 13,181 positive patients when compared with the districts of Mumbai-Karnataka which together recorded 10,054 cases till July 25. However, the death toll due to Covid-19 infection is slightly higher in Mumbai-Karnataka (232 deaths) than Kalyana-Karnataka (229). While Belagavi, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Gadag, Bagalkot and Haveri districts come under Mumbai-Karnataka, Kalaburagi, Ballari, Yadgir, Raichur, Bidar, and Koppal districts are under Kalyana-Karnataka. Kalaburagi, where the country's first Covid death was reported in March, stood first in the number of positive cases in Kalyana-Karnataka with 3,712 cases (till July 25), followed by Ballari (3,511 cases), Yadgir (1,932), Bidar (1,789), Raichur (1,571), and Koppal (666). In Mumbai-Karnataka, Dharwad has the highest number of positive cases compared with other districts of the region. While Dharward topped with 3,025 cases, Vijayapura came second with 2,163 cases, followed by Belagavi (1,986), Bagalkot (1,225), Gadag (943) and Haveri (712). Dharwad stood first in Covid deaths as a total of 89 people succumbed to the virus infection till July 25. Belagavi recorded 40 deaths followed by Bagalkot (36), Vijayapura (24), Haveri (23) and Gadag (20). Ballari district with 69 deaths came first in Kalyana Karnataka followed by Bidar (67), Kalaburagi (58), Raichur (18), Koppal (15) and Yadgir (2). Kalyana-Karnataka has also overtaken Mumbai-Karnataka in active and recovered cases.  While Kalyana-Karnataka region has seen a total of 7,554 recoveries till July 25, Mumbai-Karnataka witnessed 4,473 recoveries. Kalaburagi with 2,066 recoveries has secured the top position in Kalyana-Karnataka followed by Ballari (1,540), Yadgir (1,528), Bidar (1,196), Raichur (794), and Koppal (430). In Mumbai-Karnataka, Vijayapura district has seen 1,581 recoveries, followed by Dharwad (1,166), Bagalkot (477), Belagavi (469), Haveri (452), and Gadag (328). Kalyana-Karnataka has 5,424 active cases, while there are 5,350 active cases in Mumbai-Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalyana-ktaka-ahead-of-mumbai-ktaka-in-covid-tally-866008.html
26-07-2020||State||UN report on terrorists based on arrests in state: Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday that the UN report on ISIS terrorists in Karnataka and other southern states were based on the arrests made by anti-terrorism units in the past year.  “We are coordinating with National Investigation Agency (NIA) and police departments of neighboring states,” he said, adding that state was closely tracking suspected terror groups and had busted two modules last year. United Nations has submitted a report that groups associated with ISIS are active in Karnataka, Kerala and other states. “Karnataka is working closely with NIA and has busted two modules in Bengaluru and Udupi. We have taken enough steps to curb terrorist activities in the state,” he told reporters. Apart from NIA, Karnataka was also in touch with police from neighbouring states and there has been constant information exchange between all agencies concerned, Bommai said, adding that the UN report was based on action taken by the state government. A UN report on terrorism had recently warned of “significant numbers” of ISIS terrorists in Karnataka andKerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/un-report-on-terrorists-based-on-arrests-in-state-bommai-866010.html
26-07-2020||State||A mask that ruptures the Covid-19 envelope||A six-layered mask made with an indigenously developed ‘tekfabric’. This material binds to a molecule, which ruptures and kills the Covid-19 virus. This is the technology behind a new face mask developed by a Bengaluru-based startup, IShield, which says it is time to move beyond prevention. Wearing a surgical mask for more than four hours could be risky. “The virus on the outer surface could leak through. Disposal without incineration is also dangerous. That is why we thought of a mask that not just prevents but also kills the virus,” the startup cofounder Nitish Sathyanarayan told DH. Covid-19 belongs to a family of enveloped viruses. IShield’s strategy, he explained, was to break this envelope made up of lipid bilayer. “IS-212 is a broad spectrum virucidal molecule, whose highly charged groups puncture a hole in the virus envelope. If the envelope is ruptured, the virus loses infectivity.” The challenge was to merge this molecule with the mask fabric. “We engineered a linker that can covalently bond with a cellular substance such as cotton. With this linker, the molecule can remain bound to the cotton fabric for up to 30 washes. This chemical bond is susceptible to bleach but not detergent,” said Nitish. The mask self-sanitises, he said. “Nearly 90% of the virus is ruptured within the first 15 minutes, and nearly 90% by 30 minutes.” This has been tested and certified by four independent laboratories, including the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnoloy, Thiruvananthapuram; the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platform (C-CAMP) and Mynvax, incubated at the Indian Institute of Science. The tekfabric is part of the mask’s outer and innermost layers. “The outer layer prevents the entry of the virus, while the innermost ensures that the virus does not escape into the atmosphere if the wearer is an asymptomatic patient. The middle four layers are non-woven fabric-based filters.” Currently, the IShield mask is being tested for filtration efficiency by the South Indian Textile Research Association (SITRA). The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is independently evaluating the technology. Also on the startup’s agenda is a platform technology to bind the molecules to Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). This is currently in development mode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/a-mask-that-ruptures-the-covid-19-envelope-866013.html
26-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government committed to working for soldiers' welfare: CM B S Yediyurappa||Paying tributes to the martyrs of Kargil war on its 21st anniversary, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said his government always stood by the soldiers and families of those who laid down their lives to protect the borders of the country. "The government is always committed to the welfare of the soldiers. Karnataka has formed a separate department for the welfare of the soldiers and their families. We always stand with the families of the martyred soldiers," he said. He was addressing soldiers after paying tributes to the martyrs of the Kargil war at an official function organised on the occasion of Kargil Vijay Diwas at the National Military Memorial Park in the city by the Sainik Welfare and Resettlement Department under the state Home Department. Yediyurappa described as a symbol of India's valour and sacrifices the Kargil Vijay Diwas, observed to commemorate its victory over Pakistan in the war that ended on July 26, 1999 with recapture of the territory in Kargil. He said the state government has given due compensation to the families of the Kargil martyrs and the soldiers who were injured. Recalling the conflict, Yediyurappa said Pakistan had set its eyes on grabbing the vast terrains of Kargil and Drass sector in Jammu and Kashmir but the Indian soldiers successfully fought a deadly battle at a height of 17,000 feet where the temperature goes up to minus 30 degrees celsius. "The sacrifices of our soldiers will remain etched in our memories forever. The tale of the 527 soldiers, who sacrificed their lives to save our country, is a constant source of inspiration for our youth," the Chief Minister said. He also noted Karnataka's contributions to the Indian army and said the state had given two Generals, one Field Marshall, many army officers and innumerable soldiers to protect the country's borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-committed-to-working-for-soldiers-welfare-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-865886.html
26-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records yet another single-day high of 5,199 new coronavirus infections||Karnataka’s Covid-19 crisis seems to have no end in sight with the state recording a new high of 5,199 cases in a single day on Sunday. The day also saw 82 related fatalities. In keeping with a trend, Bengaluru Urban accounted for lion’s share with 1,950 new cases and 29 deaths. The next hardest-hit district was Ballari with 579 cases followed by Mysuru 230 cases, Bengaluru Rural 213 and Dakshina Kannada 199 fresh infections, which also reported the next highest tally of deaths with seven. The state government, which has stopped providing patient details and history, could not shed light on the number of cases in children or people in the vulnerable age-group. Where the Covid-19 information is clearer is in the number of discharges (there were 2,088 of them on Sunday, out of which 647 or (30.9%) were in Bengaluru Urban. Among the deaths, most of them were a few days apart, with the oldest having transpired on July 11. This was a 34-year-old man in Bengaluru, who had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), and comorbidities of diabetes and hypertension. He had died within a day of being identified by the state as Covid-19 positive. Twenty-two of the 82 fatalities did not have any comorbidities, although in several cases, any existing comorbidities were not yet known to the government as the individuals were brought dead or had died at home without having entered Covid therapy at a hospital. This comprises four individuals (two in Bagalkot, one each in Tumakuru and Belgavi). The youngest Covid-19 fatality was a 21-year-old woman in Davangere who had no known comorbidities but had symptoms of SARI. She died within 24 hours of being diagnosed with the disease on July 23. The oldest fatality is an 82-year-old man in Bengaluru Urban with symptoms of Influenza-like Illness (ILI) and diabetes who died within hours of being diagnosed of the diseases on July 24. The state also noted that 632 people are in ICU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-yet-another-single-day-high-of-5199-new-coronavirus-infections-866041.html
26-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC rejects interim bail plea by Karnataka Church blasts convicts||The Supreme Court has rejected the interim bail plea by two life-term convicts in a case related to a series of blasts at various churches in Bengaluru, Hubballi and Kalaburagi in 2000. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose said though the detention period had been fairly long, it was not possible to release them due to the nature of offences against them. In case of some special circumstances arising, the appellants are permitted to revive the prayer for bail, the court said. In his plea, Syed Shamshuzama contended he had been behind the bars for 19 years and the appeal filed by him and others was unlikely to come up for hearing in the near future. He pointed out that he was a permanent resident of Andhra Pradesh and all his family members were residing at the same address. He said he will not violate or breach any of the conditions imposed while granting bail. In another bail plea, the mother of convict Sheik Fardeen Valli alias Fareed submitted that he has been in custody since July 16, 2000. She sought interim bail for him on humanitarian grounds as his father was on death bed and suffered from 86% permanent disability. The petitioners were represented by advocate Kamini Jaiswal and the state government by advocate V N Raghupathy.  The convicts, being members of Deendar Anjuman organisation, were alleged to have conspired and carried out the blasts at different churches in Bengaluru, Hubballi and Kalaburagi among others.  They challenged the December 14, 2014 order of the Karnataka HC that upheld their conviction in the case. The HC had commuted the death penalty awarded to them by the trial court to life term.   On June 8, 2000, two consecutive blasts took place at St Ann’s Catholic Church, Wadi, Chittapur taluk, Kalaburagi district. The second blast took place on July 8, 2000 at St Lutheran Church in Hubballi between 3:30 am and 4:30 am. The third bomb blast was carried out on July 9, 2000 at 10:15 pm at St Peter and Paul Church on JJ Nagar Main Road, Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-rejects-interim-bail-plea-by-karnataka-church-blasts-convicts-866044.html
26-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Coronavirus-hit Tata Marcopolo closes Dharwad plant for 8 days||The Tata Marcopolo management has taken a decision to shut its plant at Belur Industrial Area on the outskirts of Dharwad for eight days, starting Sunday. The closure decision followed after 35 of its staff tested positive for Covid-19. A decision to this effect was taken during the meeting held with the district administration. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil told DH that the administrative board of Tata Marcopolo has voluntarily opted to shut the plant for eight days starting Sunday. In last two days, 35 staff members here have tested positive, and they have been shifted to KIMS for treatment. The company has stated that the plant would be sanitised, and all safety precautions to contain the spread of infection will be taken. This apart, intensive testing of the factory staff through rapid antigen testing kits is underway. The health officials have been asked to assist the company in adopting safety norms to protect the health of the staff. The Health department is tracing the primary and secondary contacts of those infected here, and the contacts will be treated at Covid care centres. Appeal to people Shaken by the reports of an employee committing suicide after poisoning his wife and daughter, over apprehension of his family contracting the virus, the administration has roped in psychiatrists of DIMHANS to counsel people and help them cope with anxiety. Nitesh said, people should not lose hopes and take the extreme step. The DIMHANS doctors would help to fight the stress, and erase fears and anxiety from the people, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-coronavirus-hit-tata-marcopolo-closes-dharwad-plant-for-8-days-866045.html
26-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka civic worker dies after 3 hospitals deny him admission||In a shocking incident, a civic worker, who was turned away by three private hospitals in Davanagere on Saturday, succumbed to the respiratory illness at Chigateri District Hospital on Sunday. The civic worker, aged 35, a resident of Gandhi Nagar, had developed breathlessness a week back. He was sent home following the treatment. On Saturday, his condition worsened. He visited three private hospitals in the city, but was turned away by the hospitals citing shortage of beds. After his father-in-law, who is the district president of civic workers’ association, called up Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi and urged him to help get a bed for his ailing son-in-law, the Chigateri Hospital authorities arranged for a bed. However, it was too late for the doctors to revive the civic worker. The throat swab sample of the deceased civic worker has returned negative for Covid-19  Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner has warned the hospitals of stringent action if they refuse admission to the patients. Retired cop dies waiting for ambulance  In yet another case of alleged medical negligence, a 65-year-old retired police constable succumbed to Covid-19 at his house in Aland, Kalaburagi district, on Sunday waiting for an ambulance for four days.  The family members of the deceased said after he tested positive for the virus, the constable called the GIMS hospital seeking an admission to the isolation ward of the hospital. His condition worsened on Saturday and died at his house the following day.   Former MLA B R Patil accused the district administration and the health department of negligence in getting the constable admitted to the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-civic-worker-dies-after-3-hospitals-deny-him-admission-866048.html
26-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Rigorous contact tracing during Covid-19 in Turbhe, Malegaon||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) in Thane district has come out with a comprehensive contact tracing procedure that is now described as the Turbhe Pattern, is being replicated elsewhere in the satellite township of Navi Mumbai. In Turbhe, areas like Turbhe Stores, Pawne Gaon, Indira Nagar and parts of Sanpada were affected. When Turbhe Stores came under Red-zone and the NMMC’s municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal decided to conduct extensive contact tracing so as to break the chain of transmission. “As soon as a Covid-19 patient is diagnosed, at least 28 close contacts were traced within 72 hours and their health condition was examined. And if needed they were quarantined,” NMMC officials said. In the powerloom town of Malegaon in Nashik district, where people were initially hostile, the government machinery was put into action and they were made part of the campaign. Police contingents undertook daily flag marches in the city to boost confidence and at the same time religious leaders and scholars were roped in. From loudspeakers of mosques, messages were relayed about precautions, symptoms and the dos and don’ts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rigorous-contact-tracing-during-covid-19-in-turbhe-malegaon-865736.html
26-07-2020||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi govt's steering wheel in my hands, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has dared the opposition to topple his government and said though it is a "three-wheeler" government, he is firmly in control of its steering wheel. Thackeray, who is also president of the Shiv Sena, said his alliance partners - NCP and Congress - are "positive" and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is benefitting from their experience. He also took an aim at the Centre's ambitious Mumbai- Ahmedabad bullet train project, saying he would rather prefer such a high-speed link between the state capital and Nagpur. "The future of my government is not in the hands of the opposition. The steering is in my hands. A three-wheeler (auto-rickshaw) is a vehicle of poor people. The other two are sitting behind," Thackeray said in the second and last part of his interview published in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Sunday, ahead of his 60th birthday on Monday. "Why wait for September-October as is being speculated. Topple the government right now since you get pleasure in toppling. Some people derive pleasure in constructive work while some are happy in destruction. If you feel happy in destruction, go ahead," he said. "You say the MVA government is formed against the democratic principles but when you topple it, is it democracy?" the chief minister asked. Notably, his predecessor Devendra Fadnavis earlier compared the ruling MVA, comprising the Shiv Sena and its ideological opponents Congress and NCP, with a three-wheeler, auto-rickshaw, and raised doubts over its stability. To a question, Thackeray said he hadn't switched sides, but only entered into an alliance. "I did this because the purpose with which I had joined hands earlier turned out to be hollow," he said. Asserting that the party ideology is important, he said, "Show me one leader who has reached the top position in the party which he has defected to. It is all use and throw policy." Targeting the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project, he said, "A three-wheeler is a vehicle of poor people. If I have to choose between a bullet train and an auto-rickshaw, I will chose the auto-rickshaw. If people don't want a bullet train, then it will not happen," he said. "If my government is a three-wheeler, it is moving in a proper direction, why should you have a stomachache?" he said in a veiled attack at the opposition BJP. Thackeray said when he attended the NDA meeting last time, "there were 30 to 35 wheels like a railway train". The chief minister said he would scrap projects which people feel are unwanted. He said MoUs worth Rs 16,000 crore signed recently are in initial stages and more investments are on the anvil. "If the state requires a bullet train, I would demand a bullet train to connect Mumbai and Nagpur. I would like a bullet train which connects my state capital and the second capital. The feeling of neglect among people of Vidarbha would be wiped out. Just like the Mumbai Nagpur Samruddhi corridor, I would be happy with a bullet train," he said. He also said the Congress's grievance of being neglected in the three-party alliance government was resolved after his meeting with the state Congress leaders. "I have good coordination with (NCP chief) Sharad Pawar. I make a phone call to (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi some times," he said. Thackeray asserted that the tripartite MVA government was functioning well. "I admit that in the last few months, face-to-face meetings haven't happened. One more minister is coronavirus positive now after Jitendra Awhad, Ashok Chavan and Dhananjay Munde. All ministers are in touch with each other over the phone or through video conferencing," he said. Thackeray admitted the state's economy is not in good shape, but noted the entire world is facing such a crisis. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked all chief ministers not to announce any waivers or subsidies as populist measures due to which the economy would be further burdened. In an apparent reference to his criticism over not moving out during the Covid-19 pandemic, Thackeray said discussions and deliberations, as well as the signing of MoUs, were being done by him sitting at home. Asked about the participation of Chinese firms in investing in the state, he said more than the presence of Chinese firms in the recent MoUs, what is important is whether Chinese investments should remain in the country or not. "During a video conference meeting with the prime minister, I had requested him to frame a national policy on doing business with China," he said. Thackeray also said his government had kept the MoUs with Chinese firms on hold. "There should be a policy on whether Chinese companies should be allowed to do business in the country. If tomorrow, the situation improves and the Chinese prime minister is welcomed in India, why should we miss the business opportunities now?" he asked. The chief minister also rejected criticism that bureaucracy has an upper hand in his government. "The government is the decision-maker and bureaucracy implements the decisions," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-govts-steering-wheel-in-my-hands-says-uddhav-thackeray-865816.html
26-07-2020||West||'Operation Lotus' won't succeed in Maharashtra: CM Uddhav Thackeray||"Topple the government if you want to...topple it," he said daring the opposition BJP in the state. He, however, did not name BJP. Thackeray's statement comes in the second and concluding part of the interview published in Shiv Sena mouthpieces - Marathi broadsheet Saamana and Hindi tabloid Dophar ka Saamana. The interview was taken by Saamana executive editor on the eve of his 60th birthday. "Why wait for September-October as is being speculated. Topple the government right now since you get pleasure in toppling. Some people derive pleasure in constructive work while some are happy in destruction. If you feel happy in destruction, go ahead," he said to Raut's question on Operation Lotus. He said that the government was safe. "The future of my government is not in the hands of the opposition. The steering is in my hands. A three-wheeler (auto-rickshaw) is a vehicle of poor people. The other two are sitting behind," Thackeray said. "You (referring to BJP) say the MVA government is formed against the democratic principles but when you topple it, is it democracy?" he said. It may be mentioned,  former chief minister and now the leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and his aides had earlier compared the ruling MVA, comprising the Shiv Sena and its ideological opponents Congress and NCP, with a three-wheeler auto-rickshaw. To a question, Thackeray said he hadn't switched sides, but only entered into an alliance. "I did this because the purpose with which I had joined hands (with BJP) earlier turned out to be hollow," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/operation-lotus-wont-succeed-in-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-865826.html
26-07-2020||West||Barring senior citizens from film sets not discriminatory: Maharashtra Govt||The decision to restrain persons above 65 years of age from attending shootings on film and television sets was not to discriminate against them, and was taken in the general interest of such people, the Maharashtra government has told the Bombay High Court. The government, however, also said no data or statistics were taken into consideration while prohibiting those above the age of 65 on sets of film and TV shows. In an affidavit, filed by Prasad Mahajan, under-secretary in the state Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs, the government said its order prohibiting people above the age of 65 years from going to film and television shooting sets was not with a view to discriminate, but was in the general interest and for the safety of such people. The affidavit was submitted on Saturday in response to a petition filed by one Pramod Pandey challenging the guidelines issued by the state government on May 30, 2020, stating that no cast/crew member above the age of 65 years will be allowed to film and television shooting sets. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla will take up the petition for final hearing next week. The 70-year-old petitioner said he was doing small roles in films and TV serials for four decades, and that he does not have any other source of livelihood. He further said in his petition that though he is physically fit, he is not allowed to go to studios and participate in shootings. The government in the affidavit said all its orders passed from time to time in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic specifically request senior citizens and children to stay at home and go out only for essential work and health reasons. "The said condition is not to deprive any cast/crew members above the age of 65 years nor can it be termed as discriminatory as interest of the cast and crew has been protected and balance is maintained by permitting them to either work from home or over video conferencing or other video-sharing apps," the affidavit said. "Those persons who are unable to go to the studios can work from home and earn their livelihood as being done by many individuals in private offices. If this too is not possible, then alternative arrangements should be adopted for earning livelihood and survival in this Covid-19 pandemic situation, the government said. The court on Tuesday asked the government if it relied on any data or statistics before passing the order. Replying to it, the affidavit said, No data/reports/ statistics were taken into consideration before issuing the impugned guidelines restraining cast/crew members above the age of 65 years from attending shooting sets or studios." The affidavit said in order to check the rise in Covid-19 cases, the state government had imposed restrictions on various sectors. Some of these restrictions were relaxed from time to time. Several requests were made to the government to permit shooting of films and television series, it said. "As the economic progress of the country was hampered following the Covid-19 outbreak, the government gave permission to resume the film and television industry by relaxing few restrictions, the affidavit said. The government said the petitioner (Pandey) may be physically fit, but the fact remains that one never knows when a person would get infected by the coronavirus. "The virus could infect any individual who would come in contact with an infected person. A person could be asymptomatic and could spread the infection to others who have low or weak immunity, the affidavit said. It further said even guidelines issued by the central government in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic have imposed restrictions on the movement of senior citizens and children. "If the central government relaxes its guidelines pertaining to persons above the age of 65 years then the state government would also adopt the same, the affidavit said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/barring-senior-citizens-from-film-sets-not-discriminatory-maharashtra-govt-865884.html
26-07-2020||West||Sacred Tirupati temple thread helps identify skeletal remains in Mumbai||The skeletal remains of a 21- year-old man found in Kalina area of Mumbai on Thursday were identified with the help of a sacred thread around the wrist from the renowned Tirupati Balaji Temple, police said on Sunday. After the skeletal remains were found in Pascal Square locality, Vakola police checked missing person complaints and zeroed in on a 10-day-old one from the locality which may have a link, said an official. "The people connected to that case were called in to check if they could identify the skeleton. They managed to identify him through a thread on the wrist that was from Tirupati Balaji Temple, as well as his watch," he said. "The DNA from the skeleton and that of the people who identified him matched. We registered an accidental death case and are probing further," said Sub Inspector Bharat Satpute of Vakola police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sacred-tirupati-temple-thread-helps-identify-skeletal-remains-in-mumbai-865895.html
26-07-2020||West||Nagpur Covid-19 plan: Antigen tests, focus on critical cases||he Nagpur Municipal Corporation will admit asymptomatic patients in Covid care centres while others with moderate to severe symptoms will be treated in dedicated Covid hospitals, civic chief Tukaram Mundhe said on Sunday. High-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients will now be kept in home isolation and only those from congested areas and smaller homes will be kept in quarantine centres, Mundhe said while explaining NMC's new strategy to fight the outbreak. "NMC is focusing on increasing antigen tests, bed management and creating awareness to bring about behavioral change among people. We are now focusing on positive patients category-wise. Positive asymptomatic patients will be kept at Covid care centres. As cases increase, we need to focus on moderate to critical cases," he told PTI. "We have capacity in government hospitals, including three major institutions, namely IGGMC, GMCH and AIIMS. Most private hospitals will be working as dedicated Covid health care or DCH. In the days to come, five more hospitals will be activated," Mundhe added. He said antigen tests will be carried out on those showing symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). Private hospitals are being monitored to ensure patients are not overcharged, Mundhe said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-covid-19-plan-antigen-tests-focus-on-critical-cases-865910.html
26-07-2020||West||Opposition demands discussion on Covid-19 in assembly as Goa death toll rises||With Goa recording a high of six Covid-19 deaths in one day on Saturday, the Opposition has now upped the ante vis a vis its demand for a discussion on the pandemic, when the assembly meets for a day during the monsoon session on Monday. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat in a statement on Sunday accused Chief Minister Pramod Sawant of trying to steer clear of a discussion on the pandemic, in face of severe criticism of the BJP-led coalition government's alleged mismanagement of the crisis, which has resulted in a sustained spike of Covid-19 related cases in the coastal state.  Even Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik last week ticked off Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and the state's health administration for poor decision-making amid the crisis. "The death toll of Covid patients is rising day-by-day, with the unfortunate death of a 14-year-old girl yesterday (Saturday). The situation will go out of hand if the BJP government does not act sensibly now. It will push Goans into a death trap," Kamat said on Sunday. In all more than 30 persons, including the teenaged girl died, have died on account of the viral infection, while the active tally of Covid-19 cases has crossed more than 1,500. "The situation is alarming. The sentiment and expectation of Goans is to have a detailed discussion on Covid pandemic and its effect on Goa's economy. If the government does not accept the Opposition's demand to discuss Covid, we will be compelled to take an alternate course of action," the former Chief Minister said. The state assembly session was unanimously curtailed to a one-day affair, due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, even as one ruling BJP MLA has been hospitalised after he tested positive. While the Opposition has been demanding a discussion on the pandemic, the agenda for the session which has been proposed by the treasury benches, includes passing of the budget and several other bills.  Kamat said that there was need for a more humane response to the crisis. "Every Covid patient in Goa needs to be considered as our own relative by all the elected representatives. We need to show a sense of belongingness to every person getting infected with Covid. There cannot be any other issue more important than Covid crisis in Goa for discussion during the one-day assembly session," the Leader of Opposition also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-demands-discussion-on-covid-19-in-assembly-as-goa-death-toll-rises-865920.html
26-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Mother-son duo flogged to death||In a shocking incident,  a mother-son duo were allegedly flogged to death by their relatives in Kalyan in neighbouring Thane district.  The incident took place during an exorcism ritual carried out by a tantrik.  The incident too place at Khadakapda in Kalyan suburbs, nearly 60 kms from downtown Mumbai on Saturday evening, reports reaching here said. The victims were identified as Chandubai Tare (76) and her son Pandharinath Tare (50). The tantrik, Surendra Patil,  and two family members Kailas Tare and Vinayak Tare,  both in their twenties, have been arrested. The rituals were performed as the family members claimed they were possessed by evil spirits.  During the rituals, the three accused and a minor after smearing turmeric on the victims bet them to drive away the ghosts. They flogged them with sticks and canes. The mother-son duo collapsed on the floor and died.  The accused fled the scene. Later some other relatives spotted the bodies and registered s police complaint. The accused were arrested after a search.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mother-son-duo-flogged-to-death-865925.html
26-07-2020||West||Mumbai constable dies of Covid-19; city police's toll now 54||With the death of a 40-year-old constable on Sunday, the number of Mumbai Police personnel who succumbed to COVID-19 grew to 54, an official said. The constable, who died on Sunday, was attached to the Wadala Truck Terminal (WTT) police station, he said. "He was on leave from last month after symptoms of Covid-19 were found in him. Later, he tested positive for the infection and was admitted to St George Hospital and within two days shifted to Gurunanak Hospital in Bandra," Shailesh Pasalwad, senior inspector of WTT police station, said. "On Friday, his health started deteriorating and he was put on ventilator support. However, he died on Sunday," he said. According to police, he also suffered from diabetes and hypertention. In the second week of June, the constable's mother and sister had also tested positive and were admitted to a hospital in Sion. "Even they could not survive and died in the last week of June. The constable was a resident of police quarters in Dongri and is survived by his wife, two children and a younger brother," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-constable-dies-of-covid-19-city-polices-toll-now-54-865989.html
26-07-2020||West||Covid-19: Maha minister Sanjay Bansode tests positive||Maharashtra minister of state for environment and FDA Sanjay Bansode on Sunday said he had been detected with Covid-19 and was receiving treatment at a private hospital in Mumbai. Bansode, NCP MLA from Udgir in Latur district, said he was feeling unwell since Saturday and had mild fever as well as sore throat. His coronavirus test returned positive on Sunday, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maha-minister-sanjay-bansode-tests-positive-866009.html
26-07-2020||West||Gujarat records highest 1,110 Covid-19 cases in day; 21 deaths||With 21 more patients succumbing to the infection, the toll went up to 2,326, it said. The number of recovered cases rose to 40,365 with 753 patients being discharged during the day. The recovery rate in the state now stands at 72.31 percent. A total of 21,708 tests were conducted in the day, taking the total count in the state so far to 6,42,370.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-records-highest-1110-covid-19-cases-in-day-21-deaths-866014.html
26-07-2020||West||1.14 crore people benefited from Maharashtra meal scheme 'Shiv Bhojan' since April||As many as 1.14 crore poor and needy persons have availed the Maharashtra government's Shiv bhojan meal scheme since April this year, said state Food and Civil Supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Sunday. He said 24,20,827 people have availed the scheme, under which a thali is priced at Rs 5, at 873 centres in July. The figures were 24,99,257 in April, 33,84,040 in May, 30,96,232 in June, he added. Bhujbal said 37,03,793 lakh quintal food grains have been distributed this month through 52,435 PDS shops to 1.35 crore ration cardholders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/114-crore-people-benefited-from-maharashtra-meal-scheme-shiv-bhojan-since-april-866015.html
26-07-2020||West||Vote against Congress: BSP issues whip to six Rajasthan MLAs||Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Sunday issued a whip to six MLAs in the Rajasthan Assembly to vote against the Congress if Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot sought a trust vote. The six MLAs, who had won the December 2018 assembly elections under the BSP symbol, had joined Congress last year, giving Gehlot the much needed majority. Congress had won 99 seats in the 200-member assembly, two short of a majority. BSP General Secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, in a statement, said that since BSP was a national party, the legislature party at the state level cannot merge with any party unless the central leadership decided to do so. Mishra said if the six MLAs voted against the party whip, they were liable to be disqualified from the assembly. Mishra said the BSP would also intervene in the case in the Rajasthan High Court challenging the disqualification proceedings against rebel Congress MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vote-against-congress-bsp-issues-whip-to-six-rajasthan-mlas-866051.html
